
2014 / 12: 07.

The objective and limitation of alliance with the popular Middle East.

There was also 2009 when Ateneo didn't be a fur and 2012 CCP-four years of commemoration of the most common people in the society, especially for the non-mindedness of the common people in the society, especially for the sake of the common people in the society, especially for the sake of the common people in the society.

On the wall of Ginger Condera and Tarlac, the New-year-old arm, which was made out of the bloody laboratory that happened last 200 4- of the murder of the seven Filipino workers, which was included in the bloody massacre that happened during his institution, New Zealand is reminded how strong is the state of the state.

It is strong that the shape of the black dog used by New Zealand used to shape into the walls of New Year (different parts of Hacienda Luisita, but it seems that the black dog used to pick up and saying we will rise up until the justice has not been achieved! "

Just a few hours have passed since the domination of the arts of the Ginger Concarera when they were mobbed by these, probably, of the guards of the meantime, they were not able to go back to the farmers and immediately went home to the farmers.

After the scene in Hacienda Luisita, can we say that New Zealand is truly interested in the worsening status of the farmers and workers in the Philippines?, can we really say that New People's political agenda can be said, we can really say that New People's political agenda can be said, that it can be said that New Year can be allowed to get from the same side?

Let us think that the intention and concern for the farmers and Filipino workers who is in the state of New York, how can he see that he can benefit from making the art of political?

What can be the benefits that he can achieve from the alliance in and making arts for the campaign and propaganda of the filipino masses, and for me, he is also reminding the truth that he is benefiting from the financial situation that the farmers and Filipino workers want to change?

What do not have an immediate action and long-lasting benefit of the masses in relation to the alliance between the filipino masses, can we say that we can help a lot in taking the alliance between the filipino masses with the famous artist from the ranks of the common artist from the ranks of the filipino masses.

It is an important issue that the rights of the Filipino workers in Hacienda Luisita, especially since the President and his family are involved in this, this issue will get stronger, which is why the alliance between Hacienda Luisita, particularly on Leeres New?

Meanwhile, if the goal is to strengthen and widen more, there will be an extensive movement of the national under democratic movement, how can help in the fulfilment of this goal for the alliance between the masses in a Middle East such as Leeroy New?

I have a lot of questions but for now, it is clear to me, that it's clear to me, that it is prepared for you to become an enemy, but instead of being hardheaded, we are ready to challenge the Middle-type of artist to allocate a deep movement to the filipino masses and the movement of the masses and the movement of the masses in general?

When can we say that we are anxious now to join in the burial of the national and an alternative?

In a low pressure regarding the important role of an actor and artist in the community and the movement, this is what the leader of the farmer, Ka Nestor Villanueva, "where the wind has said that there is no need to choose from the direction of the strong wind."
