One classroom for the five students of the students were five thousand students but for now a five-year-old student was having a text message and in every corner of a classroom, it was even after I was carried away by one classroom in the school Jobelle.
There is a need for education that will come from Quezon City but it is difficult to be in C.
How?
It can be recalled that even though it is such a point, they will just be asked by them to reach the span of the six-eight adjacent homes which we are still used to by the agency.
Before the year has passed, the problem has not yet entered the crime, and it is expected that there will be a resort in the coming school that is why the agency also wanted to build a new school that will build a new school that will build a new school because it is just an space of the cellphone for it.
Perhaps just a moment just for a few more than Enterprise Elementary School in Davao City, which is why when I will return to them, the three rooms in a building there are two more personalities that have been cut off in a building.
What's painful is that they are just followed by IPDs.
It was the September of them the drinking of it.
You are in one classroom these kinds of books that you will turn on for reason.
Children who are ill-tempered; he / she says, kind of between the U Vs, that's why he's like a child who is so young.
OD V V D.
In order to electric fan, it is still the end of the bark.
If he went home to the school, he was completely closed until now the door of the landslide last October is ready for the children but the case they need to walk is long for the children to reach.
Typhoon Ferdie is that, almost half of the students to go back to school is what you need to go near the walls where other classes will fall down on the wall that will pull a lot from the walls that are damaged due to typhoon Yolanda.
Until Manila is the problem of many schools that's why I am the only one in the classroom.
Isn't it over your girlfriend I have been the one who is being made to enter Monday, but it is still not on a way to a class of school.
To talk and talk, the students will have a misunderstanding with the students.
Kuya Toto, one classroom here in the law of god who has a high school.
They need to prepare for what they need in the classroom right now that you can see it in a big room.
We saw each other using a person using a person near the wall but my classmate did not go outside.
And when there are even more masterpieces for the two Filipinas there are only classes but classes can be made to make it here.
"Is it not that position?
Fuck, deport; and Adong Calanoi'll just go through.
That is in partner given to him.
In the whole of Metro Manila, Two Wives were found in the entire Metro Manila due to the high-High School one that was five in elementary.
Although according to Quezon, it should be one classroom for the five students who were able to pay five students to five students.
But DepEd is still not sure that he is not a parent in the mouth of the classroom so that his older brother does not know if he is a two of those who are not around.
Yes.
.
Covetous, fur.
.
They are.
.
January.
Two.
!
It is said that the local government of the local government, who are in line, are proud to find the new lot to search for new schools for new schools.
It is said to continue the comedy new High School System of the head of the head even if it is simple.
The secretary is the success of Baguio involving students every Sunday.
It is being helped in the space that the basketball continues, which is why the training of those who are buying to Divisoria will continue even if they are against a strong rain.
Oh my goodness!
We are like the budget for us.
What are these three?
Jessica will just add to it to the steps of the diaper is to change how to go straight.
Drilling, very well-tempered; this is my co-mindedness of the Philippines here in the age of C-R and outside I am in the right place in the Philippines.
Aside from that, from what we mentioned earlier, it was also the steps like my salary.
To give a bicycle for students to be far from their houses, we are in places where the schools can be found, that is why DepEd is still not a simple increase that will only lead to the main schools for the address which is on the address.
Just a house that's just a house; we were able to go to the schools of public schools to go to Tony Tony, wrong, until it is only two floors that's why he / she will support him for the colleges; he / she was able to support him / her in Guam Street, five o'clock in the span of five o'clock; and one pesos.
As long as I went to General Mogadishu in two o'clock, the DepEd National Orthopedic Hospital said that it was only one of those who have written to a high school; however, it was only one of those who have mentioned it earlier at the height of the same price, which is one of what you mentioned earlier that this was one of the employees, most of those in the area.
According to DepEd, it is said that it will be passed on to make a new school in the case that happened, which is why the total number of Two Wives are already dead, which is why the total number of Two Wives are already dead, which is why they say that this is the total number of Two people who are just taking advantage of each other.
This is what DepEd said earlier than us, which is why there is a gay.
Wants to.
We will be sure that it is piled up in different places that is erected in a new place where it is planted in the streets so that it will be for you and also to the school of you.
Many.
