Only a thousand pesos in the entire Philippines will be able to reach the entire Philippines with its percentage which can be found in Mindanao by the Philippines for the biggest problem in the whole country, that's why they have done the two thousand pesos.
In the office of the manager.
We are left.
Straight!
What should be done in Germany?
We helped a case against the Philippines, which is why in the house of San Francisco, we were talking in the house of San Francisco that's why we were talking in the meeting of the manager of Senior Police Chief Antonio Trillanes.
In sleeping, we see the breast that we see.
The indigenous people can bring down the results of the try since it will be brought here to the place where there will be a lot of rice in order to get the oil number.
According to the Personal Economic Cooperation or Hanglement, the oil companies here in other products just like you crave chocolate and Maryo, which can also be the ingredients in number of those who are like that, they can't be included in a board and a meeting.
We are also being five of the capital, which is continued to put in the country because it is not yet done that the group are going to be brought out and are going to be released by the companies to do different products to do different products.
With our way to solve the same, those who get the attention of leftover foods here to us will be identified.
Which is what we want, the petroleum will ask for help from the experience of some youth who work in this point, but I just want to ask, I just want to ask, to know that we have a huge income from the workers.
Anyway, that is just like that.
Oh, isn't I right?
Some are different now.
Here are the meat processing.
That is why with the swelling of the letter, we also look at the side of the main office of S / P: I in Makati but until now, they are still not able to let them recover.
I don't want us to think that even if it reaches up to ten thousand pesos, the value of the price of the country will reach up to ten thousand pesos even if the value of them is sad, it is saddening that they are able to make it to Christian and Jeffrey.
Try it.
We are proud; we are fighting that even if the workers are fighting for, if not just the fight, there are different ways of those who were killed by the people who have done what we did, that is the legal way since I don't know why that is a legal way since I don't know.
Yes to the heart.
They saw each other there, they are forced to tell the thousands of their children that they are taking, so that they will increase more.
Because if they can reach their salary, maybe it is not possible that they will not force their children to go with them in the area.
Until he will not be the father of their family Christian and other work who work in vacation, they will not continue to continue to continue their expenses but to make it wet.
Okay.
Up to you.
He is not being forced by his mother, he said.
You are really the only one to decide with your father, Regay.
