Remove them from COA and DOE.

The Philippines is experiencing big problems due to the problems in two agencies of the government: The Commission on Audit and the Department of energy.
It is very hard to understand them and if you understand what is happening to this agency, their hairs stood on top.
You should be annoyed because these are not moving forward according to what the citizens are expecting.
What happened was horrible.
Last time, some of the bosses of COA announced the orders of three eggs in the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, the corruption and corruption of three eggs were horrible.
It is a big role for COA, together with the pet dog, who were able to put three eggs to the three eggs.
COA confirmed the allegations of those who survived the lower position about the illegal transactions of three eggs.
Madam Dom was horrible.
After President Noynoy attacked the judges in the Supreme Court to vote for 13-0 in the Disbursement Acceleration Program, the COA (SC) said that the COA (SC justices with saying that there are many personalities that could conduct or "strange transaction in the National Development Assistance Fund.
And after this, the action of the Palace in the legislative chamber's action is next to just leave the SC's SC.
The Palace is calling JDF as pork barrel which is just being used by the judges, like what the Palace itself is doing in DAP, and what the lawmakers and the Palace are doing in the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
Children of tofu, horrible, isn't it!
What happened was horrible.
After the three eggs were taken to Camp Crame, the people and accomplices look nice in different places, the people are trying to find the COA in record of corruption and corruption, which is also from the Palace, which is also from the palace.
Son of 10 continents, they are finding it hard to gather data or evidences.
And why is it that only the record of three eggs was given to them by the Department of Budget and Management Council.
The villagers also taught what was horrible!
Another bad thing.
Now that COA is trying to find the record about DAP, there is allegedly a DAP, but it is still DAP that there are three eggs and to be immediately arrested.
A sheep, COA, is really good in searching and release a record about three eggs.
Tragic, the COA (COA (COA (COA) might become an attack dog.
What the people are looking for now, Bro, is the DAP that even if the Palace and his allies follow the big egg that he received from the magistrates of the SC.
The COA is very quiet even if the lies of DAP, on the hands of the palace... and his allies are already out of the media.
Hey, what happened was horrible.
Severe is the bark!
Question: Is it related to the silence of COA on PDAF and DAP that the Binays' ambition is to be a magistrate of the SC?
And being a puppy to the palace about the horrible corruption and corruption of the opposition in the Tuwid na Daan "this is under the door of the SC?
It has been made by a toy to the Palace and the COA (Commission on Audit) made the Constitution as for defense or free from the hands of anyone when it comes to research of money from the people and their transactions.
Horrible, isn't it!
Currently, there is a blackout.
According to the DOE, there is a blackout, there was a blackout and there was already a blackout.
Can we expect that he will walk in Congress to give Congress in the emergency power to solve the coming lack of electricity in the Philippines in the next year.
DOE has already known for four years that there will be no electricity in the country but it has not made any steps regarding it except for the construction of a fried rice grains.
"What kind of separation from China who came from China, which after a while, was being ruined.
The animals there in DOE are just busy with the DOE, to be a lawyer of the oil companies to always love him and the government and the government can earn money and get the money.
And look like there is a crisis in electricity in order for the big Eker in electricity.
What is horrible?
It's the child of tofu, what the DOE has done was horrible.
It appears that he does not have a long term plan even just for the next five to 10 years and it will be more program for the next 50 years that is usually the lives of the contract, franchise and company in the Philippines.
"The old companies are already 100 years old, including my religion.
But the DOE, who is still part of the government, does not have any mind.
They do not care if the citizens are suffering from the blackout, and if the economy of the Philippines will not progress due to lack of electricity.
He is truly a gay.
Because of what happened being a puppy to politics and the management of COA and DOE, they should just go to me and change the real concern for the country and there is a television for the future of the Philippines.
Remove them from them, especially those who do not want to be fired from them, hehehe!
