Great-time great number By Andy Sevilla October 4, 2016, it seems that he will not stop in the set campaign against California Chongqing, Doctor Love) and can win the new $1million (P48 million) if they join and win in the US Breeders "Cup this month.
He won the Aways to laugh at the Santa Anita Park which costs $1 million pesos to anyone who will go to the Pacific Camping, Auckland, and the $6-Breers "Cup which will be held there.
Now, there have been a total of all every time that will be $13.4 million (P64555 million), California at 15 wins, 3 seconds, and 1 noodle house last year and his biggest win in 2016 Dubai World Cup, Kentucky, and Presinto Dos.
If the Horse owners are continuing to rely on top of the crib, nothing will happen in the industry.
The size of Ninoy Aquino, which is given by the Pambansang Kamao has to be encouraged by the Horse owners is stop just because of the continuous decrease of their sales in the box office.
Nothing will happen if the authorities are going to talk and have a blind eye on the race with real problems in the industry.
Anyway, the next generation of race is already known who and what are the things that caused the race in this season.
The increase of the lower part of the west-bust operation in the entire country is a big chance that sales in the race will grow.
But how will this happen that, the branch of the government has no support to have the big towns in the country.
We do not need to ask because the investor should have a hard time to put an TB outside the Manila which is rampant and it is hard to get a permit to the local government units, especially that it is hard to send a permit to the local government units, especially now that it is hard to raise the jueteng lords in the LGU) that you have known.
But if there is a branch of the government who really spoke under the office of President Digong, what do you think is what will happen, but they do not do this because they are not doing it because they are not in their roof.
