Okay, we just call for a little bit in writing; we thought that he is leading the movement of those who are leading in the action, but, of course, the truth is that the truth is, which is the fact that the truth is, what is the fact that the truth is, which is the fact that the truth is, which is the fact that the truth is, "it seems that the truth is," it seems that the truth is, "it seems that the truth is.
I thought that we are not stupid; I am the cellphone, the cellphone, and then that will be finished.
The problem is that it is hard for my friends, it is Charisible that they won in payment.
If you already know that you already know that you really know how to do you in grade.
This is dangerous.
Aside from that, a number of people, who will look at the news of the news, is that the farmers will be able to go home there.
In all of you, there are people who are hungry; and even the ocean would be done while walking.
Okay.
We are very noisy; we are stupid; of course, we are like that.
What's the only house we visit.
In the trust and number of your body, it is better for your body to be in a bar, what do you do not have a sound of a cellphone to look at each other now what happened to the tree.
I'll be able to look down; he / she guavors, Francis Saranggani; we should fix the word; so you should fix it, okay, because I said, "I said.
You are beautiful here.
Here they have shown it for two years in the past year there in the house, but we were not able to go there for tomatoes, who do not know how to go there, however, he didn't know how to be a doctor, but he / she did not know how to go there for a vacation, but he was not able to go there for a vacation.
They were able to send their father-in-law; and that is what happened to him, what happened to him, which is why he / she should have answered his name, which is why he / she said that he / she should have been able to answer his name, which is why he / she was not able to go to school; he / she was able to go to school.
In the right now, does he have any other four thousand pesos to seven thousand a bit.
From other countries, he has not been paid paid.
"We are in number.
Then, I have an idea that we are stupid; we are given a million; one million will be given.
La Union Darna.
Question.
You said in the world, at a night, he / she says the orders of Tanya Montenegro was Tanya Montenegro was her cousin, she opened up what she said.
Here is it, right now, do you answer him at night when Domeng and the heat coming from our ears.
"Good thing, it would be a good thing like that to happen that's why it's not removed from the or PNoy?" Even me and even me.
What will happen again?
Where do we see each other or that is the name of the group.
You!
Now, it's just a point that he / she cannot say that if you say that in the position, he / she does not say in the position that he is doing so that he can't do anything.
I am very pitiful; we are very full; very full of things and then I saw that he is still here.
According to the Philippines, it is one hundred pesos and good opportunities that we are taking up at night, maybe he is one of my patience, maybe he is one of my patience, which is very tired of the debt that I have seen before, what he / she suddenly saw earlier about his illness earlier.
You have entered each other earlier.
"It turns out that he was the only one-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four years old and he went back to a rumor that he went to a rumor that he went to a rumor that he went to Taiwan as a while, the justice has not been done here in the room where he was identified.
Just tell him that we have a surprise tomorrow.
No matter what kind of people are, I think that this is the news that we are the farmers, we know that this is the second floor of the case that should be seen in the morning of Mondays of the country, that's why we should just ask that we should be in favor.
There are different Mercado who are at fault; as well as the ademia; Chairman.
Who would we say to him?
We should do those who are dead by the government despite our news as long as we talk with a sexy performer.
"Maybe if you face your problem, I am still angry at the water car, i'll say that you have heard in my room when we heard that we have heard you here in Calaguas at three o'clock in the house.
It will be focused on a search, no matter how much the people are asking; we are asking him; we are only asking me; I am the only father, whose father, "Francis" that is a lot of Bicol, is there a lot of people like that, that is why many have done that.
That is the yes of June that is why there is a different place that our viand is delicious.
Let us finish.
You are an enemy of you, it is better that we will find it, "I said.
It is a better business right now that we are proud; we might call me a permanent friend, maybe we should call it right to avoid his very weak brother-in-law in giving up to six years, I hope this is what he is doing.
They have to Nogued but that's why there's a lot of people, who are very stubborn; not yet.
You know in us in red the car of what I should have.
They are them even if we are still clean in the room and he / she is getting pregnant.
