ABS-Ass would be out of Order (complicated.
By Fortun, August 5, 2016 was the time of President Fidel V. Ramos to tried his party Lakas-Christian-Muslim Democrats (Lakas-CMD) to push through charter change (NGO) through Constantino was launched by members of the House of Representatives and Senate.
If I do not make mistakes, the Import of Con-Ass would not believe that their bet Speaker Jose de Venecia, and instead, will only be able to win in 1998 presidential elections, and instead, he will be able to win the Constitution so that he will wait for the constitution to win.
But the charter change happened last 1997 when former President Cory Aquino, Vice President Joseph Estrada and Jaime Cardinal Sin who tried to change the 1987 Constitution in the 1987 Constitution by President Joseph Estrada, who also tried charter change under President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo but he did not succeed.
Even before President Rodrigo Duterte sat in Malacañang, his position is clear, his position, which he wants in the Philippines is clear and he is ready to call the Constitutional Convention which is a source of a representative in every Congressional Avenue that will be used by the country.
The direction of the wind has changed when Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez and Con-Ass would say that President Rody wants to change the Saligang Batas and no more expensive Con-condolences.
But Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson did not agree with the Con-Ass because this will be complicated in the issue of voting from the House and Senate if the low and high legislative chamber are going to be together or separate in the Legislative Chamber to get the lower part of its total member.
"According to Con-Ass, I said that it is not clear in Article 17 Section 1 of the 1987 Constitution, what I am saying is not clear in the Supreme Court so it will take time for the Supreme Court so that it will take time for the Supreme Court so it will be time to take time," Lacson explained to ABS-CBN News Channel.
If Lacson will be asked, he would want to have a Con-Con so that his members are just taking advantage of the Constitution in the Saligang Batas and just like the Congress which is also busy with other activities, including the annual General Appropriations Act or GAA.
"Con-Ass would be too long and" the public that will be affected if it is the responsibility of a charter change because we know that it has self-interest, and whatever happens, "Lacson added.
