
It is a miracle by Nora Aunor, "it did not prevail in Malacanang.

I am not a fan of the movie and art of Nora Aunor, and even if we are not a pro-Star for all of all, Batangas Governor Miss Vilma Santos-Recto, because the truth is, I do not want to watch a movie.
As a journalist, we read the life of Nora Aunor, in every corner of the world, it cannot be hidden, the heart and feelings of many Filipinos.
Recently, Miss Aunor raised again from the sectors of art, acting, movie and study, even in the ranks of many writers, they are united in order to identify him from the ranks of the National artist.
Before being included in the list of "candidates" they go through thoroughly, deep and wise in choosing who can be considered national individuals, but the final list of those who can be sent to Malacañang that the president is the power to choose the national artist.
That's why it pass through the hole of the needle that is included in the National artist Fame, which is based on their contribution in the field of acting, art, culture and similar basis.
And if La Aunor is about to talk about it, maybe maybe he's not taking care of his skill and big contribution to our national culture.
There are allegations that Nora Aunor is involved with the events that the activity of the activities, including the other use of illegal drugs, and we also agree with it, but he / she was able to know that.
Who really is clean with us? Who did not have a mistake in life? And who did not steal, so avoid having negative reactions against President Benigno Aquino III.
Why is it that the law gave power to a President to choose what he wants to be the National artist? And for whatever it is the NCCA and what is the NCCA and for whatever the President has been involved in choosing the "candidate"?
In the corner of Barangay Bugnay, they will be in a pile and laughing at Noynoy's invention of Ms Aunor, which is only one of the reasons why Aquino "was looking like former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo!"
Ouch, this is not a joke, but, near the truth, because if examined, there is no reason for PNoy to remove La Aunor as a candidate for the vice president.
Isn't it that the miracle of Nora Aunor in Malacañang or deliberately not have a miracle in the Palace, "will you not ally?
