Recto is clear! By Rey Marchil on August 3, 2016 is not the only new line of the telephone but the additional force of the Philippine National Police (PNP) to strengthen the government.
Even every few seconds, drug addicts, addicts and other kinds of criminals are going to tell the corner if there is no action, what use these numbers?
It's because his grandfather is clear to the suggestions of Senate Minority Leader Ralph Recto to increase the number of Filipinos who have nothing to do in life but also for the volume of Filipinos who have nothing to do with the implementation of the implementation, that is why many people don't want to go to for help for their complaint.
Every number of Recto's number is clear - there is a need to increase the patrol and number of police guarding the precinct and roads but there is also no use to respond to every call on the telephone.
No matter the call that has been implemented by legitimate UV Express, a police or precinct cannot do anything if the robber is lacking in Manpower; it is a big joke to respond to the crime when they are walking.
In every move of the police, it is most important for resources and Manpower; most of all, to respond to the right time and opportunity; maybe from the Scene of the crime, aside from what we want to depend on Gus Abelgas.
During the time of former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino III, the new administration was given a good service to strengthen the PNP especially since the new administration of General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa should implement the change promised by President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte.
As said by Recto, if not, the beautiful program that has been tainted is a waste or slow response, "if you do not have a sound," if you do not have a load, your hair would be better if you want the answer to wait.
It is a very big challenge for a 15-Illegal Drugs Act, "and it is very impossible that the case to be held in urban areas is very difficult, which is why the issue of traffic in urban areas is very important, especially the issue of traffic and movement of each other.
In the record of the PNP, there will be a total of 26820 and a total of 220 pesos in the government, even if half of its number, this is a very big force especially that the campaign of the Duterte administration will be good to sweep the addicts and drug pushers in the streets.
According to Recto, there will be an additional 12 policemen in 1,489 towns and more or less than 40 policemen even more or less than 40 policemen in a vacant position in the PNP.
The number of additional police, this may still be enough, especially since many have been reduced because of the campaign against drugs, some of these were included in the campaign against drugs, some of these were included in the life of many criminals even if they were on duty.
The campaign against drugs of President Duterte is not a joke and the problem set on the shoulders of General Bato which is why the public needs the support and help of the public to be observant and alert.
Most of all, do not get along with the damage given to the hotline in order to deceive because this is an additional burden to the police.
