Okay.
This was the picture of a former there, Asiatier was held at the captured number of night which can go to the fork so that we would be able to kill each other in a nipa hut that we would be surprised when we went to the palace to let us go to Theresa 'house that's why we were really true that we went to Theresa' house.
It is a big possibility that they will not enter there that's why they did not enter.
Traffic is really a traffic when I say it's true that we ourselves, we ourselves, we have told the statement that they will be able to leave the other, we have watched the other, who will be able to leave, which is why we are already dead when it comes to the hut.
It is said that just a little bit more than a nipa hut and down to waste, it cannot be gone outside the hut that it is up to you who killed the target.
That's why when they were shot, he was lying on the side of his hut, I was also not saying that there was an accident in the hut that I was saying that it was said to be a video of what I heard, that he was able to monitor what was said to have been used in America to monitor what we were saying that we were two of us.
But they can't go out to go outside; he / she cannot go out.
But there is.
What else will he fight the most?
You are fond of stopping or that, we are able to pay the rent.
He / she grew up; very well-tempered; it's been good to me that Peña still has to go out and go out of evidence.
He went out.
You are like evidence and other people.
Your business.
That he had a lot, rode in.
Luna - of the Our Lady.
We are like these.
Thousands.
What is eating.
Stand for whatever it is that you will spend anything that your child is talking about what is right outside, is it not right for a day so many say that the events are not like that, but it is brightened up.
Please do you, dear!
Cherness, to share the people, who will believe in you the people there.
Yes, I am not there anymore.
They are trying to look at a bit of a competition but Marquez is calling for a little bit more; he said Marquez has been affected, especially those that have been affected, especially the end, that's why we have been saying that we have been waiting for a long time because we have been waiting for a long time.
The truth in Estrada.
