
The Reproductive health law and the resolution of the release of women is for the release of women.

Wilma Tiamzon.
It is scheduled to suppress PAGCOR (Pang-226)
15 April 2014.

The statement of NDFP members Rogelio Tiamzon about the RH Law.

It's just a little bit more and there is a still not sure where the filipino masses would experience or are not sure of the constitutional process which is the version of the Reproductive Health (RH) bill, even if the Supreme Court is being endorsed by the Supreme Court.

What is stated in the law is that it is possible and it is not the obligation of the government to support the needs for the family, for the health services of the Filipino people, and the support of women who are given and other kids.
The RH bill can't be considered a huge success for the filipino masses, if it cannot reach and prevent those who will rise from the low status of women, especially the Filipino workers and farmers in the community-like colorums in the community.

Freedom and rights to the production of women will have real meaning if the filipino masses's wish would be met.

Have a decent job in the country to live properly.
End it's an honor, taunting and basic commodities in the topic of discrimination among women on the issue of equal salary in the same work and against all kinds of cases that they have to pass, are continually being verified.
Have your own land that will be put in the countryside, to stand up with the livelihood inside the family.
Have free education, from elementary to college.
Free the masses for free service.
Have support from the state of taking care of your children.

So that, the filipino masses is high-up when he is standing up, there will be a strong voice in politics in the country and will be able to donate her intelligence and strength for the release and improvement of the country.

The movement in real freedom of women is to push through, under the flag of the national democracy!

Long live the filipino masses!
