Not even in the sea that's why a few students, who are teachers, are also the ones who are male teachers, are also affected;
There is not only a solution for the departments of five pesos to build schools on the streets.
Just leave a place in Mindanao with a report to be broken.
There is almost a second day in the start of the school year-mannered family problem, but here in Mindanao, he has been seeing the Model Shop's suffering to help the most powerful sectors of the country especially those who are behind the country, especially those who are behind the country.
Is it every day when I have children who just want to talk in Iloilo, they do not eat coins from other cats but the dream to finish studies and rise from poverty.
To look straight at this way.
The series will continue everyday.
Sometimes, they have a good time and water in the river is low.
But a speeding waves, they would want to forget the other people who are going to help.
T-V will not be approved.
Now.
Sometimes, they are making a way to always look at it.
He pulled the coconut wine again.
Imprisoned but what do you get along with something like that, why don't you save some of his others next to the future of the notebook.
I also said that we will arrive again for the couple's couple, they have seen the vendor.
Christians.
I know how to go with my co-workers who are not worried that they do not have an x-M for how they are.
What if there is something that is going to happen.
It is only here in the policy of the blood that there is a driver from the kitchen bruises.
They say nothing was carried away by that.
You will be brought around eight o'clock in the evening.
Someone came to March 28-77; and deport; but six are just six.
Maybe one of them is here in the decision to give help to those in the place.
The groups from here are.
Like before, I am so good to see the computer that comes from.
The one that I am going to win.
That's why there's nothing we can see, that's why he / she has no appetite.
Marian is a lot of food.
But it is even now that there are many who have no money to buy the thunder, of it.
We, Timothy Bradley, two Two individuals, have no idea, whose legs have been seen by her niece.
Who will support the buildings and do not just do it.
We are seated at least Tandapon in order to earn big; we can earn more than two twenty-four people.
The bad thing might take longer before they can stop these problems.
She said she will not be here without any document.
He / she grew up; he / she thought that we would allow the first to buy his chair, which is why.
That turns out that he / she is very horny; he / she really wants to be grossed out.
He will send herself to him earlier that is why he has been in his job for four days.
They are going to the place hanging by the area outside which is why they might have something to happen to the places that have a lot of solutions like Metro Manila.
You will be swayed by one of the students, we will also call Raffy in the streets.
It is the reason for the light to be light because of the light, as long as he does not like it, it is just being used like that, in a distant place in Zamboanga where there are more dangerous places in Zamboanga.
They put it in the sea often.
According to Jessica, because we know that it is in the government that we are in the government, he / she really loves you to make sure that he will go up to the fare, he said, to make sure that it is going to be built, because I will be brought to a huge process if we are going to earn a lot, who are the ones in the house.
You are happy to sleep that you are being mentioned.
This can cause no repeat to them.
The approval of this can be seen, maybe it's just like that.
It is a place where should be divided on their things in school so that maybe, it can be lessened, that's why it's just a joke that it has been a joke over two years that we need to adopt a school.
He / she says, if you are earning big projects, it will go up if you need a lot.
He also needs to be strict so that he will be guarded, so here who will withdraw, if there are needs just like the witnesses, there is no funds for the school.
Even the teachers, who really need to take advantage; we need to take advantage; the people, who are students of schools in Mindanao, do not have something to do with their school here in front of our school here in Metro Manila, which is why in other provinces.
Oh my God, I just say that it's really pity to boil the classroom similar to the books.
Even in the house of a teacher, we said, we are asking the Orior Elementary School which we are asking for a teacher and is just after a day coats, we have not seen him in front of us which is why we are not seen here in front of us.
Yes, that is still the problem here, even if he is happy with his chest, this is also the problem of this.
It is said that it is a big help for the M-C that gives water to Mommute.
Seven o'clock; he / she was degraded; being searched by.
The Department of Education, but it is really almost some of Jessica, what's still that kind of problems but we talked to the teacher's teacher.
Full-tempered; they said that they can remember that, from the end of their students, it depends on the end of the pictures being taken from teaching, which is why they are at the cot Elementary School which will be the ones, who will think, after the anger Elementary School in Mindanao.
Just let myself go to my own wife, math because it was only last night when he / she said that no one was seen in the school, he / she found out that there were many things that you have seen in Mindanao at Supami before.
That is it!
That is it, even if that is the aunt, we are even talking about this.
A while ago, we are saying that we are being told to address that there are still many who say that there is a lot who did not say anything from his time.
In a good thing we are all talking, he said to address the needs of the goods in this way.
They are already running for the same age, whose legs have been running, from ten to ten until now.
I do not even do the things that I have killed.
Because Tita Loy was said to have been mentioned for almost two years before he sees that it is a very big gay.
For the same time, ten years have passed, we are said to have been buried but are currently being buried now.
I do not want to do the process.
It's a good thing that we were able to look down; I think, after we were able to go to school school, they have heard that they have not seen anyone in the classroom.
We are anxious; we might not continue their help but thank you very much to you.
