Covetous, whose interest should not be met before PNoy should not be met for a long time for the year, he felt pity for the house which is needed to be a straw in the needs of Regi.
It's because we are very pitiful; we might be able to go to each other; he might be able to fall to us here at the same night, which is very hard to go to us here in front of his / her sister-in-ray; he / she was having a hard time to live-in-hearted; he / she should have been having a lot to live here, which is why he / she shouldn't have a lot to deal with him.
They are asking if that might be the owner if they can cry so that you are going to cry so that you will be the one to increase the streets; we are really the reason why the incident comes down.
"What's the call of that, that's why they think that we are very stupid; we think that we are very stupid; we think that I am the right story for me.
He / she grew up; he / she went to school; he went.
In the span of us good luck.
"That is where the clothes there are, we are really open to our office so that we can really have the office for those who are having an idea, that's why we are having a hard work; we are very hard to make sure that we can make sure that we are going to live-in-law; we really need to see the interview of Dencio because we need to see the interview of Dencio because of the authorities.
Yes.
I am really, Oh no, we also have a lot of people, that's why I'm also a lot of people, that's why I told me that my co-mates' co-bala "I need to see each other and what we need.
Here, I am in a small person and I am small to point out; we should not be poor, we should not be able to study it for a long time now that I am studying my proposal now that I miss me.
I am asking for the proposal of the leadership and what we are saying and what we can do to lessen so that the path will be easy.
Maybe if it will not be a big government for you, this is not a big government for you, because you have an agreement that you have an invitation; we should just explain that you have an invitation to you, "we should explain that you are the real aspect of being a person but right?
Yes, I do not have any idea; we just say that it's just right and I am looking for a time when I wrote the time when I learned how to keep my sharp gazes; we really need to be strong; we need to be strong; we need to be strong; we need to be strong.
It's because I have been together for a long time; we are proud that there is a lot of resentment that our Production.
I said.
We should talk about this, give it clearly.
Let us go there in the height.
Help us.
Pay for those who are envious of you.
He / she grew up; he / her co-year-old teenage boy, who became an ID card, was horny; and goatee; and how much how much was on the calendar.
!
Okay, we are doing it here on March only on March all here in Makati City.
What is the hour of eight o'clock in the morning, our start until noon.
Fuck, deport; and to.
Fuck, deport; gave birth.
He returned to me.
Covetous, fur.
I tell you that it is just stop experts because it is near now.
We are close to each other; we are to be followed by each other; we are just follow-up; we are going to be followed by many people tomorrow because, they are preparing to have a lot of people tomorrow to be the first to be first in front, for our farmers.
Oh yes.
Really.
Like that.
Previously, we were able to go to school; administrator there were asked to go to each other from Stanly Marina, Tutok-budol gang;
No matter how much the administrator was about, after I have to endure for a few years, don't have to disappear for a few years so that the visa were gone; we can keep on what you want.
What at Emy open, Cris said in Negros Oriental to Negros Occidental, Registration Authority Calanoga; we will only be able to do, we are the only ones who will do.
"What kind of life is that, isn't it that it can be that for ten years, it can't be that for ten years, he / she'll be able to go to each other than ten years.
We were able to look down; he / she was a year-one-year-old, whose name is very low; they are doing it, that's what he gave up to 50 people.
We still have a text message to the administrator from a skirt which is as San Miguel, Bulacan, his courage is his courage to serve as Social Welfare Jr.
We have given the documents and two times that I don't know the white vinegar for two times when we have been undergoing a follow-up, there are still many times that I asked you to ask for help and thank you very much as well.
You are a new acquaintance.
It's too different.
To us by the office.
I am afraid of Pampanga Extension at our station that is asked for the director why this is like this.
It has been six months that you were saying that they went there to six times a few times, so they say that many are asking for a lot of people who are asking for each other, which is why they are asking for many things to go to the streets.
It's okay to see that you are not just like this later; we are going to look at each other, that's why I am the only ones who are going to call; I will call me and then call for men.
You are all the water that they are listening now, if we can really go to school; we can go to your Pandacan this day, and then.
They did not look at each other; he / she had no idea, what time they are.
You are saying it's past lunch.
The very weak person in Bulacan is going to come from, whose legs are coming.
Ah, it's okay yesterday that I have been five years old and I have been giving me to me Pacific Ocean.
"That's why don't you not wait for it to not go to Bulacan to look down; however, I found out that we were able to call all kinds of dates; I will just call you to all of you and to call me all of you and search for an appointment with you.
Yes, this is where we are able to go to his / her mobile phone; as long as we are the only one we will give to them, we are the only ones who will give them to each other; that's why I am going to look down; we are the ones who'll take care.
Yes to my wife again, I saw that they were just waiting for you.
Yes, just do not go to each other tomorrow, many of you are going to go to each other, maybe they will call you, maybe at around ten o'clock, maybe it's at the office that you are in the office where you are in the office.
That's not okay with that, we have been okay to have a bigger problem; we are sure that what happened last year in Isabela, the last name of C TD, 33 years old, whose name is an ally; and fittest; and goatee;
We are anxious; we are success; we are success of Agriculture Sec. Carmencased in Isabela, yes, I am thankful to Gab and Dodo not, and to his' hope that they will only support him.
I am in the international "that's why, in the same age, that's why there are some congressmen who are on your back to our friends at the whole world.
The country is at the end of me.
Like this.
The distance is that, let us ask why.
Within all times.
Our solution is that he will not be able to be with and our farmers, who are very proud; so that the livelihood is improve there is a number of number.
Yes, there are many anomalies that will happen there is the signal of the government and the society, why are we still lacking in need but there are still a lot of things that are happening in our country, which is why there are still many things that are happening in our country.
What is really the needs of the old farmer's need to address the government of our society because we can't let this happen to us because there are a lot of people that we can see in the International Airport.
We are anxious; we can't change what we are saying, that we should not be taken away by the fare, we should not be able to get back together with what we have said that we will not be able to get back together with what we have said that we will not be able to get back together with what we have said that we will not be able to get back with what we have said, that we will not be able to get back together; we will be able to get back together.
Uy yes.
We are proud; that's because that's the interview that we are telling to the product of the book we are saying, that's why it's now right now that we are now running here in the products they are living here, which is why our position is already here.
It is expensive.
Of the product of other countries, we are proud that's why it's true that Mercado is true.
We need to look respectable; we can make sure that at the age of age, you will have a good age and go down.
Many of our products are not able to go to school; we are not able to go to school; so we need a new if you have a new relationship with your mother and system of Production) Marketing who have a fight for us.
Are you?
It is okay that this is just like this, administrator, administrator, who, and in case we go with each other, but when we go to our fellowmen, we can go to our farmers from our relatives who are the relatives of the Lord.
I am just looking at me if you have something to go there if you need it.
"To those who texted me, my problem is for me to call for you so that when he called, you will have a business in front of you, we can call.
"I do not know that, that's okay, we still have a last meeting with a text message that we have one thing to do when the month is old and he was able to go to the Church.
Ah, I will just be invited.
That may lead what you don't want, that I don't want us to live-in.
You are the only one, when I need to be useful.
We are very noisy; we can only be launched, that's why we will only be launched.
In the program today, we should see that I have seen many speculations in a year and a tomboy.
So he can avoid this like this.
In spite of the ranks of officials, those who are stupid are those who are right.
Something like that?
