
Whose pocket just goes to the MRT and LRT?

Instead of the system of our mass Transport system, especially to our trains, it seems that this is even worse, that is why, it seems that it is a mess and the lack of proper ability to run for them.
The accident involving one trip of the Metro Rail Transit last Wednesday will affect the negligence of our MRT and LRT system.
But is it true that we heard of the incidents that happen, especially in MRT, to give reason to their requested increase in fare, what can be said by the MRT and LRTA administrator who can say ouch?
The truth is, I am more often on the MRT and LRT instead of using a car because aside from a thrifty person, the trip will be faster.
But when we started to experience the suffering caused by a very long queue, we went back to the car and when I discovered that it was good to use a bike for a few moments, I started to use a bicycle for a few moments.
In my opinion, there are also many of our countrymen who have this kind of experience and this is very saddening because instead of going forward to the progress of our mass Transport system, it is even going backwards.
Instead of surrendering the traveling coaches, this is even more reduced because of traffic congestion, instead of becoming a better understand and operation due to more modern technology, it seems that they will be left behind.
It is only here that we can see that it has been fishing in the MRT and LRT because all of these are full of corruption because they do not believe that they are going bankrupt.
You do not need to be a rocket launchers in order to understand that the income of MRT and LRT should be understood even more because the management of their passengers are increasing, and it is natural that their passengers will increase from fares.
And if there is a higher income, it is natural that the fund might have become bigger that is why our trains are also bigger, right? But in the case of MRT and LRT, it seems that what is happening is the opposite?
The question, is, whose pocket is the money that the MRT and LRT are going to go, "we should just let these bastard criminals" if we agree with what they want to push for the fare increase?
