Long live the SETC.

The brook of the Iglesia ni Cristo is unusual strength because they reached their target to be able to attend this coming July 27, 2014.
Its invaluable happiness will surely be in their feelings for now because they know! They are carrying heavy challenges to fully identify them as a strong religion in the whole world.
The Iglesia ni Cristo has started from a plain crusade last July 14, 1914 by the sister Felix Y. Manalo last July 14, 1914.
Even during the time of the war, the turmoil did not become an obstacle to Ka Felix but it served as a challenge to his speech of the words of God.
The Iglesia Ni Cristo was impressed and even thrown stones at the Iglesia Ni Cristo because of his distribution of the words of God but after a few years it quickly grew up and spread in different parts of the Philippines.
After the historical start of Ka Felix, when it was taken by our Great God, her son, sister Erelief Manalo, was continued to give me especially to the brows as not only in the entire Philippines but in the whole world.
You can clearly see the determination of the words of God that is the reason of the improvement of Iglesia Ni Cristo on a pedestal where it is located at present.
Save for the soul that was planned to lead and sin the primary agenda of Iglesia Ni Cristo, which is currently being investigated by their own general, Eduardo Manalo.
It has been a unique way for Ka Eduardo because he reached for our poor countrymen through the ratification of the public service program of Iglesia Ni Cristo, similar to the aid of Mahogany.
The brows became more active in nurturing and helping not only with their siblings but more than the unfortunate Filipino people.
Aside from the care, Ka Eduardo also voted for the construction of big projects like this Monday of Philippine Arena, the biggest Dome in the whole world.
Care and improvement of the country is being focused now by the Iglesia Ni Cristo and this is what President Noynoy Aquino was identified by President Noynoy Aquino in his speech during the offer of the Philippine Arena yesterday.
There are still many beautiful things that will come in the country and that is because the entire Iglesia Ni Cristo will be together with the leadership of Ka Eduardo, which is why we are just waiting for our country to progress.
To our siblings from Iglesia Ni Cristo, heartfelt greetings to this column, together with my children, Valenzuela City Councilor Rovin Andrew Feliciano and Barangay Barangay Cristina Marie Feliciano of Arme Bato, Valenzuela City.
Long live the 25th year of the Iglesia Ni Cristo (ALL-INTECAAP), Alvin Feliciano.
