Prime Minister Asukal will present.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
Only two parties will present in the Engineering Council (ESC) after they did not run as a candidate from the damaged post for a Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group for the largest highway of Engineering (Force) this year.
They are rivals of UP Proletarian Drug Enforcement Agency (Anti-Kidnapping) and Nationalist Alliance (NawE), the Pambansang Kamao (AaahhE), an ally party of the UP Alyasang Makabayan which is an ally party of UP Nationalist Alliance), on the day of election on April 23.
Raymond Velasco said that it was about five years in the course of the chemical Engineering Battalion under the fourth year of Civil Engineers and currently office of the ESC for the Prime.
The current Industrial Engineering representative, Edgardo Tallado Junior, AOIL and Anna Louise Wy of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the position of Vice Ganda.
Meanwhile, Gerald Roy Camba is going to run as the independent candidate to become the representative of the department of Commercial Center.
Up to 67 are going to run for 67 candidates in the Engineering Battalion where 34 candidates are from the Prime while 32 are from AaahhE and a safe place.
Last election, AaahhE is able to get the highest position in college while a big position is taken by the Prime.
It reached half or 2,884 worth of total 5,745 in the number of students who voted last election.
Here is the official list of the candidates for the ESC justices who went back to the International Criminal Court last March 25.

Congratulations!

Named Steven Masinloc.
Raymond Fortun (AaahhE.

Vice!

Edgardo Lantoc, Jr.
Anna Louise Wy (prime).

Thank you.

Jomari Gabriel Buyers Limited.
Mark doesn't listen to congressman.
Christian Im Gutierrez (AaahhE.
Diona, Lisawana (AaahhE.
Bro, AOIL.
Jon Michael Mendoza (prime).
Jayson Silang TawE.
Cheryl Siu (prime).
You, Mae Tadeo (prime).

Department of:
That is a chemical.

Mark Ian Veneracion (AaahhE.
Miguel Potol and Crime Operatives) (Prime Minister Trudeau).
Darlene Hemino, AOIL.
Enrico Luis CoCs) (AaahSE.
Alfonso, Paolo dela Cruz (prime).
Jewel, Malolos (prime).
Champing Morales (AaahhE.
Maria Veronica Mamata (Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Alamping, Jade Velasco and AaahhE.

Civil Defense.

Buenacademics (Prime Minister Najib.
Buawooooooo (Prime Minister Trudeau).
Jango or Lerio Bompat.
Norman Tancinco (AaahhE.
Norhmm, Aaahhmmmp!
Emmanuel Rodriguez (AOIL.
Dana Einstein (prime).

Computer.

Gerald Roy Camelano (independent).
Christine Angelica Felicisima CawE.
Elaine RTECAYETANO)
Dehorny, Martin Andanar (prime).

Meralco plumber.

Rondy Felisberto Verano (prime).
Yognomes, Atienza (AaahhE.
Mariel Anne Hidalgo (prime).
Roy Roy Sais of AaahhE.
Jeric Renz Tucino (prime).
Nawooooooo (AaahhE.
Samuel Christopher Chen (prime).
Ronalyn CDO (Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Anzon (prime).
Justin awooooooo after AaahhE.
Roy reporting for Prime).
Joie Allen Binongan and Prime Minister Trudeau).

Geosciences Bureau.

Maning Queen Aquino (Prime Minister Aquino)
Jularenne Joy Bongcac (prime).
Reporting, Caravilla (AaahSE.
Sebastian Raj Ko (AaahhE.

Industrial Subdivision.

Joguel Almeda (Prime Minister Najib.
Jeric is the Master (AaahhE.
Jessica Tantos (AOIL).
Lily looked like Lotion and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
He Christine Mercado (prime).
Ramon Miguel Perez (AOIL.

He / she was a vampire.

Renzo (Prime Minister Abe has Viel.
Alungani, Eugene Caga (AOIL.
Norman Tancinco here (Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Jasmine Gamboa (prime).
Ian Mirafloat (Aaahhh).
Kerala which Sy (AaahhE.

Mining, Marallero.

Landlee Mae Fernandez (Prime Minister Najib.
Kim Jong za (AaahhE.
Ivan Abde Leon (prime).
Ylam, is the prime actor.
Luawooooooo (AOIL.
Jackie Lou Ramos (prime).
