Some are just some of the schools in the Philippines who are teaching Agriculture and others that are still lacking in the senate but now there is a child in the senate who can have a wake in high school in every province from Quezon City.
That is what we should do if we do not have a lot to eat; we are not going to eat; we also do not have the destination here in the Philippines.
For the long time we have said that they still have a problem on the product of food here in the paper.
.
The school of this is not a joke, and it is not easy to study the school of April Two here in the 'High School.
"Isn't it right that you want here where to go together with the students that you have not like until now.
Do they have any form to understand other kinds of others.
Because if I am taking care of your life because you are thinking of or being in a point, you need to return to president a teacher.
So that's the only thing they prioritize.
The wake for high school students who are going to help in the comfort room in Laguna are low; and Natangenos that they are loyal to each province of the Philippines.
According to one of how there is no law in the senate, I will still continue to transfer education but I will also bring them two years to four years in a span of four years to each other, how to go to a huge influence of Agriculture and it is still beautiful.
It does not want to have a wound because of course, it's because of course in the Philippines.
But he said there is a need for her to be followed in Times Bureau of Humalig), then the one who is a call.
You are going to have a time for you to be impatient.
It is clear that the time you are studying in Bicol is clear so that the opposition will only be a farmer and our fellow countrymen is not only a farmer and our fellow citizens can only help each other for almost two thousand pesos in their families for almost two thousand pesos.
Maybe there are a lot of government troops that are studying in college so he strictly hired a heart and a lot.
I have a lot.
But let us go here to the U!
Our older brother who is snobbish, because of this, can't take care.
Really, as well.
Asia.
You can see.
We have a big difference on this day.
Jessica with what the Department of Office said, that it is not new to be with the people who are seated on the streets who are operating as well and it is the only one hundred pesos and one hundred pesos.
Thank you very much.
