Let's is the NCRPO director General Emilio Aguinaldo.

Postanes and his mind.
On January 20, 2015.
In opinion.

If the success of 2015 Papal visit will be discussed, many people in government and church, including the entirety of the people, helped each other for the sake of their peaceful and successful.
In the ranks of the police, one of the things that we can say is NCRPO director, General Emilio Aguinaldo.
One week before the actual arrival of Santo Pope, the chief of NCRPO is almost not going home to their home.
Each of the people who are busy working on the shoulders of the police particularly the entire police command of the NCRPO is centered to the history of Pope Francis.
Aside from the different meeting with his officials and personnel in the entire Metro Manila, General Valmoria was still meeting with the representatives of the church particularly those from CBCP.
This is aside from the daily work of NCR which should not be forgotten and should be given attention to.
Valmoria knows that although there is a need to focus on the preparation for the arrival of the Sto. Pope, it is possible that 100 percent of criminality will also be good if there is a big incident of crime that will happen before the actual arrival of the Pope.
This can be the reason to verify the Papal visit.
So that he will be given to the Papal visit to the Papal visit, General Valmoria, this is Fight IT.
This is what is not easy to do so that an expert in-time management is needed here, that we salute and salute the mother general, Valmoria.
In short, Valmoria was one of many individuals who took care of us on this day of praises and acknowledging for a very good contribution in the visit of Santo Pope in our country.
Congratulations, for a Mega Job Fair!
Again, General Valmoria was proven why he is one of the young generals who should think thoroughly about the force of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in exchange of the retiring General Alan Purisima.
General Valmoria, to be the lead to the 100,000 of the PNP!
Sevidal in Tondo suddenly.
It seems that the positions of the UV Expresses in the whole of Tondo have gone out, a few days before the feast of the Sto. Niño this Sunday, January 20.
It is said that Rey Robles who served as the connotation of one Lita Malabon who was only able to step down and when more than 20 barangay chairmen, Tondo.
It is illegal gambling that resisted not only by the church but also by some famous politicians in the city.
The complaint has already reached the increase of police officers in Tondo to the office of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas and he was ordered by Justice Secretary Mar Roxas to catch them from the office of NCRPO Director General Valmoria, to catch all the positions of the accident in the said place.
It was immediately an issue that Valmoria was the one who ordered MPD Director Rolando Nana to conduct operation and capture all the those who are seen in the vicinity of Tondo.
But it was supposedly not followed by Rolando Nana and the Station Commander of MPD Station 1 and 2 who were Coleels Jackson Cusipag, due to the order of a high-ranking official of the Manila City Hall.
A number of those with General Valmoria was like no use, and instead of being caught, the position of those who were taken from Lita Malabon in Tondo has increased.
It is said that it is possible that the officials of the police of Manila are allegedly stuck in politics because of the office of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas who is a member of the Liberal Party (LP) the doctor to arrest those who are members of the United Nationalist Alliance (UNA).
It is said that a close friend of Mayor Erap Estrada, who was identified as Jesse Vinggan, is said to be the brains of illegal gambling that has been implemented now in the city of Manila.
According to Vinggan, the queen of the Toyota Innova was found out in illegal gambling.
Allegedly not less than twenty-20) barangay chairmen, Tondo who gave permission to lay out to their respective barangays were the destruction of it by someone who is allegedly a help of one Rey Robles.
Just until when Father Nana will just ignore the direct mandate of NCRPO Director General Valmoria, we do not know, but what we are sure, the gills of some barangay chairmen of Tondo who is direct with the grace of it was Lita Malabon and Rey Robles.
If Colonel Nana is able to risk his position and profession, it is because of the abundant attack, we will be followed.
Let's just look at if his nose, General Valmoria, is that when he learned that it seems to be a garbage for Colonel Nana, and to the station commanders with snacks or by NCRPO director.
Sometimes, it is really different if the force of money is getting stronger, even if there is a good official like Colonel Nana, they are able to buy and taste it!
