
Mayor Alfredo Lim, has an illness, is it not?

Postanes and his mind.
On June 10, 2015.
In opinion.

She cannot stand because Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim is currently confined in the mat with illness.
"That is what the black propaganda are spreading in the people who are still early about the issue that they can use to discredit Mayor Lim.
Mayor Lim chuckled deeply in front of his companions who were talking with breakfast and talking to him when they gave the news the other day.
It was a joke that Mayor Lim said that hopefully there will be a fake medical certificate from the hospital or doctor who has been spreading news so that their defamation will become believable.
If you think about it, this defamation are already made out and it is not new to the hearing of the Manileños because there are several times used by black propaganda as a defamation against Mayor Lim every time the election is approaching.
This kind of defamation are low, and we are sure that people are made by people to know that they have a brain is needed to use in the dangerous places.
Our news, Mayor Lim and his supporters will hike for a few kilometers in the coming Friday (June 12) to commemorate the "Independence Day" which will be followed by the motorcade of some places in Manila.
The aim of CBCP: Those like Erap should not be voted.
On the other hand, former president and suspect Joseph "Erap" Estrada are still hit on the largest call of the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines (CBCP) of the voters recently.
It is clear and direct the instruction of CBCP to end the voters on the 2016 elections, voting for the candidates from political DYang.
CBCP is also calling the voters to shments and not to vote for corrupt politicians or those who are corrupt.
Political dynasties and corruption are "tanim-bala" or two things that cannot be taken away from the long history of politics and the cause of its continuous decrease in our country.
According to CBCP, they will not endorse the candidate in 2016 because aside from it, it is easy to understand, right and righteous in their instructions as a standard for the voters of voting.
Perhaps, CBCP stressed that there is no right to trust the plague of the people like Erap who after being removed from position, the highest crime in the town which can be done by the people in the country.
In simpler terms, the goats would not make a dumbbell or anyone can control over the pork.
Maybe it is not hard to understand the meaning of political dynasty are the Binay-Estrada, Binay, Gatchalian of Valenzuela, Calixto, and other clan of politicians who are considered a corporation.
Obama: Filipino, corrupt and corrupt!
There are many politicians in the country that they do not know why they ended up in politics so they have not been effective in the public service because they are just in mind to be able to free from their positions so they are starting to corrupt.
This is the view of US President Barack Obama to the politicians here in us which was stated in Southeast Asian Games that was meeting at the White House recently.
What is lacking is for Obama to say that the business that is being done by political dyed that is why until now, we are still poor.
Bitter, "that is the truth that Filipino voters should know that they do not make mistakes in choosing the candidate.
Felix Lapid, 72.
Long ago (Sunday) was the former Barangay Chairman and ABC President Felix Lapid of Balic-Balic, Sampaloc, Manila at the age of 72.
Her remains were taken off in Sancestrado (corner Araneta Avenue, Quezon Avenue, in Quezon City.
He was to be buried on Friday (June 12), 3: 00 at night, of Loyola Memorial Park, Marikina City.

For any complaints and reactions, text or call 09174842180.
