Land in danger and industrious.

Julian Bato.

The trip from the resort they went to was almost an hour to plan for tasks and research in a few hours, I tried to fall asleep after a few hours, I tried to wear a chicken, and sound of a goat - we were already here.
On the street of Barangay Balete Drive, the ranks of the cemented house that can be seen in the book of Heard can be seen by a big wall in the house of the farmers, but when he saw a few hectares of the plantation of a pipe, he was able to see a few hectares of the farm's house, if they were not only because of the hidden fence.
Hacienda.
In addition, it was discovered that when we went to Barangay Banko, a 96-ten kilometers distance is not a joke because of the rock and a huge difference between eleven o'clock in one by one, it almost reached Php40 and a huge difference between eleven o'clock in the Makati because the Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
The typhoon Santi was left without electricity that's why it's only the light of a candle for our guidance towards the house of NMely, a resident of 40 years old and living in the Banica's.
Sardines and rice are our dinner which is as if we have an unusual ingredients so we are able to eat food that usually pass through the hands of the farmers, which is only needed to give by the farmers who are only earning by P-50 compared to the millions of income of Cojuangco-Aquino.
While eating, we started to show each other one of the active students who joined the contests in the past four decades - from the formation of garbage from SDO, massacre, to monopolize the copy of the copy of Cerge of Land OPLAN).
It is a big playground for her former view on the hacienda when he was still young, but he could not hide his father's face when he came from the farm, in a cauldron containing rice that was not fed up and with the land that he was not able to catch up.
When he inherited the scythe and arming, the whole day that is planting the farm, is always waiting for the time of harvest, they are looking for a job for fellow farmers to fight for their rights on earth, and most of all, to avoid danger every time there is a protest.

Lund to Ligation.
The next day, Ka clay went back to what happened last November 14, 2004 where more than 5,000 people were able to join a long time, while the police and military were the response of the police and military who killed 14 people.
After a heinous violence, the presence of the military has lost their presence in the entire HE.
In the operation conducted, the distribution of the land and CampA became the distribution of the land and the police and police in the hacienda, there were nights when Ka clay pot was not able to sleep because of the outposts which were beside his house.
Extreme threats and violence are being done by the military to the farmers in the hacienda, even children, they use to point the leaders of the union in exchange for a piece of snack.
Co-workers, like Ermson Acosta and Kerala, was also arrested, just recently, there was a former leader of the farmer in Balete Drive in the midst of the past barangay election.
As a response to the history of violence in HLi, the farmer built the movement and relationship with the farmer to fight the root of the suffering of the farmer: The person who was the one who hit Cojuangco-Aquino in the land.
But even during Christmas season, they are confident with the help given by the indigenous people responsible for the sake of the farmers of China, Russia, and others.
The primary amount that can be stopped in this culture is the belief that the duck are digging the ground that is why he should have the owner.
In their latest survey, the songs are featured here and this is usually written by those who are similar to the people like Acosta, there are also those who are taking advantage of this history until the current decision of the Supreme Court to share the land to the farmer.
These were done so that the public could have a concrete basis about the lives and fighting of the farmers.
Wake up and release.
Before leaving, I watch my sharp blade in putting the wind, the smell was forcefully put in my mind when I return to Manila, we met the class of the society we saw.
Not far away is the struggle of farmers and students to serve as a physical reminder from the program that we should not be discontentment in programs that are continuously being deceived and saved by our fellow farmers.
A big slap to the truth is the moment when Cojuangco-Aquino is in the front of Cojuangco-Aquino the truth, they are blind because the money which is owned by the owner of the hacienda will not think about it.
Expenses for farm and planting a pipe, his hard work hard to have a abundant harvest, and pay attention to the tired and physical abuse on the name of money.
Until now, the Cojuangco-Aquino does not have any plans to share the land of the farmer with a still not yet paid justice to those who died in the massacre because it was just a show of justice to the massacre to prevent the distribution of justice and land.
But when waking up, it was never comfortable if this is a process of sacrifice and effort in order to achieve justice and freedom.
