Ah, I am sure that I don't know that I don't know that I am just free me with a liter of child, isn't it right to buy all of them.
Two teenagers.
"There will be it," John Rey confirmed the crown to John Rey in the outposts that you say.
How much?
Cabaruan.
Yes.
Go down and go down.
You should just do what is right for the four applicants.
Do you answer?
!
Central High School; we can't show yourself to Ron Gagalac, along with Ron Gagalac, while you're going to do something like that, okay.
"Maybe there are those who are there, that is why I do not think about it, from my mother-in-law, that's why it's okay to have a call on you, I am still okay, that's why I am okay, I am ugly, I am ugly.
Reporting, your record.
"Is it possible that there will be a record for those who are stupid; we are along with each other, with a little way to be transferred at that moment."
"What will I think of?
According to him.
Yes, brother, it's because you'll say that we were able to wake up; he / she was not able to wake up; he / she said that he / she wasn't able to look down; he / she wasn't able to look down; he / she didn't think that even though he / she didn't know anything, he / she didn't know that I had cold water.
Ah, it's okay with him where I really miss them here, which is why that's your remains, save it.
It is not all he has to have the strong Cielo 'number of times, that's why, you are busy with a little bit; that's why he / she has a mistress; he / she could have a house where you still have a woman with a mistress.
Yes, that's why I lose that I have been cut off so as not for you to reach there, isn't it that for a long time that we have been in a long distance; we should talk to me, I agree to me, right?
Hahaha, I am the one who will be imprisoned if I do not know who are you not going to do it.
Yes.
"We are anxious; we don't want, if you do not accept it, I have not yet finished, he / she didn't have no longer finished; he / she said that he / she didn't do anything, he / she wasn't able to end up; he / she said that he / she was going to leave the jeepney; the Model Shop, which he / she was about to leave.
For something in Bulacan.
He was in front of me.
They also do not have any hope for them to pass through Monday.
There was no case of Joly for just the corner of the corner.
One!
They will have been cut off later without license.
We are very pitiful; we think that this is the truth that it is easy to say that it's okay that there are children who are very okay; we can just let go.
You!
I am not able to go to Tubo-trust so that you would not go to the Ro-shaped like that in case we do not have a job like this yes to what the Philippines will know.
Yes, I do not know what is right.
There were a thin mother who immediately felt when she felt Macoy's single woman.
He does not know yes, even if you are not able to know now, you will be able to know now that your child can be able to help you again, and what kind of age is, I just want to get hurt, and what kind of age is, I just know that you are going to get dressed in.
"They entered a while ago to Inday why I was able to look at each other; he / she didn't know how to look at me; as long as you have not know how to go to me, that's why you didn't know that you are the first one to think that you didn't look at me.
You will also be able to look straight at all; I can still do not like me, I don't want me to be checked if I am going to have a grudge about me.
We saw each other, very fur; you said that he / she was very angry.
She is full of sweet words; he / she'll take care of him, then she would ask.
Yes, whatever happens, we are okay with the medicine; we are okay with my name because even if you get a lot of stone; we still have a lot of stone; we still have a lot of stone; we still don't have to go to you until now that you don't have to enter, you have not tried to enter.
