
2013 / 10 / 08.

Do you need Pang-Masa? (Also a part 2).

Read the first part of mercury contamination.

Because he is busy with the kind of sweat caused by the most powerful needs of the people in society (Bojo Molina), food, jewelry and other members of the art of poverty, and most of the artists, they believe that this kind of artist is preparing for two more choice but, according to E. San Juan, Jr.

Libra (he / she denied the objective that he / she will take for his / her ex-M / Her) to be an at-shirt and rest of the artist... there was a call-tempered and rest.

Or the PCampionship held by Civil / Her Petty Officer Humalig), the Anti-Tropical Convergence Zone that is beneficial for the sake of any kind and outlook of the current time, "Kim Icherness, which is needed to be sent home by San Juan, 1988), which is needed to be sent home by San Juan, 1988), which is needed to be visited by San Juan, 1988.

The two mentioned type of cases that are benefiting from the privilege same actors, their actions, and their principle for arts, is very clear that there is a sign of the existing situation in the Philippines.

One more thing, it turns out to manipulate the order of politics and economists in culture, especially in art, this is the same form of taking advantage of the production, but he does not feel that some people who are who are going to have a change will come back to the community, which is being used by the artists who can take him / her / her own community.

Second, if an artist is giving the strength of the manual voting, it can be fulfilled and there will be a physical appearance on his idea, but if it is not being given to any idea, it is not only one of the recognition given by an artist, and if it is not given inspiration to the artists, they have no idea of being rude to the arts of these.

Stated by the revolutionary movement of Ching, the farmers are working on their first time to improve the agricultural sector, and what kind of arts is what they will witness, and what kind of arts is what they will use, and sometimes they do not know, they themselves are taking advantage of the poor people, that is why they themselves are taking advantage of the poor people who are taking advantage of the poor.

Let us go back to the question: Do the masses need the arts right?

The art of arts is taking an important role, with the national implementation of its ability, together with other ingredients in culture (language, music, etcetera, and human beings which are benefiting from the worsening culture of the worsening crisis.

In the examination of the language, trailer and movie, Juan (2013) tried to explain why the masses needs art.

Wtch, the marginalized.

The reflection of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that will be the root of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that will be given to the Intertropical Convergence Zone of the Peace Process of the Pacific Economic Cooperation of the Pacific Economic Cooperation (NL.

The masses has a great belief that they will not be able to spend more attention because they can also help in making their talent and research in their situation because it can also help in making their talent and research in order to make their own arguments and thinking that it will also help in making decisions and thinking.

In the factory, the workers are being linked to a very long time, an individual who has been able to lose interest in the entire afternoon and in a certain time, because the interest of the masses, for sure, because the interest of the masses, is certain that the interest of the masses will become worse, because the interest of the masses is getting worse, because the interest of the masses is getting worse, so that the interest of the masses might have nothing to suffer and remain far from being practical.

The masses needs the art of arts and to ensure that it will not be the same time for the case of China, for example, the system that has been started to change but since it has been started by the women and Filipino workers, and the artists, workers, workers, and farmers.

A long time will be spent and we should not think twice and together if they need to take care of the stray dogs that drinks the nutrients of the arts that should be for the fulfilment of our ballots.
