
DPWH-Palawan, those who are planning to buy the bark in Mindoro.

September 12, 2016 Leila B. Dom.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, September 12 (Pia) - today by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Central Office, which is only in Mindoro to buy materials like sardines and sand for the infrastructure projects in Palawan.

This is after it was found out that there will be no one to take advantage of the local officials of DPWH in the province that becomes the cause of their projects in the government.

"As of now, DepEd is going to fund the pending case because there is no need to take a sign," stated by District Engineer Amelia Fajardo of the First Engineering District of DPWH-Palawan when he was invited by the Provincial Council recently.

This is also the problem being faced by DPWH to the second district, they should not continue what needs to be finished in the roads due to lack of pork and sand.

"The local government are affected, so hopefully the problem will be addressed," according to Engineer Alejandro Vaving.

The allegations against the government in the province are the ones who are taking advantage of their application so that their gravel leaf will be gave birth by their gravel.

Engineer Fajardo added that they are still studying the use of materials in Mindoro because they need to make the funds of the Department of Education (DepEd) for the construction of buildings in school.

"It is very uncertain because there is a need to adjust for a limited budget if outside the Palawan," says Fajardo.

Subsequent to this, the inventor of their contractor is going to give birth to the Provincial Government in order to give clarity on PM RB which is why their application will not be approved even if the needed documents are completed.

In the explanation of the Provincial Information Office (PIO), Gil Acosta said that it is only right for PM RB to have a proper regulations on the operations of the quarry in order to protect the rivers and places which are supposedly often hit by operators, who are often hit by operators, which are often being planted.
