Isn't it?

"I was made a survey for the first outside of this column," I said to the bystanders, "what do you want to see, which can be seen in a line of time later?"
The answer of a librarian at the release of the cylinder tube.
The answer of the declaration of martial law: Women's Month, to the whole world because of March now.
The total of the NPA to attack, questionable offensive, was compared to the news released by his band.
"My mother: The decision of the pork barrel scam.
"Said by another Mother: Noguides.
Ten were asked when I asked the five of them to answer.
The victims are in urban and society, from the Middle East of society, the ones who answered are from the cycle of my circle where there will be a connection with the contribution and movement movement of course, they have to Access Road, aside from my mother.
"There is a follow-up case," what do you don't want to see in the news? "
They are like a classmate in Vhong.
There will be a disastrous game, "I don't want to see all those who are being reported today."

There is no attempt by my survey to make it look like the news of the social media is not just the news and the national movement of issues and issues that should be discussed, because that might be what we want to see, to hear and see the whole audience favorite gifts in the country.
If there are thousands of typhoons affected by typhoon and flood, there will suddenly be an actor who will be pregnant or will complain, a mental illness will be uncovered if there will be a cure for the prestigious contest of the country, and the role of the prestigious contest of the country will suddenly be important.
If there is a bus that fell from the skyway or in the ravine, we got addicted to negative vehicles.
Here is the problem in this column, it is better to say a challenge, not a problem.
Because there is an attempt by the column to talk about it.
But do you really want to read about the issue that the country wants to discuss this column - the reforms are spreading in the country on earth and death of the farmers.
Is there interested in senseless stories, which is not about the love Split if it is not about the love of someone who is known to have a maid who is Cuisa.
Can it be possible to look at him, watch and make the revolutionary solution to the justice and search for the justice of Vhong Navarro, or for the straight mother of Kris Aquino.
Will the word of P-U D by M-M?

According to Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines, last June 10, 1988 at the entire country.
The reform in the land is not going to be able to wait a sheep.
The farmer was screaming at the plaza, a farmer with the police in front of the Congress last week at the Commission on Higher Education!

This column maintained the issue of lack of land that will be bought by a farmer and all the poor in the entire world (not "it's being discussed," 10 pounds, which is why it should be talked about.
According to what was stated in the law, in June, the provisions of the Black Nazarene will be finished in the whole world, aside from the reform the land in the whole world, which is aside from the land that was confiscated from the land in the whole world, which is important to pay the land that was given to him.
If you are confused by the last two sentences, "that is because this government is extraordinary in using something interesting.

And there is a conflict when the column tried to send them to their next outside.
Why the solution to the conflict is a quick solution to the chaos that is quick, to abhorory in the sanctity of the earth, free reforms on earth will try this column to answer and discuss this column.
The reforms are needed to be discussed, make it a habit to be prudent.
"As they say," any important issue should be determined yet to meddle.
