
NPA, killed with SAF 44?

The result of the Board of Inquiry (boi) of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in relation to the Mamasapano, Maguindanao massacre, where the 44 members of the Elite Special Action Force (SAF) was mercilessly murdered.
The news that the NPA has a lot to do with the murder of the new heroes of the Philippines in the new time.
The SAF 44 risked their lives in the eyes of lawmakers that the Bangsamoro Basic Law has many loopholes.
But the truth is, the lawmakers have been aware that the Philippines and the people's money are going to be used in order to give importance to abuse inflicted by BBL.
Well, the Philippines is very small to lessen if Mindanao is gone.
Based on the report of BOI was led by Director Benjamin Magalong, President Benigno Aquino III has a responsibility, resigned PNP Chief Dir. Gen. Alan Purisima and former SAF chief Dir. Getulio Napenas.
According to the report, President Aquino committed suicide, Purisima and Napenas in protocol because it was not informed by them to Officer 3-1-Charge Deputy Director General Leonardo Espina, about "Oplan Exodus."
It's good that there are those who are like Magalong and Senior Superintendent Robert Po, deputy spokesperson of the PNP, who is firm in the country and is not blind to the truth because they are the type of officials who believe and are the ones elected by the government.
The NPA immediately escaped in the tragedy that happened in Mamasapano, Maguindanao but this is not the New People's Army's Army.
The NPA act as Napenas, Purisima and Asukal.
It cannot be denied that they have the shortcomings, which is why the painful truth happened, the enemies of the SAF killed the members of the SAF.
Even if DILG Secretary Mar Roxas will defend them, the authorities will no longer be erased from the minds of the citizens who are blind, so they cannot accept that they are the ones who are guilty of the incident.
This should be paid by Napenas, Purisima and Aquino to the people because they are among the culprits.
No matter what the Palace should do with the family, no matter what happens they will challenge the family, it will remain clear in the minds of many that the NPA has a big contribution to the family of the SAF 44 and even the people.
The citizens should not play blind because the future of our country is at stake in the events in the country.
