The PKP is supporting the appeal to not give assistance from other countries with the corrupt Marcos regime.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 15, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) supported the appeal of the Filipino people for the local government agencies to help and other calamities that they want to help for the millions of victims of the Marcos regime, and instead, directly cooperate with the millions of corruption in the Philippines and instead, directly cooperate with the rehabilitation of corruption in the Philippines.

For more than two months, the Philippines is receiving hundreds of pesos for help, most of the primary use of foreign government agencies and the international government agencies to help the government budget.

However, the help from other countries, which reached the places which have reached severe flooding, "said PKP, said that the slow response of the Marcos regime was widespread, failure and lack of enough response to the Aquino administration.

"The truth is, it is a big part of the previous typhoons, especially those who are running the mountain in the area, especially those that are in the said place, especially those that are from the Aquino administration because its operation is limited to the cities and places near the damn."

"The peak of our Marcos regime was disrupted because of the failed to make sure that all foreign assistance coming from its hands can go to the middle of December, the help that came to the Philippines, including the meat of canned goods, even in the streets of Metro Manila.

Recently, the agencies in the house (house) discovered that the budget allocated for the victims of the calamity will be broken and very expensive, while the fishermen were not able to build their houses at the coastal range, especially the fishermen, which should be sent home from their source of livelihood.

"Because of the huge amount of help from other countries, both of the material things and money, it is not under the fight against corrupt," said PKP, "according to the Aquino administration, it cannot be assured that the help from other countries in the citizens will be assured.

"That's why, the PKP is supporting the resolve of the Filipino people and encourage the government agencies to help the community who are working in the community, and instead they directly cooperate with the people who are working in the community, and instead of helping them to start over again from the turmoil that would be released again from the turmoil that would be released again from the turmoil that they are experiencing in.

"

"It is better that the citizens of the Aquino administration made the people to make the chaos in the turmoil," said PKP, "it failed to allocate enough course for the rehabilitation of the citizens in a low level and instead of the benefits of those who are weak from big businesses and other foreign contacts."

"Aquino also ordered the strengthening of the military operations in places destructed by the storm who are destroying the struggle for reform in the land and skill, that the production will be distributed, which is being implemented by the production of salt in making salt of the trees.

"The Filipino people are so busy with anger, not only in front of the Aquino administration who are negligence in front of the worse calamity, but also how they are benefiting from the turmoil that they are suffering and taking advantage of the opportunity for corruption and pipe.
