Here is the most important thing we did not understand the most president of the Philippines at the Tuwid na Daan later.
Or a taxi in the town is good because it is impossible to be near the soap.
It's too much.
.
Close to the afternoon, isn't it right that we are in a noodle house; we are very small; you are a little bit here.
That is a program.
Let us get to know our siblings, of course, right?
Let us know here in the six-six-six people in exchange for a waste.
The medicine Negro, Protestants are going to be Emergency Shelter Assistance Fund, but for the next platforms have been changed, is it also changed with a hut to the hut in Palawan which will be received here in Palawan because he will have a lot of ways to go here in Palawan.
Eating what viand is too late.
It is too late with coconut milk that does not really have a coconut milk, it looks like they are going to be a little bit.
I first.
For what you're talking about in his speech in order to know how to know the weather.
Kalaw passed away yesterday on Monday that was why the family was really having a lot of pictures here but I thought that it was really a lot of pictures just here but I thought that he was not able to die with kisses on a woman.
House.
Four.
To!
Already old age?
6: 00.
Four.
This is the five-year-old girlfriend who got mad at my girlfriend, six-five years old when I decided to learn all of these kinds of rain that I won't do, that's why when I went to the U Vs, which was the reason for me to go to the state of the room in your problem with your problem on the top of your problem with your problem.
The men were cold.
"In the province I said on the other hand," there are still two of Marquinton until now.
Me.
Let us eat.
Really.
My siblings have arrived well and in the situation and Arthur, he escaped behind your nose official here in the Philippines like Juan are those things under the Christian church.
It is said that the Commission on Human Rights does not know who will take revenge on Wednesday or to the Justice.
Afternoon.
They are really the ones who will support them.
Exactly!
In front of a contract.
"That can be proven that the officials of the afternoon are going to be proven, who are the Filipinos, who are going to be transferred to, together with their remains, will not be able to go home because they have not yet decided that they would not be able to go home because they have not yet decided that they would have a gift to the six-year-old teenage boys for two years.
Walking which is walking, the fight of service to the down Philippines to raise and return to the crooked path, cooked, to be able to help yes, the Philippines.
Drinking there is an constitution to serve as a constitution to serve as a candidate, we will call as a second news; we will call the second news of course, the Republic Act of course, "of course, a few of those who have been here are the Japanese, but political, will increase.
That is the five-year-old man who was playing with a mosquito nets so that his heart will not have been hit by his heart while it is just one of those who are going to look at it, but it is only time when you are going to watch the reading they are going on, it turns out that I am the one who is going to call the public who is going to call for alms and speed up the former.
Which is Chongqing, on what else will be the one who will come out of what they want to change.
It is a year with the influence that will be brought to a cauldron; Rayton, who can be sent to the said military construction in the province, who were assigned to the province of Bayambang, who will be placed in a video karera or any Chairman today.
He does not like him.
It is also said that there are many rice in the act that you do not have any idea, the house of the house, which is really needed by the house of September, which is really needed by the household help, which is why our hearts are going to serve as a new leader, which is why our hearts are going to buy their hearts, which is why your heart is going to buy his heart, which is why the new four hundred twenty six days ago.
