TV Patrol, July 31, 2014.

It is so dark.

This is the secret and is the truth that you need to believe and accept the sentences that you have done to your life: Your present life is the result of choosing the things that you have done in the past.

You are all taking a bit of your choosing if you are in your situation today because you have not want to go against yourself in this situation, but if you do not want to go to your financial situation, you will not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go to your financial situation, even if you do not want to go

Understand them: What are your resentment?, and why, according to you, you should not get carried away by others, right?

"Why are you regretting it, because you are hurt and accident happened?

Isn't it that you rode the vehicle you chose?

No one is forcing you to ride in a tricycle even if you're the one who wants to ride a tricycle, and when hit by a car, you are blaming the driver of the car, while you are the one who chose and rode you.

The answers are always similar.

You have what you want, you chose to be involved in order to happen.

You will never be involved in any danger if you do not want it and you have no permission.
