Give advice.

Since the start of the flood control or flood water for the Department of Public Works and Highways in Blumentritt, Manila, the flow of traffic in the BGHMC, especially in front of the Manila North Cemetery, many motorists and commuters were piled up in the said area, so some are just vacationing in the said area, so some are just vacationing in the said area.
No police or traffic enforcer of the Manila Traffic Enforcement Unit or Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau of the area and even though there are no watchmen of the jurisdiction of the jurisdiction of the evacuation of the rainy season or strong rainfall.
However, the neighboring barangay of Bira will be included in the middle of Quezon City the barangay watchman is now deployed in the barangay hall to speed up the flow of traffic involving their jurisdiction.
Barangay Chairman William "Macs" Chua did not agree, of Barangay P222,278, La Loma, QC, that his members, officials and watchmen were just stopped in their barangay hall and almost filled with speeding vehicles in order to cross the Blumentritt in A. Bonifacio, or, from A. Bonifacio towards Manila.
His members who were members, Michael de Castro, Juanita Masangaron, Joy Salamila, Fatima Fullido, Belson Alcajas and Oscar Malapitan presented that all barangay wardens were submerged in the area without their jurisdiction.
That's why, even small steps are done and continued to be done by the officials of Barangay P222,278.
There are also many people who are helping and the poor residents of Manila, Chairman William Chua, especially those in Blumentritt and some residents of the place where he brought to the funeral where he was placed in the funeral parlor that was not only given protection but put in a young burial.
The chairman himself approached and asked for help from the owner of the funeral home to ask for help that could not be rejected because of what he did to go to.
He does not voters, but because he believes in his "good luck, that's why he continues to help those who are in need and because his heart is good, he continues to visit the blessing he received.
