A person, home and Tanigue: Some act from Pasing 2013.

On the first week of February, the common culture of the Philippines (CCP) is overflowing in the art of the people, young or old, there is money or no more than 4,000 employees of CCP, the 15,000 employees of arts, the 15,000 employees of arts, Protestants.
How can be watched over more than 100 pounds for eight hours, it is not realized that he is persistent with the P300 million pesos, though most of the owners are confident that he is the one who can buy 50 pesos in the every day compared to most people.
In Tangaving, Batanglement, the 13 Devera due to different kinds of form and allergaping will be featured in different kinds of foolishness, shrimp paste, apple cider vinegar, apple cider vinegar, apple cider vinegar, lunch and Filipino-English terms.
In total, it is not in the opinion that the person who took the theme of Tsinoy businessman has nothing to do even if it was told by President Noynoy Aquino, one of the fourth generation of Co, anti-Friends that is part of the fourth generation of Co Yu, 09051090451, from the fourth generation of Co Yu, 09051090451, from the fourth generation of Ore, and those who are facing some of the countries he is facing.
One of these is the whole family and the economy of dedicates the movement of belief, power and improvement of the society, most of this are the arguments related to human rights.
With Jack.
There are no missing children released by the Kapisanan ng Masang Pilipino (Iloilo Pramis), she showed the complication inside a small house, competition between the siblings, the competition between the siblings, the drama when it shows the physical violence on top of the three actor in DBP.
It can be seen in the King Oedano (Lipa Actor, the part in the western part of the low community is very popular that is popular with the damaged position and the common people made the mistake by their king.
The change in the form of the concept of the family, home and towns in the time of the Basilica Minore because of the consequence of the movement and concern of the people in his risk in the planet of Google Earth.
In this tone of the search and worrying about the issue of personality in relation to the society, the protagonist is living in the middle of lack of peace in his dream, which is why there is no trace of peace in the midst of self-mindedness; and the history that we have has a real or wrong; and one has a lack of truth or artificial islands.
Meanwhile, the issue of discrimination at Lola Basyang early this the magical lady's ability to restore the image of a woman in Balled Act, Reproductive health, the protagonist is weak at the release of women in BE, Reproductive health, the same view of a woman in Bakar, Reproductive health, the same view of a woman in BE, Reproductive health, the same view of a girl in BE, Reproductive health, the same view of a girl in BE, Reproductive health, the same view of a woman.
The bagman of Ony Carine employer, a classic example is 30 minutes of the foul odor, and amazed because of the talent he has given to the pork barrel queen Sampaguita Pictures, a simple conversation between the teacher (Ony) and student (Knapsack) and students (Karangalan) and students (Kalagayan) and students (Kumamoto) and students (Kalagayan) and students.
As comedy, the Pampolina family of Prince Alvaro and Prince Rodora (the comedian of San Dionisio Parañaque) is in the fight of Moro and christians in the name of land, territory and love which is similar to the coldness of the actor who does not want to make if there would be no violent reaction from the actor who does not want to make if there would be no concrete reaction from the actor who does not want to make if there would be no concrete reaction from the actor who does not want to make if there would be no concrete reaction from the actor.
The destruction of mud is piled at the last show that the haunted house of the Philippine Army and soldiers who are being used by the soldiers and soldiers who are being caught by the soldiers, which is being used by the soldiers, is being used by the soldiers and helping them to search for the soldiers and helping them to search for their loved ones.
In a aspect, the last 1984 (Seklusyon by the supreme court, which was served as a scene of the Philippine Army (JO-5), was able to reveal the historical implementation of the law of the citizens, who was proven to have been charged by the Supreme Court (JK this), which was proven to be replaced by the Supreme Court (JK-Station.
The character in Art (Sawata, the person who is giving is an example because there are two kinds of art-coloured car and one of an individual who is giving an white paint to a white cloth that becomes a white paint to one individual, not end in arts.
