
Noon!

TEL. "Then, those who are thrown in Malaca単ang are enemies or opposition, what they say is that they are all" guilty, which is being implicated in the leading pork barrel scam.
Now that pork barrel queen Janet Lim-Napoles spoke again, they cannot deny death penalty and seems to be threatening.
You are a child of twin.
These are Senator Franklin "Porta" Drilon, Alan "Cayetano," Chiz "Chiz" Escudero, Antonio "wind" and then House Speaker Sonny Belmonte, as if House Speaker Sonny Belmonte agreed to urinate the pants of Janet Napoles.
Don't you wait for his testimony regarding the eight people who trust the queen of separation from pork barrel.
"Those in the hands by Justine Leila de Lima has a lacking name because of the final and true statement of Napoles to wait for that.
And this is Budget Secretary Butch "Toor" Abad, which is really wrong and said that it is wrong to call the pork barrel scam based on the call of a newspaper at him.
Even if she is hidden with a hidden talent, he is not a king with shhhhh "of the prince.
"There is a king, isn't it?" His boss!
Now, it seems that they cannot sleep.
That is my karma after cleaning the list of Napoles at the list of Napoles, many have a copy of those who may come out of other time the moment we will take care of each other!
Hopefully politics and social activities of former Senator and rehab czar, Ping Lacson will not prevail over President Noynoy Aquino.
What he knows based on the list of Napoles who was given to him, fight for him.
Anyway, I trust the last words of Lacson that if de Lima gets the machine, she herself will fight!
It's because it's difficult in Malaca単ang, that they are doing the same thing, the people have enough for the case of the pork barrel scam.
The list of Commission on Audit (COA) went out on 2011 and 2012, however, they insisted that during the time of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Malaca単ang was able to deny it on the "testimony of Janet Liwag.
It is different to show the announcement so that the people will be confused.
Continue the deceit of the people.
You are waiting for you to be evicted here in Malaca単ang!
