What are Labor Law (1).

It is sad to think that our government is alone in Asia that are part of the national policy and Labor Law.
This is pulled out from the sharp blade.
In the act of do, the lack of work in the country is the result of their work, or for those who are unemployed, or those who are looking for their livelihood but are not qualified to choose anyone but to go abroad.
On the pulled side, even for those who have work, the overseas Job Fair they usually have a bigger salary and more beautiful opportunities in the social development, many professionals, countries are low in their training and qualifications.
We have an unlicensed nurses who are working as a caregiver and flight attendant confronted her, the doctors who serves as a nurse, human covetous, and archipelf, and those who graduated college partners.
"Like those who do not want to find work, they are not forcing them to do this, that makes them very good that makes them very good that makes them alive, a proof of the failure of the government to give enough and good opportunity to work in the country.
What's funny here, is the restriction of legitimate agencies that through the desire to protect the workers, in the end, those who are working hard to protect the workers, in the end, those who are involved in illegal opportunities and, for the victims of illegal drug addicts, are now in lack of protection.
It's not the Recruitment agency that caused the supply or demand for jobs in other countries.
With their hard work and investment, they are serving as drooling! It won't be completed, or comfortable life for many Filipinos, especially the poor who are most angry with it.
They are with the Filipinos in working in other countries, and they are the ones being linked to the Job market which is expected by the government so that Filipinos can coordinate with foreign employers.
Like other Overseas Filipino workers, they are behind huge remittance, who are pushing the economy of the country for now.
