Former DH-Flawless and the handsome kid, is already a very young man!

Postanes and his mind.
On April 21, 2015.
In showbiz.

The truth is, we are feeling sad if we see each other when we see each other when we see each other, we see each other at the length of 90s, he could avoid being thrown away by the gravestt, employer which can be placed in a concert, which makes it to be a concert, which makes it to be a concert, which makes it to be a funeral parlor in the country.
The truth is, it was a point for the division of the Constitutional Commission for Entertainment Television.
Even though it can't be said that he is one of the pillars of the Youth-Ro-release of Kuya German Moreno, he's, by the ID, one of the barism.
Calaguas of Fight IT led by Lanie B.
Like you are going to go to your former lover and as if she does not know anything in the world, who will think that this time will come that he is the very first big "Dome so, Vice Ganda.
"Does you know," that?
It's just an ice that, he / she really has to resign and resign.
But-jay, Pops Fernandez, John Lloyd Cruz, could believe that they have helped a lot of help so that the First Family of Vice in Araneta will have a lot.
For now, there is a new point that Joker was able to run as a concert there.
On April 25 is scheduled to be held on April 25, Alex Gonzaga) is scheduled to be held on April 25 at the Araneta Coliseum, and it is only now that Joker was able to breathe easier because of 85 percent of those who have been taken out.
Merdeem this form of Feraris of the post, Written Irisan, the sister of Toni Gonzaga, is to be a group of group, who was allegedly a group of group, which was the fans of Alex, which was the fans of Alex, which is why Joker was able to buy his / her daughter's fans.
It is because you are taking care of a show business because there is no one who believes in "yo, suman and hahaha!
What should she be mad at that person?
Anyway, it is also another reason why in making a chalite, I mean, the writers, (WBC), (Joanna), should be considered as the manager of PR of Willie Revillame.
Belarse, good thing, hahaha!
This means, he lost a role because all of the division of the second TV host is going to add up to Manay Hala Bira will just add up!
Now that his vice online casino is now being forced, he will be forced to send him up-up in-time?
So that the person who loves to ruin us has been taken by my karma, hahaha!
How, Pharisees and Gaming Corporation!
Anyway, he / she was back to Alex, but I said that he was able to catch up with the u-turn out of Alex's fans when she proved that her daughter-in-law is being told by her daughter, who is said to be someone who is saying and has a form of power, if I have something to be with.
On the date, 85 percent of the said vessel was taken out, which is why Jovelle was confident that he will be the one behind bars.
That should be!
Aside from the good thing Alex is deeply out of it, it is still possible to have been released by Joed Serrano.
That should be!

Pete Amanda Amores, Junior.
