
Escape because of the window in Lebanon.

Vivian apology of Socrates Road, Puerto Princesa, Palawan regarding the condition of his brother-in-year-old, who is in Lebanon, Betty Manipis Gonzales himself.
There is a problem immediately that the agency who went to Betnovate, due to 23 years old, 'Kath' Day depends for our co-worker (house helper (house) sent to double the sea.
According to Vivian, he said, he said, he / she said, he / she said, he / she said, he / she was also being hit, he was also being hit by his boss, he was being hit by his spy even if he is in the office of their agency in Lebanon.
And the most worse thing, Madame Arroyo frequently gets to sleep from the seventh floor of their usual house that he is living in which is why he / she was extremely saddened by Betty so he planned to escape from the abuse of the employer.
So last February 13, 2014, Betty and was able to run to our Philippine Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon and at present, he is in the custody of our embassy.
Betg was left last November 17, 2013 through Shepherd.
The family's request, that hoping to be able to go home to Betty as soon as possible.
It was also not included in the contract of Betty to hurt her employer and the one threatened him that he will fall for the window everyday.
Anyone can really be afraid of the threats like this, which is why their solution is just the escape.
We sent this complaint to our embassy and they are just waiting for the Bantay, who will be quick to solve this.
All the POEA will also be obligated to send a plane ticket because they have responsibility for our OFW, whatever happens to his studies.
They will also answer the question why the 20-year-old OFW got away and it is clear to have a violation to our law.
They will take care of them well!
Mary Ann Causapin allegedly came from Negros Occidental so that his problem will be brought to Bantay, wherein his problem is related to the burial of his passports in Bacolod City.
Mary Ann came from Kuwait and worked again for abroad when he needs the passports to be submitted to his agency.
It was still the month of November 2013 when he was applied, "he said in the DFA-Bacolod.
It was a week for him to be followed up, but there is always no "answer to him.
We sent him to the office of Assistant Secretary Wilfredo Santos of the Office of Foreign Affairs Affairs in DFA and immediately found out that his name has been pending because he was not yet allowed to have a pending case for him to have been in Kuwait when he was still in Kuwait.
That is why, the DFA-Manila formally released Kuwait and it did not last long, the DFA-Bacolod called Mary Ann said that he could have said the passports.
It is sad to why Mary Ann needs to go to Manila for this kind of complaints.
That in our opinion, it was only a simple coordination from the DFA-Bacolod towards Manila and after that, their only actions were in Kuwait.
If this is really done, it does not need to spend on our OFWs but we hope that those who can count on our government will be included.
Because every move of our movement is means of expenses, it should not be the right expenses that should have been used for more important things.
