The conflict that was abandoned by Aquino's SONA is the separate from the regime of the people.

Liberal Party of the Philippines.
July 28, 2013.

Last week, the state of the Supreme Court (report of the country's condition) in the report of the country's condition, which was formed in the opinion of the people, is hiding and made a straight path to the public service, which is being ignored by his regime in big foreign contacts and huge businessmen.
The most popular criticism and garbage in the speech of Aquino is from the ranks of the filipino masses, workers, workers and other sectors that are challenging, Aquino, and other organizations which are what Aquino says in the right path, "good governance."

The speech of Aquino is fully criticized because in facing the hot issues being faced on the day of the filipino masses, there is no words uttered by the price of oil and other petroleum products that since last May are pushing the people to insist on top of the law in the local industry of oil.

He was sentenced in facing the wishes of the Filipino workers for the position of the Filipino workers for the amount of wage increase in making decisions that will be put in danger to make the abuse and taking advantage of the workers.

Aquino really does not care about the worsening problem of lack of livelihood, a thing that is not allowed to deny even if there are many of those who are able to leave the job of a few hundred students who graduated from the job of a few hundred students who were working without assurance if they will be accepted at work).

Aquino insisted that the students and workers need to undergo technical and training to make sure that the rules of the anti-Ass would be proud of the rules of the anti-Added Tax which is true that there is no widespread campaign to oppose the local company.

Aquino was criticized in lying in the progress of the jurisdiction of the land of Hacienda Luisita, which the Filipino farm of Hacienda Luisita, which is scheduled to complete the privatization of the land of Hacienda Luisita, scheduled to complete the mandate of the farmers and Filipino workers who are assigned to the land of Aquino in Hacienda.

They were met by the widespread brownout in the straight path, "Aquino bragged about the direct campaign for anti-corruption because it is natural for them to benefit from their previous corruption, they continue to benefit from their previous corruption, they continue to benefit from their previous corruption, which is said to be benefiting from the widespread corruption in order to give reason for the proper roads to give reason.

It is said that the public's hands of Aquino in the middle of the middle are the corrupt or those who have no ability to file a widespread process and without any benefits of his rival, and not to make sure that there will be no benefits of his rival, and not to make sure that he will remove them from his rival, and not to make sure that he will remove them from his rival, and not to make sure that he will remove the interest of the Bureau of Adwana will only want to remove them from the abuse of his rival, and not to make sure that he will prevent the discontrol of the Bureau of Adwana will only want to remove them.

The surge of the people about the right path "and" good management of Aquino is clearer, and it is clearer than them that Aquino will only serve as a propaganda to use the real corruption of the Aquino administration, "it is only time that there is a propaganda in the Philippines'" weather. "

Nothing can be hidden from the non-fil of "straight path, Aquino said the truth that Aquino continues to increase the importation of rice from 2010. However, it continues to increase the importation of rice from 2010, however, the local production of rice continues to be investigated.

Aquino is very stubborn and insisted on the direct fare increase of the people like pushing for the increase of fare increase in the train, but the truth is not only enough for the anomalies in the past which are involved in the anomalies in the past, which are involved in the anomalies in the past which are involved in the widespread expenses and private investments.

The negative reaction of the public in the speech of Aquino is contradicted by the Yellow Army even if it is contrary to Aquino's declaration that there is a popular president in the middle of a serious crisis in economists, widespread armed men in the middle of a serious crisis in economists, a widespread brownout in the midst of the violation of human rights.

Aquino's speech is a country's speech during the suspension of the policies of the Filipino people, to hide the real situation of the Filipino people, to hide the real situation of the filipino people, to hide the real condition of the Filipino people against the bloody protesters, he attempted to rob the people with no meaning of words.

The Filipino people should be united in order to expose the anti-governmental organization, anti-Tropas that they should reveal the ongoing problem of lack of land that they should expose to the ongoing problems of lack of land and local basic interest and cause of the widespread suffering of the Filipino people.

Aquino made the speech of Aquino in the remaining three years of his regime in the remaining three years of his regime, as a result of the strong leadership of Aquino, and will surely cause a serious crisis to become more than the armed fight of the people for the next three years.
