Editorial Department of Supreme Court.

The violence and improvement of the colonization of the colonization of the colonization is a witness to the history due to the danger of a pro-one and the questionable relationship between the Philippines and the United States.
In the continuous violence of the United States, the reforms that involved the Philippines were not enough, which involved the garbage in any relationship with our country with foreign power.
According to President Benigno Aquino III, the relationship of the United States and the Philippines should not sacrifice because of the death of American American transgender Jennifer Laude in the hands of the American soldier because it is trying to admit that this violence should not be ignored.
But the violence that Laude has happened should not be forgotten because it continues to add up the examination of those who will be held, gay, transgender Jennifer (AIDG) and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (VFA) and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (VFA) and Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (VFA) and Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA).
Different from the other victims of violence in the hands of the Americans were different, the discussion of being a transgender Jennifer Laude was being swept up by the police as one of the angles for the brutal death of the victim.
The suspect was identified with the murder of Laude, Lance Corporal Joseph Scott Pemberton, member of 3,500 worth of soldiers and others who were used to the Philippines for the annual Philippines-US Amphibious Landing Exercise (PHIBLEX-A, hoping that the violence that he did to Jennifer are still ongoing.
This is not the first time that Filipinos experienced violence in the hands of American soldiers and under the low power of the United States, in 2005, the suspect was raped by an American soldier, and due to the lack of evidence and exploitation of the Filipinos to dismiss the VFA.
Under the VFA, the government of America has been given a chance to enter the Philippines in the form of the military troop which was recorded by the government against the US and the Philippines that gave permission to the US and the Philippines that gave permission to the foreign American to build a permanent camp in the country.
Under the agreement, the court of the Philippines has no power in any case a candidate is involved with the United States because it seems that the President has not approved the condition of the US United States regarding any case the American troops are involved with.
Aside from the issue of transactions between US and the Philippines, it can be considered that the incident that happened to Laude has been considered a "crime" because of his transgender that is contrary to the common kind of society.
The transgender Jennifer Laude has a surprise instead of talking about the violence that happened to her, his right as the citizens of the country and as a person is not different from the fight of justice for Jennifer and the fight to be victims of violence under the power of the foreigners.
Infrastructure is not a separate issue like Laude, other issues in society such as poverty, corruption and violence of many Filipinos at the present, foreign people and the people of the Aquino administration with the foreigners.
No matter what happened to Laude is the implementation of complicated system in society that will never pass by reform, it is fair to get the people in the government because of the continuous control of the people in the government because he still thinks that he will not attend the wake of people he does not know.
It is as if the President did not have a lesson from the violence that many Filipinos have experienced in the country, VFA and now in EDCA, there is a long time happening between the American soldiers in the country, VFA and even to the women who are primary victims of violence, and to the Filipino people to create violence in the state.
The killing of Laude is not imprisoned in the issue of being murdered by the Aquino administration to take care of the Aquino administration's shortcomings, and sovereignty that the country's gender will never be just to kill her.
Due to the lack of immediate release, the investigation of violence in the country is still ongoing, the statement of violence in the fight of the country will continue to achieve freedom from foreign subjugators and the continuation of the agreement they take for freedom and for the progress of every Filipino.
Because of the country who are fighting for freedom, they cannot hide any deceit and improvement of the colonization.
