Davao bombing By Bernard Taguba has no longer followed up on September 4, 2016.
I sleep early because I wake up early and when I wake up in social media, it is sad because there are people or groups who don't care who killed people who are innocent.
I suddenly thought of what is happening in the Middle East what is being done by the noodle houses that were made here, bomb there, but what they are getting killed are prisoners who do not know what they are fighting for.
Hoping that this kind of incident will not be followed because many people are involved and turned to the government to help the government to ensure peace and order in the country, so many incidents where the chaos can be stopped by the people if they want it to be done.
Look at Turkey, the mutiny was launched by the arrested soldiers because the people were coming out of the streets after they heard that the rebel soldiers were taken off their government.
If the citizens of Turkey, the military are afraid that the leaders of them are afraid, but because they were not afraid of the streets, they could stop the bad plan of their soldiers who are not in favor of their government.
Let us not go away after EDSA 1... the Filipinos are not afraid of going out of the streets to stop the tank that will be used by the soldiers against those who are against former President Ferdinand Marcos.
Instead of us being scared, let us use this incident in Davao to be observant of what is happening in our surroundings because if we do not do it, it might lead to a better situation.
The Philippines is under a state of land that is why we need to help that maybe the government will declare something if violence is not stopped in our country.
The government has a lot of money that did not have been used during the previous administration that the money should be utilized by the people but slept on the agency.
Just like what was discovered in the budget hearing in the legislative chamber that there are more than 200 billion worth of 5,000 pesos in the Department of Education (DepEd) and almost 300 billion pesos in the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) who were not used for past years.
The funds of DPWH is supposed to be given the funds of DPWH if used in the previous administrations that have been used for a few roads from the provinces who have been the ones given to the provinces.
In DepEd, that is regretful because we know that many are still lacking in books, many are lacking in books, that is why many students go down or borrow each other to a book, many students bring their own chair, especially in the provinces.
It is likely that DepEd and DPWH will not only have a lot of funds that have not been used, probably because almost all of the agencies have already been utilized by the people, that is why when the citizens already have been utilized by the citizens, they should be used and not let them sleep.
