I know,: Iza Calzado, a level of beauty, Julia Rodits and Angelina Jolie!
By Jun Nardo, 7, 2016.
Paolo Ballesteros was able to speak and was not able to speak with his birthday video that he watched the grand media conference of the festival Entry Approach where he watched the grand media conference of the festival Entry SEC.
She said that she has received a surprise from her last birthday but she is the only one who made her cry to her, aside from Eat Bulaga, many actors in showbiz, with greeting to his two siblings.
Paolo's child who is in abroad now can't be found, but I have also given me a lot of times to me, because they were also given me to the countdown in the MMFF (Metro Manila Film Festival) and I was also given me to the countdown in MMFF (Metro Manila Film Festival).
"It's just happiness that they always want me to make a taste of a Wish, I hope that we will support the die Bebeng, and all the MMFF)," Paolo stated.
Even if Iza Calzado died in the movie, he has been saved from the media-con.
"Acerness, I was only able to go here.
"He / she was really filling, he just copied me! It's as if I was like a frog with Julia Rodits, Angelina Jolie," so, I said, I need to go!!!
"I am also looking for Direk Jun also, because, she could not avoid being thrown in Hanoi for the film festival, I was asking me to answer," so he could not answer anything but "the Barrettos' Talaba, and then he died.
"Thank Director for me to be the world of the world upside down, the World Football Federation, to the global warming," Iza, "said Iza.
Iza has also been part of the year-law's Single Entry Approach of the haunted Mansion, which was released by Lana.

According to the cast of the prime actor Joel Torre, he was just short but he still accepted the project.
"By of the midst of the script of the script, a very beautiful movie, a Visayan curse, a beautiful movie.
Before Iza has left, he will be charged with another country, only supported by our fellow Filipinos this MMFF and all of the movies should support us!
There was also a grand research first before the media to make the purpose of the DB which had a performance of the 2015 Miss Universe finals, and applauding the 2015 Miss Universe finals, and applauding the 2015 administration of Beata, Rihanna and other foreign contacts.
Some of the cast of DB are Luis Alandy, Albie Casiño, Gladys Reyes, Inah de Belen, Sheryll Mundo, Christian Bables, Cedrick Juan and others.
