
Governor Jose Alvarado, and quiet.

Just a few weeks after he was charged with a plunder case, "Pogi" krrrik, the Ombudsman immediately examined their cases.
As a result, they dig up the postured prison bars!
Even some congressmen who were charged with plunder, have been charged right now because they know that it is easy to sleep in the prison of three senators.
It's just right, to make sure that those inhumane who have bugged him will be taken back to the prison.
That's why it turns out that this thing happened because he was quick to resolve the office of Madam Conchita Carpio Morales of the said cases.
Just like Madam Auring, isn't it that some of the cases in your office are the current governor of Bulacan who is Willy Alvarado?
Isn't it "plunder" or racketeering in the case of Governor Alvarado?
Isn't it that Gov. Alvarado has been charged first than the senators and congressman?
Why was this resolved and was filed in the Sandiganbayan on their cases?
Shh, because they are enemies of PNoy? And because he is the allies of PNoy? And because he is the ally of the Palace, the reason why his case is just sleeping in your office?
Is it like Madam Ombudsman, tsk, tsk, tsk!
It means, it can be said that we can say that those who are tolerating the money of the country as well as an ally of the President.
But if you are against you, you will be jailed, you will be jailed!
According to the information that reached us, almost a week, the complainant was in the Office of the Ombudsman against Governor Alvarado in order to be followed up.
But with the pity of even if even if it is still sleeping at the office of Morales the said case will be fast on the office of Morales and also because of the request of those from Bulacan, we will be focused on this case of Bulacan.
Pramis, is a sample of it.
Until the governor went to his final resting place!

Just a few weeks since Chief Superintendent Henry Rana Salazar, as Director of Southern Police District, the residents of Southern Police District continues to have been hoping that the residents of Pasay City will continue to invite the illegal gambling in his post.
But while the people are hoping that the machine of video karera (VK) continues to increase in the PCP-2 (Pasay) of the police, SP0 1 Latvia.
The reason of Xueshan's reason was no one to move on his illegal gambling because some officials of the police in Pasay City and SPD continue to accept him.
What can you say, General Rana ola, will you also accept or make it up?
