The palace is leading the 6-year celebration of PNoy.

A boss said in the Palace, even if the number of those who are attracted to add six-years live by PNoy in the Palace as bosses to the Philippines, the latter does not want to.
PNoy is respecting the provision of the Constitution which is only up to six years and sometimes a person will be president in the Philippines.
Party, I mean, is it true, bosses?
It is said that someone who wants one hundred years should be compared to Malacañang?

This is a civil boss if only the Palace might just be at the Palace what he wants.
Pulse Asia.
This is what Pulse Asia has been saying for it.
Last October 2013, 79 of 100 people are approved by PNoy and 76 are trust.
But last March 2014, its approval of 73 and trust in 74.
It was on July 2014, the approval of PNoy to 56 and faith in 53 percent increase was increased.
The approval of the approval of the approval of Kuya Germs has changed.
If it is true that Xiu of Pulse Asia was true, whose faces are the thickness of the face, which is why he can be expulsion.

Supposedly for the online survey?
Where is it and who runs this, Bro?
There is no Yellow.
It is now the problem of those from the Palace who are very rare in wearing the yellow party.
And this is even the problem of the Palace in a meeting after PNoy himself asked the people to wear a yellow or yellow party.
In the state of the Nation Address recently, it is surprising that PNoy does not intend to defend himself in front of the thousands who protested against him.
But even if there is no Pulse Asia survey, walk, bosses, for barangays and no one wants PNoy to remain in Malacanang.
"Many are saying, they want to run away from PNoy, right?
At least, they are anxious of the expensive goods, electricity, water, oil, and NLEX's toll fee, severe traffic, negligence of those who are in the government and their co-workers and their partner in the Public Development Assistance Fund).
Charter change.
Because of the demand for President Noy, the people of the Chamber wants to amend the 1987 Constitution.
And to be easy, it will be easy to raise a charter change but through Constantino was postponed.
They do not want the Constitutional Commission (Con-Con-Con) or People's initiative).
But it might also be the Con-Con if only the elected delegates will be elected.
And it is also possible that all of the yellow ones can sign and millions of signatures are needed here.
For the amendment, Bro, they will not own the provision of the Constitution which is only up to one term for the president and six-years.
According to him, PNoy needs for six-years to finally fix the situation of the Philippines.
Who said that, duh! You might do it like other countries that can be elected for three times?
Are you wise, Bro?
Put all over all.
Because of a notice, a charter change will continue.
At first, it is just about the economy that they want to have the constitutional process.
"Is it that they want to eradicate the 60-40 owned by the company and properties in the Philippines.
It's because the Constitution, Bro, of the planned company in the Philippines or owned by other things, the citizens should remain in the interest of Filipinos so that the citizens will remain in the decisions, rules and even in capital and profit.
The interest of the foreigners should be next to the interest of Filipinos.
Many are opposing this because in the time that the amendment will be allowed, not only the economy of the economy is not the only one who will build a charter change but will be cut off in politics and are just in favor of those in power now.
Together with politicians who take advantage of politicians who have high interest in their leadership.
Now, it is already known now that PNoy wants to give another six-year-old PNoy after his term in 2016.
There is election or not, they want PNoy to stay in Malacanang.
Is it a very big inconvenience, "or it is too high in position?
They should be guarded.
We feel that it is not good here, Bro.
First, what is the interest of pro charter change and they want the Constitution to be strict?
Ah, because, the care is the power of power being controlled by the wealth of the country.
If you control the Palace, Senate, legislative chamber, the Legislative Chamber, is the only power in politics and economy.
You are already a dictator who you want all the wealth that you want.
You will involve the people's money from wealth.
And you will say for the sake of the public service?
What's good here, Bro, we should monitor everything where everything is going to.
We have experienced the minds, even if they have legal, and go to hell.
