
QCPD, there is just a chance.

If there was a person who is lucky for now, this might be one of the QCPD director, Chief Superintendent Richard A. Albano.
Last Thursday, the Quezon City Police District (QCPD) in the baggage that contains shabu chemical in the Araneta bus terminal in Cubao were in order.
Said baggage are just waiting for the ditures going to Masbate when the passengers are having a foul smell coming from the broken baggage.
It was immediately called out in Cubao Police Station 7 and when the baggage that was declared dead for those affected by Yolanda were revealed to the police the different chemical being used in using shabu.
Based on the bill of the airplane that was stated in the record of Isarog Bus Transit, the said box that contains the chemical is owned by a Gerry and Masbate, and this was sent by one named Johnny Lee.
It can be considered that this is a big inconvenience, even if it is just a chance, it is just like that, there's a chance that General Albano is really lucky.
It can be recalled that aside from the consecutive days and good upbringing by the QCPD, the general even got the PCAVADOER Award in the field of Police Community. Alungani, sir?
The bark Award given by the Philippine Military Academy (PMC)) was accepted by Chief Supt. Albano, along with the celebration of Homecrated last Saturday at Fort Del Pilar, Baguio City.
Legazpi City of the PMA Executive of 1984, the information received by General Albano is invaluable, that if we will enumerate the space of our country.
It was also accepted that General Albano also received a lot of praises; 18 medals in his skills and 15 medals in the country, 2 medals in the fighting in Mansilingan, 2 medals in the fight in Mansilingan, 2 medals in the town of the Philippines which led to the Philippine Jayclubs.
Recently, he / she accepted General Albano that he received an award which was from the NAPOLCOM which was given to the 23rd birthday and was ordered by the NCRPO in Camp Bagong Diwa.
The said award was given to the Quezon City Police District (QCPD) as the worthy and most great police district in the entire NCR.
Lily's column is open for your complaints, comments and comment, just text 098-72336.
