"You are okay, style, stay-in-law, so we don't know that you are not close to you, right, Randy has no one who is not close to you, that is why I don't have any relative to lose.
Ah, you will be the one to teach your relatives no matter what I do not know.
"They know, Dan is not the same, but I can't understand myself; I am not sure that I would get married, maybe later, I am sure that you might get better; we are sure that you will be good; we are sure that you will be good; we are okay.
Yes, that is better because it is for free food that is why your boss, ah, is Sunday.
A Easter Sunday, is there a Sunday?
Easter Sunday.
We have nothing to do with five in the house for five in the house.
You do not know that because it is really free yes, you do not have anything for me.
If you are going to do something, that is why if there is a point, we will look at that kind of age, how can I do this?
I cannot understand even if it is Sunday, if there is nothing to change, you will not be understood.
I will also be asked why we need to go here so we can talk to us; we should talk to each other, because I just went to our place there.
According to what time I do not want, I will go there in the morning, because I will just wait for me, because you will just wait for me, for a moment, you will just wait for me, there is a moment that he will not pay, you will not be able to pay, you will not be able to speak, you will not be able to talk to.
It turns out that he / she is okay with a visa when Cesar Pareja came to a visa; he / she cannot go ahead, ah, alright.
Do not forget that.
What?
Yes, you understand what I said that I am not tomorrow I will go.
"Where are you going to the case?
In the morning, whatever happens, you have money for fare, do you have fare.
Why are you just going to see the fare only tomorrow, okay, you want, that until Saturday, we would like that until Saturday, we will cook and let me go to each other.
It is okay what you are doing that there is nothing here in the house I am here in the house.
Maybe you might drown for a t-V.
