Marcos was enthusiastic in service: Gerry Sto. Domingo.

Others say, a captain of the barangay rarely see what he thinks is right when the issue is controversial.
Oftentimes, the captain, which is avoided by the captain, are avoiding to steal or pass it to the municipal hall.
Giuliani, "they said, that is why we are expecting that we have a problem in our community, which is only enough for the people to pass through.
"Not long after, the hole is down, even if the motor is on the road, just suddenly," when we are awake, there are two holes already made by the window to extend their house from the other side of the fence.
Last 2009, I went to the said place and told the people living on the other side of the fence, which was known to have been close to our subdivision due to a lot of complaints from our residents who are living near here.
Most of them are male senior citizens who are always together in the house, so they are afraid and worried about what to happen to them.
Despite the residents on the other side of the fence, it will be fixed and quiet, the hole on the wall is usually caused by the stubborn ones, drug syndicates, those noisy motorcycles, students, etcetera.
And it seems that the hole on the wall will worsen instead, even a tricycle!
Because they found out our plan to suspend the wall this year.
This place is really a problem.
Here, it was said that drug pushers were revealed to us by our captain, said that they discovered that there are times when there were instances where pushers were connected to the direction of our subdivision.
In fact, it appears that most of our barangay will also respond to our place here in this place.
So, even if we are not helped by other branches of the government, our captain should act and make a way.
"It has not been last for a month when we were able to put this hole in this hole and with the help of KimXi. Zomred Ancheta, he was able to win in both parties.
It's really different for Captain Gerry Sto. Domingo of Concepcion Uno when we salute you!
"I was really enthusiastic in service!" Says Paul Edward Schools.
