
The suspension of the revolution.

Guide de Guia.
Invest in Southern Tagalog.
July 13, 2013.

The indigenous people of the southern part of the southern end of the southern end of the revolution.

All the communists will also give back to the highest-red-shaped haircut of a long-lasting country in India, and it ended up in the right path that affects the revolution in India with a poisonous line in India in the right path to free the country of India.
Although the country of India and the Philippines are different, in many particularly of society, the citizens of the two countries have the desire to end the current understanding and opportunist system implemented in the world, with this kind of things about the revolution.

Like the country of the Philippines, the system implemented in the country of India is ongoing, if the Philippines is conquered by the colonies and petroleum products, which is needed to improve the basic commodities in the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is needed in the outline of basic goods.

As a result of the colonization, they are going to take shelter in the indigenous people in India who were taken by the Salisi Gang in India that were brought by the capitalists of the industry in India, which is the primary source of the construction of Britain in India, which is why it is only being implemented in the industry of Britain in India, which is just being monitored by the rocket connected in India.

And because they are preparing for the production of production of production, the role of the industry will remain a big role, and selling 75 percent of wood which is cheaper by Britain in this, he was completely stopped and full of Britain in the economic industry of India.

From being horny, the system of society in India, the economy of the country has changed, the economy of the country has changed, this is a well-in agriculture, which has been well as well as the low products in the industrialized countries.

He said that civic works are implementing in India by British Raj were implemented with politicians who are under the kingdom of India and Royalty Maronilla, and the armed forces used by Britain in the first and second Filipino taxi driver who attacked Burne and second Filipino taxi.

Last 1947, after Britain has forgiven the highest freedom of the country, the foreign control of society has been achieved through the training of local countries that are involved in India, that their country is open to violence in India that is open to violence in India, and the US.

The role of the citizens of India is a big role, against almost 200 years of domination and taking advantage of the colonialism in the country, the current administration is still investigating the desire of the citizens of India to push their Pambansang Kamao and under democratic rights.

In the strong winds of the CI (Maestrado) from the destruction of two Mautes parties, the revolution built in India in a historical advancement in India, a priority and immediate responsibility of the armed country and damaged areas through the strengthening of the disputed territory of the strengthening of the neighboring areas of the country.

The two Mautes parties that formed the CPi (Maire) has a long time and will be able to take care of history, during the time of a tree of 119th Independence Day, they take after all the things written in the long history of Kilusang Mayo Uno in India.

The C"

CPi (Maestrado) is the People's Liberation Front) (P22A), the armed organization of CPi (Maestrado) in the advancement of the legislative chamber, they are going to achieve triumph in the fulfilment of the germs on the jurisdiction of the P22A because of the wide support of the masses.

It would be recalled that the violent attack of the girl who is going to be buried in the state of human rights are being implemented, which is usually caused by the violent violation of human rights violation, which is being used by the armed leaders of the people not only in India, not only in India but in the whole world.

While the citizens of the world are getting into trouble, they continue to collect the capital of the world in the hands of the immune system and oligarchy in the hands of the basic commodities in the hands of the Pambansang Kamao in the hands of the basic commodities.

He is pushing a civilized power and their agencies to penalize, IQ, Wisconsin, the World Bank of the world, the economic growth of the world, the implementation of the international economy, the advancement of the products in the market, continuing to control the price of products in the market.

In the whole world, the lack of work and benefits of workers is widespread, the lack of land and support to the farmers is still widespread because of the hardship being experienced by the people like education, health and housing projects.

On the other hand, the revolution ignited the condition of the revolution and was made by the movement in the national release of the national crisis which was made by the citizens in the disputed town's desire to revolution.

In our neighboring countries, politicians and giant protest movement and huge protests due to the wage increase of the workers, women and youth, who are alleged to be given lack of jobs in their own citizens, are being carried out of lack of jobs in capitalist countries.

But, no matter what they cannot do the strengthening of the revolution, which is the only solution to the hardship experienced by the citizens of the world, the flow of the citizens of the world is getting worse, the Filipino people watched the success of the democratic country in India.

The struggle of CPi (Maestrado will serve as an inspiration to the citizens of India against those who are taking advantage of the advancement of the country India from taking advantage of the Honor Code of the communists, for the ratification of the supreme court for the advancement of the revolution in India.
