
Abusive Supreme Court (1)

Sometimes we can't blame PNoy on why he is often buying because of the meddling of the Supreme Court because sometimes (not always, there are things to intrude and even if it is not in the area.
It is clear in our Saligang Batas that our judicial system, our judiciary and our conscience and it seems that what is happening now is that the Supreme Court has meddled with all the action and decision of the supreme court, even if it is not allowed to have their power under the Constitution.
What's worse, it seems that any of the two branches of our government has no power to suppress any abuse of our judge.
A very beautiful example is electoral council in Marinduque who was filed against Congresswoman Regina Reyes, although it is an issue of political, it is also done in the judiciary.
This is even though it is very clear that one of the Senior Justices voted him because Reyes defeated Reyes, isn't it that the Supreme Court Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno does not know this?
Ah, Chief Justice, why are you allowed to use politics in the judiciary and will be allowed to use and nutrients of our laws?
This is a good example this case of Reyes, who is one of his opponents in the past elections are the son of Senior Associate Justice Preslet Velasco and Lord Allan Jay Velasco.
Despite the candidacy of Reyes, Velasco said she is trying to escape using the issue on his citizenship as well as Reyes.
Velasco's camp refused to use other people to stop the seat of Reyes but because the election is over, it is clearly clear in our law that the responsibility of decision in the Lower House will be clear in the shoulders of the House of Representatives supreme electoral council).
It is clear in our Saligang Batas under Section 17, Article 6 which only has the power to decide on any protest related to an elected congressman in the case of the senators, this will pass by Senate Majority Leader Tribunal (SET).
In short, the issues like the protest against Reyes could not be accepted by the Supreme Court but it seems that this is not accepted by the Supreme Court and trying hard to get the decision of the HRO.
