
I am okay.

There are many who were pleased when Senator Teofila "TG" Guingona said that the Senate blue ribbon committee will start the investigation on the anomalous construction of the Iloilo Convention Center.
For those who have not yet known, the value of the PET project of Senate President Franklin M. Drilon who is the party of Caibiran in the Liberal Party has reached Php700 million pesos.
Drilon from the pork barrel and DAP were from the pork barrel and DAP that was used in the building of the ICC's that the pork barrel and DAP was declared to be illegal.
The project suddenly became an anomaly when some critics of Drilon were discovered that it is tainted by more than P400-million, aside from it was discovered that Drilon denied that there is an anomaly in the construction of the ICC.
The Disbursement Acceleration Program is the one who was allegedly involved in Makati City through cooking for cooking for the results of the bidding on the Makati City Hall Building that was used by the Senate Blue Ribbon sub-committee in the leadership of Senator Koko Pimentel, Alan Peter Cayetano to make the life and ambition of VP Joget on Binay to become the next president of the country.
That's why when the public knows about the anomalous construction of the ICC, the call will be strong for them to investigate the negative doubt that only their opponents in politics will be removed from their allies in politics.
But for me, the people who are from the opposition should not be happy, especially those from the opposition, because it is obvious that Joao is just wearing a ball just like what he did to continue the Malhfund scam.
TG did not say when when the arrival will be started, but he just said that they will start when their initial preparation is finished.
That means, that is a clear thing that is why what he is doing is clear, that it is clear that he / she is doing just like an excuse that he excuse me regarding the Malhfund scam, I am really impressed by Matas who is just obvious.
