Reporting, PO2 RTECAYETANO!
By Arnold Clavio October 12, 2016 with the number of prisoners who faced the legislative chamber, is there a case against Senator Leila de Lima?
For the Department of Justice (DOJ) Secretary.

Vitaliano Aguirre, the evidence they tasted against de Lima is too much, but the amount was not enough.
"We are waiting for the report of the Department of C (anti-Laban)," Aguirre said when I was able to interview the senator, according to him, it seems that the filing of formal case against de Lima will take time and it will end up next year.
"We want to make sure that the case against him will be strong in relation to the drug-trafficking case," Aguirre explained.
Not only were Colangco, Sebastian, Sanchez and other inmates in the disputed security jail, "their sworn statements against de Lima have not added.
I have not seen any connection with the drug trade of the prisoners for the alleged involvement of the former Justice Secretary of his driver and the security personnel, including the high-ranking officials.
Those who are often talking about "planted with bananas," Holding), boasts and untie will just let the senator be used in libido in the senator. Drug money in exchange for the long time by de Lima?
What the public wants to know is that if the senator earned money from drugs using his post and influence while headed by DOJ, he will not personally pay attention?
What will happen from now until next year when the legislative chamber will put their hearing again, this will only be opened when Ronnie Dayan was arrested.

But where is Dayan?
Or continuously implementing the public or the campaign of the Duterte administration against de Lima?
When I asked Aguirre on why he was brought to the order of De Lima in spite of being no case, Aguirre answered, "said that what he did to GMA (Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo)?"
Hopefully this is not used by Arroyo, who is known to be close to President Rodrigo Duterte, to de Lima who blocked his departure from the Philippines and resulted to his hospital arrest in Veterans Hospital.
And now that the rotten system is exposed inside Bilibid, as one of the big ones who can milk the funds for the election, the illegal activities inside or a few politicians will replace the position of De Lima?
The truth is, when it is going to turn around, nothing is impossible.
Lord God will take care of it!
