Let us continue to quarry in the morning so we can talk about a kind of rice and all of our team in the Philippines to be together; we will be accompanied by the department of Agriculture under the "pul-R) to be a close Filipino light here with Ate Jackie.
He also called for the candidates watching our program and maybe it is not an end to help a lot.
We responded immediately to the whole country.
Your older sister gave you into an orphanage.
Take us along!
Zailon and Two.
They are very derogatory so that they can go to school.
Special Action Force, whose political party, are the rice party that we blame, which is why our friend, who is known to have a call here, should be called.
According to its stubbornness, what kind of rice is coming here is, what kind of rice is coming here, and who are not in the hospital for the money that they are going to go to the provinces when they are going to buy porridge motorcycle, Abra, and you do not like a bomb in our province.
A bank and in Cotabato, this is by what Tito Paul who wants to be free from your lucky color or living with different colors as well with white rice cakes; and, of course, you will not go to the Philippines' white rice, right, "of course, that kind of rice, and how bad that is.
Her color is really early, very kind, very kind, older brother, very beautiful, very beautiful, very kind, very kind, very kind, very kind and fog; we are okay to see that our siblings have no idea, that they would immediately marry.
"We can't do anything in there by one Special Action Force that we're talking with, that's okay, what's okay with the common rice that we are busy with, second, and I still love him to be a single one in the house that's why I still love him / her, that's why I still love him / her, that's why he / she still loves me to go home.
Wake up to school, because it is okay to have a good relationship, so as well as the number of people who are in benefits that you can give, of course for the customers.
Nothing.
What else can we look; he / she is very beautiful; it is more delicious.
He / she was able to resign; he / she was able to resign from the program, so I did not want to get out of the line because it did not want to get away from the sun when it came out that there were no more dried-shaped; and a coconut tree to go and go there.
Just mention the places you have been saying, most of our plans are from brethren, ah, my plan to play with the soap, which is very intense, is very intense, and why not?
His / her Ate Vi has a white cloth.
Yes, he / she grew up; he / she really likes the situation that's why he / she really likes the situation.
With his umbler; he / her friends are innocent; they do not have any idea; the old baby boy was cut off.
It's because you are your mother, if I really want the new to play-raising in our cellphone, I cannot see that they have two years.
"Economy, who is an expert of the US economy, what is the US economy, what's the one who chose to do that, from duty, we have first told us that we are going to pass by, sister, and you can even be passed by the farmers.
Those who are Bingo 2!
For the other hand, they will be able to send a lot of people, who are very stubborn; and dearse; if a lot of people will enter it.
Well, what if we are very popular with the cats that we are often at the two children who will immediately be met, we will just sleep while we are okay, that we are okay, what we are not only?
!
Two six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six.
Here, these are the barangays who want it to be.
Both of our countrymen have long been asking for a long time that they will be fed up, therefore, we talked to this Project 8.
School that's why our favorite.
That's why they are targeting students who are pests.
We were able to look down; he / she went to the said place.
He / she grew up; and how I spent there was the one he spent on the bathroom.
When there was a word, even if it was surrounded by games, it was amidst crystal.
Did you go to you?
Do you understand this project, it is okay to look at Julius, whatever we do, "we should be the burial of us.
Alcohol that goes to the soap Philippines, this is even if it has a fat of fat right now, which is why it's only now that we can wait for so long, so we can wait for it.
It is like that, to my siblings who will win in the province to go to the province to win; we have to evacuate; there are two who evacuated in Sampaloc Mindanao boal.
Who are all going up going up?
He said, he cooks more than the United Arab Emirates so that both my five children are okay with all the services of the house to endure rice in the Philippines.
Well, you will still be able to speak easier because you say it's because we said that we are just going to farm.
Eve is very blind.
It has been cut off in a High School one program that was cut off in his ranch in the calendar, which is why it was true that Labo is living in the calendar, which is why it's true that there is a acadversary, that is why it's true that this kind of rice has no problem for us to visit yes, "this is right.
They are being looked down.
A letter for a letter, fuck, letter).
What do you say?
It is clear to the Makati Makati farmers in the next year.
Opening the rent.
In space two four people themselves are in plant.
Third, do we even sleep?
You said that you will finish all the things that you have.
Even if he gets to look at it, it is on Tuesday that will make more nutritious so that we have a conversation at Mercado not.
For the Special Patrol, you thank you very much for you and for sure, he will surely be angry.
It is not the father of a Agriculture Secretary try to make sure that it is a good step for us to have a lot of people with us.
