Hoy, child, has Ebola now?

Thousands of children who are orphaned by one or whole parents are orphaned by the Ebola virus that's why they take care of their relatives now.
In the country, the government is going to go down because of illness, more than 3,000 children are just left alone in hunger, illness and lack of care.
Thousands of children from 60,000 families in the country Guinea and started to abandoned by their relatives in fear of getting infected with the disease.
This is also what happened to those who are from Sierra Leone.
These three countries being attacked by the deadly disease and near 4,000 were killed while an estimation of 10,000 are the total victims since it devastated the past few months.
There is no bed and relative.
What happens to three countries is simple, Bro, no bed and relative from illness.
It is contrary to what is happening with the good character of those who are from there, where the children are orphaned, they will immediately catch them and take care of them.
"It is up to your life, you will die, do not let us" prevail.
The fear of death is more important than showing concern and love for others.
He goes home, speak.
Now, there are 148 policemen and soldiers assigned to Liberia as Sahjid of the United Nations.
There are also 632 Overseas Filipino workers in Liberia, 1,590, from Sierra Leone, 80s in Guinea, and 87,000 in Nigeria which is also being attacked by Ebola.
Question: Is there something coming home to the Philippines?
For sure, the government is going to beat up those who are pointing out.
Where is the preparation?
If there are those who are going home from the mentioned countries, what are the government's actions to protect them and stop them as collectors of illness?
How can we supervise our airports and pier which is possible to enter this illness?
Or what will be done if there is a hit?
We were asking because America is very strict, they even got into a sickness which is currently being treated now after he fell down in a hospital for treatment, which is why he was saved and saved from death.
No joke.
Once the thousands' worth of UV Expresses and OFWs from the said four countries will go home together, it is hard to imagine how to face the problem, Bro.
It is true that there are more effective medicines even though we still experiment from America and Japan, but do we have a relationship with those who have made it for the supply of medicine?
Do we already have hospitals that will be shown that those who are sick and treated like that are the doctors, nurses, and others like them who are ready to sacrifice against the illness?
The doctors are increasing in number and other health workers in the said countries who die and the equivalent in the position of Health Assistant Secretary Eric Tabag-Liberia which also died from the Ebola recently.
How about those who are orphaned, these will be defeated and others if ever we will be able to enter the Ebola virus?
