18 schools in South Cotabato participants of the search for Model Shop has no Solid Waste Management.

August 24, 2016.

Koronadal City, South Cotabato, August 22) August 24 (Pia) - within 18 schools and high school students in the province are currently undergoing evaded for the Model Shop.

According to Elrick Balcane, senior citizen management of the Provincial Disaster Management Office (PEP), they already finished the surprise visit to the schools recently and next week of September and the first week of October and the last week of October.

Included in the public schools is the annual competition of the provincial government.

Santa Cruz Elementary School in Tamil.

Banga Central Elementary School in Banga.

White Elementary School and Sergio Apostol, National High School in Norway.

He / she would suddenly go down Elementary School and Coling head National High School.

Less Central Elementary School and New Generation National High School in T Vs.

Belleza, Cateel and Kablon National High School in Tupi,

San Isidro Elementary School and Guinayangan National High School in Santo Nino.

New Iloilo Elementary School and Tantangan, National Trade High School in Tantangan, Nony Elementary School and Poblacion Polomolok National High School in the evening.

And Department of Elementary School and Marquinton 7 National High School in Koronadal City.

The contest is focused in implementing schools in Solid Waste Management Act or Republic Act 9003.

They are looking at the evasion and process implemented, friends in the program and search for the school in the Solid Waste Management program in their jurisdiction.

Will express the victory in the program on November together with the celebration.

Love is sacred, Clean Air Base, a colleague-worker whom would be given to Brigada Eskwela.

Php30,000, Php30,000, Php20,000, 10,000 and Php8,000 have been waiting for the number of barangays of 1st to 5th places.

The schools that will not win but they are following the rules of the rules will receive Php5,000 pesos.

You will also receive Php5,000 to serve Php5,000, Best Actor, UFC Midditioning (Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor and Best Actor) (Dilawan), Pia 12).
