The citizens should focus on politics.

The government of Aquino led all the search for planting the politicians in relation to the election 2016.
This has a chicken or a few chicken that is candidate for president but they are weak based on rats coming out.
Some of the opposition are stronger than its chicken.
That is why, they are addicted today, how can it be different from the enemies through searching and filing a case.
This has been one point to join with Senator Bong Revilla who directly expressed his ambition to become the President of the Philippines in 2016.
He is asking the hundreds to go straight to jail for Manong Johnny Enrile and Senator Jinggoy Estrada who also have their own strength in the national politics.
Make it a habit to speak!
Always taking care.
Of course, the government of Aquino also released good news from the sectors of working at the 42 million workers in the entire Philippines.
"Is it that only three million people are going to be held or standing on three million.
The victims of Yolanda are supposedly not included in the agreement.
That's why, the laborers were able to show up and said that those who have a job have increased when the government encountered the Job Fair last June 12, of the National Independence Day.
They don't have a child, even if they are in 700,000 pesos a year, he said.
There is only a problem or a big difference between the graduating from the jobs of the companies on the present.
And this is supposedly the fault of the graduating and not by the government.
The government is always praises for his self in saying that they will build a business in the Philippines that they will build their businesses because their actions against corruption are already working.
Are you going to Agpo, Senator Alan, Bong and Jinggoy?
115,000 vendors and UDM.
As said by the National Statistics Office, if they will be included in the illegal immigrants that are about seven million to the bystanders, they are at 11 million pesos.
"That is if the arrival of the liver is said to be at 100 million Filipinos in the present.
In our understanding, Bro, "bystanders are all hungry because they can't get any money to buy food and in the living room which is lacking in the stomach because of the lack of money to eat.
The call for those who have work at 40 hours only inside a week or at work for eight hours within five days.
How will the expenses be, including the food, for the remaining two days?
"For the change.
Here are the painful news.
According to the National Severe Actor, board and Philippine Statistics Authority, there is almost no change in the number of those who are hungry or having difficulty in life starting in 2006, which is why even if the government is very happy in implementing it in the Tuwid na Daan.
So, 2014, now it is now the Tuwid na Daan ".
NSubong said the Poverty. Old age should be for P8,000 a month. "When the families composed of five people by more small here are hungry and having difficulty in their lives.
As said by the Philippines, the 5-year-old family needs to reach 9,600 pesos in order to escape from hunger and suffering.
Because the income of the head and nuns in the family is low, these are almost 30 million pesos.
Children of tofu, a lot of hunger, even under the Tuwid na Daan.
Yes.
There is really a good thing that the Department of Labor laws are said to be very beautiful regarding the bystanders' employed, and NSalas and Papal.
But it seems that good news will be placed on cold water when you know what is coming out of the Social Weather Station about the problem in work, hunger, poverty.
It appears that, Bro, 28 million to 100million Filipinos are unemployed and around 11 million were used to be fired from their job (against Martial Law?).
There are 20 million people who say that they experience hunger, often or sometimes, at 527M, they say that they are poor.
I am confused.
The Ibon Foundation continues and here is the result.
Around three of five Filipinos are saying they still have a hard time to buy enough food in the first three months of 2014 to other words, Bro, at 59.3million Filipinos.
The number of having a difficulty in paying for the education of their child is from 43.7 percent of 46.4 percent, there are also a lot of problems in exchange for fare from 436 percent in 459 percent.
The problem in exchange of water from 36,1 percent of 43.5 percent while around 66.4 percent is having difficulty in exchange for electricity.
It is nothing for the people.
Or you are here in the Palace, are you able to give the people or talk to the corner?
It is the child of tofu, the talk of citizens and for the corner you should first put it in politicking, "that's all you are benefiting.
