They escaped.

Almost every day the members of the Manila Special Action Force (Special Action Force (masses) led by Chief Inspector Bernabe Rodiano, Junior, the illegal terminals in Lawton, which is the cause of the slow flow of traffic going to Quiapo, Santa Cruz and Divisoria.
Almost up to more than 100 vehicles are caught by the people of the masses who were ordered by Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada to clean the illegal vehicles traveling in Manila.
The mayor knows that there is a need to clean Lawton from illegal terminals because it was first started last year to make the bus terminals that pass in the city to have their own terminal to pay taxes to the local government.
With the increasing number of the UV Express in Lawton, only the chairman of the area, Ligaya Santos and some officials who are benefiting from "Atong" or buttons, which is given by the driver of the bus terminal in Lawton?
Wait, isn't it that Mayor Erap was entrusted to Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko" Moreno in the administration of traffic in Manila?
How did Vice Mayor Isko get away from the UV Express in Lawton in Lawton in the administration of chairwoman's administration?
A high-ranking official of a high sect has helped Santos to dismiss illegal terminals in Lawton, which he used to benefit from during the time of the former administration.
In other words, Vice Mayor Isko got away, of course, the second father of Manila will not agree to destroy his name.
Ligaya Santos has received a big money from the previous administration of the barangay officials so they want to repeat what they have been used to, that's why they do not want to destroy the names of the officials of the Manila City Hall.
Manila Mayor Estrada does not want his name to be destroyed so he wants to remove the illegal terminal in Lawton, of course with Vice Mayor.
But the name those who are benefiting from illegal terminals in Lawton except for Gerard Santos has been released by Vice Mayor Isko.
Hopefully, Vice Mayor Isko should be defeated by his shameless person before his name will finally be destroyed, but also in a few areas in Quiapo, V. Cruz, Divisoria, Santa Cruz, Recto, Legarda of Sta. Mesa and others.
This official is a big weakness of the name and race of VM Moreno so as early as now, he should wake up to the mistake he has done in the care of the shameless person who drinks her blood.
