Even if you will learn to make sure that there is a clean news from our school there in the Philippines, I asked that we are going to open the hunger, you will go back to his pockets, but now, he is happy in Puerto Princesa City in Palawan for TV Patrol.
That is it.
Pia even though there is still no retreat from the agreement between while in the Philippines and the thickness of his older sister, he said, with his / her sister, together with his sister, together with the lights of soldiers there outside the Philippine Army, in the West Bank.
Yes, on the second day, there are training to transfer to an hour that he has a way on top of Roel, Philippines-asa; he was talking to the Philippines, Timothy Calbayog City, where the Philippines was going to transfer of petroleum Ryan, Timothy Calbayog City, Palawan eleven, while he was riding a lot of Filipinos.
In spite of it, it was discovered that from them.
You won't go back to the fight of Teresa Oriental or income to those who should not get intervene with the fading relation to the place.
There!
That will lead Christian C-five-nosed; and covetousness.
Likely to be.
Before.
They, sir, the training of Japan here.
I am documents.
Just here in the hospital, their storage.
The whole government is following the B-C) that you have talked to Japan, they talked with him, they talked with the nose, and other five thousand pesos in Dagupan City 'Day, but I do not have anything to do with the military because this has no connection to the military.
The Filipino-year-old girl.
Two four victims.
Four of us have three and five thousand pesos in the Islamic Liberation Front, four thousand pesos.
But former four-six-six-year-old daughter did not believe in the preparation of the Filipina in case we lose in the hospital, Jonas went to the hospital, but he could not do everything for it so that he will join the heart between the heart and the Philippines.
In the side of your friend, "I said yes to the child.
In the competition.
A shot was called here.
Like the D's girlfriend, we take a cover-up in Makati and the primary people that he immediately received are the Supamant.
