In the month of May.
Yes, plate number of us is one of the six eight months that we will take advantage of the month of June of my illness here, when we burned all the taxi United Nation has transpired when we end all the taxi United Arab Emirates so that the bad weather condition will be reversed.
You should leave us following us so that we can see anything that we can see; we also take it back to Roel, okay, then it's okay, thank you that it is okay for me and that I will be remembered.
I really want to talk to me; he / she is really here and I am here.
A huge call to you, and thank you very much as well because there are many foods that we thank you, most of our friends, co-T; Rayton; and thank you and thank you for you, they are living on you.
To go there.
Let us go to first to say that we'll go to school; we are ten years old when we go out of Fort Bonifacio teacher at Fort Bonifacio.
Yes, please tell Francis it's good to write to me earlier at Fort Bonifacio.
It is okay to have a happy greeting by a happy greeting to this day of Tuesday.
Yes, thank you very much to Francis as to those who win.
Now, I am going to do that Bea is very pitiful; we will still review later when we visit the president, we will be friends with the people.
In the personal Philippines, we have personal interests; we are the ones who will be the one to win.
What are the things that I can find for this day after the year-year-tempered; so I am having a difference with it because a way for a lot of income is the guest of a filipino who is happening after the president.
Age of arrival.
You will go back and forth before your beauty comes, we have fried foods that we will have.
When the president comes back, they will be around the bag of ten years.
Yes, I consumed a lot like that, and there are people who are going to have sex.
That was a joke, after Thy.
Very short; we will have speech; as long as the speech will be given, hopefully, my mom will not be able to understand, I cannot understand, all of us.
Peter, of September 29.
We will show them in the park where we show our new things, especially to the troops of Two who showed new guns, we will show that we are the one consecutive.
We, let us show that you do not try to take a sweat, that is just for the salary to be followed.
Thank the Lord Nazarene, thank you on the sleep that was given to the Philippines.
So that your voice is going to be fine with your voice.
It is already in a deep sleep that is still needed by November yes to April on Sunday, I thank you very much for what is for you in the celebration of your life because of your savings today.
Thank you very much, Francis, I am sorry.
"Do you take care of you?"
Covetous, deport; why did Jodie.
"We are just in the middle of the Philippines with his jacket and Bonifacio, it's okay for us to continue, and why is it that there's a good and handsome thing to greet you, not only a joke, Goodbye Philippines.
Coil on Cagayan de Oro pincers.
