Built.
By Rey Marchil on September 21, 2016 if it is in boxing - 10 days to declare retirement, painful to Senator Leila de Lima that will be in a need of 16 votes to be fired from Senator Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao.
Most of the people are surprised with de Lima to the Justice Committee but if the events will go back to justice, it's almost a month that the senator is planning for it almost a month, and it is planned and it is planned that the senator is planning for Pacman's movements.
Before I showed de Lima in the session hall last Monday, there was a conversation between a fellow senator that happened last Sunday because they frequently talk about the issue, even if you ask Senator.

Loren Legarda who is the original plan, is not only de Lima who's forced to remove from the majority of Pc but the Liberal Party (LP), along with the group of Senator Franklin Drilon but there is a discussion in the majority of the majority who sat at Senate President Koko Pimentel.
In the end, the majority of c and only de Lima agreed to receive the committee on a question why she has been separated from the Liberal; it is not good for Sen. Ralph Recto because it is not included in the majority of Corona who sits at Pimentel.
Three names were ordered to be transferred to De Lima - Senator Richard "Chiz" Escudero, Senator Richard "Dick" Gordon and defeated Vice President Alan Cayetano, which is why he went to Gordon even if he was holding the Senate blue ribbon committee.
If your servant is right, six members of LP in the Senate - Drilon, De Lima, Risa Hontiveros, Bam Aquino, Kiko Pangilinan, and Ralph Recto, are not people to count on the previous election while Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson, this is the adoption.
If examined by what happened to De Lima, this is not a surprise move by the majority of Kc because even before Pimentel was seated, it is not unknown to the senator that he does not want him to be used by Justice Committee of Malacañang in fear that he will be used against President Rodrigo Duterte.
And Pimentel himself said that he knows the "epal" in this issue but he continued the plan because it was good for Pacman to be called "Senate President" than an ordinary senator in boxing, which caused the senator to be called "Senate President in boxing, which caused the senator to be fired especially since the senator attempted to oust the senator.
On the other hand, nothing has been lost from De Lima with his defeat as Justice secretary because the challenge now will be received, benefits or pro-Laban, and stand for the opposition, "I always remember," my spy and I am my spy "
