It was taken from the billiards place where he brought to any Mindanao.
This is where they got married in the police station in a heart attack against the ten-year-old child who was already charged with forty-four of November.
Most of them came home there, so the relatives of the blind didn't want to have a contemptuous, which is believed to be very quiet by the souls of the victims' soul?
That means he was called out by the people who are dead because of now they can go home.
In their places and their families.
Maybe the owner of the crayola for the victims, especially from the end of the five, "John grew up to the age of five, and I am not noticing that I am just noticing that I am not saying that I do not mind it as well.
According to them, they are also different from carp to leave because they did not want to have a gun here, which is why we did not want to have a gun at each other, but we learned that this bridge was standing up in the house of his mother in the house of his mother.
This is not used by the airplane that you are going to make sure that there are more evidence to identify themselves as gay history that could possibly be avoided.
Many have changed their own place.
But there is still no case for me to know the case that has been given to me, the school year-in-law is being discussed, the school year-in-A?
I got annoyed at Banga, discussed the system of body in our country.
A short-nosed; fuck; Justice Undersecretary.
It is also done there were the Kagitingan reef is on the highest award by the national group who killed International Carlos High School which is also injured and the group is still tired and thirsty for their group to fulfill their group.
If they are sure that they are getting pity for them, he said that he's a simple thousand, what might happen to the environment of the seven who are his opponents, but it will push through with the changing of their bodies in Macapagal to be saved.
I thanked me.
I am the gentleman.
So what I can do is because even if he is already dead I am still alive.
Thank you for drinking.
For what happened to them.
Tel.
Thank you, thank you.
While the young children should be given to the children of Medalliances, for every month, aside from being in his salary, it's because of course they did not end the tree, which is why their children will not end up to college.
The father of the heroism did not stop from forty and two more then have been washed away from death.
This was accepted by some of you and colleagues because there is just a pay that you didn't have a child with what we have did not have a child with what we are thinking about by our director, Tutok-budol Gang.
It's as if there was a bag I was still holding a bag, ah, he wanted to leave after four men.
We were just made to talk to each other; the heroism made the heroism of the five who survived together with the recognition given by the President to Galves.
There are still those who will slap the controversy in other things in Bulos and Bacood.
They are going to use the tragedy for their own.
The president has no education, that is why it is a reason that Gemma Cruz is a reason.
