There is LTO).

There are groups who are calling that President Aquino should be put under the Iric Arrtest, until now, the group has a suspicion that the President had a stable job in the brain.
The truth is, the person who has a "epal" is scary in the head.
If a person is like this, he / she has his own world when he suddenly disappears, cried for no reason. "The others were catching up by him and speaking.
When disturbed, he was suddenly approached.
What is needed from the people who have a "epal" is moving to other so that the damage on the head is not worse than a big help to play the computer games in a "Ipit Gang" in the brain.
"Do not just ignore it even though the saliva on playing is not lesser, you might not know what he can do.

The issue of Iric Arrtest "was used by the enemies of PNoy last 2010 presidential elections, they want it to be washed away from the head of PNoy.
But the defamation to Dico, Cory and Ninoy Aquino, won't win.
Now that the issue should be released again, the issue should be exported back then, why is it that Malacañang doesn't want PNoy to take the mind of PNoy?
So it can be found out if the president of the Philippines has a mental problem.
Because, if it is not proven guilty, then, he will continue to be defeated by the LTO.

While in New York, PNoy once again defended PNP Chief, Director General Alan Purisima, for the alleged illegal wealth, PNoy said, he is known by Purisima with no extravagant people so it is impossible to become corrupt.
But, why is Purisima hiding when the Senate invited the Senate to explain to the questions that the owner cannot handle, particularly the mansion in Nueva Ecija?
Because of the ongoing defense of PNoy to Purisima, Purisima's face will get stronger to not attend the investigation of the Senate in the leadership of Senator Grace Poe. "It is proof that there is an implementation of the corrupt if he is not being investigated.

Malacanang also does not care about the issue against Purisima.
We are really like the government, regular patrons who have a thick face even if he is being treated as a thief, he will really win, especially if the president of the Republic is going to win.
There is a amazing or not?
