
Tax on drugs and prostitution.

It is said that the economy of the European Union which is composed of 28 countries, including the land in Spain and Greece.
That is why the EU is looking for the business that they want to impose tax.
Illegal drugs and prostitution is what they saw as one of those who should be given taxes.
P1435.6 Tala.
In the EU's estimation, up to P14334.68 pesos is the value of drugs and prostitution, based on an exchange of 1 billion pesos.
It is impossible that this amount is bigger than being touched as the national budget of my beloved Philippines this 2014 of P2.2 cups of this.
It is also bigger than 20 percent of domestic helper or a total amount of all products and services that was done or built on the Philippines.
In Britain, this is worth drugs and fried foods in P722 billion.
Because of the huge amount of drugs and electric posts and low economy, these are planning to be taxed.
But, there are many of these countries who have become part of drugs and plants for legal and not just like the Philippines that they are illegal.
However, it is not clear if they are involved in illegal drugs and fatty foods, those who are involved in need of taxes are those who are involved in favor of drugs and plants.
Analyze the EU.
The people of Europe said that they will rise and breathe easier from the crisis in the economy if they will make the tax on drugs and canned goods.
Is there a huge amount of value in this industry.
It means that the money of each government in Europe should rob and they have the ability to bring public service to their respective citizens.
They will have additional funding for education, health, activities, police and military, food against calamities and many others.
They will also have additional funds to help other countries that are affected by calamity and crime, like the Philippines.
Drugs in the Philippines.
The record of drugs and prostitution is unlikely for the Philippines.
But it is estimated that it is estimated to 200 million pesos to 200 million pesos in the Philippines.
Especially now that the Philippines is being done in the international trade in drugs and there are some drug syndicates in the Philippines with big syndicates of drugs in different countries, like those in Mexico.
It was found out in the attack of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency and other authorities in different places of drugs that were brought back to the Philippines.
Just in Metro Manila, around 8 percent of all barangays are not allowed to be used in drugs.
Prostitution.
The value of prostitution is not realized but the Department of Health is worried about the spread of human rights or virus (Acquired immune deficiency Syndrome).
But it is certain that the amount of canned goods will also be big.
In prostitution in the streets and small establishments in Metro Manila, about 300-500 pesos up to 2,000 pesos to P5,000 is a gunshot or one night.
There were a lot of reports that the victim, who went back to the top, has been going back to twenty-10 which came to the caskets that entered the motel in Metro Manila.
Most of them are women.
For the High School area of prostitution in the Philippines, it was found out that Remate has been found out in an investigation that in a gunshot in Manoy, 'worth of 10,000 pesos in expenses.
Up to P12,000 pesos will be one night after the shooting.
But a consecutive gunshots came from the high officials of the government and rich Filipinos.
He takes 100,000 pesos in a night war on bed.
When the Americans were still on military in the Philippines, up to 100,000 are the women who were born in the Subic Naval Base and Clarin.
How many now are involved in prostitution in the Philippines if they will be included in the various tourist spots in the country?
According to the record of the Human Trafficking in the Philippines, playing 500,000-85th were selling out in the Philippines, including those affected by the calamity.
Taxes for the Philippines.
A question from the authorities in the Philippines - do they have plans to collect tax from those involved in drugs and prostitution, like the plans of the European Union?
There is a big problem here, Bro.
Drugs and prostitution in the Philippines are illegal so the government will find it hard to reveal the tax he is going on.
There are many cases that are being thrown into drugs and are caught in a drug lord, drug pusher, and also those involved in prostitution.
But how are they going to file the tax on them?
Particularly the High School and is in the tourist spot involved in prostitution?
The money they collected money can only be bought but all will be applied.
It is possible that the call of this: Free in the case will be thrown on the case if those who were caught will lay down and make women who captures.
Child of tofu!
SEP-ESETC.
It is good for the authorities to study how to profit from this industry.
But it is not right to turn, who is buried together with the Philippines and the integrity of Filipinos and Filipina.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
