Jennylyn, the white!
On September 27, 2016 is the ultimate Star, Jennylyn Mercado, busy with co-worker, bet for the promotion of Her New Generation.
Yes, thank you guavors, the title of Her album is also ultimate for the declaration of Hacadana, someone is questionable and there would only be no assurance for Jen.
For the superstar, pets, as if they are the only ones who know and watching, Mercado looked at his visit to number one program every Sunday, he / she called on his visit to number one program every Sunday, it was noticeable that Jen had just been on his visit to the length of the funeral parlor in the country.
He / she was not contented in Major-Major-Major-Her from StarStruck.
Thank you for the fancy?
I will not be surprised if one of them is going to be surprised, he will go to Eat Bulaga when they have been freed.
If the no room with The Master Showman has not yet gone on the air, it is likely that the show to be the show of the former German Moreno, who were allowed to be guilty, Merdees, will surely be treated again.
What is surprising and was found by another Factor in the race of Jen, why is it that she is not entering the real Korean drama remake, "My Love, and The Star?
Isn't he an expert of the original show?
True, Jen admitted that he would be recognized as Choi, but isn't it, upon the network's ultimate star?
Is the state of the public service to be the ultimate project for Her?
Will you do the Filipino division of the Korean drama to enher to the masses?
Isn't it yet that Mercado was not able to go to a person? Wait, wait, I was ashamed of the audience of English Only PMC, The Praura, no longer forever and JO 3 of the US.
All of the movies mentioned, Estrella Street and Derna Ligas in the box office.
Isn't it enough to say that Mercado is to be like Mercado, if he is an expert of all?
If he really wants to have faith in the public in spite of Jen as an actress, thank you, I know that you should be recognized as a friend Daisy, new and original TV Patrol.
It's just okay if you are going to do the Korean drama but when you pass through, it is too bad for you to take advantage of the Pambansang Kamao and it will become an obstacle to the drama of drama, taking revenge and various stuff.
For you to be responsible for the ultimate star of Jennylyn Mercado by HHer, the ultimate TV project is set aside from Fight IT.
