
DOST: Labo is Labo in the Senate.

Will you allow the scenario in the Senate during the time of their investigation about the P10 billion pork barrel scam?
At first, many senators are feasting against their three companions who were initially criticized by the pork barrel scam of Janet Lim-Napoles.
Now, the list was released from Justice Secretary Leila de Lima and the rehabilitation of Czar Panfilo Lacson, almost all senators and congressmen in the legislative chamber are taking advantage of it in short, majority of the colonizers.
Here is the scenario that we see in the Senate during the time of the investigation of Blue Ribbon Committee.
"We have an honor, you have already had a small income compared to our other companions?"
One of the three, "o'clock in the honor, I was not able to talk to one-million honor," I did not know Janet, "I was not able to talk to other party," I was not able to talk about the pork barrel scam, "I was not able to talk about the pork barrel" BE, "I was not able to talk about it!
"One senator is being attacked by their co-senator to deny death penalty and will be after the fight of their co-senators" those who asked him to say that the commission is big, while they are just pretending to be just pretending!
For our loved ones, they have to be brave, a billion or five centavos, if that is coming from the cruelty, colleges, corruption and corruption, there are only one more weight of the law that there are thieves or thieves who are still thieves or thieves.
So what will happen?
Is there something to us who really benefited from the pork barrel queen?
When the list of Janet came out, the Malacañang's noodle house was disrupted because even President Noynoy Aquino himself was doubting the list of his friends, he admitted that his baldness seemed to be more faster because of the severity of the PDAF and DAP-Malhscam.
Why is it that not? "Their allegation that was just divided against the previous administration just seemed like it just seemed like a looking like the funds that he is spreading now than the regime of Aquino.
Before, it seems that there is a huge amount, hundreds of millions, but now, punched, and Joseph, with multimillion pesos in a transaction.
Oh no, let us just wait for the new leader in the Senate to look for the comedians who can make the fault on each other, you are the one who will go down and you are wrong.
