
Foreign companies, the barbark, Agusan del Sur, was attacked by Bastes.

Alan.
NPA North Central Mindanao Regional Trial Court (Jules Command)
June 20, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NPA, foreign companies, the security guards of Aaahdel Sur.

There will be an attack of the Bagong Hunan Bayan under Western Agusan del Norte and Agusan del Sur (Agusan del Sur (Agusan del Sur Regional Sandugo Awarding Ceremony held Kailagutan, Agusan del Sur last 9: 00 in the morning on June 18, 2013.

It was killed in this attack after a few of five members of the bronchitis, Turks "Hacons, Phase 4, Anghel, Phase 4, Anghel, Anghel, Anghel, Anghel, 4 .357, two Germans, and four hunters passed away from the said attack.

The proliferation of the germs are to force them to force wild boars and investment which are responsible for the murder of the families and pensioners of the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by their homes.

The Shanh Group is a company that will be implemented by Finland and New Zealand which included five companies in Caraga Region 2 in the midst of the declaration of the company of the city hall of Esperanza, San Luis, Talacklers, Tectful and Manobo tribe, Telecoxib and Manobo tribe, Telecoxib and Manobo tribe and if other calamity would be destroyed, and if other calamities come.

It is contrary to the first reported armed men, we make it clear to the public that the wild Dyogiddy, aside from defending the earth, is a legitimate target of the military because of the revolutionary movement of the cooperation between the national AFP-PIO.

That's why the latest attack of the BHB) giving justice to the victims of the wild giddy, where it was just blind to the company of the Lumad, taking advantage of the land of the Lumad, taking advantage of the poor and forests.

This statement is going to serve as a warning to other groups who prioritize, like Bakar Liberation Front (NFNL), Task Force Gantangan, "RTEL) and New Nationalist Peoples' Army and the farmers in the mountains to stop in a peaceful life of the Lumad and the farmers in the mountains.
