
The protest against corruption and pork barrel of the Marcos regime continues.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
August 29, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program was the Liberal Party which led to Aquino's corruption and pork barrel.
Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) encourages the Filipino people to present their waste protest against corruption and pork barrel of the Marcos regime to push through their formation of interest and rights to the economists.

What the Filipino people insisted, to put back the whole system of pork barrel, is becoming an immediate action in front of the agricultural sector, low income, widespread lack of livelihood, widespread lack of livelihood, education and loss of free health services, education and housing projects.

The widespread brownout in August 26 in Luneta is a clear sign of excessive spending of the Filipino people in the Marcos regime, and despite the abuse inflicted by the Filipino people, and despite the abuse of the government's fund, it is also being more important for the Marcos regime that is being swept in by the regime of Arroyo.

In his stubbornness to protect the system of pork barrel for the Congress and Malaca単ang, there is a gimmick of exchange of names and promises to feel the names of the Priority Development Assistance Fund which is clear that Aquino has been abandoned by Aquino's gimmick.

Aquino and his co-workers are rushed by the nap to let the people get mad at this August 26 in Luneta, it's just right that the Malaca単ang's spokesperson of Aquino is still strong in order to arrive in Luneta, that's why it's just proper that Aquino has been leading the pork barrel scam.

In the hope to make the anger of the country to Aquino and drowning the request of the people to remove the value of Napoles' fund, the Malaca単ang is planning to take advantage of the anger of Napoles, wherein the wealth is believed to be taken from corrupt politicians and senators.

Malaca単ang ordered to file a case against Napoles.

In the past few days, it is obvious how Aquino and the PR manager would be able to get mad at front of the pretending doubt that Aquino and the Aquino administration have a transaction with Napoles during the past including asking for help from Aquino last 2010.

Pork barrel made by the Filipino people that the government budget of the Marcos regime is not clean, like he is proud of the political pork barrel because he is proud of the political system and maintain the strength of the political system and maintain the best system of the Filipino people.

They insisted that remove the system of pork barrel, they are strictly reminding the wish of the Filipino people to end up the low services of the community in order to end the rules of the agricultural sector in order to end the rules of the agricultural sector in order to end the policies of the economy and local rules in making it.

The Filipino people should further pursue their protest against the system of pork barrel, and it will be the most apathers against the Aquino administration who is currently serving as the largest protector of the system and the most strong protector of the system.
