Witnesses Norman Tancinco?
Jimmy and Jimmy Cantos or October 17, 2016, I will not be surprised if after the war between Meralco and Ginebra, for the title of PBA Governor's Cup, our friend will ask if he is a fan of the filipino masses.
Because after Game 4 of the series last Friday, the Black Nazarene was asked if he was impressed by the backcourt tandem of Ginebra, who once called Mark Caguioa, which was once called "the FFF" because of their style of playing.
Maybe, you know where the "Flintshire was coming from but sometimes, there was a Koponang Tapay who was carrying in the Philippine basketball player, which was brought by Norman Tancinco.
"Mamondiong, and a case that was being swept in.
In Tagalog, Norman Vincent Peale respects the two, but he is not a fan of them.
But before I get angry at Norman Vincent, you need to know that he is impressed by the Pinoy players sometimes, in one interview, I asked him if he is impressed by Ramon Fernandez, the first PBA player who won the MVP after four times.
Of course, because said interview has long been said, I can no longer say what Norman Vincent Peale has said, but in my mind, she said that Fernandez was the king of the Philippine MVP in the time that he is the king of the Philippine basketball, he has no showcase.
Sometimes, I also interview Norman Vincent Peale, with the former star, and other other star of others, now that he is an coach of Mapua in NCAA.
What I did not expect was this, Norman Vincent Peale said that if Agame will receive a ball, he was shocked to receive a ball, but he was surprised that instead of bringing a ball, he can stop him if he wanted to block him up.

"They could not avoid the amount that occurred between the... that's why Norman Vincent Peale said, that is what Norman Vincent Peale said, that Agame was amazed at, Norman Vincent Peale, who first arrived in the Philippines as an engineer.
After the finals of Governor's Cup, I will not be surprised if Norman Vincent Peale has a different meaning to Caguioa and the Helmets they may come from the remains of Norman Vincent Peale.
