While there are some who are carrying a lot of those who are carrying a lot of pesos to study, our fellow citizens are going to study in Zambales a bottle school for them to have a free education; long vacation, while they are going to live here is the witness space.
It is the time you are walking in the mountain who is walking in the mountain and his mother to reach the school.
A little bit of peso to reach the school of Ita where they will be able to study every ten months of living in Divisoria, which are the children who are still young.
That is it.
We are inside something like that, they study at me, no matter what you want.
For political.
But what he needs to do is far from the face of school diploma that each of your three siblings will no longer finish, his elementary school never ended, which is why they didn't really leave.
Beware of public schools things in school.
Cherness, to fog, are not just being teased.
Sometimes there are times when it comes to school, aside from the other times of some pieces of Formal Education, especially these are foreigners in their paint, "in other elderly, to us, we are proud.
If you are able to study, you have a different appearance.
That is why they are trying to study the taxes that should be given to them and the school so that some of them are cut off in the pictures of my selling of mine.
That's why here in the length center of Mother Ignacia were left behind.
Covetous, whose name, who is the first called Dizon, like someone who gave birth, like someone who gave birth and asking for them to be treated using plants, and dancing.
The children are already forget to look down; we are proud.
The police grabbed the Corporation.
That's why we need to look down; he / she needs to take care.
Yes, since they are young, they carry it until they get old.
To prove the night on Friday, what was known in defending the different palm and dancing to IJ.
Survey shows that who are Artadi blood, the system of the system, which is why there are people who are fighting in the hospital, so we also have different kinds of knowledge that they also have their own knowledge to help them.
