
The attack of the AFP from the units of BHB) which is conducting a rehabilitation in Samar, was criticized by PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
20 Dilawan, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA will lead to the AFP units in the rehabilitation center of Samar.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the implementation of non-stop attack on the places destructed by the New People's Bayan, Moalungan, Samar last Tuesday between a local government unit of BHB) and troops of 85th IB.

As well, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) arrested the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) from the garbage coming out of the 6-day declaration of the ceasefire, even if the Aquino administration does not want to continue with the formal peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
"The AFP vehemently denied the AFP about the incessant operation conducted in Samar, Leyte, Negros and in other places destructed by typhoon Yolanda, in spite of the fact that the PKP has already declared the unilateral ceasefire, to protect the entire force of the BHB) and the masses for the appropriate rehabilitation of it," said the KP.

It is clear in the report that the 8th ID released by the 8th ID, which is conducting the disputed operation against the BHB), according to the report, the troop of 88th IB, who is moving in a nearby town of San Jorge's, is leading to the nearby towns of San Jorge's, which is moving to the nearby towns of San Jorge's, which is moving to the nearby towns of San Jorge's, which is moving to the nearby towns of San Jorge's, which is moving to the nearby town of San Jorge's.

"Since November 8, all of the units of Bables as Moalliances and other parts of Samar and all places destructed by the number of typhoon Yolanda are really busy in implementing different kinds of cooperation and being implemented," said the KP.

"What is clear, the AFP does not want to succeed in the rehabilitation being done by the Bables as well," said the PKP, "first, it was ordered by Aquino and the AFP to launch a offensive against the Botchok (second, according to all the military units in the Bugnay, of the anomalous activities against the citizens."

"The continuous offensive of the AFP to the places destructed by typhoon Yolanda was experienced by the intensified campaign of the onslaught of the typhoon Pablo last December 4, 2012 in Compostela Valley," said that the citizens are experiencing not only a lack of abuse from the human rights of the AFP troops.

"If the Marcos Aquino and the armed force would really want a long time or for defense, he should push through with the formal agreement caused by the armed conflict and stop the proliferation of the armed arguments in order to silence their weapons and let them finish their hands."

"The KP has declared the two-three days of ceasefire when there is a clear goal of show the present goal of the 16th celebration of the 25th anniversary at the 120th anniversary of the PKP, on December 26, on the 16th celebration of the Holy KP," added the PKP.

"The Filipino people really wish for a long-lasting peace," said the KP, "but they also know that it is impossible under a system that will take advantage of the workers, farmers and vegetables and this will only be achieved through the launch of the masses, farmers and protesters.
