
A new battalion of Philippine Army in Occidental Mindoro, La Union - no difference from former anti-riwap in the island of Mindoro.

You, Salas.
Lucio de Guzman Commanders-NPA).
February 24, 2013.

They were put in a lot of fear and fear of the Filipino people, the Filipino soldiers and those who were assigned in the provinces of Lopez, Gumaca, Taganak Island in the province of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the town of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the town of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the town of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the town of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the town of Sta. Elena in Camarines Norte in the city of January 2013.

If you think of the 76IB, he is going to be met by the Mindoro Hospital who is very wrong, the people knows that there is no difference from those who were abducted by SFO 4 AFP in Mindoro and other parts of Pag-AFP and PNP in Mindoro.

These heinous crimes were not forget about the heinous crimes on Mindoro from 2001 until present, especially the Anti-ABB headed by the Philippine US-Arroyo, 19th to 2001, and the last 41st Infantry Batallion of the Oplan Galugad conducted under the Oplan Galugad conducted under the Oplan Galugad conducted under the Oplan Galugad conducted under the Oplan LS.

The corrupt troops of the AFP and PNP - which resulted to the kidnapping and murder of the farmers, students, teachers, fisherman and Leopoldo Marasigan, Rodel del Garcia and Dario Delorino, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi, Calamudi and other crimes against the people.

This crime is still ongoing against the people under the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Philippine US-Aquino in the midst of the latest victims of murder of Mindoro last 2011 and 2012 when their heinous crimes were captured by the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (GAC), and this is becoming a temporary solution to the incessant movement.

The mask of the mask of the AFP and the PDU s that is nice, helpful and roaming the human rights should be made to expose the crimes of PA-AFP and PNP against the people and to make the ones responsible for this crime.

Drug syndicates will be held accountable for their crimes against the people!

Let us go back to the horrific encounter!

Long live the Filipino people!
