In the rehab! By Rey Marchil on August 1, 2016, if the complaint is done by former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino III, it is the opposite of what really happened in the provinces or towns that were hit by calamity, storm or flooding.
A year was left hanging to start the widespread rehabilitation in provinces hit by typhoon and earthquake, like what happened to Cagayan de Oro, Davao Oriental, Leyte, Samar and Bohol.
In the span of one year, the Office of the Presidential spokesman for the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (OPAPP) was held at the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (OPAPP) and Davao Oriental to raise the families and livelihood in a short time after the typhoon Pablo and Sendong, even the residents of Bohol brought by the strong earthquake.
Through the program "Build Back Better" of PNoy, senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson started the rehabilitation in the Visayas Region and the response to the needs of the residents who is the United Nations (UN) was impressed by the strategy of the government.
The weight of the problem on the shoulders of OPPAR, Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council (NDRRMC) and local government units (LGUs) are not a joke, and of course the destruction of earthquake and landslides.
If there is a number of discussion, especially if there are local officials who do not know how to take care of the help of Malacañang, more or less 18 thousand of the housing units are already been built and "in the rehabilitation center in Yolanda, which is currently being built by the government.
In 2015, more or less 23 thousand pesos were taken by the victims of typhoon Pablo and an estimation of 47 thousand families who were at stake, received a financial status and materials from the government.
In the onslaught of typhoon Sendong, thousands of families lost their homes but were not negligent just more or less than 10 thousand houses were evacuated or more than six thousand families were evacuated or were given a permanent house in places that are safe from any calamity.
Even though the action of the government is quick, even if the resources of some of them are limited, there is still there to blame and complaints of some of those who are deliberately wearing a habit to teach in the national government their shortcomings in order to avoid payment from their jurisdiction.
The good thing that was proven, the rehabilitation in some provinces is successful in some provinces, like Cagayan de Oro and Davao, because the local officials are working in Malacañang - it is not counting the cases of typhoon Yolanda, "in the rehab," I do not know the attitude of the official? "
