DOTC, is a run of KE.

This is what DOTC Secretary Emilio Abaya said, Jr. about his management on his agency, no one believes it is in his hands the operation of all kinds of transportation and communication.
Just when he said that he is ready to resign from the DOTC, but there is condition, if President Benigno Aquino 3rd (Bira 3)!
When he sat in the DOTC of Secretary Jun Abaya, I interview him immediately in my program on radio, he said, he will take his work and modern equipment, clean and fair in his jurisdiction.
But I was more interested in MRT every day, when I rode a few days, I can see the difficulty of the passengers who are old, pregnant, pregnant, weak and Perelegant.
That's why I told him that the broken escalator in an elevator should be focused on for the said sector.
From North station to Taft Avenue, everything is almost over.
She answered, that is just easy, so he should do it immediately.
Since then, when he sat down, until now, there is still no one whom we pointed at and that is why there are more people who are not working! There are also those who are not working!
For telecommunication, Abaya knows that cheating is being given to the cheating and missing wage increase in the internet and similar service but Abaya has no word?
When he was about to be revealed by the anti-Illegal Drugs Act of MRT from the US $30-million, it was absolved from those involved in the leadership of former MRT GM Al Vitangcol and sister of Bira 3.
Including the illegal acts that makes a contract, which is still being sold, hence, the MRT seemed to have been released on the railway!
Passengers cannot do anything right now.
What is scary, maybe what happened in Taft Avenue Station might not be repeated again, and many will die!
Just when, the train of PNR is also destroyed in order to solve the heavy flow of traffic.
The law of telecommunication has won't correct, the airports are troubled and are still moving with the DOTC?
Give dignity to your personality, Mr. Jun Abaya, to resign without condition.
Even if you are examples of yourself, today, your reason is the DOTC is being ran over by the DOTC.
