Kuala Lumpur - in the end of income, according to them.
Too much is the number of graduating ten minutes Edison, for the number of work waiting for them.
But in other provinces, the teachers are still lacking.
MPDPS-M a New Year.
Okay, why is it that the number of teacher in the Philippines is not enough.
Reporting, C WJ.
That is all.
They said that's why.
He is too much of the students.
To be doubly careful, there are those who are requesting the teacher to be double.
In order for us to be given the judicial system that they are asking for, we should have been asking the children of every school that should be given to the children because I have not been able to go to the children since it has not been taken to the school even if it is still not in front of the school that is still not in front of the school.
So that I can see a lot of words.
Pangasinan said that it has been more than a thousand three hundred teachers, what he borrowed from coming in the afternoon, a bit of their voices from the children's love.
The problem of many schools in the entire country is being experienced by many schools in the whole country, but is it really necessary for the teachers to know what we should pay attention to the students who want to have the highest number of training for those who want to be graduating from the election.
It has been proven that it reached more than five thousand pesos in there, while more than thirty three thousand have been waiting for them, the problem that was waiting for them is the problem that they are living together; and their chicken, are you doing something again?
For Juan, the graduating of each candidate in the needs of their area has not been taken away from the minds of their place.
After all, he has not yet been paid.
You should also say that we will feel pity for you student if they can even get medicine.
No matter what?
Nobody would be cut off.
Agnes also has an example in Davao City for more than a year, but he still does not have a job even if it comes to sir, it's too bad for me to eat, because many are applying for a little yes.
The reason why it is rare for you to have a conversation at the back of Industrial and education that we have been together in the internet of Bible organization yes, Chua, and sometimes, there is the owner who likes you, ah, that's why he left the Lord of my God.
According to him, I also need to be rich.
A Grab Bike.
Meanwhile, Davao City is from Davao City almost four times, but for the entire province of Pangasinan, the education that the Education are graduating in Pangasinan has a one to be one of the province for more than two thousand teachers today.
It was Joy.
