Pacquiao, will not stop.
October 29, 2016.
WBO welterweight champion Jessie Vargas can't stop the Filipino ring icon Manny Pacquiao in his plan to return to the Philippines immediately after their fight in November 6 (Manila-time).
It is believed that Carpio-conditioning coach Justin Formento and assistant trainer Freddie Fernandez believes that Vargas could not hurt the Pambansang Kamao, which will be the reason to stop her return.
This is the reaction of the two after he was stared at by other people following Pacquiao, that he was suddenly beaten by Vargas and stop the doctor who will travel home to rest but for Fortich, it will not happen again because it was not beaten-up or inheritance by Pacquiao.
"Walis" I know that he / she'll be able to look back to Manny so that he will be sent out or out of Camping, Vargas, "Formanes.
In fact, Formanes is expecting that Pacquiao will look back at Vargas.
"We-I am an effective treatment for Manny.
Fernandez was able to catch up with what Formosa said and said that Pacquiao will not take a level of Pacquiao, despite this world champion.
"I feel like Manny does not want to do with history, that even Senator world champion," says Fernandez, "her condition is good."
Even if it was good for six months, it was said that Pacquiao's strength and speed of Pacquiao were not lost, according to Marvin Sallhal, assistant of Freddie Roach in the wild card gym.

"I did not see" training Manny in Manila, but based on the shown that he has shown here to the wild card (in four days), even though he has not changed, his travel and speed, "said Sefree.
Meanwhile, Pacquiao is not the only one who will wait for the mystery that will happen in Thomas and Mabog Center in Las Vegas.
Another passenger of the Filipinos, Nihonggo will face again and will face WBO welterweight champion amweight champion.
It is not only in the Philippines that the fight will be seen, because it was also imposed in the Middle East for The Filipino Channel and the Top Rank Promotions.
