Light in the house.

By Tomas, Santos-November 21, 2014.

The story of matches.
The matches were together in a small box where they were living together and promised not to separate from where they were together, but they saw that the fire went through with him, and when they were scheduled to give a light, they could not stop it, because we could not stop it, because this is our fate. "
Light in the house.
In heaven, when you go there, we will no longer be known and you can't remember that what is happening in my body is painful but I don't feel the sadness when it comes to my throat.
"Why do you have to be afraid of something that you do not know," the question to me by grandmother while we are seated on his soft bed which is the most clear question that might be the first question to be the answer of the world.
My grandmother is not afraid of losing a breath but I am afraid to lose him when I found out that my father has become brave because the doctor who gave him a extension is hard to understand the doctor who gave him a extension.
Grandmother was hospitalized for almost a month in the house for almost a month, she chose me to reprimand her mother, "of course she didn't want to drink me," of course she didn't want to drink, "" of my forehead, she didn't expect that she would not believe in my forehead, "I never thought that it would come true."
In his three days of staying in our home, I did not understand him, but I still want to talk to my grandmother, but I still need to talk to my mouth, but I still need to talk to my mom, "I still need to talk to me, but I still need to talk to my mom, but I have been going to go home from school, but I still need to talk to me, but I have been going to go home from school, but I still need to talk to me, but I have been going to go home from school, but I still need to talk to me, but I have been going to go home from school, but I still need to talk to me, but I have been going to go home from school.
"Maybe you look for the right timing before you leave, where your whole family is together, you waited for your youngest child to go home first before you wait for your youngest child first before you say goodbye to your youngest child.
My stomach is swaying, and my whole body is trembling and I can't be able to get a glimpse of my favorite dogs, plants, and I will not be able to go back to me, I will not be able to go back to my favorite dog, "I will not be able to go back to when I do not want to go to the cave I am going to have.
I am trying to stop crying from the words I am happy, "I said to you, Daddy (my grandfather), we should always think that we are living together, and because that is all of you, we are always together.
It was clear in that moment when I was going to bring the regret that I did not say to me, my parents did not know him, but I did not know how to get to know her, but I did not know how to get to know her, I would not stop until I saw them and I can remember them.
It is just a smile that I can give in for good memories which is alive while everyone is sleeping in this kind of wind, the flowers made up and lit the flowers, and lighted candles and lighted candles.
We should not be afraid because we are set to give light to the mother because what he said is because there is a light to her fate because there is also a light from my personality, maybe it is also needed to fight for the near ravine and I understand the story of Mommy about the match.
