It is implemented by JO-NO to 2014-21.

We often blame our government for the difficulty being experienced by our country, even if they will avoid being thrown by the criticism, it is also due to the many failures of the administration of PNoy.
Despite our criticisms, we also know that not all our failures are done by our government, we know the suffering of our country is not the only reason of the government but also our stubborn countrymen.
We have also criticized the lack of discipline, drivers of public utility vehicles, whether a bus, jeepney, tricycle and pedicab, so many of them really have no etiquette and no concern for their fellow motorists.
This is the reason why he could not avoid those who were pleased by those who were pleased by the Department of Transportation and communication under Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya, Joint Task Force (JAi) number 1-0 1 that determines passenger vehicles and other violation of traffic laws.
According also to the said order, the owner of the caught public transport bus, P200,000 from the van and truck, P120,000 pesos of cars are usually used to use as a taxi drivers who usually use as the called "Skylab" and a motorcycle which is called "Skylab" and a motorcycle which is called "Skylab"
It also raised the fine of other violation of traffic rules just like the refusal of the passengers, that is being monitored, having no lights on, this form and other kinds of oil.
Just like what is expected, it will be a thorough protest because it is an additional burden to our councils and their operators of Abah, "you should follow traffic laws so you will not suffer, rotten!
One of their respective leaders also said that it is not new to us vehicles that are not new to us, without small break and broken lights, and if the new policy will be implemented, many of jeepney drivers will lose their livelihood.
Does this mean that we will just let it happen, we will just let it happen because this is what he is doing?
It is clear that there are no more complaints against JAO number 1-0 1 that they do not want to have discipline in our streets, but we will never agree to have discipline in our streets.
It is time for us to make a horn from these crooks on the streets, and if I am LTFRB chairman Winston Ginez himself, I will not hesitate to give a franchise to the shameless leaders of our councils.
