
JPE, Bgy. RL.

My mind is playing with this history, I know that I will receive a lot of reactions from this issue but if we think about this issue, it is likely that every corner of the corner (borrowed from Ns T.), it is clear that I am clear.
Martial law architect became the name of Atty. Juan Ponce Enrile (JPE) during the time of the Marcos regime of Ferdinand Edralin Marcos (Pambansang Kamao) because it was fake that resulted in JPE, Marcos dropped the law.
For more than 20 years, many died, killed, lost and was tortured in the prison.
Under martial law.
Naturally, the people with Marcos are very angry that's why the length of time comes, February 1986, he was kicked out by each person who went back to the EDSA People Power Plant, they already went out of a peaceful revolution.
Like the Katipunan, Jose Rizal, Aguinaldo, especially to Gat Andres Bonifacio, real patriot and the former president of the Philippines, waiting for a long time.
Rizal, opted to be shot with enemies, Aguinaldo, sold the Philippines to the Americans but you are also killed by the Americans.
Heroism or cheating, that is part of our history.
The reason why my mind to JUp Juan Ponce Enrile was a giant architect of Martial Law, cratic on Human Rights, its covetous, naughty and coler.
I called JPE as Valeriana because he was the real one who led and brought Marcos to Marcos! Enrile, together with the Reform of Armed Forces Battalion who marched from Camp Aguinaldo going to Camp Crame.
The former AFP Chief of Staff Fidel V. Ramos, Vic Viscocho, you said, this is the truth.
The next action is the time of our life now that Cory was not in Crame before, he was in the house of nuns in Cebu until Marcos left in Malacañang.
Let us not do all the constricted streets (Pahiram ng JB, okay!
Let us be true that it is you, Enrile, who is the staff of the dictator, are you disobeyed?
Before martial law was declared, Marcos changed all the political system.
The free government that he is making is going to be cooked and it seems that those who were mobbed down because of fear.
The politicians are asking all the politicians to be the truth!
Who does not have the illegal number of homicide back then? The politicians are seated now.
They are the children, grandchildren, wife of those who are illegal numbers to kiss the truth until now.
You will ask Mayor Edward Hagorn (SMAS)? They are in Malacañang, they will be in Malacañang.
