See.
Even if you did not do what is a jeepney that is hot here, this is when we talk about the increase in tuition in other countries in our country, but it is his father who will be together with Ate Llagas on petroleum products.
A solution is, according to Quezon Boning, sir, of course, there are also interested in it in Cebu and we have wounds when we go home to a week in Quezon City.
Also in Bicol.
They do not want to listen to us.
We should wait for it.
That is probably the interview.
What else will the increase in rise?
Tuition with laws, what may lead to the rights of the private.
They increase.
But this is just a moment on the resolution.
Week, it is not possible to take care of them.
It's because it is also possible that we are just completing their own older sister, who are just like the two older brother, who have ten million pesos, that's why it's the first time that they have been used by those who have reached him so that it's the first one to take care of the law on the law, this is the first thing that they have been used by students.
It was your heart, that's why I was able to personally appeal to the school.
However, it turns out that it turns out that it is not right to explain why the presence of blood will end there because we will be used there.
It is your fruit for him to be on duty with his height and when ten needs to be given to me, what will be given to me.
What they are going to be a big contribution to this is that a positive position might really be the positive position for the back.
Mountain, if ten percent is to be toppled down, the heat in the heat, which is very hot, is being cooked; hence, they are blaming each other.
It was earlier mentioned by XRS-number citizen "policy that he stood up even if he is high.
Five were eight.
Tita there are also public utility vehicles, if they are siblings, what is the process of the shoes they can do, maybe it is not necessary because there is a budget that should be given to the budget when they have a budget that we are going to give in.
Two four applicants.
If they have its subsidy outside, you will not be cheated on that you are not going to support that they will also support that.
In our opinion that there is a high-private schools that will be high; we are fond of public utility vehicles, which can be compared to the public, which can be covetousness.
It is a very big loss; he / she is very big; to the truth.
He is just the entirety of our fellow countrymen, who are very quiet; as well as the very quiet school; he / she is very quiet; he / she is still not in sweat; we can't really do our public utility vehicles.
All the grandchildren, like all students, they have something that is why they have not received the fund.
They are parents in the toll fee where there is a parents where it comes there.
I had my daughter in April that I had five years.
Eight eight months have already been put in the end of four eight hundred pesos.
I went to you, he said.
There are those who are very lucky that four-year-old child can give yes.
From the pockets, he / she was in the pocket.
An eight-eight-eight-wheeler truck was eight thousand pesos as well as the smoke of the people.
If we look at the school-six children, I said in your life.
Aside from Anton, that is a total of five percent, like this, in total of Filipinos so that it is still small in Luzon, if we have something to increase in the whole of our students.
They have a lot of things, they can see each other so that they can't worry; that's why he's not good.
It's but you want to marry.
"What are the cherer called Dante to call and I do not know if there is really a brave price in the sky, we know that we are the ones who are proud of us.
About what you are going to get, you are going to get the streets; we are five years old and it is more than where you want the business you want.
He has a bit hard time, they can also go to other sectors that you try to work at around three o'clock and now that they can go back to college that's why they still want to go back to college that's why they still want to go back to college that's why they still want to go back to college.
In that.
It's good for them to look at the payment that can help, so we really have a chance, that is why they really have a child, that is why they have something to make it.
They can go back to college but in a point, he / she cannot go back to college; he / she was brimming.
Whatever of them is for everyone to live with us, that is more than our interview now that we call four-four months.
Four of them had five years old.
A month-month-old people, whose name has a budget; there is no budget that is being given to them so it's still small where they should be annoyed, but it's too late, but it was too late.
Private University Tower, what if there are those who got pregnant, they are fighting for each other, they are fighting for anyone but instead, we are still looking for a cellphone; we are still looking for someone to go to college; we need to go to college.
You are saying that we are going to have the right to play; we are really hardworking; you are really hardworking, that you are hardworking.
Elementary is to answer to college that it can be watched over in college that's why it's first that the sibling of the child, John, will not be able to study.
And also included here are the cancelled Pacific because in college because in the number of five years, I really have their duties which is hiding a lot of education which is why you will pay attention to the school.
Fix a teacher's.
He / she really memorized that he / she would be able to give education, he will give them to school; he / she will be able to pay attention, he / she loves so much.
Let's just find out that your problem will be the one to teach on your problem at the same time there are those who are really helping them.
He has a lot of people.
Maybe it is a building I wrote like Cainguitan who is doing something, and there are also those who are going to wake up but are degraded; as well.
Maybe it's also different with our five school students to our students to choose where they are going to choose where they say, that's why we also say that you are sure that you have sure that you have an assurance to help our people.
Young people.
Finance then do we have a capital in a long program where we have three older sister, as if we have this.
I will fetch him again to Nayha ha edt, and they are still high, right before you get like this.
We have tons of water - Two people who are going to help the roof of the former Pambansang Kamao; we were not thinking that it's okay to have a big face, which is okay to have a big face with the visa.
He / she grew up; he / she wakes up again; he sank.
"It's true that, in the same age, they are applying to a long rest day to stay here in a rest house where we have heard that we are taking a hard time for us to become a hard time when you're applying for a very difficult time.
And here?
I am old when it comes to school when it suddenly controlled the process.
Are you call for a call that buyers will not be negligent just like them.
They are.
Something to be given?
They are the customers.
!
Yes, he / she grew up; he / she has lived together with a Brigada Eskwela to finish our students, especially in the schooling of students, especially in the schooling of the students, especially in the school library, she needs to experience, that is why she's going to meet, she can still be seen in OPLAN).
But if it is sure that I will just make it too much, it will have a job that I have been cut off, there are those who are fed up in the fourth year that you will accept to take care of this next day, teaching in the additional benefit.
In the city of August, it's because Uncle Janno has also received a visa that does not have a visa to help yes because he has a big challenge to my children.
Vicente.
Covetous, fur.
I laid down on the cellphone.
Why is it that before you are at the same age, we will go to school; we will transfer it to the high school.
Those who are going to be affected by the whole world can be affected; we can teach on it but they can teach on it but they also have pants, and what I will be cooked during the month of age.
On the same time, it is also true.
It's only that we have a meeting meeting with a solution so that they will be helped in sleep that they are also a lot of speeding motorcycles without all sides that are really being experienced, right?
Why yes, that's why they can still think that they are still thinking, they are still thinking that their grandmother will come here, because what they are going to do is wrong, they also need to give birth to their parents, because they also need to do anything but these were wrong.
Nobody will use this.
It has been passed by the price of goods that they need to adjust because they have grown up.
Your voice will go to benefits to answer to their school, that's why he should be able to adjust, we should be able to adjust, instead, we should be able to adjust, instead, we will be able to adjust; we should be able to adjust, but the education that we call are delayed, which is why it's because of the course of your mind.
It's okay to dry it.
It has been proven that a new year-year-old race was done and this is the increase in line up; we can do something like that to the teachers.
Also for us to look straight to those who are going to take a peek at to those who are going to take a look at the script of the hospital in the airport, it's because it's just earlier that I will try what I will try to express what I am with with us.
