"Funds in fixing the MRT went to DAP, corruption.

A group of protesters condemned the "surrender of funds of the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) for fixing the facilities of the Metro Rail Transit (MRT) in the illegal Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) of the Aquino administration.
"We angered the truth that the lives of those who have been in danger in danger will be put in danger because it is only stolen by the Aquino government and it was used by the Aquino's fund and used it through bribery and Page politics," said Sammy Malhes, spokesperson of the rails of the citizens (tracks).
During the hearing of the Senate regarding the accident that happened in MRT last August 13, Senator Nancy Binay revealed that the DOTC took up P4.5 billion that will be used by the new train for the MRT and placed them in DAP.
The Supreme Court declared last July 1 that the parts of DAP were against the Saligang Batas, which is called by critics of the Aquino administration, "the Presidential pork barrel."
"We condemned the DOTC for having fun with the work of the Aquino government of the crime against the Filipino people who have been used to ease the billion funds given by Aquino to ease the constitutional process," said Malhes.

"Corruption in the operation of MRT is widespread.
The group also said that the operation of MRT is not progressing because of the widespread corruption happening in the former MRT General Manager Al Vitangcol III and other officials of the MRT in the questionable company of the MRT General Manager Al Vitangcol III and other officials of the MRT in the questionable company of the Philippine TraLight Rail Transit (Philippine Trujillo.
The Philippine Traels of the Liberal Party is controlled by the Liberal Party which is Marlo dela Cruz and uncle-in-law of Vitangcol, Arturo Soriano, who will be sent by DOTC Secretary Joseph Abaya last May when the said controversy came out.
In the column of journalists identified as Jamal Bondoc in the Philippine Star, he revealed the anomalous contract entered by the DOTC and MRT Command (MRTC) in Philippine Tramo, DOTC Underpass by Abaya, DOTC Underpass by Abaya, United Trujillo.
In the said column, Bondoc said that it was complained by the company that has a contract with the construction of the MRT 3, which is a serious line, and there is a serious increase in the operation of MRT 3 to fix the problems and deaths.
Bondoc was also said to be at the entry of Philippine Trujillo, there was no accident that happened when it was stated in the contract, up to 560,000, 630,000 pesos, riding the MRT 3 every day.
The MRT said that the MRT officials who are fed up the pockets, from danger of maltreatment done by DOTC Sec. Joseph Abaya are being removed by DOTC Sec. Joseph Abaya for violating the widespread nepotism and corruption of MRT, "Malis said.
First anomaly.
Meanwhile, included in the cases of corruption in the MRT are attempted to be a extortion of $30 million worth of officials of the MRT, including Ballsy Aquino, sister of the President, in a company of Czech Republic (Czech Republic Act (ALS) in 2013.
In the legislative chamber, Navotas Representative Toby Tiangco said that it is as if the investigation of the Liberal Party has been hesitant to continue the investigation of the House Committee on Good Government and Public Accountability in the allegations of Tikling tar because the said anomalies might not be erased because of the said anomaly.
Some of the members and personalities are mentioned to be connected to the Liberal Party on the attempt to undergo autopsy.
Because of the series of anomalies in the operation of MRT, and despite the accident in the MRT 3 last August 13, and reports of the doors on the said line of the train, the railway of Abaya wish for the resignation of Abaya.
"All those who are involved, all those who are involved in the corruption of DAP should be held accountable for the funds of the citizens should be held accountable especially the DOTC and the officials of the MRT and the officials of the MRT should be held accountable," the end of Malis.
