Avoid confrontations.
By Crib July 17, 2016.
A few OFWs in Hong Kong (HK) and irritable in China are currently being harassed, but even if the bloody Quirino Grandstand.
If you can remember, an exclusive police officer was held hostage by a tourist tourist while riding the HK nationals caught in rescue that happened, some tourists were trapped in the fire and died.
Because of the extreme anger of the Philippine National Police operation, and not asking for an apology of the national government of the Philippines (the mayor of Manila went to China to ask for an apology), the OFWs in HK and China.
In the historical decision of the Persist back in The Hungitan which favored the Philippines and the garbage in the territory of China at the West Philippine Sea, some are worried that OFWs in HK and China are being harassed.
Many countries are happy with the suspension of the court of the United Nations, it was held by China along with the threat in the West Philippine Sea if there is a country like the United States who will insist to implement the ruling.
Up to the Philippines, China has not identified the decision of the court although he / she was aura and the Philippines with the UN Convention Center on the laws of the Sea or UMC).
The emotions of the Chinese are high on the belief that they have a basis on the endorsement of some awards that they have done which is the Philippine Ports and airports.
For them?
In front of this, our advice to our countrymen who are in HK to understand China and even Taiwan to prevent what happened in 2010 has to be avoided.
Even if we won the UN although we won the UN although we won the discussion, especially to Chinese nationals currently, many believes that the innate area of the West Philippine Sea is happening.
In fact, a Filipino in China said that it is not enough for him to be a Filipino to avoid trouble.
For the dialogue to be an OFW, the baretiquette has been held for OFWs in China, HK and Taiwan.
Avoid gossips and related to the UN court, including in social media.
There will be more debate with Chinese nationals in order to avoid accidents or to be able to avoid.
