Make sure that the Holy Week is safe.

The Holy Week which is expected to move away from millions of citizens going to different places and countries of the Philippines, is fast approaching.
In relation to this, we want to check on the situation of transportation in the land, sea and sky.
Even now that there are still days, will the government be sure that vehicles will be used in traveling?
We are asking this because the government is the strongest forces to ensure a safe travel.
Suspension, the SETC.
It is the hard work of Land Transportation and chide by the Regulatory Commission, suspension of the bus companies that are involved in accidents, Welcome Rotter of us.
It is certain that this has a effect in all companies of bus and other public vehicles that they fix their ranks for safe travel, not only for the Holy Week but also for ordinary days.
But the suspension of the suspension should not be tainted with nonsense, to give those who need to travel a good condition while on the trip.
This is in the middle of the belief that there are those who want to stay on the streets and they are the only ones who want to live in line, others, until the citizens are getting caught up in their journey.
Perfect for the steering wheel.
One of the things that the authorities should be sure of is a good financial condition and passion to fool drivers, tomatoes, helper and mechanic relationship.
It is good for them to be under investigation in order to fix their driving, fixing vehicles and communicating with passengers and authorities.
If you see or money, the people who are holding the steering wheel and relationship of the vehicles and relationship with the public and not the safe travel, wounds, weakness of the properties and other kinds of damages or events but cause damages.
Those who are tired, drugs, alcohol, sleep, family relations are smooth, communication through the phone while the vehicles are running and others should be strictly guarded by authorities and company, but also the people.
It is the right of the citizens to insist on their safe travel right in front of all people holding or control of vehicles at all times.
They are skillful.
It is now the time of the bamboo stove in the streets and destruction and change in bridge or pier.
That's why, there should be enough Road, and other things that give warning or direction to all vehicles.
It is certain that there are new actions or acts done by the streets, bridge and pier even during the Holy Week.
In the experience, the roads have no mark on this, like the foolishness of separation from vehicles and this usually happens in an accident.
Many are like this not only in crowded places but also in the mountainous place.
The lack of mark on the streets or bridge or pier is a result of collision and fall of vehicles that were included here even the private vehicles.
Is the billion pesos worth of funds taken away from the tax of other narrow vehicles.
This means that the lack of courted cup of warning on the streets is the cause of corruption for the 10 billion pesos worth of tax.
Flight MH-370.
Thousands have also want to travel to the speed or sky is more than the ground or ocean, hopefully there will be no more accident that can be like the accident of Malaysian airline which could have been experienced by a Malaysian national line.
In the declaration of the Malaysia government, it was unable to block the airplane that's why it was lost, fell and all of its passengers will surely be hit or no one survived.
But there is deeper or not in the airplanes and passengers, the government should ensure a safe travel here and hopefully there will be no changes that will happen even in a normal journey.
Thousands have died.
It is happening in our country the repeated accidents on the sea.
It's too much fear not only in the volume of accidents but hundreds of thousands are going to die of accident in our ships and ocean.
The authorities should always be vigilant with what the ships are doing.
They should not take a rest in monitoring the weather, in the edge of the ships and money which is the money of the company of the ship.
"It is possible that the ships and boat are usually caused by accidents and usually found out that their safety is not enough for passengers like the quality service, boat and others.
It was the child of tofu, the people who were able to jump from a safe place instead of forcing them to save their passengers.
