
The PKP has approved the AFP from the incessant offensive in Negros and other places in spite of the turmoil and ceasefire of the Bastes.

Liberal Party of the Philippines.
November 18, 2013.
Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NDF) will lead the AFP for 500 pesos in Negros.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is full of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the launch of the widespread offensive against the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) in the middle of the widespread damages brought about by the Philippine National Police and the declaration of the ceasefire released by the PKP.

According to the news, the offensive of the AFP led to not less than two consecutive armed encounter last Saturday between a national unit of BHB), Kabankalan City in Negros Occidental. Sebunga, Kabankalan City in Negros Occidental, Kabankalan City in Negros Occidental.
"It appears that the management of the AFP is not neglect the calamity and the poverty experienced by the citizens of Negros," said the KP.

The island of Negros is one of the worst places that were devastated by the typhoon last November 8, Negros Occidental, recorded the strong winds that caused the widespread destruction of crops, and the source of widespread destruction of crops, and fish that started almost 100 million.

The units of Botchok in Negros Occidental are among those who were put to be faced by the armed encounter with the armed encounter in the championship of the 47th IB, with an active attack of the calamity to help the victims of calamity, this is based on the declaration of the ceasefire, which was initially released by the KP, last November 14.

The declaration of the PKP is the declaration of the ceasefire, which contains martial law in the islands of the Bibot Domingo on the island of Negros Occidental, it will remain effective until 11: 59.

It should also be released by the Aquino administration that similar to the declaration of the Marcos regime, the declaration of the ceasefire, because the AFP does not want to stop its offensive against the Botchok (HB) in order to reach the target of the Oplan Tokhang against the people. "

"The ongoing offensive launched by the AFP is launched by the AFP about the lack of priority and criminals which are useless by the Aquino administration in preparation and in facing the effects of the previous typhoons," said PKP, which launched the AFP in Sorsogon four days after the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda.

"The AFP is still busy with the malicious information in telling the armed action of the Bables as well or near the near areas of calamities so that they can conduct a thorough operation against the citizens and the anomalous operation against the people and the industrialized operation against the people and the Honor Code.

"What Aquino did not declaration of the ceasefire, the criticism of the call of his regime for the national unity," said the PKP, "said the PKP," the PKP, "said the PKP," the PKP, which caused the possible number of those who have died and injured. "
