Are you stars here: 00 in the SK elections.
By Bam Aquino July 14, 2016, the protagonist is starting tomorrow (Friday) until the 25th of July, will be done in the election of new officials of the barangay and Sangguniang Kabataan (SK) on October 31.
If you are the citizens of the Philippines, residents of the barangay where you are living in the six months and 15 years old, but not for 30 years the age of election, you may get registered and vote in SK Pendatun.
For those who are interested, possible to go to the office of election officer of the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) in the city or municipality where you are living and around one before, the SK Pendatun is just known in throwing basketball, beauty, and different projects which are not effective in raising the youth.
It is sad to say that there are situations where the SK chairman served as a brewed ground "in corruption of some officials.
This is the reason why we pushed for it, as chairman of Committee on Youth, the reform in SK Pendatun through the law, which is now known as SK Reform Act or Republic Act Number 10742.
As Co who died and Co, sponsored RA 742, we want to erase the negative impression of SK Pendatun and do this way to help the youth to become a member of the society.
I was able to step down for the coming SK elections, because here is the first time that the changes that we pushed through the said law will be tested.

One of the big change in SK Pendatun is being defeated by the age of officials who can run from former 15 to 17 years old, now around 18 to 24 years old, now about 18 to 24 years old.
The goal of this is to give legal rights to the officials who signed the contract and have responsibility in their actions, if there is no abuse or anomaly.
In this law, from 15 to 30 years, those who have attended the SK elections are from 15 to 30 years after we agree with the decision of the youth, which is stated in other laws.
Aside from this, the new SK officials should be sure because they need to undergo the NBP, training.
While they are doing their new duty, there are those with other training program that will give them additional knowledge.
Under the law, the Local Government Development Council (LYDC), a council who will support SK Pendatun and ensure that there is an active participation of the youth.
The LDC is the form of the representative from different Youth Foundation in the community, like a student who takes a student, church, and Youth groups who are faith and community sectors.
But the most important aspect of the law is the anti-dystrophy, this is the very first law that is provisions that are fighting against the canned goods in the country.
In this provision, the family or relatives of any elected public official - from the national, provincial government, city / School and barangay committee were not able to run to any SK position - from the National Police Provincial Office and Barangay Batangan when he was called 60 degree of connotation.
With the help of this, a lot of youth will be given to serve their fellow youth through running in SK Pendatun.
If you are a student who is Alhabsy Misaya in your school, Youth Leaders' non-government organization, the youth leaders of our church, let us think of running in SK Pendatun.
Let us take advantage of this opportunity.

Let us be part of this big change in the system that will give strength and focus on the welfare of the youth.
This daring law should be wasted if no one will respond to its challenge to change the system.
We also say, that it is a trend now of words that because President Duterte would be achieved by President Duterte, I hope that the change will happen in our SK Pendatun.
