Dozens of cases will decrease.

Let us continue, Bro, the discussion of colonies about the Philippines this fourth year of the PNoy administration.
After we discuss what the Social Weather Station is saying that the score of the government of PNoy on the work or performance of this is, let us get the record of the United Nations Human Development Assistance x-ray.
It depends on the quality of life and this is related to the management of government, security, health, health, transportation, transportation and communication, respect of human rights, respect for human rights and other things about it.
As explained by Doctor Di, the quality of life will be used to having or not an ordinary citizens who have the power to change themselves or to plant power.
And so that they will have power lines, they should be given in or they have a voice in the said issue.
Grades in the Philippines.
The score of the Philippines in the agency of DBP.
It will bring down to 189 countries to convince to convince the United Nations.
Here are our grades from the year 2001 until 2013.
2001 - Number 70; 2005 - Number 90; 2010 - Number 90; 2010 - 95th; 2010 - 1112; 2012 - Number 114; and 2013 - number 117.
In other words, Bro, the quality of our lives became two.
It is contrary to something.
On the other hand, Bro, the PNoy government is always being boastful that's why the country has been exhausted.
And it is very happy when it is said that we are starting to be the industrialized countries and it is obvious that it is getting worse.
If we are going to the industrialized countries and it is not that severe, like the countries Korea, Japanese, China, Taiwan and others, where is the improvement of the quality of life?
Why is it that in the record of Saint Di, then, the quality of our lives will rise down and down.
Sevidal is that, there is something wrong, there is a big mistake!
The government is saying something different from the truth?
It's a plant of NIUM Deguides.
Together with the Philippines, Bro, for almost 200 countries, promised to fulfill what they agreed to the United Nations (Goaynon to change and improve the lives of the Filipino people.
This started last 200 and has a life for a 15-year-old and two-year-old child.
On the initial report of the Philippine government to the UN, it shows the progress of the Philippines in the past 10 years.
According to him, every Filipino is estimated to have been filled with $1,500 pesos per year or double from $1,346 in 2004, and there is a total amount of money from P161-ABB) from P14 billion pesos worth of money from the products and services from the products and services.
And we are skillful in English language, educated and productive are the Filipinos.
Land!
In spite of the government's growth, do you know that the grades of the government in HG, even if it has been four years of PNoy, is said to be seen to become rich or improvement of the Philippines?
Here is the report that Tony Lopez said in Blood of Asia.
It is the way to achieve half of those who are in poverty because of the excessive poverty that we have seen from 53 million pesos in 55 people in the days that the State of the Nation Address recently showed PNoy.
In the send of all children to send to grade 6.
Down to acknowledging the women and to rise from women, there are still many women who are not able to cover-up the schooling of men.
Hundreds of those who died are dead at five years and down, with 225 years old and many of them are victims of severe hunger and poverty.
It is said that the death of the deceased mother will be less than 1100 million mothers who have been killed every year and be vigilant at Cotai Hospital and take a number of you there.
Lower in the fight of HIV / AIDS, the disease and other diseases that are only placed under success but here is the destruction of HIV-AIDS in the country and it is even said that there might be an epidemic.
The government is also in the fight with tuberculosis.
Lower at the clean environment and taking advantage of the surroundings, and pass through the surroundings.
The government is going to have succeeded but many of them have promised and there are many foreigners who are still trying to avoid the Philippines as a place of investment.
Able to cry.
I am referring to any SONA of what I have written.
