
Cawooooooo, Bravor MTPB).

Manila Police District Director, Chief Supt. Rolando Asuncion in the change of officials in his jurisdiction is benefiting from illegal gambling that he stopped from the territory of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
Mayor Estrada became in favor with Asuncion because the mayor wants to fix the economy of Manila and be firm in the livelihood of the Manileños.
But it seems like there was a mysterious hand, which was moving at the back of the campaign so even the "traslacion" of the press "Senior Superintendent Villamor Airbase High School, chief of MPD- Intelligence Division, was hit.
Asuncion in his office asked for several times and it himself confirmed the enemies of gambling that some of them are in the councils who wants to be removed.
He said, he was asked by the Philippine National Police Chief Dir. Gen. Alan Purisima to be between the siblings this resulted in the campaign against gambling where he favored his personnel.
The general said, he could not remove the person who work for him, but why did he change this resulted to an official coming from the directors that resulted in an octopus?
Is this just because of the person moving to return to gambling?
Oh no, it would be better for Amor to go back to Camp Crame, instead, his name will be destroyed because of the plan to do him "to return to gambling.
Um!
Hopefully all the members of the Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau (MTPB) are similar to those who were ordered by Mayor Erap in relation to the chase of a black Toyota Hilux (NGO) driven by some men in Sampaloc, Manila.
The staff of MTPB director Carl Don awica is a chase with the help of the members of the Presidential Security Group from Sampaloc to Quezon City.
His damaged vehicle was recovered but the suspects escaped.
Bravor MTPB) if you are like the traffic enforcers who are at A. Mendoza in Sampaloc, that there is no one waiting if there will be a u-turn in the area.
Not everyone can be eaten by others, they are just looking for 100 pesos to 200 pesos instead of having difficulty in reaching the Manila City Hall.
Manila Vice Mayor Isko Moreno who was quick to complain in giving strength to the relatives of the victims of the collision of speeding jeepneys and train will be quick.
Isko also promised for financial help from the victims who were transferred to Manila Hospital for four treatment.
