
CBN C-NPA-Laguna, strongly condemned the ongoing economic growth of Andrea Rosal and Rafael de Guzman!

Magdalena.
Cesar Batiles Command, NPA-Laguna.
April 22, 2014.

The red Commander Isnilon Hapilon strongly condemned the war under the Cesar Batiles Command (ABS-NPA-NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (BFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (BFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (BFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (BFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (BFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NPA) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).

Andrea, went to the city of Kalawaan in order to consult with his doctor when he was arrested for a nine-month pregnant and close to her when Andrea, Rafael, a young man, is a resident of the city of Calamba, Laguna.
The AFP arrested Andrea, to take it back to the failure that her father, Ka Roger and Ka Roger Aquino, was arrested after he was arrested by the AFP of Ka Roger Aquino, as he was arrested by the AFP of Ka Roger Aquino, as he was arrested by the AFP of Ka Roger Aquino, as he was arrested by the AFP of Ka Roger Aquino, after he was still a child of Ka Roger Aquino.

There is no truth in the accusation of the AFP-PNP-NBI to Andrea, and his companion, the AFP and his parents are always involved in the murder and kidnapping of any individual who can be used to identify him and to be used by the AFP-PNP because he can be used by the AFP-PNP because he can be used for violation of human rights and abusive military.

The accusation of the AFP, Andrea, is the secretary of the 20th floor of the AFP-Sub-Regional Military Academy at the southern part of the Philippines and New Hagdan in the province of Laguna when they were still alive.

Even before the arrest of the concerned citizens and friends on the ranks of the local government of the province of Laguna, they are trying to give an information to catch the son of Ka Roger, to catch him as a reward for the CPP-NPA to catch him as a reward for the arrest of the CPP-NPA to catch him as a reward for the arrest of the CPP-NPA.

The illegal arrest and continue to capture the pregnant woman, Andrea, and his companion, Rafael, is also a clear violation of human rights and in the international law, it is also clear that this is a violation of the martial law of the Philippines and the youth, wherein the government of the Philippines is also clear.

We will challenge the Marcos regime to respect the human rights of Andrea Rosal and Rafael de Guzman, he should ask the AFP to release the help of women and human rights to condemn his arrest and continue to act in order to free Andrea and his companions.

To give justice to the violation of human rights by Andrea, Rafael and other prisoners, as well as the approval of the administration of the AFP-NPA-NPA, there will be given justice to the forces of the administration of the AFP-NPA-NPA, which is also the target of human rights, destroying the rights of the Filipino people.
