In the coming.
My problem is, it's just the places when Yolanda hit them and will be allowed to enter their students.
Because they still lack of classrooms.
They already have money on each other, but when it rains, it is quickly cut off.
We are crazy; we are very angry; if it is too hot inside Tacloban, it will be too hot inside Tacloban.
Cherry Ann was difficult.
It can be felt that you are right there that's why he / she is at the same age; he / she can go ahead, aside from the problem in class, which is also a big problem that you are facing the schools here in Africa.
I am referring to you no yes, I am the only ones to make the materials used by books that will be used to teach the children.
When it comes to Tacloban City airport those who have a flat ceiling and they are still on the streets, they will be noticed even if the success in the province will still be noticed.
Like the Sampaloc Metropolitan Cathedral.
Rose is preparing for the opening of classes in June two of them to face how the two thousand students are sarcastic.
Because in the past forty-five bottles, there are only two weeks.
Joshua, who in the school year, was saddened by what her school said that she was not missing since we went to school.
Five o'clock.
Fish!
It's like the Aaahhacienda.
Aside from the classroom, they almost wanted to send their thousand pesos to a black board board and other things.
After that, nothing is really nothing.
Things.
There are fruits.
Someone arrived but it was not yet enough.
This is one of the three money here in the school which has been done for those who are victimized and then for students who have been killed.
But what will be the problem here, the teachers, and it is raining here in this part, what is happening is that they go down inside the house they are doing.
I can really happen to those teachers that are forced to be suspended because it is because the children are just playing with it.
It is certain that it will be a lot of times that he got sick several times because of the condition of ten classrooms and very noisy people.
It is not easy to listen to you because they really have a lot if they are cut off.
You are always joking with dried coconuts.
You know so that this day will be starting to starting a orderly system which is used to be used in spite of the rent.
But this did not push through but you still cannot determine the reason of the school that you are taking out, so it seems that what is happening is that I am calling for other people who want to give an escalator in an elementary school.
If it would not be understood well by the parents, it would be their end to face the political position, school or sure.
Even if you know that it is over six months since the players comes in Tacloban with other areas in Visayas.
What will be the problem, why are we not able to save them?
For the coming school year.
So that what we did earlier this school officials from other residents here, they believe that aside from that.
Because it has been a long time for the documents here to us to have the fulfilment of others, because they also believe that there will be a problem when it comes to the internet so that it would also be a problem for the internet so that it will also be a problem for the internet so that it will also be a problem for the internet so that it will also be a problem for the internet so that it will also be a problem for the internet.
