
TV Patrol, November 15, 2013.

Poor cities, reminisced the International Space Station.

Press Sungala (November 14, 2013.

From Anthony Barnstaple, general Secretary, Kyung-INTEL-18792.

Poor cities, reminisced the International Street vendors.

The Congress of the city council, National Capital Region Aklan (Karangalan Village (Karangalan) (Karangalan Village (international Independence Day) is on the international day of small vendors) every November 14.

This is the second year of commemoration of this day when it was started last November 14, 2012 by the group named NNet, a international organization with vendors in the streets.

Most or the majority of our group are living on their own efforts so that their family will not be hungry just by selling various stuff, most of the vendors are losing their families because, more than half of the population are buying a sidewalk because it is cheaper, Pinoys, and easy to eat.

There are also those who are selling different kinds of sidewalks like waking up, the earwax, Alum and fruits such as lansones, mango, peanuts and fruits such as lansones, mango, nuts, and others, most of them have their own ways of selling, mango, banana, and others.

But these vendors are not safe from the time when they will arrest the authorities, particularly the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) during the time of former chairman Development Authority (MMDA) during the time of former chairman Development Authority (MMDA) during the time of former chairman Development Authority (MMDA).

But when Fernando is gone to the MMDA, the vendors continue to continue, because, for sure, they will vote for them in exchange for protection.

The vendors want to sell because this job is decent and this is their strategy in life because they are not able to enter the companies or office because they do not have a way to live in a crowded streets so that they have something to feed their families.

It is the right of the vendors to live, even in selling, these rights are written on the international statement of human rights (Universities (Izzy Canillo) and the international agreement about the vice-economists, social media and Samahang Basketbol ng Masang Pilipino-Pacific Ocean.

And so that these rights are totally complete, there is a need for proper implementation and appropriate law or ordinance to protect the vendors, like all of the poor in the city, because they are also people who need to abuse and take advantage of it.

Long live the Independence Day of the vendors in the streets (International Street vendors Day!
