Matteo have nobody to save for marriage!
"Fist IGAPAMORE by Engineer" --!
By Rose, August 20, 2016, Matteo Guidicelli were just laughed and went into a joke when she was carried away by the Scuon of his new TVC (Sun Life Provincial Management Council, which is why they were not able to fight back together with his girlfriend Sarah Geronimo because they are now being treated.
"Matteo have greatly answered," of course, its insurance is more beautiful. "
Let us organize it, "Sun Valley," Chance for Overseas Filipino Worker (HRO that is a good adviser of your girlfriend, according to him, "thank you," I am also good, "of course," hey, okay!
"He / she was able to be able to go to the living room at Amao Road, Merville Park, a great Model Shop, 94-AIDS number one.
"You," I know, I know that I am being recognized as a signal number. "I am in the" I will endorse, "he said.
We also said to Matteo who is well-known from a rich family in Cebu and in the span of ten years in showbiz, the names of their own business have already been established, it can be said that she is ready to get married anytime.
"Yeah, a case of IGAPARK.
And then he let it come, "of course, I was the one to be the one to be with the one."
It seems that the press of Matteo have been watering the statement of Matteo who knows that Sarah was being referred to.

"Well, I have been saving up all-time but of course, he / she was to be 10 years old, my dad, and I was the one to report to me with my mom, I am the one who will report to me," Guna.
Matteo have been surprised to know that he is lined up to other actors who are lined up with Sun Valley, like Piolo Pascual, Judy Ann Santos and Miss AiAi Santos City Hall.
"According to him, I know that Ma'am Pilar and I know that I am just surprised when I took a shot by commercial drivers, her marriage.
"It turns out that, we are only four o'clock in the same age, to be able to go to the same age, Tell, my best friend,"
For now, after Dolce Amistoso, they will have to finish Matteo / Single Entry Approach where he will have to finish his ten-circuit television show and hoping for his ten years to be held at Water Front Cebu, there will be someone who will be held in Water Liberation Front, Made in Cebu.
Nerness, the name of Production companies that is a big Bang.
