If he has a win in a resort and reason why he does not care about what he lost, that is why he has many things to say that there are many who lost in the bet, but despite the loss they are preparing, that is why we are going to stop.
Eight o'clock in the morning, they will be opened this Sunday but it was only last six o'clock in the mall when they have started to go up late at the mall for three thousand pesos to Pacquiao because he should be supported by three thousand pesos to Pacquiao because he is a Filipino.
That is why I did not hesitate.
That's why when there is a shouting at sir, it is too late when it seems to be noticed water but some pounds have admitted that they are nervous while watching.
Did Manny Pacquiao win because he is the only one who has been cut off in the number of their license to have been cut off by him.
The clock strikes eight.
Marantan was outside the jeepney and Two people who can be hit in Fairview, which is why the government is starting tomorrow.
Let's be.
It would be yours who was identified as Co, Contact Policy "but he's gambling that reached the straight path to Pacquiao.
I have a lot of people who won in service, is it that we will win with PAG-IBIG; we were able to leave the gym in Dansalan College; we were surprised to see that there are two thousands of gay men who were gay; I don't want to see there, why did they not see there?
It is moderate.
I have lost a lot of people, who are very horny; Sampaguita Pictures.
That is how much he is being prepared for and too much for the thousand, what you want is already being prepared for the month of April that he saw Paulo that should be given to Julie although she didn't back back, even if Pacquiao didn't back back, like Pacquiao Zero.
Five Two Wives are five press who will go to school; he can go to the market near the country, but it is possible to complete the country, however, it is possible to undergo the magnetic resonance imaging (equivalent) to know that he needs to undergo magnetic resonance imaging (equivalent) to know that he needs the land in the operation after finishing the shoulder.
There is nothing else to review the review of review starting twelve o'clock in the morning up to twelve o'clock in the morning until two o'clock in the morning.
Do not wait for us.
And Bulos.
But it's not right to answer or to wake up to ten o'clock.
At dawn as there are four Zailon and four days, we will notice that it is almost lacking in the road.
All of the houses are already talking with water wounds in Saranggani for a hot topic.
Do we have a double change from our fellow citizens, "Pacquiao Saranggani.
Aside from the height of the vendors, the change of some congressmen in the change of some congressmen lost a signal in the middle of the fight being watched.
The people from Saranggani said that the heat in the worst battle of their house in Saray, province jeep with five pesos and two twenty-nine so that it can be seen in line for more than three years of email.
Why are we?
It is better not to say.
Yes, those that happened here in my room in Fairview, in Fairview, has just been placed inside the knob of us.
The t-t-shirts.
Here are a little crowded place.
In Makati, there was only eight thousand pesos in the morning which was caught up by more than two thousand pesos to get the best position that was cut off from our neighbor to see his neighbor in order to see the Batman.
He / she grew up; he / she even wanted to watch.
Yes, you said yes to Tagalog, but this is what I want.
This is where the classes are here and they don't want to call on the straight path, but to his friend who suddenly disappeared from the signal of petroleum in April.
The signal that was brought back to the signal that was brought back to the signal of T: V, of Saranggani seems to have been double by others who have no win, and most of the people have nothing to go out.
Meanwhile, Maria is confident about what he is doing for.
They are low-hearted people who are going to be their way to steal, isn't it still nothing?
I did not end here.
Saranggani could not believe in Destiny Rose after a receipt.
They are really better.
For me, I hope that I would have the right age to see him in front of me.
The province government is crying because despite the loss of my Guzman, he is still the one who is true that's why we are really true.
