"Pork senators are okay?

The so-called "pork barrel, who is Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla, the upcoming capture of them in relation to the pork barrel scam, and this was because of the severity of Malacañang.
JPE, Jinggoy and Bong are the primary target of Malacañang to be imprisoned in said controversy while they are trying to save the allies of President Aquino, who are said to be stolen by the people in the image of pork barrel.
Senator Serge Osmeña himself said that the Palace is supporting all the information on the pork barrel scam.
Even though he is the vice mayor of the Senate blue ribbon committee, Osmeña said that even him is surprised, "in the progress of the government to open the investigation on the scandal.
Osmeña did not have any idea about the new details on the issue, it was a priority of the content of the Filipino hospital, Benhur Luy, who was about 31,000 pages in this because it was because of Senator Migs Guingona, chairman of the blue ribbon panel.
The operation against the target of the Palace depends on Ombudsman Conchita Carpio Morales.
He will just file the suspension for the implementation and charge of the Sandiganbayan on the case and will present, the allies of the Aquino government should be arrested.
Morales is clearly a puppy of the Palace in spite of the information and testimony of the armed lawmakers who were involved in the syndicate of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), the Ombudsman focused the help of the Department of Justice between Enrile, Estrada and Revilla.
And because of that, critics of the "straight path" of President Aquino is clearly seen because the allies who are allies and members of the cabinet are obvious why it is not charged and imprisoned by Budget Sec. Butch Abad, Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala and TESDA head, Joel Villanueva who are all about Napoles list?
What's worse, it seems that those who are going to be used to the three senators are going to be used in his upcoming SONA in July.
It has long been cooked for a long time "pork barrel scam, this is in order to cover-up the upcoming SONA of PNoy to cover-up the real problems of the country like the lower economy, hunger, lack of work, power and oil price, and many others.
