
The fair and anomaly in Subic (2)

The Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) said that the contract of the Global Ternal and Development, Incorporated. GTi or Global) is a session that is why the bidding should pass through "bidding" like the Subic Gateway Park in the water and Subic Water in water.
This is the truth in the position of the Legal Affairs that is one of the basis of the Seal Department to protest about the contract in the Global which was directly controlled by the buildings to the former boat to repair, Rivera and Bravors.
It was not noticed by the former SBMA back in the leadership of Feliciano Salonga and Ammute, the opposition released by the former official of the Seapura, Jerome Lantin, Fidel dela Cruz, Atty. Michael Quintos and Alex Rapisora,.
According to those who opposed the said contract, because the government was disturbed, a violation of the law R.A 9184 was replaced in Global because it has no experience and an expert in driving the pier.
Now, those who enter more than 14 hectares of SF compound are allegedly being harassed by "toll fee or" Road worth of tax. "
Global warming, who are one of the buildings and facilities that were left by the Americans which are only for the rent of the SBMA, the money they collected from the SBMA, the money they collected for more or less than P15.8 / her.
Wait for the next time that we are going to find out how the billion pesos worth of properties of the SBMA in his contract in Global City will be abused.
He / she was wearing.
It is almost five hectares that only be occupied by the Subic Film Festival Port in the fair of a Ricky Quibuz which is just the one who opens from October until January year-year.
This is the truth: It has been caught several times that there are children who are taking advantage even for the children but the authorities, especially the police of Camp Oblender, Pampanga, just like nothing after having an agreement.
The SBMA board, seems to be blind even if the land that they can be occupied by the fair is just a waste because there are some who want the authorities to be attracted to each other when they are charged, alright.
This is the truth!
