Dr. Split if it is time for you not to speak and study.

Together with Joey, in the activities of the One billion RL last year, he is different, because the contestants are the primary women in the campaign against violence of women, this day of love, she might think that she was taken by her husband, girlfriend or might take care of her friends.
But it is noticeable that the t-shirt he is wearing is laid down on the back of the word "Diego." Digaynon, Inc., Eve of GROs), what it means.
According to Joey, join the workers and vendors in Bgy. Tatalon, Quezon City.
It was noticeable that what Joey is close to Beth, a active member of Gabriela who often see in the rally and protests of the group, she might think that someone is courting Beth, but what the majority knows is that he already has a wife, Beth: And Joey, now.
Separation and work.
For the long time that their relationship started during 1987 and having two children, I had already heard where her husband came out, that because I was a member of Gabriela, but she was afraid of words, that because I am just good in words, "he said Beth.
"It was different from another woman whom I did to tell the past, that I did not hide what I went through," I did not hide what I went through, "I did not hide what I went through Joey before I had known Beth.
At the age of 13, from Visayas, where he ended up in Manila, she was encouraged to work in his thought home, as a maid, but eventually she was forced to leave in their province not only because of poverty, he was also raped by her unidentified grandfather at a young age of nine years.
"It's because I arrived early with his monthly salary, that's why it's a big deal, he said during the time that she was in the bark, he thought that he / she decided to leave and beat him down on the streets.
It was the year 1987 when he met Joey, after he went to work as a buyer of a store in Sampaloc.
"My mother saw me roaming around, the reason why he brought me first in Riyadh, Pasig.
That is when Joey started courting me, because of the store that he took after where the families of Joey who had their positions in Welcome Rotter and other places were lost, they lost their feelings, and after three months got married.
"He is persistent in courting, even if I tell him that I am a dirty woman," said Beth Tamayo and it never fails to give gifts to the occasion of Joey, "even until now, I am still giving gifts to us by my children."
"I thought when we first lived together with what I went through, I admitted to him the whole truth," according to him, when Joey had hurt Beth, even though she was only hurt by Joey, it was more painful for almost a few days of the abuses experienced in her.
"He did not want to come out of the house, when he leaves the door outside, when drunk, he tried to look like me about my past, sometimes he was being humiliated.
A cousin of Joey is also a witness to the abuse being built on Beth. "Oh, it is very intelligent that we will go around to the community to be mistaken for several times by Gabriela," said Grace.
He is also not convicted where he and the barangay officials have been in order for several times and there are also a part of Gabriela. "Of course, the barangay and Gabriela who can't just go with them, who are not just going to separate from," said Beth.
Love and change.
It is not easy for a man like Joey to admit his abuse from his wife, especially when he is drunk, he curses himself, but in his story, he did not admit that he had hurt Beth.
Beth admits that there is a change for Joey since she is not allowed by Joey that she is not allowed by Joey, if we need help from Gabriela because we need to get help from Gabriela because we are proud that she is being proud of Beth as a leader of Gabriela.
For Beth, his respect for his former spouse will still remain even if he is persistent to get back together despite the continuous work of Joey.
But for Joey, there is still a far time of traveling to change his personality and a long time change should be done for him to return after Beth. "What I can say to him is to always take care of his activities and rally," said Joey.
And in the occasion of your heart, there are different kinds of view in life and wife, they are both on the very kind of the One billion pesos for Justice.
