
A realistic and meaningful Christmas.

By Danilo Arana, Arao, 14, 2013.

There is a reason to be temporarily happy and rest this Christmas, isn't it?

Here in the Philippines, Christmas is an occasion for us to be together with your loved ones, even if there is no bad luck, even if there is a good solution to a new house and car, it is better for you to have a simple noche buena, even if there is a lot of a tragedy that our country is facing, it is better to make your goals better.

Realistic and meaningful, hopefully our dreams are like this.

Even if it is hard to avoid personal hope, it is possible to fight them and have a little sacrifice because this is not just a simple "good intention to think about the realistic and meaningful dreams in the current trend of our society.

There is a political reason, for example, the decision of many groups and individuals to give donations for those affected by the typhoon Yolanda last November and the civilians trapped in the war in Zamboanga City last September, and the civilians trapped in the war in Zamboanga City last September.

And in the issue of reason, what are you referring to - typhoon, earthquake or war?

Yes, that is why these have happened this 2013, but we still need to analyze the order to help the victims?

While being written, the argument between some officials of the government is still ongoing, especially with the number of those who died after a new typhoon Yolanda, according to Shum, the number of those who died due to 638779 people died due to 638779 people died due to 35.8 billion pesos.

This Christmas, it is good that this data is focused on this data and it is important to help those affected by typhoon Yolanda but other tragedy.

But if there is more important help in helping, this is the continuous research of the past and the present to strengthen the political stand, if there is a deep research in going through the majority of people, it will be noticed that the role of action will be noticed in order to fix the quality of the future.

It is hard to end up stories through greeting a Merry Christmas because there is no happiness being felt in the middle of many tragedy, it is better for us to greet each other for a realistic and meaningful Christmas, and let us also include a arrogant New Year!
