
Against the BOC on top.

A few days have passed, someone who revealed the legislative chamber to dismiss the ongoing operation on top of many Customs Ports in the country.
I did not give attention to those reported by a Customs' fervent prayer who has been given information about the BOC.
But I was surprised because last Tuesday, May 27, when Commissioner John Philip Sevilla arrived in the media on the continuing exchange of operation.
Because of what happened, PNoy got angry on the case, PNoy got angry to remove the number of those who have long returned to BOC officials.
The Palace believed that the removal of those who are called "Atong" officials of the agency will bring change in Aerana.
Sevilla, known to be known in his job in the Department of Finance and he was assigned as the BOC boss.
Aside from Sevilla, a few famous "clear personality, according to the explanation of Malacañang, is the partner of Sevilla for Customs.
At first, there is no problem coming out, but recently, the issue that is forcefully hidden in the BoC is exploded, according to our fervent prayer.
The issue - the current officials who are leading and running the most corrupt agency of the government have a fight.
It is said that because of the former problem, "is a child" system, the manager of the agency is having "misunderstanding.
Like the former trend, there are officials in BOC who have pet Customs Commissioner who are also destroying Customs laws.
The fight between the BOC official is starting if the Customs' ator who is one of other officials are still visited by other officials.
But the end of their fight, according to our fervent prayer is the earnings of each officials of each of their friends who are Customs players.
And because the former system is existing for now, which is why the case is slowly living with many Customs Commissioner in the country, according to our fervent prayer.
I believe in one more words that a Customs official has told me when I was reported with the BOC.
According to him, there is no good official if the BoC took care of it, "that was"
