
The followers of Aquino will interfere with Napoles, when the anger and protest of the people are lessened.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
September 3, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Aquino Special Action Force of Napoles, an actor's anger, anger.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) stated that it is hard to take care and in giving a surprise attack against Janet Lim Napoles, the Aquino administration made the anger of the Filipino people who are tired of corruption and a grand style of life of the filipino people.

"In giving a surprise attack against Napoles, the Aquino administration can take a waste of protest against corruption and politicians who treat politicians' pork barrel in congress and Malacañang," said the KP.

"It is very clear that the Filipino people are affected in relation to the heated discussion given to Napoles by the government government," said PKP, "said the PKP," said the PKP, "said the said surrender of Napoles about the alleged surrender of Napoles at the said surrender of Napoles on August 28."

Napoles, and her husband, Jaime, was accused of being harassed by those who are trapped by the powerful politicians in the past ten years which is believed to have a few hundred million pesos in public funds going to the pockets of the corrupt and big ones.

"The agreement has been widespread if Napoles has a former transaction with those who will show up to the Aquino administration, including the amount of contribution in the campaign during the election of Aquino in 2010," it was given a 24-hour that will be able to recover the jail in Santa Rosa, "it was given the 24-hour of medical attention and call Ma'am it, Mar Roxas."

"The Filipino people continue to lose patience for the lack of progress of criminals and punishment of Napoles about the scandal of pork barrel, even if they know that Napoles is just some of the many parts which are comprising and rotten system of corruption," said the KP.

"It is also because of the surprise attack of Napoles, which is laid before the legal process of conflict between Napoles, it is obvious that Aquino is behind the recognition of Napoles, Secretary Leila de Lima, Secretary of Justice and those who are at the National Bureau of Investigation," said the KP.

"According to the resignation of the chief of NBI after Aquino declared the lack of trust to the agency of the agency, this is one of the exposed collision that has been tainted by the Aquino administration especially for some of the anticipated collision between the Aquino administration which is expected that the alliance between the Aquino administration will be expected when the alliance between the Aquino administration will be revealed.

"The Filipino people should take advantage of the politicians who take advantage of the system to push the goals for the national and Malacañang for the possible form of pork barrel for the congress and Malacañang to enumerate the huge image of politicians who want to remove the fastest form of pork barrel, which can be sure that the fastest form of failure will be considered."
