BBL and MILF averted!

There are those who are in a hurry to pass the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL) and this will still increase in a great concern before giving to it.
Senator Chiz Escudero gave emphasis that the lawmakers needed to clean the chaos that has been made by the negotiator, so they should be generous to the wishes of the people talking to the side of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
The MILF are after the construction of their own government in Mindanao, which will replace the implementation of the prevailing AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).
They set a lot of obligation set to have long-lasting peace in the area.
The problem is that some of them do not agree with the Constitution, like having their own Commission on Elections, Commission on Audit, Ombudsman and Civil Service Commission.
Every Filipino should follow the law that is appropriate for our Constitution.
It is not allowed to build their own state, even if it is still small, and set a own law that is not part of the Constitution.
It should be clarified by the government peace panel when there is a limitation on their negotiation.
This is the reaction of Escudero to state the approval of the MILF by the MILF, causing the lawmakers to pass the BBL so there is no one in the television.
Based on the letter of MILF in the House of Representatives last December, it appears that they thought that the entire government of the Philippines is what they are talking to with the negotiation, because it is in the power of the President to enumerate different agencies of the government.
Our lawmakers will not allow the BBL to be approved when it is not being thrown.
They say they say that they do not choose but tell the fulfilment of their duties, Escudero clarified.
If something happens, the MILF are the only ones making it.
But the big thorns in the BBL is when Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago insisted that the MILF will serve as a representative of the MILF, even if there are other rebel groups like the Moro National Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
Does Aling group can say that this is the representative of the entire Bangsamoro or Muslims in the country, what is the first thing to happen when the BBL will have a fight between those introducing themselves as the leaders of his own group.
How can you ensure the peace that we want in Mindanao if the BBL will also lead in trouble, because the MILF won't hold all the rebel groups in the place?
Santiago also questioned where the authorities of the President and the MILF are trying to negotiate with what caused a English state, in rushing, our good officials in the government have shared the truth that they need to pass this through the lawmakers.
Whether the BBL is going to pass it or not in Congress, it will lead to the Supreme Court, it will lead to Santiago's point when there are authorities who are conducting a negotiation and if there are authorities, what is the basis of this in the Constitution?
He said, he will not let them escape if the lawmakers will not agree with it, it was in English state, that's why it's just a simple thing but the lady senator is very important.
