
"It is very rare for Aquino to resign.

By Dumpsite, March 21, 2015.

For French plate "Standard Lunch Program of the people, the corner of Recto and Legarda of up to the evening for a program of Maysilo, this March 20, the thousands of citizens marched from Welcome Rotonda in Mendiola to request for the resignation of President Aquino.

Different sectors and organization gathered under Noynoy out to Noguera (AAO) for them, the minds of a bigger number of Filipinos which may lead to Aquino's resignation, and push the real change of the Filipino system.

"This is the first action of the supreme court," Teddy Casiño, who is one of the continued to be called by President Aquino in the issue of Mamasapano, "a few days before the said protest, the Board of Inquiry released a report, which was headed by the Philippine National Police.

In this report, it is said that Aquino has responsibility in the failure operation of the said town in Maguindanao who killed the lives of 44 police commandos, 18 warriors are not less than four civilians last January 25.

Recently, the report of the Senate is coming out, with the leadership of Senator Grace Poe, who said that Aquino has a ultimate revenge on the tragedy in Mamasapano.

He also identified the right involvement in the operation of the forehead about the suspended chief of PNP Chief Superintendent Alan Purisima.

In the same report, the involvement of the US government in the operation was emphasis.

"The anger of the people in the Marcos regime is bigger and many act on the call of the truth," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.

"By what the number of Pulse Asia shows, the lack of trust to Aquino." Game of the number, the remaining 28 percent of the responsibility is not decided on the protest because they agree or not in the plea to resign.

Even if there are still more who are said to be in favor of the request of Aquino, a series will be seen on the very slow time to request for the resignation of the president's position.

"It just shows that, 57 to 58 percent may be open to the fight of Aquino in his position, and it shows that Aquino has a direct support for the incident," said the highest down of the leaders of the country, "said Miss Sol Aragones" of the Promotion of Church People's Day, "we did not trust the President."

In addition to this, we are already tired with the current system, "Crisostomo said that more will be expected to come out on the streets in the following days and the big movement is being verified for Aquino to resign.

Series of negligence together with the call for his resignation, a resounding call for the President to make a public apology - although it is still not enough for Aquino to remain in position.

"We understand that Aquino's apology is important especially to those who were orphaned by the failed operation yesterday (P), who had proven that he is the negligence of those in the position that are at the end of the President, who is free and led the operation," said Jimboy Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.

He added that only one way is to achieve justice but that is not enough.

Aquino still has a greater responsibility to the tragedy in Mamasapano, different groups who attended the protest that there are many sins of Aquino to the citizens, and there have been successive failures and negligence of Aquino in his duty in the country.

"What's being blamed for the ordinary citizens of the negligence," says Estelita, spokesperson of Kalubihan, Damayang Lagi, spokesperson of Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, said that there is a good news coming from the citizens, business, "also registered to the sectors of transportation in their complaint against Aquino.

"The government of Aquino has the biggest responsibility to the drivers and operators (public utility vehicles)," says George San Mateo, the chairman of the captain of the driver and operators, which is why it has been tainted by a new plate number and privatization of the new plate and privatization of the motorcycle public utility vehicles.

Illegal immigrants and relatives also joined the protest about the 20th anniversary of the death of Flor Contemplacion last March 17.

"In the time of Aquino, there are already seven who were hanged (Filipino workers outside the country) and there are still many cases that are facing at the Mamasapano massacre, because there are also many cases that have been faced by the government?

Who will be transferred by different groups to join protests to answer the question about who will replace Aquino if he will resign.

"It might be that 42 percent of that is not allowed in the resignation of Aquino, according to Pulse Asia), Vice President Jejomar Binay will not agree to replace or just allow the status of Aquino in his position because the election is approaching," Casiño said.

In his speech, Casiño was also emphasized by the suggestion of the Supreme Court to build a "Peoples Council of Unity, Tax, the Peace Cup which is a temporary leader of the government for the time that Aquino will resign from his position.

We will replace if Aquino goes down from his position but is not just a person.

What we will replace is a council of good leader of the citizens who are living here in the Philippines, the leaders of the farmers, the leaders of the farmers, it can also be implemented, not thieves, not crooks, not crooks, not criminals, "Casiño said.

A challenge to the work of change in the system is still a challenge, one of these is the system of election, according to him.

"What will be the job of the next government to fix the rotten system of the election in our country, who is the one who won in the upcoming elections in our country, who has money, your political dynasty, those who have money, whose name depends on the machine of votes last two national election.

It is allegedly included in the other work of the next government to fight corruption through the care of the Supreme Court of Information Law, also included in the price increase of goods and water, even if it is cheaper and affordable education.

It is said that the filing of a VisForces Agreement and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement Agreement should not be disregarded.

This is just the beginning of the promise of groups and organization to join the movement in order to capture Aquino in his position, maybe next time, there is nothing to go home, "the end of Casiño.

