Everyday.

March 10, 2014, China boasted in the whole world, blocked and removed the two ships of the Philippines.
The latter will bring food, medicine, and other parts of the BRP Sierra Leone, LT-57) in Ayalin Shoal last March 9, 2014.
Devotees of the LT-57 have been saddened that this is the chance to save the ship together; and to be with one of the two ships that did not do anything but to bring him back to Palawan which is why they did not end their mission.
March 30, 2014, the Filipinos celebrated the boat of the Philippines in harassment, harassment and harassment and the attempt to remove the ships of the Philippines for similar mission.
In the media, how the Chinese Coast Guard complained about the ship that brought their supply and supply for more than 5 months of their vacation in AyPanatag Shoal.
PCCG has blocked the direction where the civilians in the Philippines were blocked, and threatened to be driven out, and threatened that they will be driven away by Two people in radio and puts the boat of the Filipinos.
According to the message, China is said to be the territory of the Philippines and the Philippines has a responsibility of anything that will happen not good because of the tension of the members of the local and foreign media who were riding the warship.
The fisherman who grew up from Navy Lieutenant Ferdinand Gato, captain of the boat, did not show fear on the clear terror and harassment of CCG that instead, he used his ship to hit him in that part "shallow" where he did not make to follow or stop the big ship of CCO.
Even if we do not go to the ship in those moments, the tension has been felt that has been registered in the face of the captain in the television shown on the television.
In addition to this, it can be seen that the size of the ship of the Philippines compared to the size of CCG) is just a fly.
The world and China himself witnessed the resolve of Filipino people, but we need to pay attention to the perseverance of the Filipino to fight for his rights: The ability to sacrifice for others and the heroism of the Filipino soldiers.
The country who gives a warning to China is right to stop the harassment of the small countries that are spreading in East and South China Seas based on the Ubers.
At first and second harassment of China, he is violating the International Law.
And because of a huge amount that the LT-57, the harassment of China in any form of land title is clear, it is clear that this is a type of human rights or a member who did not respond aside from the effects of the UN Security Council to do that.
What China did is against the law and can be considered to be the act of war against the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of the conduct of parties in the South China Sea.
According to Doc, the parties will move in a way to peaceful and their community will be peaceful and it does not need to result to threats or actual use of violence.
It seems that all laws are being monitored by China: Using the strength of military, threats, and deep movement that is gradually restored in the territory of the Philippines, however, we will not be defeated.
We can be considered that the daily heroism of the heroism, sacrifices, concern and principle that our soldiers are treated at LT-57 - are considered the poorest and most sad and most sad, according to the retired General Ramon Crus.
As early as now, I was stunned by all the danger and hardship being experienced by the indigenous people who are literally watching over the threats to their security because of the bravery of Filipinos who are shown by Lieutenant Gato.
Nonstop is the harassment of the treacherous and powerful countries and the continuous fight of the few but the soldiers' bravery and bravery of the soldiers in the West Philippine Sea are invaluable.
You will find out that every day the Filipinos are making it good in any field and challenge of life.
This is what should be aware of Filipinos - the source of the national pride and feelings of unity, may he wake up the consciousness of others, that if not, do not care about the outcome of the issue on WPS.
