P44B-RRA, Kevin Abad the feast of all these.

It's past the 2015 National Budget of Malacañang in the legislative chamber.
Make sure of P2.66-Remontadoses no matter how it has been passed by the congressmen, only them, they are the only ones saying that they're the only ones watching.
I remember that before the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona will not be impeached, 188 million congressmen have not seen even a letter in the impeachment case, as long as they know, it's a big money that will cover their pockets!
Universities - no 20 percent of more than 100 percent have been read by the congressmen are approved by the big ERRA or a mistake or P44-billion in the filed 2015 national budget of Malacañang.
With the number of mistakes in the first submitted budget, Butch Abad, famous RU Vs of Janet Lim-Napoles, the inventor of the Personal Economic Cooperation (DAP) and the illegal electric post (PDAF) to be removed from Corona!
The PDAF and DAP was declared by the Supreme Court to illegal and unreasonable!
Because of illegal, shouldn't it be filed against Abad and his accomplices in a thousand times of plunder?
The congressmen do not have the chance to pass the 2015 national budget for the research of former National Tristan (RES), he saw the new face of pork barrel-PDAF and DAP.
The truth is, Abad is pointing into it so that the government's funds will continue to make the public funds!
It is just okay even if it is P3-rap of the national budget, will it be used for the right and legal projects and benefit from the country.
In the span of more than four years in Malacañang of Don Benigno Aquino 3rd and his followers, until now, we do not see any concrete project that will surely be proud.
In the said budget, Butch Abad will surely laugh at the huge amount of money that will be recovered especially now that their party needs a huge fund because their chicken has a huge fund, no matter what kind of land, nobody can get the worms!
Because, "epal."
They are hoping that they are related to the employees of the government agencies that they seem to have forgotten that they themselves, President Aquino himself said that they don't want a higher salary in the coming year 2015!
Pus are the bidi, Butch, "you are pests."
