
Art and Panaligan, at the side of the ravine.

By E. San Juan Junior.

January 10, 2015.

In the interview with Tabag-2014 Philippine Wtime) Festival, February 25, 2014, Subic was e.Zone, Zambales, whatever reason is, I were ordered to describe the situation of the case, but why they are to travel here?

Will not be part of the side in the middle; both will take a relationship or relationship.

There is still a meaning of how bad the oil process is, the root of the source of time, which is why it is going to build every move of time to ensure that we are going to come from where we came from?

Let us look at the map of the university which is accepted by everyone after the crisis in 1970, the world has changed with the level of "boils of the race.

We entered a new chapter after 9 / 11, the demolition of Twin Tanters, New York; and composed of war against Russia and China, in the middle of the war against Russia and China, in the middle of the war against Russia and China, in the middle of the war in Syria, in the sea of China, in the middle of the war in Syria, in the sea of China, in the middle of the war in Syria, in the sea of China.

Meanwhile, the issue of NSurveillance Response issue was made by Iran, killing of civilians through drone, etc.

Is this a sign for the new to die, or will just leave before and do not have any reaction.

For Martin Heide him, the implementation of the tradition was formed and it is part of a race which prevailed in front of the set death penalty for Walter Benjamin, the disgusting rain and poverty in the fulfilment of the constitution, release of the force of forcing him to save everything.

The explosion of Martial Law is a response to the diment of the USA, the USA, which has been criticized by the rebellion of deceased Ampunan, "

The barricaded by the defense of the right state in expressing the writers in the field of Palestina, Iraq, Libya, Libya, Yemen-discipline and countries continued to have lost their natural resources, like the Philippines, Mexico, Coling, and many countries under the Black Nazarene.

The people here are in the middle, not at the side, although the art of common people who were oppressed in the conflict of ordinary people were forced to join in a corporation and bureaucracy in the institution to take care of and use them.

In fact, the early duty of choosing the king and the king and the powerful aunt or clan will be held.

This is already an old news since Fahbert and Baudelinquent and their vinegar towards the giddy.

It is possible that it is possible for the actor who has basis for the improvement of the market, that is the root of the advancement of the market that is said to be the root of the proper movement that is said to have their own livelihood, how are he alive?

New time, Bagong Moe?

In the beginning of the new head of Davao, to the modernization that he is normal, does it not change that a sign, desire, taste of the public due to the severe construction of Marx, Pentarse, is truly changed, and all that he has been in art?

In my opinion, the theme of the effort of avarse is the theme of the diligence of avarse, with an ordinary experience, to discuss the competition of some of the owners, how to bring the fence in the arts and society, to the artists and common people?

We went back to some of the things that they are going to make in the problem that they are parked, in the bark, in the barbells, even if there is no author, according to Rosa Lubureaucracy), however, there is still no author, according to Barazes, writing, a sign of proof of a sign or mark.

With the effects of this article of P5,000, the meaning, a conversation with author and readers probably, the opinion is an evidence of the illness of the law that is known to be the brain of the real feelings of my feelings.

It is true that the status of environment is really serious now, that it has been severely damaged by the basic system of capitalized countries and the indigenous people who have lost their natural resources to those who have no logic and basis of the anomalous mining and businessmen of deceitful people and deceitful people.

Doctor Fausto was put under the soul to become the lord while running after the urge of the Helmholtz's barbells, the beauty of the beauty.

Did the actor follow, the writers, on the path that doctor Fausto was said on the way to cross the quails' role, Thomas Manipis Ang's role in Europe during the crisis of Antartica in the crisis of chemicals in the country's crisis in the past 20-30 in the previous century.

On the other hand, James Yap announced the approval of the actor as the lack of conscience for the sake of the conscience for the sake of his race that Joyce got a pipe while a rich tradition of the revolution against the colonizers.

A few admirers in English, in English which can be taken cared of by Joyce, Yulu, Shaw, or ACasoon, Shaw Boulevard, and others were assigned in the side of the box.

Sad and anxious in the modernization of the civilized nation, positive, with Manunggal St., Andre Gumba, Malhmmmp, and Anntoinette Espejo, Emeng Macasaura, Saliling, Saliling, Salazars, Walis.

It is an important thing to ask the acadversary, which is the crisis in the implementation of the United States and allies in Lahad 2 and those who are allies in Prague, style and ways of giving importance to art?

What is the future of the new generation on the time of our united global warming, which affects the topic of war against terrorism that will be against the eheals of the eastern part of the country?

Aside from the place, what happens is our status in history of history?

This is the most important things that should be studied and on researching to discover what is the future of the Pambansang Kamao, particularly in the Philippines as negative conservation in this way to reflect, it is better to write to the mind of the heart and interests of sensibility.

Our imagination is a crisis in our history during the time of our history during the time of the crisis in our territory at the decades of 1930-40, which is part of the municipal hall of Salvador Lopez, Aba, Arturo Rotter, of the society under the colonels of the society under the colonialism.

In total, the writers have grown up in the toll fee, sweat and intelligent influential of the masses, until now, language is the field of strengthening the different sectors of the society.

This is based on the situation of the authors of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that reaches a few more public service, etcetera, etc. Although the Marcos regime seems to be famous and patriotic and patriotic.

But when the toll fee in Europe and Japanese were forced to ask for help, Quezon is forced to ask help from the sake of the workers and the farmers, who are forced to support or remove those who are members of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency), or the character of Turmeric, and Gorospe.

If in the thing, it was only focused on the strong downpour of intelligence from the principle of god, Del Pilar and Proletarian Army, and Benigno Aquino, Jose Corazon Aquino, and Propaganda of the situation, which is dependent on the crisis, which is dependent on the situation of many who patronize the process.

Due to the equal and complicated advancement of economists like politics, in my opinion, it is not a deep or sensitive effect of the institution of the institutions in serving the public and allies in the instruments in good culture of corporation and materialize on the low culture of corporation and topography.

The weather is a place and measure at the time of the second Filipino American Filipino judge, almost all writers have the participants of the fighting against the colonization of the American troops, and Alejandro Abadilla, to be a member of the annual Creator but to complete the national Creator.

Based on the experience of Abadilla's experience in America in the decades of 20, and aside from being the small businessman, he separated with his personal admiration for the tradition he treated, very conservative, a huge box or caught in the course of time.

This is what is called by avarily, to make it be a long time before the author, turned off the old regulations and regulations, to destroy the backyard here in art and public.

To push forward to history the previous experience, but who are following the flow of weather and how can we get stronger or modern equipment, we can avoid it on the brink or side of the crooked videographer, in the middle of the constricted streets, of the eastern part of the Pharisees?

This is what should be considered well-out regarding this kind and kind of implementation that they were mobbed and placed under the ducks which can be made to explain the future of the author in the middle of the crisis in the whole society.

And this crisis is not only temporary but it is not only temporary, based on the non-stop change of the production of technology, and the products for the production of technology, and the products for the public market, we can continue to change and transformation of things and surroundings.

In the entry of Cypress space, we arrived at the Overseas Filipino hospital and quick communication to those who have been dependent on the technology of basic violence in Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, or in jail by the World Bank of IMF and Walled?

A reply to the new chapter in history, the spread of Pro-governmental organization and Filipino hospitals, namely Kenneth Goldatan, etc. Swift, John Chings, Maraykit, John Cerezo), John Caano, 2013 and critics of Marjorie Persist back, John Caano, 2013 and critics of Marjorie Persist back at EX PRESalas.

The disargument of Goldatas, seventeen or in-law of Sol Aragones.

The councilors that are made up by the examined by the situation and process is centered.

Set to set aside the old category as allergenic, its style, and also the difference of medium or instruments in expressing his private property in art of art of the art of arts and ordinary world of ordinary life.

They are still investigating the goal of avarming, 's desires, from the birth of the modernization of disgusting levels of capitalized countries on the 19th of 19 years.

There are many kinds of gratitude that will attempt to cover the barism in the middle of the scope of technology, "Art-dugo Gang" of the arts of the arts of the arts of the arts of the art of art.

However, everyone knows how it is easy for them to be able to go through with the celebration of Warning ignorance and "High School" of Abadversary, Pop Art, Metamist Art, especially the invention of Benjamin Art-t, especially the patrons who are going to file a photography contest and film.

Eamping and risk in my opinion, Goldatas, Vanessa Place and other kinds of information gathered by language and other theories, they want to increase the interest of a corporation and capital to eradicate flood and capital.

They have no control of it, but they treated that they can be able to hide this from the declared Martial Law or research, which is given more meaning, meaning, it is an illusion that it is an illusion or the amount that has been made?

It seems like they have forgotten the advice of Benjamin in his works in the The audience or Preso, "so that they can use up from the minds of those who take advantage of power and kindness by all people, not only a few.

The challenge of the future is, but instead of doing this, the artists who are going to control the continuing owner of the corporation, which dictates the limitation of power or from their minds, consciousness, should be celebrated.

Until now, the severe challenge of Benjamin is still waiting for the appropriate response.
