"We Are of the / she said,"

That is what President Benigno Aquino 3rd) said, did we have complaints?
Here, PNoy added, "for those who have no python that are criticizing our every move, I will just use them."
"Maybe the day might come when they will have an additional knowledge and goodness to the Lord Almighty that they will be peaceful.
What we are talking about is the victims of typhoon Yolanda which is now a year now, and almost nothing is done in their regime.
How about those destroyed by typhoon Pablo and Sendong, "the damaged earthquake in Bohol and those who lost livelihood and houses in a short war in Zamboanga City?
Will G. Aquino still say that "we was we" we, "
You are angry with critics if you are mad at your enemies in politics and you are angry at the past what you want to happen, Mister Aquino?
Politics will not be solved and personal anger is the problem of the country if you are not looking for a solution?
The criticisms are important especially since it has a suggestion or recommendation for the call there.
Many critics have an alternative solution to the question, do you even tried to do or even try those?
That is what is difficult with a leader with the blind eye, he is blind and deaf to the truth.
Themselves are the members of your cabinet who are saying that you are not as well as his head!
"What you said to be weight on the issues, you believe in the report and advise from your cabinet that does not do anything but to take care of you.
DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman said, 90 percent are the ones who are able to help but 99 percent is crying because they have not received any help from the government!
Like the MRT 3, what your personnel is bleeding.
Instead of fixing the golden retriever, which is earning almost 300-million every month so that he will take care of, take care of the items used on the railway and wagons, is there?
The budget of agriculture, which is back and examined, and that is a worse importation.
"The care of nature, is shocked with the illegal foreigners.
"The electricity that has been enough for the next year is to buy the generator to earn money and many more.
"Is it the help of your government?
Your allies, Akbayan Partylist Rep. Walden Bello, are now complaining, you will still look back for the presidency?, is this the solution, Mister President?
Already dead is the horse, gay, "thank Are, to be the one to be able to make sure to be a model so thank you, Mister Aquino, Mr. Aquino, Mr. Aquino!
