
Filipino UN peacekeepers (2)

In the past issue, we discussed the urge of defending the Spanish UN Peacadversary, they had a rest and intelligence in the fight of the rebels, and in spite of the bomb (Land Mines), and in spite of the bomb (Land Mines), and despite the bomb (Land Mines), and they were able to escape the NPA rebels.
It was noted that the heroism shown by the Filipino seafarers were celebrated, the world is also identified by the world, but this success was not identified by the Filipino to tell his command because it is said to be cowardice that the escape of the Filipinos from position, is not cowardice.
According to AFP Chief of Staff General Gregorio Pio Catapang, Jr., illegal soldiers should not fight and surrender their weapons when they will go to Manila the Spanish soldiers, and they were forced to take his leadership from Manila.
What is the Commission on Human Rights Command?
What is not following the COC or jurisdiction is a case of P100 million which has a heavy punishment under the Department of War.
Following that the release of the command of command is the compliance of the order or order that is based on the existing policy and order in accordance with the existing policy, which is why it can be basis for the illegal order, which is why it cannot be basis for the plunder case that could be implemented by its legal orders.
It is common to take care of the commander on the ground during the time of the crisis, and if there is an existing opportunity between the commander of the ground where the commander of the ground is based on the right time that the commander of the ground is on this situation, which is why the commander of the ground is in this situation where the commander of the ground does not see any ability to lead the land unit.
In the incident that happened in Golan Heights, the considered commander of the ground of the ground 68 was identified as Captain Nilo Rosete and the chief of Commander of the ground and the order of the commander of the ground and the command of the commander of the ground and the order of the commander of the ground where the order is illegal and not fighting against the Spanish rebels.
Infrastructure is really unique in the drafting of the organization with UN Peacademia which is from different countries like the Philippines under the leadership of the Filipinos regarding their own Chief of Staff, and in the situation held by the Filipino Command, it is expected that the local officials of Staff Command of the AFP) is not missing.
There are the call of the investigation that happened in Golan Heights, for me, the investigation should continue but it should be done, end, and the result should be a basis of the return to the Rules of Transportation, Rules of command, and the result of the situation held by the UN peacekeepers.
In spite of all, there is no doubt that the movement and result of the ongoing operation of our laborers in Golan Heights will be shown in the whole world, the quality of Filipino soldiers in the whole world, the Philippine Contingent is going to come to the whole world.
(With your reaction, it is an email on the editing of 90 kilometers per cent) for Atty. Ededt) point that Atty. Edgard Arevalo added.
