"Martial law, you want," By Tina Mendoza August 10, 2016.
President Rodrigo Duterte was also angry last night by President Rodrigo Duterte, Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno, his orders to the Executive Department of not follow the order of the Supreme Court and he can declare Martial Law.
Duterte expressed this in front of the order of the Barangay magistrates to not surrender the judge who was named by the President on narco-list until there was no warrant of arrest.
In the face of President Duterte to the soldiers in Camp Evangelista in Cagayan de Oro City, he questioned Sereno's order not to file a warrant of arrest, but according to him, he was not able to file a warrant of arrest, but according to him, he was not able to file a warrant of arrest, instead he also reported it to the police who were involved in drugs to the Philippine National Police (PNP) Director General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa and the mayor of the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG).
"He / she said that he / she wasn't able to step down to the funeral parlor in conservation in my duty as president of the Philippines, thank you, Chief Justice Gregory-A, thank you for the warrant of arrest of Are Sierra Leone, thank you.
He also pointed out the slow system of SC which has been in a few years before to resolve a Criminal Court.
President Duterte insisted he will not follow the SC.
"Ma'am, let us not lead the attention of the issue of the issue, I was able to comment on the advice of the advise," I know that you know how to be followed by thank you.
The Constitutional Commission on Constitutional Commission on Constitutional Commission, will be the only will to be faced but do not let me be.
Thank you.
"Wait for the warrant of arrest of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act," added the President.
The President said that he inherited the problem on drugs in the past administrations that did not do anything for the six million Filipinos who voted for him to fulfill his promise to end corruption and problems in drugs that's why he should not be prevented.
"Up to six years, I have done nothing for a six-month-old and I am taking the good crisis which will be given to the Executive Department of honor, you want him frankly," Duterte added.
In the current situation of illegal drugs in the country, he needs to focus on it so he is hoping for support.
"His / her request, to stop me, when I went amok, thank you very much of Martial Law?

"In the time we will go, thank you in deciding," I will not be the one who will be in there, so that I will be the one who will be seen in the country, so long, to make all of us, "the end of the President.
According to the Constitution, President Duterte defeated his promise that he knows his promise and he should not have a result to his campaign against drugs.
"I asked the honor will be the honor of the Constitution, I will be the will of the 1987 Constitution," said Duterte to remind the soldiers that their loyalty should also remain in the Constitution.
