
Campaign against drugs, it will add up to October.

SSeptember 27, 2016 Voltaire Gazmin Detoyato.

San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, September 27 (Pia) - the police in the province will strengthen the implementation of the campaign against them to be prohibited drugs.

This is the statement of the Philippine National Police (PNP) Provincial Director (PCG) Police Senior Superintendent (PS Senior Police Senior Superintendent JMM) after the report of their appointed operation, on the second meeting of the Provincial Police Council (Pac) in Siay Beach Hotel, San Jose, past week.

Based on the released list of "Project Double Barrel Actor, of the Provincial Police Office (PPO), Lot 10 was the total number of those who surrendered to the province, more than 600 of them are drug pushers or drug pushers.

According to Jihadist were part of double the Oplan Tokhang "in the operation, those suspected to be drug personalities are confiscated by the police who refused the call of the government to abandon illegal drugs and will be caught in case there will be a sufficient evidence against it.

Vice Governor and currently being recognized by Vice Governor Peter Alfaro, the management of PPO, scheduled to serve the anti-drug campaign of those who have risked their lives, according to Alfaro, it is not impossible to serve as a model for the local police.

City council member Sonia Pablo said that it is hoping that the value of life will not be sacrificed for the fulfilment of the duty of the police and was also asked by Pablo (PPO, if there was a "drug lord" in the province.

Based on the explanation of Jawford, three personalities who are leading their "lead," they said that they are being stormed by illegal drugs.

The police's gathering of information against them is ongoing, especially to those rushing to be the drug pusher. "

Jajano added, now, there is a need for further support of agencies like the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) and local government to pay attention to the aspect of the rehabilitation of those who surrendered (VND / Pia MIMAROPA and October.
