Pork barrel scam.

Two senators, Bong Revilla, Jr. and Jinggoy Estrada were not a joke because of the controversial issue of corruption in the country's country - they are still waiting for one of their fellow inmates, Mister Johnny Enrile.
Yesterday, the 1st Division of the Sandiganbayan started the process wherein the case of Revilla will be heard together with his former Chief of Staff and of course with the queen of economic growth.
This is just all of us, "I think it is just like Revilla, if compared to Estrada and Enrile, do you know why don't be noisy, that is why don't be noisy, that is why don't be noisy, that is why he is very strict or strict 1st Division.
The Sandiganbayan has five division decision, and according to my information about it, it is certain that he has a blood on the 1st Division.
That's why I am not wondering when the case of Revilla first started because Associate Justice dela Cruz is strict, especially Associate Justice dela Cruz, which is supposedly not allowed to put it.
You have seen yesterday when the motion of the Office of the Ombudsman is to amend the complaint against Revilla which was immediately reported by the judges.
So in the Ombudsman and Senator Revilla, Goodluck that will just start the hearing because it is certain that the two camps will end up in order to reveal what really happened - Bong or Aga was only fooling us by the Ombudsman.

The camp of Enrile wants to release the Sandiganbayan to release the Sandiganbayan in the house or hospital for him to be imprisoned because the plunderer, who is really old, "the plunderer, is already old."
At the age of buying, there is no need to show to the court the numerous medicine that is drank by Enrile and other ceremony every day to remain strong with the health of the senator.
In my opinion, Malacanang will agree to go to the house or hospital because if he will be put in an ordinary prison, maybe it would be said that the people will return it.
Let us remember that Filipinos are different from any kind of person but when he got sick or died, the agreement is already different, like what happened to Marcos and now Miss Gloria felt pity and forgave the people.

Estrada was locked for a second time because of corruption but he did not admit it because he was only one point when he did not have any fault, he was not stolen from the treasury of the country.
Ayso, all those who are imprisoned are like that when you talk to them what they are saying is innocent and maybe they really are innocent in prison, but do you believe that Senator Estrada is innocent?
