Twin times in Cavite and in the room!
But the problem is, there are still no classes in the end that the government will give.
That is why the Social Security Office of DepEd is about the doctor to Taft Avenue in Taguig and others.
Released a motorcycle.
It is said that their parents will decide if their children will not be allowed to enter school, whose weather will be allowed to be allowed to enter, not from them, not from them.
In the end.
It is said that before, he sold the office such as cancer, but it can also be used in the point that the adviser of the hope and always prohibited is that there will be no one who really misses the students.
There is still no two months since the start of the four days that the motorcycle started for each other because they did not do anything because they will do not wait for the rent of their place just after the game they will not forget what they will forget.
We were able to look down; he / she was not the mother, not the mother who was able to talk to, we were able to talk to each other; she was not waiting for whatever the school is.
I am not allowed to go to food.
I know that it is not my child who does not hit him because he is still far.
Which is one of those who have cheap food that was released by the pork barrel that was set to oil office of Taguig Chief Director P).
Take care of the parents of the elementary and secondary student.
Reconciliation would be allowed to enter if my students will be allowed to leave their decision in order to enter their decisions that is why we are supported by us.
I am just the primary reason for us not to have a doubt that my child should be involved in it.
The forty-six schools in Taguig went up to forty and six schools in Taguig and even more.
The woman's female to be outside the school is already outside the school to accept that our vacation is a different kind of hope, our vacation is very small, first and first when there is a bottle that is also possible.
There are no number of people who are dearse; I am the second star of red Alum and Erwin Paul.
But a mother is worried because later.
We were able to look down; he / she got tired; later, he / she was able to go to school; she was not able to go to school; but my child was not able to go to school.
There is Itogon, who will buy something that will buy the office of Taguig yet.
If the opening of rain is nonstop and if there is a big area where the teachers are standing up, do not continue.
Lopez and lower down and if the audience would be able to make a bike, we can also send a bike for me not to be taken, because there are still a lot of lack of foolishness; most of those who know that I seem to have failed.
They have a long time student to prepare for the exam.
It's too much to be sure.
