
The citizens here in the government of all.

It is strong that pork barrel scam used by pork barrel scam to make the lower part of the lower Protection Program (WPP) of the Department of Justice (DOJ) because his head is painful.
Luy did not wore a helmet which should have been given protection from the people whom he will receive from the people who wrote to him (not helping him about the revelation of the lawmakers and officials of the government for the funds of the country.
Luy allegedly made his lawyer, Atty. Cruz Baligod that she lost his head with a lot of lawyers after he was asked to ask millions from the lawmakers so that they could not be involved in a post.
In other words, the lawyer can earn when his client was left in the air.
Now, the lawyer surfaced again to defend the lawmakers that he might have recovered from money, which is why the three drug pushers and ten lawmakers are on the list of Luy.
What if the one who gave them is protecting them.
Money is really done, which is why the truth will not come out.
Luy wants to go out of WPP because he is giving money to the people who are pretending to be helping him, instead of getting money, he becomes the way to acquire money.
Luy knows that he is only used by the Aquino government to take revenge on his opponents in politics who will become an obstacle to his leadership.
That is why even if he is telling the truth, the DOJ is very editing.
Many are involved in the anomaly, including the allies of President Benigno Aquino III but DOJ Secretary Leila de Lima says that it's only three senators who have strong evidence that is why they were able to put in jail.
Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy "Bong" Bong "Revilla, is the first to focus on the hole while some of the allies of Aquino are pointing at them but will just ignore those who are leading the three.
Is the government a bit scared with this three years?
The citizens will no longer know who to believe, that's why the people should be observant and learn how to analyze the people because those who are in position are all stupid.
