Still not yet, I am still not calling me, we are the ones who look at him; we are stupid; for what else.
Why are you asking you for a long time?
"We were surprised when you took a vacation for a long time," we lived in Hong Kong when we go to Hong Kong; I can go to school; I'm when we took a vacation in April.
It seems like a month.
We still have to go to each other; we have to go to school; this is the long time that you are cleaning the second class before you are cleaning it.
Reporting for TV 5-year-old child, are we going to transfer to you in front of us, who are riding a boarding house, are not able to look at least, Arvin Amistoso; and Arvin Auckland, and we are still not there.
Covetous, deport; and you are still not contented, why are they not doing anything?
Where is the other hand on where?
You are beautiful yes, you will have to eat, we can eat at the colleges; we can eat.
Ah, yes, that's because that's because he's in Bulacan who is in Bulacan who's in Bulacan who is his mother, that's why he / she seems that that's the only reason why he / she seems that we are going to transfer.
I do not know where I do not have a family to say where we are going to transfer, but I am the other most of the most serious, but I am difficult, that I am difficult, but it's very difficult for them to become poor.
Yes, we are very pitiful; I don't know what you are doing.
Just that!
It's because it's because you are in Bulacan, you are still in Bulacan; we are just in Bulacan; you are just there for what you are thinking about, so-fi is still there?
Ah, we are pitiful; we are very small, isn't it a small thing to do, Second, very small, very small; so we are going to have problems that we are having problems.
Ah, I wonder, that's why, I passed away, he passed away to just know that I am just dreaming, very kind; and coercion.
I am really not stupid that's why I am not stupid; we know that we are very pitiful; we know that we are going crazy; we are going to be a descent; that's why I am going to be stupid; we are going to be stupid;
Tawooooooo, / she was only seventeen years old; she says that she is indeed, "Angelica ', who, of your friend, will just laugh, Tita.
Best friend, so I don't know if I don't know if I am studying right now that's why, "we do not know how we saw each other," we remember that.
"
Vilma Santos City, Daniel also, of the rain, that comes to those coming noisy but nothing has not left yet, nothing.
Or Uncle Mon is not there in the store that Kate is there, there is nothing wrong with nothing, "we don't have any idea, that I don't have an accident; I don't have to buy yes, I don't know if she was deceived or that.
It might be known for its height.
"What's that, isn't it that, when I went up, I didn't even have a dog who was not able to text, that's why I was able to text me, that's why he / she had a text message.
He / she was able to go to school; because I did not want him to sit on him; he / she sat on top of the streets.
