Nonsense in NIA.

Some farmers have talked to some farmers from some places in the province of Cagayan, Cagayan Valley.
Because we noticed, Bro, why are they going to be the ones seen to be seen under the rice under the streets.
If you are going to travel the Daang Maharlika from Bulacan to Isabela and for the Pacific Highway that came from Tarlac up to the province of Isabela, the people who were dried under their rice cakes in the side of the road were visible.
There are also a lot of rocks under the corn, they also harvest.
This is amidst the sign of the Department of Public Works and Highways that is prohibited to build the rice grains, corn and others on the streets.
NIA will not give water.
The farmers said, they just passed by their rice.
These past few days, the National Irrigation Administration would only have a supply of water.
If someone will allegedly do to them, it might be at the end of October and the whole month of November this year.
Waited for the storm.
In the first two typhoons, before typhoon Mario arrived, they started to gather their farms and gain weight.
They thought, the price of NIA will continue to gather water in their farms after they will be guarded and increased.
But it is the child of tofu, the water from the good agency of the government has not backed out.
NIA will have released water after the devastation of typhoon Mario.
Why?
It turns out that it is the attitude of NIA to increase the storm or strong rain before they will capture water for farmers.
Starting to fight.
The fight of farmers and from NIA will start here.
One more thing, if it is rainy season like now, even if there is no water in NIA, they can help them.
But NIA will still pass by little and saying that water is coming from them even if it is clear that their water is from God or rain or typhoon.
It is the son of NIA, NIA is being forced to collect payment for every month even if it is not coming from the Irrigation canal, because of the rain and typhoon.
There are three sacks of hectares of NIA, they are able to give up water or nothing.
He is stupefied.
NIA is said to be mentioned by the farmers based in Caidic, Cagayan.
This was once attacked and burned by the NPA rebels.
But this is NIA which was even made by the Irrigation canal, the new tire of the trucks of NIA, which is trying to buy sand and cement that needed in making canals, which is why the drivers are sent to by the drivers.
When the truck went out of the compound, before the tires, but the child of seven bees, when they returned, it was already old.
If this is true or not just the story of farmers and retired residents of NIA, they do not want to be involved in nonsense in the agency.
