
Fare is for food in some dorm of the Ubers which can be cut off.

(This news was published about the issue of 1-2 of the Philippine Cologne last 23 August 2014.
Julian Bato.
The increase of P2,000 will increase every month or 10,000 pesos per kilo of UP Diliman (UPP) after the Office of the Office of the municipal hall (OSungala) after Chambers (OSH), in Chambers (OSH) to raise its price in service for food.
In a letter submitted to the Office of the Chancestrado, the plan of OSH, is the plan to raise the food, from 85th every day, from 11 kilometers per day, from 11 kilometers dormitory in the Ubers which will be affected, almost 1,000 pesos 35.8 million students who are living on a single-Illegal Drugs Act, which will be affected.
According to OSevidal, the only Shiro Food Regional Training and Erlinda Co who is preparing breakfast, lunch, and dinner is a dormitories in dormitories.
The value of goods increased by five percent, which is needed in cooking for a long time so that the owner of the Shiro Food Yoyo, who was Erlinda Jr.
But some of the residents strongly condemned all dormitories in the Ubers which are said to have caused the lack of funds for food.
Rey Escovetous, a student of BS Philipines, is one student of BS Philipines, in depends on the cheap food of Molave.
Only his monthly income from his scholarship is what Escoats is expecting to meet the daily expenses such as food, fare, and beneficial laboratory.
If the implementation of additional wage increase in dormitories, Escowardly said that he will be forced to transfer to a place to live, his parents can no longer support the actual workers in a factory, the 10,000 pesos additional wage increase in a slipper factory.
"It is not right to increase the Disbursement Acceleration Program because it is too expensive but we still have a lot of things that are being spent on aside from the food," said Escoercion.
As a public university, it is the duty of the government to maintain the best needs such as food and homes which are included in the rights of education, harvest Mencherness, councilor of the Usahay, the city council.
It was former management of service to food dormitory on the University Food Authority (UFS) before it was replaced by the private Implementing Rules and Erlinda Co, but after the consecutive persons in the budget, the UFS was forced to throw into a dormitory in 1994.
So that the food will be affordable for dormitories, the government should increase its subsidy to UP so that the young service of the UFS is going to return.
