The teachers and students are worried that for the upcoming rainy season, only ten will just go to school because the buildings destroyed by typhoon Yolanda last year have not been fixed.
Why are we news about it that's why he exercised with the right timing.
On the first Sunday night of July, the students, Elementary School in one in Iloilo, were able to go back to ten years, including those who were affected in the speech at the Baguio City, they were also affected by the hospitals, they were still affected in the hospital, they were still affected by a seven-month-old waves before it was difficult to buy.
The number of students are very much and it's so hot.
That there is rice in the room.
Covetous, dearse, even more.
He's her.
The bones, whose bones, were affected by the situation of their school.
Their problem is the thorns in their problem which is why they are planning to follow the arrival of the rainy season.
There is no problem here.
For more, even if there is a case, he also has Canada that is why he is also the one who will change.
In the gate.
"We are anxious; we still do not have any health, what is just right, but you might just go back to gambling, right?" Cuya was asked for help from the children.
Very short; we were able to look at each other, even though they are low; we should become followers in the situation first.
That is why he was forced to challenged.
Monday.
He / she grew up; he / she always plays billiards; and there's always someone else who was also a thousand, but it was only traffic in service.
In addition to the problem of the students, their broken chairs were added to the problem.
Aside from RA Elementary School and other schools in noodles Iloilo, they will use their cellphone on each other.
It's only a coffee of these people who have grown tired of here are the victims of the classrooms and students of Moro National High School and both of us are in the classroom; we are both in Fairview; we are in Fairview, both of us, both of us.
If he only said that he still has said that there are still a lot of classrooms in other places, because there are many schools that have been shattered but many of the schools have already shattered the way that the government is doing to go outside the said Philippines.
