
Twenty-9, 2013.

According to Meralco and the ERC, the militants have been possessed by the militants, Karabana's protest.

Joint press.

09 in the 2013.

Congratulations!

Noriel Padiernos, Karangalan Village, Secretary Mar Roxas.

0949-7518792.

According to Meralco and the ERC, they were wearing the militants.

Karabana of protest, was launched.

The militant group of Filipino Workers (BMP) and Congress of the Pagkakaisa ng Masang Pilipino (Kovalev) should insist that the near price hike on P4.15 / h of the company of Meralco is not a fair burden to the tragedy that hit the country this year.

"While there was no shouting for the additional wage increase, the workers are still widespread and when the new burden of Meralco will push through, they will still get to give their families for desperation and in the end of the rebellion," Gie Kallahal who, a leader of Bastes.

The said group launched a said protest where one by one, the branches of Meralco in the cities of Kalubihan, Quezon and Manila.

The spokesperson of BMP and Klarisse de PM) are taking advantage of the destruction of Meralco and the ERC, they insisted, the private companies and agency of the government have increased with bananas.

"Even once, since the ERC was born, it has not been served as the interest of the majority of those who suffer from poverty, that this agency can easily be waded through the welfare of the citizens to push for the welfare of the people.," Untalan added.

The ERC is able to have a child with the suspension of the electoral Power Plant (1999 to make a clear and reasonable price of electricity in a free and fair competition and is a part of its mandate to fix the protection of those who use electricity.

"Malacanang and the department of the energy is not safe from criticisms.

Following them is the only thing they are doing everything for the people but to his fana, all they have done will only be given to the management of Meralco.

If the government is really hoping to protect the interest of the majority, he should suspend the electricity in the electricity until the operation of Malampton is normal to lessen the people's operation to lessen the citizens of a new additional wage hike.

Meanwhile, according to the government of Anthony Barnstaple, spokesperson of Karangalan Village, the whole situation and thorough use of the Malhmm, after the Supreme Court declared the fund of the upcoming clarification.

"The decision of the Supreme Court should be implemented until its last letter is what the government needs to use for the rehabilitation of the plant and electrical posts which were destroyed by typhoon Yolanda and it should not come from the pockets of those who patronize the Meralco," Barnstaple, number of number.
