"Will I let us go to the barangay?
Rose could not be able to do anything; he / she was able to take care.
In the Philippines, you are coming back to the Philippines.
News from Salcedo Street in Marquinton Mall was successful and the rise from the challenge of Baguio was successful.
Aside from Pag-asa and inspiration brought by Barangay Rivera's advice from Salcedo and Salcedo in their post, those who have lost control and vegetables are their recovery and vegetables which are their hard work one year after Yolanda hit their livelihood.
Clumsy, the association, to be seen by the association, can visit the financial loss of their crops last year, but according to them, they have been used in the first sea of lack of lack of their C-P / National Orthopedic Hospital.
We immediately thank the international organization that immediately gave the passports of the test and to review it.
They received a housing project from its height again.
Yes, we only have the biggest help in the beginning of their continuous recovery, from the Philippines, to be a assistant program.
That gave them a month with one four million pesos.
For the reason it can be seen on where they cleaned their rise from free preparation for the preparation of the Department of Our Stars, which is the one who is teaching them by the buyer of this Liner Production.
We were able to look down; he / she said, that's the only reason why they are the only ones who are at fault; he / she's the only ones who are holding the place in the Food Park of Salcedo.
He told him what is right in the middle of work.
It is hard to work as if he knew that the discipline is really needed.
My aunt is really right, who is the former janitor of a state University, Active people, and now, one of the ones to be able to talk to, is one of the ones who will be able to talk to and for their president in teaching or anger towards fellow farmers.
In different barangays.
I am here under your love between him and you are still with Salcedo and Salcedo.
With the help of Amor in a Chairman, you should monitor that.
Ma'am, it is also said that their teaching of the farmers is not only on the picture of the Technology is not only on the picture of the technology, just like making a buyer like this, a librarian from a business which has a mission.
But it is really rest for the help they received and look for.
It is not just to solve the needs of your own family.
But to help the video, you can help with the solution of the solution.
For bosses, Boss Jerry is the beauty of her cloth.
The middle of the town.
Thank you very much.
