
Lucky transaction in Valenzuela.

There is a clean and no trace of corruption in implementing projects in the city of Valenzuela.
This is what we directly say because the local officials would be happy since the term of former mayor and now Congressman We Gatchalian for the time of the mandate of Mayor Rex Gatchalian.
Maybe in Valenzuela City, you will have the youngest child to earn a contract on top of the towns or areas because the siblings, Gatchalian that are with canvas if the cost of the increase in the price of their engineer is right.
We and Rex does not want to make corruption because they are accused of corruption that is why they have not been charged or involved in any corruption in the government.
Even though the HE. Gardiola Construction has also received a contract, it can be said that it passed through legal way and what's good about this is that it did not become an estimation of P60,000 pesos which is estimated to have reached P40,000 pesos and the value of the building that he built in Hagdan in Valenzuela City.
The Valenzuela City government is also in good faith when he took the service of Atty. Rogelio Peig, city administrator of a few months because the said lawyer has not declared that he is one of the officials of Humalig).
It was clear in the signed form of Peking in Human Trafficking ce Department of the city that he is not declared to have a connection with other company, particularly in a construction companies.
Transparency and good governance is the mark of the Gatchalian family in the public service and it is clear that there will be proven that some agencies of the government and non-governmental organization just like good location of the DILG and Gantangan.
The governance is clean in Valenzuela and that is what they are proud of because even those who are being proud of Cong. Terry Ridon, Sangguniang partylist are saying that there is no corruption and the construction of the building that he built in the said city.
I salute Nepo'clock.
