Sunshine's wife, explained to the children the mistake of By GOSalas.
Timothy Tan continued to control her answer when we interviewed the radio program that we visited the radio program that we visited the radio program every Friday night.
We asked what we want to know, but there were some questions that he did not answer.
31-year-old Sunshine Dizon refused to answer the news about them by Clarisma Sison.
"Maybe," the issue that I cannot answer is that I cannot answer because there is a big case in the prosecutor's Office, there might be an excuse that is why he has a patience for first.
"But in this time, I will immediately respond to all your questions," Timothy said.
About his plan to file annulment, he did not answer us first but it was better for him to first focus on the cases he was leaning on.
"That is another thing" that now I do not want to answer because it might have a problem.
"There are some who are talking with it before, but for now I do not only pay attention to it because of a new problem," said Timothy.
Sunshine is okay to talk to her for the children.
"MiG that's what I am feeling now.
"But we are not talking about case, of course, we will not have any love to say for the good of our children," said Timothy.
That's where he explained to the children the situation of their family and they slowly understand it.
But what the children want is for them to be together again, "you know, children, too many questions.
"So, I should just call them that there are things that need to pass so we should learn.
"If what happened to us is Mommy, perhaps, it became one of the hardest" that should have been done, not able to reach there.
"But of course, we are mistaken, there are those that are in the incident, so we will be able to fix the children now," said Timothy.
There are things that he miss and it is up to God to know what the couple is going through.
"Of course," our bonding with a family.
"Of course," of course, of course, no matter how much our relationship is for so long, I really miss you, "said Timothy to the question what she said that Sunshine said.
Timothy believes that the day will come that the whole truth will come out, so he does not pay attention to those who are bashing them.
According to Timothy, "I really do not pay attention to them because I know what really happened and the true events.
"And what they are saying, I also know myself that they are not true that's why I do not pay attention to them."
