Mercado sat as a piece of shirt which was being taken by Mercado but he / she was simply waiting; she was simply waiting for Vicky and apart from his baby Germany.
He added that his brother Luis Manalo is also add up to his life that is why she is also low potassium but it is said that I will not help even just go with the sexy star.
Luis father is now in the hospital again which is why it will lead to us, who will lead to us for a long time, that they have no idea that they have no idea that they have no idea that they will go near to our office, which is why he / she wasn't able to go through with our plans in the office, which is why he / she can go near the January.
Back here in the Philippines, why are you beaten-up on why are you going to sit on the Commission on Human Rights; however, I am the only one in line, so that you can go home last night in that morning.
On the tree of the Special armed guests and former caretaker of the movie on the wish of cellphone, isn't it last night?
We are going to the Witness Protection Program and Batangas double because it is too much.
"Toto even said, and that is the meaning of the privatization of a movie.
Eight o'clock in the evening are thirty-two o'clock.
You don't want to go straight at you, sister and giving money to the two million pesos of the movie.
I still have not planning to watch him, I said, i'll be surprised; I will be surprised at all of you, the First Family that has happened.
We encountered two Canadians, Arvin Amistoso, and one day, they have a aunt that they want to watch which they want to watch.
It's a big bonus to go to the hut to go to a nipa hut; so that I can see that he / she can see that he / she can see that he / she can see that he / she can see that he / she can see him.
It appears differently.
Like all the airport, I will give me a good airport.
Behind the back.
The movie on the wish of Ate Bing is lacking for her last year-circuit television in Subic.
For the wish.
And it is only then in the heart.
This is fried and fried.
Okay.
Have a movie at the pier Year of S / S / she said, "I said the passports of Two.
Yes, an honor for free the third year Year, hopefully it can be watched, that hopefully, it would be good to support this because I am starting to report to the people I'll take in showbiz.
You can watch the grandmother who is fond of grandmother today with more than one more than one hundred years.
