Kallero and avena are followed by the coker in the shower.

It is an artist who is dependent on the international court, Koponang Tavena of Ateneo Blue Eve, because they are watching the very first sports in the very full sitcom of TV 5, "No Harper, No."
As.
"He / she was able to go back to his / her sister-in-law," I try to go out, "I try to take a point because if not because of them, I will not meet," he added.
As a celebrity, as a celebrity, we asked him if he already has experience with the barbells.
"Though we are to be followed, thank you, thank you, wherever you go.
He also added that he / she was also able to follow the barker in the shower room.
"Of course, he / she might be the one to be hurt when you feel that he is going to go to the Philippines, you will be the one to make a way to avoid," he added.
Did he have a relationship?
"" There is still no one if they deliver it, I can be able to send it, "according to him.
Also about the absence of sexy, clumsy, as well as a sexy star as well as a sexy star, this is what Kathleen said.
"He / she said that he / she was able to run for TV Patrol for Ateneo.
It can be recalled that Knapsack is watching over her acting debut party, "No Harper, Number foul," where he is doing the role of Kathleen Rivera, a former water boy who became a member of the league of coach Jawo (Ogie Alcasid) in the said sports in the said sports.
Ogie, I am hesitant to lessen a lot of racket.
Ogie Alcasid and Janno Gibbs are both in the same career for both of them, and TV host of Then banc, which is also a branch of Uncle stopped.
As a matter of fact, Ogie entered the TV 5, aside from being a TV Patrol, included in the talk of MVP when I have been talking about by a few of the accomplices of his brother-in-law.
What we know, Ogie that is why he was not able to step down from the entry of Janno on TV 5, where he pretended to host this Sunday night while the mausoleum of the district of Bayan. "
"He / she said that Uncle Janno has a lot of ways to go back together since the Small Broch we went through with ABS-jack and the Liberal Party on GMA and here in the" happy truck of Bayan "in TV 5, he said.
We also asked more if he knows something in the contract of Janno on TV 5 and if it is part of its contract, the host is a host of the new leader, which is the host of a new leader in a happy network.
According to Ogie, he / she said that he / she was sick and does not know anything about it.
Even in the head of "Tropa Bu-Tropas, he also does not have an idea if Uncle Janno will be added to the cast of their gag.
Ogie also added that Uncle Janno has a need to show his show because he / she has become an ally of each other.
But, what we were able to know is that it is not just the host of a happy truck in the Bayan "to host of Uncle Mon in his transfer to TV 5.
Or, right, Ogie should also drink because his racket is lessen?
Aside from the "happy truck of the Bayan, Ogie will also be able to watch the" Tropa Bu-Tropas.
