Alcala, Petilla and remove them!

If there is one of those who should be removed from the government, the Agriculture Secretary Proseso Alcala and energy Secretary Jericho Petilla will be included.
One of the reasons for firing them is the lack of the television or long-term program that will benefit from the citizens in the coming days even to 10 to 50 years only.
The private companies are dreaming of living inside 50-100 years or more than a few old corporation and they succeed.
Religions have thought of living in all times and they succeed.
But these have already been rotten in the government member in order to give a dream for the entire Filipino people to come out without doing anything.
Even if they know that the Filipino is forever in need of food and electricity.
The farm.
We remember, on the years of 60, there are 12-million hectares of land in a farm where I love the Philippines.
This is an estimation of 36M total land of the Philippines.
But the fields of the projects to be under the controversy in the terrorism area is quickly completed, sovereignty and for the terrorism.
That's why, before the decade of 90, it was about eight million hectares that was built on the farm which was built by a 4.5-hectares of rice and corn and 3.5 for coconut and other illegal crops.
This 4.5-hectares of rice field and corn were found by his father, Alcala as the DA secretary last 2010.
It is about 1.5-hectares.
The child's child could not do anything to widen the irrigation from the 4.5-hectares.
This is a reflection of the 1.5-hectare rice field and corn fields with irrigation.
When he took office, he promised in 2013, the supply of rice in the Philippines is enough.
And he is proud that the Philippines will bear to be exported.
But even if it will be exported, instead of going to be exported, the importation or importation are starting until now.
It's because it is not able to do an irrigation or dams especially that he is really a life of rice.
A jab, GMA.
Alcala said, in the cave of PNoy, Aling Gloria was to the importation of too much rice that reached almost 12.10 tons.
"Those who want to earn the commission is a trip of rice and it is being monitored by Miss Gloria until the National Food Authority led to P177 billion debt.
But now, it is suspicious that the Philippines will be free from 1.4million pesos in terms of the Philippines in Alcala's estimation, along with Kiko Pangilinan.
Anzon, do we think it's okay, the agricultural sector is okay, especially the supply of rice.
Another problem in the DA and NFA made Alcala to jump off the price of rice from P27 pesos per kilo until 32 pesos per kilo.
There are even P27 pesos per kilo but it is equivalent to the foul smell that can't be bought by people.
In the midst of all these, it appears in the news now that there are Quezon with fiers for rice.
What is related to Alcala who is from Quezon province, Boss PNoy?
It was gone for PGMA to fiant but it was replaced by Quezon with fiant?
He said it was an emergency.
Meanwhile, Petilla is coordinating with PNoy to have an emergency power for electricity.
This is said to have been needed so that the Philippines will not fall short, especially about 400 percent of the electricity, especially Luzon, which will find 70 percent of factories living on electricity.
Of course, Visayas and Mindanao are also included in the program emergency power.
It is just surprising that during the time that Petilla has been taking a long time with the Department of energy, it is only now that we have thought that we will be less than a large part of electricity.
And for the mother, maybe the mother is asking himself from the blame of the people at the approaching brownouts and blackout, here is he and wise person who wants to send the blame for PNoy.
Equivalent to the 400-declared winner is the mayor of Bro, Bro, of two Angat Dam in power or "the expulsion of Bataan nuclear plant burns.
The black.
With the DOE's happening that the administration is useless, there is a chance for the people to make the people lose electricity.
This is where the plant breaks down in the past few months just to increase the price of electricity.
What is painful here, we don't hear any action of the DOE of those involved in anomaly.
The DOE is very happy that the price increase in the price of electricity will be taken off.
But you will not forget, Mister Secretary, that everything is rooted in the revelation of the DOE in making a long term program in electricity.
Now, Philippines - the Philippines is the most expensive electricity in Asia and other six-most expensive electricity in the whole world.
And this is a big reason why the Philippines is avoiding people.
Seven canned goods, who will build the factory in the Philippines if they will just eat the companies of electricity?
Resign.
Or what you are doing there, Alcala and Petilla, just resign and so that you will lessen the thickness of the faces of those in power now.
If you do not resign, surely the Philippines will remain in the crisis of rice and electricity.
And this crisis will result to not good to the people.
