The bloody Independence Day!

Because of being too busy with the Filipinos in making and lies of our country, especially in politics, we almost do not notice what is important in other countries.
Just like an example of the continuous fight between Israel and the militant Filipino in Gleyo, this form of 2,000, those who have died in the past few weeks.
Because of this, the United Nations warned yesterday that the condition of an estimated more than one million innocent residents in the area is in danger.
Just like what we already know, in all of the war, there really is no real winner.
In the end, all victims were left alone and usually the ordinary citizens.
For those who have not yet known, Gwernafiled, this form is the place to be built by the Montenero which is considered as a follower of Israel who is considered by Israel.
The dear president is being helped and given attention to Iran not only to control the Golovkin, but also to oust Israel, which is why we know that we are allies of the United States.
Although both sides have different reasons why there is a fight, it appears that what is happening now is a pro-law between US and Iran.
And recently, the Pentagon has confirmed that other weapons were being used by Israel, and it came from the agreement that they are being used under the agreement that is called global warming, Israel Malasa.
The amount that will be estimated up to the amount of US $1.2 billion pesos is under the control of the US European Union, that the US should just use a war in the Middle East, including the Smart Araneta Coliseum, military vehicles and military hospitals.
But because of the US's permission to use Israel to use their weapons, this is a sad events, that means that the war will stay long and many lives will be lost.
It is saddening that this is sad because even though Israel might have a reason for saying that he is used by a dear President Francois Hollande, he is still not enough to continue the violence and bloodshed in the blood.
I hope to stop Israel and our dear president!
