Frankly: Gloria Arroyo will be the foreign secretary?
By Ellen Toribio, September 25, 2016, the news that the former President Gloria Arroyo will become the foreign secretary.
Now, Arroyo is a member of the House of Representatives as a representative of the second district of Pampanga.
On July 21, Arroyo went out to Veterans Memorial Hospital after four years ago to jail in different cases of plunder and stealing from the country's funds for the amount of 50 million or a bigger case against Arroyo and the last was dismissed by the case of Arroyo and the last was the last case of Arroyo and the last.
Arroyo is now in Germany now, together with his wife Mike Arroyo, she would have a cellphone on his sickness which is why she does not have any trace of the brightness.
He will also go to France.
The source of the payment, is that the trip of Arroyo is taking his strength because the work of the foreign secretary is a lot of travel.
They guarantees the reaction of the United States because the issue about the quiet investigation of the bank deposits of Mike Arroyo, according to the payment.
President Rodrigo Duterte said during the month of President Rodrigo Duterte that Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, Jr. is not going to last long because there are "said actual act" to teach in the university in California, Hawaii and others.
Many are not impressed by Yasay in the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).

Often, Yasay just begged from his vocabulary when he held an interview about the issues of foreign Affairs but it is obvious that his candidacy is not deep.
It can be remembered that after the election, President Duterte said that he will take care of Senator Alan Peter Cayetano as foreign Affairs Secretary after the ban on winning the executive department of those who lost in the election.
It is not right now if Cayetano is interested in the DFA because he is back to the Senate or if he is still the one Duterte wants in the DFA.
What Duterte wants is about talking with China, not just like what Aquino did and said that it is almost the same policy of Arroyo when he is president.
Last day, in his speech at the inauguration of Filinvest Power Plant in Misamis Oriental, Duterte mentioned the joint forces that was done during the administration of Arroyo of Sprateng, near Palawan together with China and Vietnam.
I do not know if Duterte will be included in the implementation of the Constitution, which is the call of Joint Task Force Mefenamic Acquired immune system), who has been pending in the Supreme Court.
Duterte appointed former President Fidel V. Ramos, Special Action oy of China, if Arroyo will push through, the foreign Affairs team of Duterte will be strong.
