The seven allies of PNoy were charged with the pork barrel scam.

Postmaster by Jerry Yap.
On June 3, 2015.
In opinion.

The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) will file the third floor of the politicians involved in the P10-billion pork barrel scam.
A senator (Senator Gregorio Honasan, and seven allies of PNoy, Joel Villanueva, chief of technical education, Representative Rufus Rodriguez of Cagayan De Oro, La Union Representative Victor Ortega, Representative Manuel Ortega, and two other lawmakers.
The anti-graft case will be filed against the anti-graft case against the seven because of the wrong use of the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) or pork barrel through Ghost of Janet Lim-Napoles.
The "signal" Justice Secretary Leila de Lima is just waiting for the filing of said case.
Well, "isn't it so long for a case to be filed against government officials who are involved in the P10-B pork barrel scam?
Covetous, many are impatient, that is why many are wondering why Madam Leila was not able to make it to file a case on the 3rd degree that is involved in the pork barrel scam.
Is Madam Leila really signal the number of people from Malacañang?!
Kindly answer, Madam Leila!
Mayor Rex Gatchalian that will rot in prison because of the negligence!
The responsibility of Valenzuela Mayor Rexuals are clear to the death of the 72 workers because of the fire that happened in Kentex, the factory owned by Vea in Barangay Ugong.
President Benigno Aquino III himself said that Gatchalian and other officials who are involved in maneuvering the papers of Kentex should be held accountable even if their business has not enough.
As said by the President, he can file a case against homicide and expulsion of oil because Kentex was given a business offer even if he went down to the fire safety.
It means that Kentex has a violation, that the local government has failed to agree with a Mayor's permits.
It cannot be denied that Mayor Rex does not know that he does not know that because it means that there is a possibility that there will be a lot who got caught by Mayor's permits even if they have not enough.
PNoy stressed, "said," the local government unit, you know that the fire safety extension, you have given a business contribution, is also given a certificate of dollars because there will be a violation of land certificate. "
Walis in fact?
"We even thought, that the development of Rex Gatchalian in Valenzuela is not true.
True improvement in a community is based on the progress of his citizens.
If there are a lot of workers who do not treat them right inside a factory, it means that the progress that the Gatchalian family will make is fake and not effective.
It can't be said that only a case has happened to Kentex, especially since it was discovered that many establishments are lacking in oil but there were still a Mayor's permits.
"That will not be less than 20 establishments that the Bureau of Fire (BFP) has been suspended," what else could it be implemented!
There are many factories in Valenzuela, right?

I want to believe the Gatchalian family, but I cannot do it!
Where is the justice for those who were thrown in the immigration law? (Atilano Roman "SOJ Leila de Lima)
As if Phil Collins has a song, while he has been in the position, the true color of Immigration Commissioner Serena Mison wants to come out.
Just recently, it will not be less than 10 tablespoons of agents, assigned by Mison in the SEA Games of the Philippines!
What is worse here, said employees were thrown without a clear reason or sin and most of all, they brought them to the dangerous places that they have no longer received that time.

With this statement of BI Commissioner Bombay "I mean, it is not just the rights of the employees but also for human rights being stepped on and also send it up to the said Commissioner!
Some of the Immigration Intelligence and ers have said that they are taking a life there in the border agents, such as Tantangan, Taganak Island and others, "No. Land" said to treat the places that have been mentioned.
And if that will go there, almost half of your feet are like a hole.
It is not easy to accept that kind of time that will be thrown away from far away!
It is said that the employees who have mentioned are not the only one who wants to take advantage of the said commissioner but also for him to kill the future of the families of those who got affected.
They even complained by Intel agent: There is also no budget for board a board and lot that they used to buy from them.
How about their family?
It is discovered that there is no sufficient money received by their family.
It is really pitiful!
It is clear on the rays of this day that Mison is doing is a kind of CONSTRHala BE.
Is Atty. Norman Tancinco?
To the Intelligence personnel who are hit by anger and indignation of Mison, you will not allow you to be annoying for your personality!
Remember that you have been there for a long time in the Bureau of Mison if you think you are from your territory.
Learn to fight because the future of your family is at stake!
There is the Ombudsman, Civil Service, RTC, DOJ, CHR, Office of the President and most of all the media who will help you.
Live together and fight for your rights!
We will just repeat the statement of Edusma in Burke, "an all-year-old man for the office of the Pambansang Kamao, which is an ordinary person."
