Do not stop the tears of By Rey Marchil on November 25, 2016.
There might have been a lot of eyebrows at the crying of PNP Chief Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa; one time he was beaten by her nickname, even in the entirety of her body, she can be seen to have a tear in the national television.
Tough, courageous, daring, and probably called "Bato" General Ronald dela Rosa; as well as "Bato" dela Rosa; as long as the general compared to social media, the general is compared to the character of Ben Gleyo, 4-month-called actor, Michael Chuwariwa-A.
Often the character of a person is fierce and what kind of attitude and style in work; we don't fulfill what other character is in front of General Bato in the Senate hearing, and even in the interview of Boy Abunda in the program of Boy Abunda in the program of Boy Abunda in the program of Boy Abunda in the program of Boy Abunda in the program of Boy Abunda.
As the PNP Chief, it is like a father who does not know how to be known by General Bato on how his stubborn children often blame or the parents often blame the mistakes of their child and often the question if this is being taken away from good manners.
As of now, General Bato needs more support for the public's support to the campaign against drugs especially if some officials and members of the PNP can be examined even if there is a product of oil but it should not be the basis for each life, this is very important.
The details in the investigation of the committee of Senator Ping Lacson was clear that it was a former boss of General Bato, a lot of mistakes, that the police needs to act as the father of the PNP if he wants to restore the public's trust.
It is possible that some of those who are from the crying of General Bato but he did not want to add justice to the number of getting pregnant, her husband or parents, because some were killed and held in the police so they got killed.
In total, the public knows more about the people who do not know how to cry because it is possible that he / she does not feel anything and it is normal to do an act or it is normal for her own family or more than her own family or more than her.
Do not determine the crying of a person in order to make her personality; as they say, there is a person who is crying, and even if you have no emotions, and even if you have no emotions, and even if you have not lost her tears because when they have saved it, it is becoming more fiery.
