Duterte-de Lima!
Bty Go of August 20, 2016 is the Hollywood actor Al-ino who told the movie "The Gideon Iris - 3," Atong Ang, "said to be a millionaire.
"I remember this words because before the media came from the media," of President Rodrigo Duterte and Senator Leila de Lima, the Senator Leila de Lima had a glimpse of the senator before his State-tandem of the Nation Address (SONA) last July.
Even de Lima was surprised with what President Rody wants him to go near to the former secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ) to congratulate him before he was given first SONA as the 16th President of the country.

Many thought that it was the start of the conflict between Duterte and De Lima that it was first said that he will investigate the Senate Committee on justice for the alleged extrajudicial killings (EJK) of suspected drug pushers.
But one day after the SONA, Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez immediately said that he continues to investigate the worsening problem of illegal drugs in New Bilibid Prudon (NBP) under the term of De Lima as DOJ Secretary who has an administrative and operation in NBP.
Also in line with this statement by Alvarez is the release of Solicitor General Jose Calida of the photos where de Lima and his suspected drug lord Herbert Colangco is working inside the said "boasts in the NBP compound.
Calida has initially criticized de Lima on what the former secretary of DOJ was able to fight against the widespread illegal drugs inside the NBP, five years, which has been the leader of DOJ is five years, but he was not able to launch a cringe at drug lord in NBP.
On July 29, Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre stated that the DOJ is conducting an investigation about corruption and other anomalies in the said department including the NBP under the administration of De Lima.
Two weeks after the statement of Aguirre, Duterte said in the media that there is a woman official in the government that he became emotional because of the continuous criticisms against him since he was mayor of Davao City.
And what happened is that, de Lima has happened when he said in one speech that he said in one speech that a senator was accepted by his campaign against drug lord that the driver, who was the one who was the one who was able to collect payment from an administrative tor.
The details about the driver of De Lima, Ronnie Dayan, and even her big house in Urbiztondo, Pangasinan were released by some media to be released.
De Lima has already spoke with a huge press conference in the Senate last Thursday and in his speech, he won't be moved by the extrajudicial killings of drug pushers.
The showdown of Duterte and De Lima is starting to start and the whole country is on top of what will happen to the Senate Committee on justice hearing this coming Monday.
