
Why are 97 million Filipinos in anti-drug campaign?
By Bernard Taguba, October 4, 2016.
I cannot blame President Rodrigo Duterte to worry for the next generation of the Philippines if the problem on illegal drugs in the country cannot be criticized.
I believe that up to three million are using illegal drugs in the Philippines because even those in farm are using illegal drugs, according to one congressman.
The joke before, if the addicts of their representative in the party-list will surely run away from the lower house of the Congress because only six to 10 years have passed, it is really alarming because what they encounter is about 1.8 million pesos and you might be confronted by an aswang because their mind is no longer fair.
The former addicts, bully in their road, hence, if they will increase in the next generation, they will become the next generation and maybe the government will run for drug syndicates.
If the problem of this will not be resolved now, the day might come that Digong is feared, so while he is in position, he is doing it.
And he promised this last election so he should not be wondering why people want him to become president because of his promise to fight illegal drugs so he is just fulfilling his promise.
So if you notice, people or 97 million population are not care, if many addicts are killed.

I have been talking to barangay officials who said that their jurisdiction is very happy because the addicts in their barangay are very happy.
Reason of the people, it is good that the addicts that cause trouble in their barangay will be missing when they are destroying shabu, that is why there is nothing else by the people.
"I cannot talk to the anti-graft campaign of Digong because people want the people to be happy because the trouble in their barangay is missing," according to one Metro Manila congressman.
If you will notice, there are a lot of people now who are brave to release their cellphone to catch Pokemon because they are not afraid that their cellphone will be affected.
It is rare for a hold-up to passenger jeepneys since Duterte took office because criminals are already afraid that's how the ordinary citizens have a fear.
You can also walk away without worry because even those who are known to be one of the threats to the people are one of the threats of the people if you do not want to catch up in order to earn and calm down.
The only problem is, "the members of the syndicate who are all foreigners might have already left already because they are the ones who taught the Filipinos to use drugs.

(Dberg is for me to be for example.
