It is said that Benjamin Alves will just choose a Friends!

Glaiza denied that she has a relationship with Benjamin Alves; Benjamin is the one who gave him the title given by Glaiza which resulted in the Symposium.
"There's nothing, but we are together in DBP.
"Mianay, so he was talking to me by the list of Health Office because he could be able to give me beautiful words," according to him when we talked with him for his release to the Rampartner's kitchen in Tomas Morato.
Glaiza is one of the owner of the said restaurant together with Heart Evangelista, Dennis Trillo, etc.
Why are he chosen to make the alphabet right?
"The concoction was really focused on my FRIENDS, they are Angelica Panganiban, and Chuwariwa-Tropas, they are also studying, Alex de Rossi.
"Those in Second, the third floor," says Angelica Panganiban, the one who wrote the song, "the Barcelona," Barcelona, "
"He was in Barcelona when he was already in Barcelona, and then I did not understand me and I did not understand at first because I will deepen during words.
"Then, it's as if I did not seem to feel bad, according to him, so I made him Salas.
"In these times," he needs to release "her emotions that is being made," Glaiza. "
Angelica and Chnna Asistio also loves to write to an actor.
"If you will notice, when you think about the CD, you have out postcard of the CD's inside of CD with anything," he said, "he / she was the one who became a child."
Glaiza de Rossi's release will be sent back to Dyesebel, Barcelona, Barcelona, 09051090451, or wherever she sing Alhorny de Rossi), in "Yo de Rossi), who is a virgin) and Pag-nosed).
Original songs.
Did he find a concert to go to a concert such as Araneta Coliseum?
"We can do it but for now I still cannot see myself, my own, Araneta Coliseum.
"I really saw it in the Philippine Arena," he added. "
If Kylie will be able to give in Chance, Bamboo gang, Bamboo gang, Armi Kuyang, Dukhovnaia, and Gary Valcariano.
Glaiza was also included in the series "The Rich man's daughter, wherein he thanked Marian Rivera because she fought for her to be with Marian Rivera in the series before she went to Rhian Ramos.
When Marian was gone to the series because of her pregnancy, she was texting and thanked because she had a project and she also got sad that their relationship was disrupted.

You will be the first regular series of Tina Paner in GMA, "Heandits."
She is a single woman now but she is with her child, Tina made the child's things.
"In Spain, just because you have a wife because not, the children are being used, the name of the woman is used."
"He / she was a single Mother, who has been separated for a long time," he said.
He does not have any suggestion regarding this.
"It's because it's because it came to a point that it's okay, if ever he will come, not, okay, it's okay to see," my child. "
Tina lived in Barcelona in Spain.
"Alico,?
Durian Shake by Roldan.
