
The suspension of the farms, attacks of farmers in Hacienda Luisita, in the midst of the tragedy that is located for PPHP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
November 19, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Conejectment case, which was filed against the judge in Hacienda Luisita, Heide of Yolanda, the CPP-CPP-CPP-NPA.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines denied the Aquino administration and the clan of the asenne Aquino-Cojuangco in the demolition of some hectares of hectares of holes when the Filipino farmers in Hacienda Luisita.

"He was asked by the armed guard of the Aquino Aquino-Cojuangco, by the support and protection of the forces of the Marcos regime, the height of the tragedy caused by typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas" said the KP, from the reports of the incident.

"While the attention of the entire Filipino people is focused in giving help to the victims of the tragedy caused by typhoon Yolanda, the Aquino-CoCs from their land long ago," said the KP, said something bad.

"Based on the reports of the local residents, ordered by the Aquino administration to dismiss the trees and crops from 880-hectares of land where it is part of Barangay Balete Drive and Barangay Calaguas, the PKP has also filed a action of plunder, the increase of 80-workers in the area.

"In the following days, 60 armed forces of Tadeco, the houses and other structures built by the Filipino farmers in the area, that was the reason why it was reversed by armed men, Aquino, the members of the national police of Aquino in the entire time of the attack of the Filipino farm."

It has been long since the farmers in Hacienda Luisita, which is owned by a 4,500-hectare of land run out in 2005, the members of the alliance in the land for planting trees and vegetables for their savings and vegetables for the market.

In spite of the consecutive laws of reform the land, Hacienda Luisita still remain in the control of the abhorrific clan of the Philippines, Benigno Aquino III, is the grandchild of the Aquino administration.
