It was an emergency of Ebola, MRT, electricity and gunshots.

My beloved Philippines is facing a lot of emergency and there are local and some foreigners.
Included in the local emergency problems of the electricity, thousands of dollars were taken by Mount Mayon and hundreds of thousands of passengers of the Metro Rail Transit.
It is considered that the disease of Ebola has been considered an emergency and airplanes even if it was said that he has not been able to go to the Philippines yet.
Hehehe!
President Noynoy Aquino himself asked the Congress and Senate to give him an emergency power to celebrate the lack of billions of those who are estimated to be more than 300-400 million worth of electricity in 2015.
We are thinking, Bro, maybe not only in the months of use of electricity will be used by the emergency power.
Maybe the lack of electricity will continue to start the next year because the whole country is really running here for the growing population and improvement of the economy, "said."
And the response of those who did not do in the past four years in the development of the industry is quick in the improvement of the industry.
It is said that it can be money for hiring the generator to pay the power of big establishments that have their own generator, save the plant of the government to break off and others.
A few questions.
If the government is ready to break the expenses of big companies in the time of crisis, is there a similar action from the government in favor of the citizens?
Especially if it is possible that the electricity will be used in taking advantage of the crisis of the companies of electricity, which is spreading electricity, causing it to the electrical posts and jurisdiction of this?
Based on the truth that corruption and corruption in the "Tuwid na Daan, who will take the money on the contract on the use of P4B-P10,000.00.
Ebola.
The United Nations offered money to the Philippines in relation to the typhoon Yolanda and the disease of Ebola, according to the Philippines when typhoon Yolanda said that it should be given to the Philippines for help from the victims of Ebola in West Africa.
The UN led the international campaign against Ebola and he was with his companion in a private organization.
In my opinion, we have not heard anything from PNoy or from the Department of Health.
Will I agree?
The hope is the Philippine Red Cross in another private organization.
It is not in the minds of PNoy and the DOH officials who are Enrique Ona and Doods (Eric Tabag) to help those with 4,000 Overseas Filipino Workers who are patriotic, Sierra Leone, Sierra Leone, Guinea and 7,000 OFWs in Nigeria.
Onse, Miss Philippines.
Emergency in MRT.
The government is forcing, especially the Department of Transportation and Communications Office, that the Metro Rail Transit may still be safe, even after a while, their railway and brakes have a defect in some defect.
Even if the government is not saying it, it is not possible that the vehicle of 500,000 passengers of the MRT everyday will not be measured by the train in the middle of the big danger in discovering it.
The MRT flow of Pasay City has been experienced and many are wounded and there are still those who were wounded, what happened is worse than the train, while they are driving on top of the road, which usually becomes a parking lot in the day.
It is also possible that there will be a collision between the train in the disappearance of a line with a hint of arrogance from the railway.
Surely many will die.
Corruption and corruption are corruption, which should be included in those who take a check if the government wants to make a effective remedy.
However, a 10-year-old person should be able to make a action so that they do not have a good to repair and hang out from the train to ensure all their safety.
The government of the emergency transportation should also think of an emergency way for 500,000 people who are affected in the time of discovering the train.
She said it was an emergency.
The province of Albay knows that the problem in the evacuation centers are long because of the explosion of Mayon volcano that is why, their wish for help from the national government is right.
And they will have a problem if they will be implemented on what they've implemented, all the Albayano was seen in a danger zone and place.
It is certain that thousands of families will be affected by their lives and houses if the evacuation and transfer of the citizens will last.
It can be considered that this situation is really an emergency.
It is hard to live in hunger, noodles, lack of livelihood and lack of livelihood because of the explosion of the volcano and transfer of houses to them.
Is the government already thinking about the things that will be done to him?

Ultimatum at him / Benny.
