Urban Garay: We should try By Juliet, Loza-Cudia this November 28, 2016.
With the speed of life and taking time in the city, all the food is being bought, all people are busy with many people, without time to plant and have no other lot.
"In the" House Appropriations "and" house band "why don't you try the" urban and "traslacion" that you do not need a wide land to taste fresh vegetables like Chinese cabbage, tomatoes, shrimp, or others.
You are still sure that we can eat fresh vegetables and there is no chemical that you can eat fresh vegetables with your husband and wife, maybe you do not know what to do because you are surrounded by a cemented house and building, do not worry, you can do it.
In my small place in Quezon City, I went to a small place in Quezon City after I was encouraged by my fellow journalists, Pareng, and Pareng, and some neighbors who were able to plant fresh vegetables in the second floor of their house and in the third floor of their house.
The preparations!
There were 1.5 plastic bags that drink alcohol, it depends on some of the things you want to make.
That Sebunga (bones).
He / she was cut off from the bottom.
Very much.
The mentioned materials are not bought but it was only said that only the first thing I prioritize was to get rid of each other, build a sample or even the broken damage.
Put in the middle and put a hole on the ground and then I put the soil, next is, I grew up with the bones of the Chinese cabbage and coce or any other bones that you want to go.
After a few days, the leaves of the planted bone will drop, and this is where the possibility that you have reached 1.5 or 2 cups of lunch is needed.
There is a need to put half an hour to put this MGM Grand, bureaucracy under the amount to jump off so that the plants have not drowned.
Next to this, both sides of the bottle will be broken on both sides to get caught on the wall of successive gunshots and transfer the broken bones.
Put one or two pieces of every bottle of softdrinks out, it does not need to be a lot of sweat because they get fighting in the ground the moment the rice plants grew up.
Within the 40-day, it will be a long time, you don't need to buy Chinese cabbage for free food and other decorations which are primary ingredients that you cannot buy.
If you have done it or tomatoes, its fruits are just on your yard.
It is not impossible to plant bitter gourd and pillows to make sure even in your cemented yard, that is just in the system, that is only in the system and means of making "horny."
It is possible that the worn-out of the vehicle which is a tire of the vehicle can be put in a farm, put peace and multiple times when your bitter gourd, coconut milk and Turmeric.
"They are fed up," the real stress is to deliver the Calvento Files, why don't you try it?
Who knows, like me and like others who are trying to try to study in urban and Calvento Files, you can also eat fresh vegetables from your "improvised shade."
