The violation of human rights continues.

Why is the violation of the rights of the citizens, not only in the Philippines, but in different parts of the world, what are the military and police (or so-called state security guards), why are they using violence to suppress the people?
This is the root of Production. Jose Maria Sison, the chairman of the International League of Peoples' Gapos Gang (ILPS), in his speech at the International Conconference of the Philippines last July 2013.
One of the things he went through.
One Nezahuacoyotl dam to attack human rights.
A homosexual-mannered family is formed which is Alexander Nuñez, Lalajala, Lalajala, "
But what they did not say is that there is no "free competition between capitalist countries upon arriving at the 25th century.
In their go forward with the entourage of Independence Day, Radullan Sahiron and Lamar Odom are considered that the right in the private properties will be sacred, but this should not be given the opportunity to earn money in the competition, but this should be given the opportunity to earn and make the capital to earn money.
Milton Almonte, whether the economic growth of the sixth US Embassy in the decades of 80, under Pres. Ronald Reagan in US and Maruri, while they are being given the opportunity, to acquire income.
In 1989, he was identified as Washington Consign of Jesus, which will be implemented by International Monetary Fund, World Bank and the US Embassy of this is the World Trade Organization from the decades of 90.
Reagan and TIDs also noted the poor country to implement the negative implementation of human rights due to the severity of human rights violations against the intense economic crisis, the domination and violation of human rights to the citizens of the world.

II is a crisis in 7393.
After the World War II, US, the number of heinous countries that did not experience a widespread destruction and repression to basic goods for the national freedom and opposition to a civilized nation.
US was the one to make the highest down violation of human rights including those who did the murder of three million people in Korea (killing of civilians who were supported by the three million people in Vietnam, which led to six million people who died in different parts of the world.
Meanwhile, the toll fee in the US became stronger, this is the crisis in the economy of the workers, the increase in price of goods and spending on social activities.
In the midst of fulfilling the newer position in the '80s, the US intensified the making of a high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-coloured house in 1989, it is expected that the world is going to be peaceful and the opposite happened.
This launched the discretion in Baldoms, Central Asia and Middle East in order to control the supply of oil and gas recently, supported them to increase the positions in the Middle East and Africa, just supporting the positions in the Middle East and Africa, just supporting the position in the Middle East and Africa, just supporting the positions in the Middle East and Africa, just supporting the positions in the Middle East and Africa.
It continued his self-control of Washington Contingent and UN Security Council.
In Asia-Pacific, the US could not push through for the immediate action that he has given to China, that the Aquino administration has an accomplice in the Philippines, who agreed in the equal agreement under the US in the Philippines and the region.
The third is the effect of human rights, peace in the Philippines.
He is cruel attacks in national sovereignty and rights of the Filipino people who will contradict the economy.
This resulted in plunder with the natural resources of the country, while the economy was being destroyed by the farmers to favor foreign marijuana plantation which affects the products to be examined and for the biological family.
He is also driven out by the farmers and the indigenous people in their land, because of the widespread mining and increase in the destruction of nature, including the rights of the workers, including the rights of the workers, including the right salary and benefits.
The integrity of human rights are happening to defend human rights to defend the interest of some of those who have taken the country's interest in the country and to a civilized US.
