P2M reward VNess JO-INEy Aries, Betchai Said, Edusma's last August 30, 2016.
In order to stop the prevalence of illegal drugs by those who are so-called by old, or members of the Philippine National Police (PNP), who protects the syndicate of illegal drugs, as well as those who sell drugs, President Rodrigo Duterte decided to build the two million reward.
"So, I am being treated as a reward for a reward to the head of the Office of the members of the Police Station Are, to be the company of the drug addict in Towerville, Noni)," statement of President Rodrigo Duterte at the National Heroes' Day in the Libingan ng mga Bayani yesterday.
The President also said that the military needs help in the campaign against illegal drugs.

Because if he will just leave the police, it will not be done because the problem of drugs in the country is widespread.
"Thank you, if the military will take a part of the Philippine National Police, we was able to deliver it to the transfer of the drug problem, Fight IT.
In relation to this, the President is calling on those who have information against her by little by scalawag cops.
Ah, "thank you," thank you, "you have sold" your friends, "the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces to be the Armed Forces to the Philippines, the Armed Forces, to the Armed Forces of the Philippine National Bureau of Taba," the appeal of PDU 30.
Meanwhile, the PNP encouraged the people to go with their campaign to clean their ranks.
PNP Spokesman C / Supt. Dionardo Carlos said yesterday in front of the media that the national police is open to information that can point on the "narco-number."
"We, the Pambansang Kamao of the PNP-Homicide Section (the Office of the Office of the PNP-Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (PNP) chief of NBI)," Carlos "We Seal," said to be an initiative to pay for the all-up of the Office of the Organization (We-FFF).

The PNP ensured that the identity of the identity, which can call 09178475757, is active in 24 / 7.
"We Are, to be aware of the alleged drug addict in the Country," we, Taba, the national campaign against drugs Our Lady, "said the PNP spokesperson," added the PNP spokesperson.
