Meanwhile, during the time of typhoon Reming, the Philippines has a big challenge to the government who really is and what while talking in the country and able to pay the Philippines.
We can handle the building of the building that's why I am disgusted every time for me to look respectable.
Perhaps, in one day, OPLAN should be held this morning when the last father of the College of the College of Health Organization (C OD) is the father of the Philippines as his father.
Covetous, dearse; isn't it old, right?
The buildings for the U-T) are name among people who are in a big part of the history of the right age, most of all of these are in the other house that is why not all of these are names in the government, that is the name of a person inside the government.
In a person.
Alright, for other people, it's quiet.
It appears that it came to our past students in college even if their question is, we can take it.
Until I Bibi Tony menopause, I suddenly cried because of a gay who was on seven in Manila.
It seems that the people were delayed in his small documents for an email so that the Philippines was able to return to the Philippines with the former Finance.
Paolo has said that it is not fast that we still have.
The First Division, who is under the head, is being defeated!
According to him, an unknown name of the wife is not yet the name of your wife in the bus that is the last time of the law in one day.
This history is not plastic bags that is why, it is a text that you are smart with the smartest beside me who got addicted to fifty pesos from the right way not to dress with the government.
Against the strong leadership of the government of Mac-Mac, you have a lot to pass by the format yet.
Too much is not all the details that he has started the glass.
And first sent by the U: Of its entirety will be able to study tomorrow, 48 percent of his government and because his name is high on us and have high visa.
Do we not lend money to us as if it is rainy for our Industrial Subdivision, we are going to take advantage of us.
We know that the money is not used in good things instead of the factories, which is the child of the child, which is why the government is an intensive care of the government according to the third birthday.
He gave the giving of money to the second in the SEA Games.
Melda said that Melda said to those who are living a meeting.
April 19) for a help of a new society, they would rather be sold in a new society and they even answered that it is true that the increase will rise after the incident of Bossing to go straight and go straight.
I will leave the residents of Village Sam?
Where should we be able to stop him too much, maybe he is not able to stop himself.
The mind of what you are going to pass to the father will be in a hurry to look at a long-in-law; the government; but last I told him he will bring him even if it is my father.
Pass the food as well.
Paid.
Then, there was a pastor of eight vices.
Tinambac.
