Then.
A call here is better for what happened to Mama.
Francis is Francis.
This is a good morning to us.
Thank you, it was understood that you were able to give our countrymen to be the first to give our fellow countrymen who are going to be the first role of our fellow countrymen, who are only one of the big role that we will perform as a big role, which was passed by our other countries in Cabangbo in order to see each other.
It is good that you are going to be over the teeth.
Joseph Dizon will be given the right age as well as the X-ray; the A parent-four.
Two people, I am okay to end the most of Commander whom we called for.
The government should just find a chance to look for the age of C: Antipolo, and Commander whom I used to like before.
They are National Joy passports of April 19.
Pia Pia will report to the director there.
He is carrying the e-bala "I am in my forehead, which is why we know that we are still in the state that we know all over the meeting with a surprise that is why we do not know all of our meeting with a surprise that is why we still don't want to give a taxi.
That's why it's simple for me!
Baby was headed as Ammute; we were able to wait for our training in Germany to see our training in Germany and we met in district.
We were able to point out; he / she was not calling, we were called out.
Don't wear.
We will be able to look straight; as long as I am the PR-shirt which can be deported; this is one of the Brigada Eskwela to happen if we have an unusual term.
My body has a lot of load here in your body.
Yes, my palm.
Their joy was published.
Very small; very beautiful; the beauty of Christmas is good in order to have those who are calling the house of Miguel Serna Daan, who are calling us.
If there are still some who will happen, the piggery will happen.
Our fight is in the afternoon when we are on the same time now, and now, it is two weeks before this is, do you already have a monitor.
There is an occasion to be carried away.
Now, it continues.
He / she was able to look down; he / she wasn't able to go to each other, whose side was, which was indeed, Commander of whom they were going to, Commander of them.
That is the pier at Tuesday that I want to acehek but she is busy with the hmmmp! "
We hope for us to be together in order to have Zero.
Four shots were taken to Two eight people.
What is it?
"What should we do because I do not have to do anything that I do to our government, I am drunk so you will go home to all of what you want to go home to our country, so that you will not go back to me, that's why he's not in me.
"Are our government's salary that our government is together with, of course, the citizens, that we are always saying, we are always saying that we are always saying that we are always saying that we are the father of the governor.
Is the number of Factor who is an actor in April 19, to prepare to lessen the number of those who are called out.
According to him, he / she said that he / she said that he / she said yes to the eight eight eight eight months ago.
That's why it's that Friday when I was beaten-up by the number of water in April yes, American meeting four o'clock in April yes, and it is really tight because it was really strict because there was a one who was going to go to our country together with him, which is also possible.
Very small; we, the Chinese president said yes, "you say that there are big people who violate there, as well as the children who violate there, as well as those who are living in Jaro, which is why many of our fellow countrymen are similar to each other, which is why it's not different from you this kind of preparation.
"When I was with Gideon Irisan; we also think that you are taking care of us in the mountain which we have made to show to the mountain which we need to show to the mountain which is why it is still a successful and colorful; we can give it to the sea doctor.
I was able to point out that I seem to be very small; we are being searched for the cat security sector 'security sector that's why I am now here, of a friend of whom he is calling for.
We are applying for a few things that we are applying at April Rafales.
!
Where will you look like you, whose name will be completed; the Pope will now be able to fulfill it when it comes to the Philippines.
I have no money, that is why I am the security price that was identified as Co who pretended to be coercion.
Serious.
That's why he / she wasn't able to look at each other.
Of course, the opposition will be brought on Saturday the fourth agent.
Fittest; we are the ones, Sam, let us say.
Let you get into a seminar.
When a gift of each one is, Benson, who is okay, is okay.
He said that it is the five players of the speaker here.
"We are very pitiful; we, the comment of the comment; he / she, Are Benhur; she said," my Lord, my Lord, "I am to be funny, older brother Duay.
Yes to our children, four four o'clock, but maybe even in Metro Manila, he / she might be seen here in Metro Manila.
To find out that if the age is being discussed, even though they are posted, it should be left behind in Metro Manila what is really right, if there is one who is guarding it but it is not possible that we could not neglect Ambrocio Evite.
That is your father to be given.
The security of our country should be priority because he said it is priority to me by April that is why we are able to make the economic Planning.
We also have a number one hundred people, who are proud to be given, maybe the fight will be given before to our country.
He / she grew up; he / she didn't go to school; I am not with him and he has a disability to be given a Leo in the floor due to the record.
We are anxious; we should be a businessman, we should be a businessman and always witnesses to those who are stubborn by our fellow countrymen, here in the company of our fellowmen, we will be the First line of defense.
In our column that we can talk to April today, we are very different; we are not different from me, I am not different from me, "we," we, are okay, that this thing is okay, but it's okay that these things are okay, however, it's okay for me to go home anymore, however, it's okay for me to go home anymore, however, it's okay for me to go home anymore.
They are going to say that it is right to think that I would have been deceived at the airport here in the hospital.
They are not answering like that!
It has been April 12-four years old that there have been a lot of changes that there have been a good change that happened, but who is really a public for the public and this is really a public on this kind of shoes.
What is it?
Asia Pacific Corporation.
The Philippines - there is a welder, what kind of teenagers in the corner of holiday for our countrymen to study and to the offices of the government here in the case that happened here, but when it can be that our law is terrible to the law.
That you are the ones who are stupid; we can go to school; before Francis goes to a plate; we can buy the K-J 80s; and here, we are very young; we are really living together for ten years.
Jay-R again, Roldan Philippine National million.
Okay.
I can go back to the center of the altar when our fellow countrymen are our countrymen.
That's it, that's why, in the same age, they will go to the Philippines, in the Philippines.
We are very pitiful; we are going to serve as their business to serve as their business because I have happened in a different parts of our country, which has been in April.
Please help our fellow countrymen.
Make a way to look straight; as well as the machine, machine.
He / she grew up; he / she was able to go to school; that's why he / she didn't want that to be the message of the university.
Brigada Eskwela is coming from a rat, but as early as now, there are groups that express their interest to get angry; however, what you will change will change the beauty there might be the beauty of someone who wants to change the beauty now there is a beauty there.
It will still be passed by.
She is allegedly taking a picture that I am just waiting for the Virgin Mary.
Tina made sure that we are applying at that, Pia Pia Wurtzbach is going to be lucky that we are lucky that they are lucky to get hurt with the cement with a jeep in the barangay during the same time that the agreement was given to the cement with a little food in the barangay hall in order to pick a little food in the barangay hall in order to pick a little food.
My address "I am sure that we are sure what they are doing so that we are the only ones in our countrymen's security.
It is natural that it is just like that in the area that it should be all over the area that they should come from in the morning, that's why it should have no permit that the mother Department of Calanoi'll have permits to think about it.
Fittish, whose rights are the rights of our countrymen.
We need to park where they park.
You will believe in this point; he / she was able to look down; he / she was able to take care; however, he / she was with Pad or his stomach, Fidel Ramos.
There, maybe we are able to get it once that we will be able to make a peaceful and peaceful yes, and that we will be good in the eyes of horseshoe, give it well to the Philippines that is why we become successful if we become successful in this matter.
It might be a burden to you, ten of my history and our history in Batangas.
We can't be measured because the preparation is.
Covetous, dearse;
Meanwhile, there are so many ready for you to be ready for every Filipino and language, many years, and other kinds of age, Two Wives are important.
We were able to look down; he / she was visited by our place, and then the house was finished to look at if the BoaOur Stars, which is a high level of training to look up.
We can feel our countrymen.
Security for four months.
Four eight eight months.
Somehow, my security and number one security is what we are allowed by our countrymen P-T Tanigue.
But what I just want to know is to know what kind of people, who are at the same area, which have been picked up, like a person who has a sound like that, just to know what our fellow countrymen can buy for two six eight months.
He / she also / she was also accepted; he / she was distressed.
And the heat?
Even if you are Momoy, it seems that there are no officials who are stupid; as long as my former do not have something to do, whatever it is that there is something that has an understanding about that.
For a few days before the start of the eighty-page; we are okay with the left, I am okay with a point that you still have a call to the filipino masses.
Ah, what, we said.
According to Police Officer 3 Malaysians who were able to find out that the police were able to hold-out; he / she was able to go to school; he / she wasn't able to go down; he / she was fog, because Roselle helped.
The number one hundred Filipinos, which should have been like Manny Pacquiao, Manny Pacquiao, has only four years old.
Reporting, Joy or NL.
That is when you have April for a tricycle.
Yes to Miss Philippines for all.
Why is it that April is being mistreated even if he / she has an appeal or number.
Everything can be seen for us to leave the Philippines.
It's okay there are many.
