"It's already five months of justice!

Five months have passed, there is still no justice for the victims of typhoon Yolanda because of the said criminal negligence "of the Aquino administration.
So last April 8, the group People Surge in Mendiola, Manila was brought by the foot of Malacanang, their anger towards the Aquino administration who allegedly did not respond to their wishes.
"It has been five months but our situation is still five months but it is still not happening because the government (Aquino) is still useless and they are not doing what should be done," according to Senior Edita Esmilla, the chairman of the People's Surge.
The victims who were from Eastern Visayas went to Mendiola in order to cooperate with their colleagues under the People's Surge.
According to them, there is still no help coming from them by the government, in spite of the downpour of help from different organizations inside and outside of the country.
"We have not received any relief goods from the government.

Five months, they are still brave.
According to Galvez, they are only alive today in their left crops such as salad, evening, and a little field of rice, there is still no water and electricity in their area.
At present, Galvez is just going to be set up because they are not allowed to build a house again because their area is in the jurisdiction of "No Build Zone" policy of the government which prohibits them to raise their house again.
This is also the story of Rita Dacoy, 69, who went back to Tacloban City, Leyte because they were not able to go back to their house which was also affected by the storm, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
"We are also trying to go through the clock, but they are going to get tired and have no livelihood, we will also get hungry there, but we did not come to us," Dacoy said.
Instead of reaching them the help, it was said that it has been a conflict between the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) before giving away, he added.
According to the People's Surge, they still need to get the relief goods and long-lasting work because they do not want to depend on relief goods.
If the P40,000 to them can be given, it is better to fix their houses and they think, this is not enough for their own needs.

Even the insults of the government.
From Eastern Visayas, they brought their wish to Manila to answer their rights as victims of calamity.
Included in their wish is P40,000 to immediate help, continuing to give relief goods, especially in secluded places and garbage to attract the "No Build Zone" of the government.
Last February 17, the New People's wish was brought by the victims of Yolanda in Malacanang, but they were not able to meet with a favorable response to the government and they were still insulted by the statement of the officials of Aquino in the took place, according to Marissa Panagao, Western Samar and one of the People Surge.
"We protested here in different agencies, but we are not facing a conversation), but we are looking out with the DSWD (DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman)," according to Cabalens.
Cabalens also said that they did not pay attention to the politicians and allies of the President in the legislative chamber, when they went to Batasan Pambansa when they went to Batasan Pambansa when they went to Batasan Pambansa.
"They are just pregnant," the congressmen who seem to do not care about their victims of typhoon Yolanda, he even said.
"It seems like it's like the market (Kamara) that's why I am disappointed and my respect (for them) is not respected, why are we still vote?" Why should we still vote? "

Ongoing.
Even if they neglect the Aquino administration even if they went to Manila, the hope and fighting of People Surge will continue to get justice.
"It is not just the victims of Yolanda that we can enumerate, but all the citizens who were neglected and neglected in the time of disaster like the victims of the typhoon Pablo and even the victims of the Zamboanga siege," according to Cabalens.
The People's Surge will only start on their fight against the present, there are already a lot of sympathy and sympathy from different sectors that are helping them to show the real condition of the victim, according to Joel Abano, spokesperson of the People's Surge.
Five months have passed by the negligence of government official, Pad together with its posture and fighting against the victims for their rights not only as victims of calamities but as citizens who will not allow them to be victims.
