Who would even join the PBA Philippine Cup finals?

Postigo,: Sabrina M.
On February 1, 2016.
In!

In case Alaska Milk was able to get back at the three consecutive failures that he experienced in the hands of San Miguel Beer and many are still fighting the championship in the PBA Philippine Cup Cup, Vic Manuel is sure to be the suspension of the PBA Philippine Sea Cup.
There is no other players of Alaska Milk, who can be seen winning in Manuel, who has been leading for the first three games of the series won by the Aces.
The question: Who will become the MVP of the finals, if the Beermen is complete, the committee is complete and declared champion?
This is where the members of PBA Press Corps are hiding, who will choose a mandate.
Because they have different stars of San Miguel in the three hours recorded by this for the series.
In Game four, Chris Algieri became his idol player after he was able to build a double locks if there was 11 points, 12 rebounds and nine million pesos.
In Game 5, Arwind Santos has been supporting 22 points when it made 22 points, 16 rebounds, four assists, four kilos and three million pesos.
In Game six-six-0-six, the Beermen were able to enter the Beermen when it was done by a 26 points including four consecutive wins.
If we will make it properly, the heroism used to give them different things in order to help their primary people, June Mar Fajardo which is not yet 100 percent since their disability is not yet 100 percent.
Because the two teams were able to rest for five days since they play in Game 5 last Friday, it is expected that Fajardo is expected to be beneficial tomorrow to the length of PGame Sungala.
So, it is not different if PBA Press Corps are going to choose who will win as Campnal MVP of the finals?
It is difficult, isn't it possible that we have something to serve as vice president in Game SMB in order for the Beermen.
But of course, those from Alaska say, "for you not to have difficulty in buying, we should be declared champion and Manuel, who is the MVP!"
Let's see.
