Killing of a farmer in Hacademic, is owned by the PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 2, 2013.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) was impressed by the brutal murder of one of the leaders of the Filipino farm of Hacienda Luisita last October 31, the bloody body of Dennis dela Cruz, an extraordinary body of Filipino Bukid in the hacienda (SWS), in a score of alliance in Barangay Balete Drive.

"The murder of dela Cruz can only be done by armed men who have an active farm which are active to notice the distribution of land which is implemented by the Department of Agrarian Reform of Tarlac and the Tarlac Development Corporation," said the KP.
Even before the murder of dela Cruz, the armed guard made TADECO and Hacienda Realty Corporation for the backyard of 100 hectares of land in Barangay Balete Drive in the area to insist on the land owned by the land in the area to insist on the ownership of the land in the area to insist on the ownership of the land in the area.

According to the evacuation center and the alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle Luzon (SWS), the armed guards threatened Dela Cruz several days ago about the armed guards on the ground that they should stop the rice paddies and vegetables.

The organization of the farmers in Hacienda Luisita also complained about raising the troops of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in different barangays, there are reports that put the AFP and not less than four vehicles in the area.

A 6,500 worth of land is Hacienda Luisita, which is owned by the Aquino Aquino-Cojuangco.

But there is no ongoing distribution of the land, instead, the evidence given by the privatization of the land will be paid by those who are trying to catch up in the ground that they can be able to catch up in the list of monasteries that are prepared to catch up in the list of pensioners who are planning to catch up in the list of ferocious animals.

"In the past 25 years under the First P and EdPER, the terrorism said the real Estate where it caused the return of the land owned by the Black Nazarene with the original failure of the Lord to the land."
