The revelation of the Saligang Batas of the 25th anniversary of the new armed group of town-governmental organization (end of capitalists have to push for the armed struggle!

Fortunato!
DOTU - the southern end.
March 28, 2014.

It is the highest tribute that will be given by the Revolutionary Council of trade Universities (Southern Tagalog (NFTU-ST), and its invaluable service as the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), this is the biggest contribution in the country's leadership, and this is the biggest offensive of the country to end the international revolution.
It can be recalled that the movement of the making of the southern part of the southern part of the southern end of the Philippines can be considered as the protection of the senior citizen of the Philippines due to the guidance of the Liberal Party of the Philippines due to the release of the Liberal Party of the Philippines due to the purpose of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino (Poverty.

I am the highest tribute of all of a martyr anymore of the revolutionary movement, the workers who offered their great lives for the courageous and members of the Bagong Hala "Tantangan, Rodel" Ka Aguino, Rodel "Penamiable, and many others.

It has passed through a lot of snatchers or barbells, included here is a dark chapter in the line and principle of the citizens who will serve the primary movement of the country, therefore, there is no question in the proper movement of the people that will serve as the highest movement of fighting for the filipino people, they remain as a priority and the highest form of fighting for the filipino people.

Under the former US-Aquino II, the Filipino and foreign contacts is being raped by the local and foreign countries because it was also due to the questionable administration and the agencies that are everywhere in the interest and rights of the workers.

It is growing and let the illegal activities pass through in order to save the strengthening of the workers inside the factory, and destroy the unity of the workers inside the factory where their lives are still ongoing, including the lack of inhumane benefits for the workers.

And the right to hang in-workers, an example of the campaign period of Caringal, an example of the rights of the workers and remove the rights of the workers and remove the rights of workers in the US, and for the murder of the workers in the face of Oplan LS.

In spite of giving alms being given to the workers, the increase and additional wage increase in basic needs and service, oil and PhilHealth, food, tuition, contribution in public hospitals such as Rizalde and PGH, and many other expensive vehicles!

Let us watch out how the RUSA II and other past calamities in the country were abandoned, after the government can earn a little and rotten goods, only a simple apology was given by Aquino to the people.

While the national election is approaching the year 2016, the politicians are going to make their own pockets of the country's wealth so that they can save some of their own ways to spend in different positions in the government, it is clear to the people to solve the primary problems of the country.

The continuous work of the workers in the Batasang Pambansa or from the factory is not enough for their needs for more than 8 hours for the increase in their needs for more than 8 hours, which aims to leave 100 percent owned by the capitalists have, which aims to leave 100 percent which is owned by foreign contacts.

In the traits of the workers who have no own ownership of the production, they are going to meet the rights of the workers inside and outside the Pacific Ocean, it needs to overthrow the workers in the current system of the society under the RUSA II, that is why there is no hope to overthrow and build the revolution.
