The military continues to search for those who care at it.
Here in the mountains for help, hopefully you will transfer now a bed line here in a short-line line.
When he handed it to the two of us there, he / she didn't want to confess to what is going to happen.
If he is going to have something to go to, he / she has to go to school; he / she takes care of me; but one group.
This was carried away by the second from there orange.
"It's okay who can read the international airport that I've read in the international airport.
It is not ah, how, it seems that, as if they have paid five million pesos for him, but he / she says that he / she was not paid; he was still killed; he was still killed.
We were able to sleep fast and that's why it's said that they have heard something like that, although there was no effect that they were really given to the BE.
We will be able to go back to the beginning, but we can remember that we are not mistaken, we don't make sure that we are not mistaken, but we are still not talking about it, but there are also other days that we have been going to go to a second-in-law, but there are also other days that they will be sent by four days.
What is happening now here?
Isn't it, isn't it that there is no difference between the ashes that happened between the ashes that happened between the ashes, that's why when you enter the ashes, it is possible that this will be when you enter our troops, which is why there is a welder, which is why a welder, is the other side of what I am holding.
Far from this, the Western Mindanao has long talked earlier this morning they are saying that they are about to implement the government.
Although they also do not get along well, it is at the airport the fourth party she is calling for.
To prove that it will be proven that those who do not show their ashes, and also included here are the possibility that they will offer them or will not stop it even though it is not stopped from God because of the consecutive attacks of the Department because of the consecutive wins.
Our friendship is, as well as the high-ranking officials of the government, who are very well-elected; P / P / P) to talk about the action that will be made.
Against him, what is the command to go out?
My children are dark.
You!
The refrigerator is more intense operation which is why the group of Jojo is like the weather.
He / she was really able to take care; that's why it was said that this was a military officer because he was chased by the groups of ashes, and carrying it.
I just say that we are very pitiful; our baptism, "maybe we are not aware of it.
July two, we have passed news that he sits at the country.
!
I was also the order here in Raj Zamboanga Peninsula and Henrike Dielen here and other people even though his wife Mark has died, the price hike.
Who would not be able to turn the stones that they have against the military who are there now.
When I arrived at a line of military, we were saying that it was just a report.
Yes, it is natural because it is natural.
Okay.
Then, we are going to report but applied for inspiration from here on his ally, whose side is our ally; that's why he still doesn't have nothing to do with the former five years.
Two people were killed.
It was too late.
A six-year-old; he / she only went to the child, of Carmona, the child will be brought up to the surroundings, which is why he didn't get along well with something.
To do this.
Up to him, it is unlikely to go to school; rather, to give way.
According to them, it's as if I give thanks to the opinion that they have been thankful for the opinion that they have become aware; as well as their animals, what they will do in Luzon operation to be taken away by the baptism of doctor Jose Rizal.
That is what we have in personal and then we have to go to school which is the real reason why people do not understand each other.
Against this in Dilawan, because they have a bigger opponent, then they are still playing with the right situation of your mother to be careful with you.
