Manila City Hall, "

The City Hall Police Headquarters was eventually demolished "because the chief and police here are only used by politicians, particularly the mayor of the city in their personal task and strategy.
That is why the mayor has long been removed from the power of the mayors since our police called the Philippine National Police.
Although the mayors will be recommended to be recommended to who they want to be the chief of police in their jurisdiction, the leadership of the PNP will be followed on who they should take care of.
He was just avoiding that the mayor was declared mayor.
In Manila, we saw how much are Mayor Joseph Estrada in the Manila Police District as long as he has issued a fund for the additional funding of the police for Manila, and he was again released by vehicles so that they can use patrols over the people in the country.
And we are challenging Mayor Erap because we saw how much the Manila Police will be aggressive in suppressing criminality.
We noticed the left checkpoint of the riding-in-tandem but Mayor Erap has a heart disease and it seems that he still hasn't felt the Manila Special Action Force (masses).
Although it is called for the masses to call it, it is still known for the Manila City Hall Detachment of the dog, he changed its newspaper but it seems that it gets worse than a crazy dog because it seems that it is like a crazy dog because it seems to be a crazy dog because it seems like a crazy dog.
It seems like this is just called by the masses to take the image of Mayor Erap, we know that it is Mayor Erap, but we know that it is Mayor Erap, but instead of for guidance and for assistance for the masses, they are even those who take advantage.
Well, this is being complained by the masses, as if you can buy some corrupt personnel.
The masses will quickly take action if you can catch up to the vendors who are taking care of the vendors in the KTV bar and other houses in Manila.
The masses should take action against those scattered in a show in Avenida and C.M. Recto, even if it is loyal but they are supposed to be charged so they continue to investigate the operation.
The cruel, even in gambling dens are competing for the masses to be competing for the relocation of the NCRPO and Camp Crame.
All gambling dens are on top of the masses, which is headed by Major AJ RiTancinco.
We do not know this with Major Iriberri but because of the complaints against the masses, we will meet what kind of chief he is.
Let us ask Major IrTancinco? Do you know that your masses is not becoming a pro-masses but money just about money?
And wait, what is being done by a manicurist is doing what is being done by the masses, Captain Jimmy de Pedro, is it true that you are the act of the "bagman of the masses.
If a bagman of an unit has a bagman, it means that it is really true that there is a "traslacion" in the mass this week.
Is Captain de Pedro really true that there is a payola in foreign vendors, prostitution and illegal gambling are the masses?
