"A plate number."

I salute the decision of the Land Transportation Office (LTO) to catch the vehicles that are using high-plate number but my call here, regular patrons who have a plate number. "
The LTO will also catch the vehicles using plate cover, which is why it cannot almost be seen with the number of vehicles, the LTO should also catch the plate number "lying down, and almost cannot be seen.
I have been noticing the spread on the streets of "plate numbers," the "plate numbers," it has long been seen by some groups that are also being used by syndicates in making crimes.
One of the things that LTO should focus on the scattered fiers around here, even if the LTO administration is calling for the public to not go closer to fixers, the clients of the agency should not avoid accidents because they are the ones who approach them.
For example on the current LTO) in East Avenue, Quezon City, the ones who can get licenses are just going to the gate to get licenses and registered to the vehicle, now, with fiestas, waiting.
With the sweetness of those inhumane, they will really be able to support the LTO, and there are even ID of LTO, most of his fixers, of course, will not have clarity on the people if they do not have accomplices in the agency.
There are those who are pointed to be pointed out, "LTO), where it will be faster to the movement of the documents.
They will investigate!

Now that the Supreme Court declared the Presidential pork barrel Disbursement Acceleration Program, what would be the next to be done?
First, it should be held on Audit and know the true worth of DAP that is said to be the fund of DAP.
Investigate where the funds of DAP went to which is why it has been used for the progress of the poor just like what DBM and Malacañang say?
For the agency under the President, funds are going to pass and how much is this?
Is it true that the senators just went to their pockets or went to their projects to help the poor?
Or it is true that this is given to the senators to be fired from the Implementing Rules and former Chief Justice Renato Corona?
The people are asking for many questions about DAP, and this should be answered as soon as possible.
