Horny!!!: Maine, giddy, look like Alden!
Baba Barazon. August 28, 2016), Maine Mendoza has already been here in the Philippines, from a few days of vacation in La Union when he visited the famous bar in La Angeles when he visited the famous Catholic Church in Universities (ALS).
According to the post of Maine, she said that she could not avoid fun!
"Well, up to now, it is still far away from this form of Maine to the US, but you feel that it is too much happiness, especially when he saw his love with Alden, and of course, she really felt when she has a love affair with Maine, and she was really seen with a love affair and giddy.
Direk Maryo, it does not care of his role as a veteran director, because it is too much important for me to give a good message and inspiration to the viewers, but what's important to me is to send a good story in the industry, "thank you for a good story in the Lord."
"So, the best will be for the sake of the PWe, to be able to do the best person in expressing the story," he said.
Rita, wants to get free from the antagonist!
The Kapuso actress Rita Danielle, is one of a celebrity who has been chosen by the latest celebrity, but according to her, she liked him because he can show her true personalities.
"Here you can meet Rita Danielle," Rita, "Rita, who I see in the TV actress Rita," here, I thought that I really want to sing, "here, I thought that I want to sing, go to other people, especially to joke," he said.
Glaiza, crying, crying because of Encantadia!
To improve the abundance of GMA Network, Encantadia, Glaiza de Castro related to the hardship she is going through so that the character of Henares in congress can be seen properly.
According to Glaiza, before Encantadia, before Encantadia, he / she has already started to start in preparation for the preparation of his fight against GMA Telegant soap.
"Yes," I cannot take out anything from the truth, this is my First-time that I did her when I arrived at the point where I arrived in the training of too much difficulty, "Glaiza said.

The nun was able to commit suicide!
A unique story of love can be shown on the Kapuso network since tomorrow, August. 29. The Korean was about to take revenge on Angel's Revenue, about it's revenge for a time that Angel's-in-training is Angel (Yo Yi).
In the hour that his close friend and the most beloved brother, Micah, he will stop the training of becoming a nun to take revenge on how she will implement his plans?
Wait for his story every Monday to Friday, around 9: 40 in the morning in GMA Heart of Asia Moros.
