Stand in San Roque.
By Filipino Weeker.

The lives and fighting against the citizens of Sitti San Roque, North Triangle, Quezon City, five years after the successful defense of their homes.

Nanay Jonvic Remulla, leader of San Roque, asked the security of Ayala's security to take a photo in the area of JL.



Selling various vegetables and food in San Roque. JL.



In San Roque, a fish is also buying fish in San Roque.



Some of the houses that were abandoned, despite this, many still remain in San Roque. JL.



He was abandoned and appointed a house.



The houses in the people are still made of light materials now.



The house of JL.



He left and locked the JL.



One family in San Roque. JL.



The children are also the playground for some space inside San Roque. JL.



There are also those who are sleeping in the cals of HL.



JL.



Metro Manila, living in small places, JL.



Nanay Cion carefully at her home.



The next fight in San Roque. Jony.

The picture of JL.
The residents of Sitti San Roque (North Triangle), Bagong Pag-asa (North Triangle), Bagong Pag-asa in Quezon City after they were able to stop the attempt to stop their houses last September 23, 2010, a few months after Benigno Aquino III served as president.
Lourdes Bernadita, 44, and 20-year-old resident of San Roque, said that when they were blocked and paralyzed in the same goal to defend their homes and do not allow their character as poor.
The lives and struggle in San Roque. JL.
"Including our neighbors that we brought out, even the outposts which we put in EDSA for us to defend San Roque, but they are not capable of fighting and not to fight," according to Lourdes.
According to him, the said defense of their community is a big success in their community, not only in their homes but also because of the residents who were transferred to Relocation Site.
Despite of this, the demolition of demolition is not missing for them because of the project of Quezon City to continue the Central Business District which is part of the Public Works and Private ng mga Bayani of the Aquino administration.
What they are doing is different kinds of fraud and harassment done by the guards on their area which are all residents of San Roque so they will be stricter and full of money to the families in order to leave the place.
"They condemned the materials that will be brought here, even if you are to repair the house, they will be assured that your house is not placed in a house or put extension of your house," according to EpiPen. Kalapati, National Vice-3618.
In spite of this threat, they remain unity to defend their houses, livelihood, and character of the government for a long time to sweep their community.
