My siblings have not yet been lacking in four books and wake up to students who can be expecting that we do not have a change right now that we don't have to talk to all those who are watching you in Pasig, Matthew is bothers you and then all of you are watching you.
Ah, thank you, thank you, at the distance of this, we have to look at each other, you are like that, you are starting to start the classes in public schools.
Let us discuss now what are these problems in DepEd.
No first of all, I always want to be the same.
If we are compared with the statements received by the twelve pesos in Construction and Development Assistance Fund), they are able to help those who are renting four months but until now, Two Wives are already went down.
So, maybe your reason for the help in the media is so big.
We coming back to the policemen in our last night.
The noise in all of us is to see the noise in the Food Court by parents and students who are studying from a private place when our public schools will go.
So this is what DepEd will bear because DepEd is saying that what we need on the classroom what is the temporary solution that we are doing to the Model Shop is still a big solution.
You will know about the discussion of a classroom if you can remember that it is as if you entered the Aquino station.
We have a needs for six to eight years.
This is this May who has the current year.
Let us go back to those who want to help those who are going to help.
We still continue to hit us by those who are in six months that should be done.
Most of my here in the past six months have passed, it may be more quick to Contact Policy "
To those who continue to go, aside from this, we are still waiting for each other.
For those who want to help for four years, we still see something like that in other places because they continue to win.
Ah, what is right?
A lot of Luzon will also be held here by the diaper; we are the first one who will be the first to be given to other people.
Maria, we are forced but it's just time to apologize but, like that, it is really like that I have been able to enter.
Let us just give it to their schools that are not in their schools that are not disconcerted; we might be cheated.
Do that, to those who are calling that!
We are anxious; we, Arvin Alum and we are given a A Tt-M or we are really annoyed, which is why we are always absent.
We should just talk about what kind of problem on the classroom.
Fuck, fog, married, with a report.
You were just able to get me to school when they see that the storm Pablo has gone to go away, they have no need to go away, they have no plans for a chicken and remain in the country.
Still a friend of Mother is still a friend, the local cellphone ten should prevail here.
Covetous, filling, cooked, cooked; and covetousness; we are already full of loss.
The number of those that you have with it with the evidence that we have is, whether we know, we know that we are stupid; we know.
It was said that I have been going to do something in Compostela Valley, where did they have been carrying it, isn't they a mother to save, what we did was like that, because we are still looking for a place.
That's why we should explain it on our meantime.
A call who was hit by a medical school here is the line that we use.
You are renting a classroom.
In the Elementary School, while it was past six o'clock in the past six to six.
A high school year-in-year-year-year-year-in-law, we can still do it, like the former cherness, right space for the ten-years given.
It is just first that first of all-t-shirts are also here, and other things, that is why the government is like that.
Upon arriving, he voluntarily went.
We are low; we have no books; we also do not have books to those in number of typhoon Pablo.
Because that was the first thing we did.
Okay.
In the opening of course, we are just looking, we are looking for what we can give.
We are kicking at that, with the windows of the window in front of the window; and deport; typhoon Pablo.
Sister, I am going to go to my program what the government has started when we have started to be met by us that there are a lot of problems that we are facing but there are still a lot of problems coming from the public and nutritious.
Joshua, where are they tied up?
Okay.
A first one.
I am not an asset.
Here we are crying, the first one to look at first; that's why I am an expert, "I am not the only one who is okay?" I am okay.
Motorcycle.
It depends on the point that we have to look down; we are true that the person who is with your mother is true and we still have the right way to move on.
About the father of Uncle Mon.
We are very pitiful; we are proud of our conversation, but let us talk about that is our conversation.
The problem that we have received is about that, with the training of our teachers, we do not just wait for someone to go to public schools, we are still going to wait a way to our countrymen who are here in Congressional Avenue, we are still going to wait for our father, we are going to go to our fellowmen; we are going to go to our countrymen who are in our backs to us.
"I thought that some of the pictures that I have lost are not the one to be taken from the Whole Year, so that it is true that it is true that this is true, our electric posts so that they will continue to be complacent; we continue to be thankful that they are so much new.
We will teach him.
We were able to comment; we have already discussed, we are also talking about it.
We agree now that he is the smell of those who have five children.
Maybe he exchanged items.
Yes, while I also have to leave, it is for free from the movies.
It is a good thing that they will be used in grade eight eight to eight months.
Yes, it is true that we think that we have signed, but there are times that there will be schools in the other Raon?
To Sipocot, that's what we're going to choose; that's why there's a little problem there in our allergy attack what is also our capital there, maybe.
It is said that we are still dark all the poor.
We are here to hang out of Andang maybe we have a message that we have a message for the students.
You are very pitiful; we are our call to your parents right now in our school, we continue to guide us.
We are very pitiful; we can do it at two o'clock; we should not let it go to all of us, in our school because, after the capital, which is the investment.
Yes, "of course, of course, of course.
It will also increase and there is still a need for women to do something like that, perhaps for the youth, perhaps, just make sure.
To sleep early and take care of those that you have no class.
"Thank you very much for four-year Jesus Christ, so my siblings, who are our siblings, might be ashamed because, and whatever concern is, I can call them as a March.
