Aquino, is being carried away due to disrespect of the Constitution.

Rondy up Joshua C.
It is time for President Benigno Aquino III to oust President Benigno Aquino III after they set a 116th case of corruption and disregard the sovereignty of the country, according to the impeachment case that was filed against him.
After the consecutive protests against the anomalous Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), and return to the military forces of the US, the group Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN), Youth Act Now, and Alyansang Makabayan, which was immediate endorsed by the Nationalist Alliance (Kamara), which was immediate endorsed by the Alyansang Makabayan (Kamara), which was immediate endorsed by the Alyansang Makabayan (Kamara), which was immediate endorsed by the Alyansang Makabayan (Kamara), which was immediate endorsed by the Nationalist Alliance (Kamara).
On the 23-page impeachment complaint, the Youth Act Noguides that Aquino is calling out to oust Aquino on the effects of cases filed by the constitution, to be a public trust, and graft corruption.
It was stated in the filed petition that Aquino allegedly stole the power of the Congress and the national budget when he used the DAP for the 116th project that was not stated in General Appropriations Act (GAA).
After the Supreme Court has declared the DAP, the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) announced on the 25th of July of July of the list of the 125 million media campaign by the Department of Tourism, and two 38 million Department of Malacanang.
In the three years of implementation of the program, Aquino is sentenced to almost P144 billion from different agencies of the government for the said priority, "of the palace.
Based on the rules of the Supreme Court, the President could not use some of the funds under the DAP, because it is not yet released by Aquino's explanation, this is the fund of a few projects in GAA, "according to the Supreme Court's explanation," according to the Supreme Court.
According to Article VII of the Revised Rules Code and Section 3 of the Anti-graft case, a form of corruption has no permission to transfer, or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, of funds of the government in different projects.
"The DBM list" Our Lady OPAMORE by the DAP-INTRIGAPAMORE by the presidential pork barrel in Little help for the Philippines, "stated in the statement of the town.
In the filed petition of Alyansang Makabayan, Aquino ordered the sovereignty and sovereignty of the country when he gave permission from the free use of American military on those based in the country under the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA).
Aside from asking for permission from the Senate, it is clear that foreign based on military, troops, or facilities in the country are already clear.
"Noy Aquino.
It is stated in Section 1, Article VII of the 1987 constitution that the President might be fired based on the case of Ortho-ranked leader of the Saligang Batas, the anti-public trust, build a public trust, give corruption, give protection, give, and other High School.
The impeachment complaint should be filed against any individual or group, which is endorsed by a congressman in the legislative chamber to raise the complaints against the Senate.
Some of the allies of Aquino initially ignored the filed complaint because it is said that many of the President's party mates who are not less than 111.
"Beata" of the numbers game, the call to be a call to Aquino is the one call to be a call to the President.
Although it seems that the impeachment of Aquino in Congress became more painful in Congress, a morale really has a responsibility that will only happen in the actions of the citizens outside Batasan, Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Carlos City.
"If this does not succeed in Congress, history and people are still the last judge," said Zarate.
