Listen to the last SONA of PNoy.

Postmaster by: Joey Venancio.
On July 27, 2015.

It was last report in Bayan or State of the Nation Address (SONA) today by President Noynoy Aquino.
PNoy will express what his administration wants in the past five years and what he will do for the last year of his administration.
Whatever did he do?
We should focus on and listen to us before we make comments this afternoon.
But what everyone will wait for is if PNoy will express his chicken for the 2016 presidential election as Mar Roxas or Grace Poe?
Wait for it!

Cong. Madrona said the graft case is perfect for the Anti-Illegal Drugs scam) in the Sandiganbayan.
Justice is moving forward to those charged by corruption in my town of Romblon.
The graft case of the Ombudsman in the Sandiganbayan is the third to file a case against the Sandiganbayan with a famous traditional politician (trapo), Congressman Jesus "Buyagan, Madrona.
Yes, in joint patrols of the Office of the Ombudsman, which is signed by the cruel Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales last March 2 of the year, Madrona said the seven who were involved in the pork barrel scam revealed in the time of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was revealed.
The seven who are still the seven were Geolar Tan, Joel Bodegon, Anthony Sy, Anthony Rickny, Oscar Sy, Richard Ragas, who are all about duty in the capitol of Romblon when he was bought in the capital in the capitol of Romblon when the Failbo, Incorporated., which is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is a helper.
It was seen by the Ombudsman that there was an encounter that occurred in buying millions of millions or those who did not pass the public funds.
(It seems that what happened in Makati Science High School was the only thing that happened in Makati Science High School.
The fund which was used in buying said fertilizer is from the Department of Agriculture which was asked by the provincial government.
Those who filed a case in the Ombudsman is former Romblon and Tausug Investigation Office of Task Force Kautasan in the Office of the Ombudsman.
The truth is, almost all the projects of the local government in Romblon and not go through the bidding, they are the only ones who hang on the video!
Madrona and seven more mentioned individuals were suspected to have been charged with a case in the graft court before the former Mayor Arvoltage of Looc has been sentenced to corruption for the corruption of the piglets and former Looc, Golovkin because of the case in Irrigation Project.
Who would be the next?
Romblon, Ed Fawo, Nlo, how are the Severe Acting was appointed, and there is no power of brownouts?
