
What is being given is a wise thing.

President Benigno Aquino III is good for the voters in 2016.
The President said, do not vote those corrupt and be smart in choosing, he said, and intelligence should be seen in voting for those corrupt or corrupt.
Corruption and difficulty.
About what PNoy is saying about his own campaign against Erap, if there is no corruption, there is no poor.
Each life will be open if there are no corrupt.
"That is what he is saying.
Because the truth is, corruption is only one of the most big reasons for the suffering of the country.
Let us just think, it is a big taxes that we put to keep our pocket only from corrupt politicians.
And there is no primary reason for their candidacy to chase after their position but to become rich.
Foreign businessmen.
Although it is true the instruction of PNoy to the voters is not good, it seems that what he is doing is not enough.
Because there is still other equivalent in corruption that caused the suffering of the citizens.
In other words, Bro, the people are in poverty because of controlling the big foreign companies in the economy of my beloved Philippines.
You can see the effect of the price of petroleum, electricity, water, medicine, using vehicles, creeping, vehicles, trains of LRT and MRT, weapons of military and police, and many others.
If the expenses on them remain together, how much would be left in a worker?
They save a worker in expenses for them if he cannot save himself and his family.
Christians.
Included in those punitive to the citizens and pushing them in hunger and lack of properties.
No matter where you can work as laborers, farmers and workers, you are suffering and hungry.
If there are children and people who are children and people, for those who are involved, to those who are involved, for those who will be able to earn so that they will earn too much and are starting to look like the bones and skin.
We do not need to explain and what we can do to those who are not able to go to the hacienda, they go to the community of our laborers and workers and the truth will be revealed to them.
But there are other kinds of land that can be found there, people who are too hungry and having difficulty in life such as big sister and piggery, whose salary is as household help and boy.
System!
There is still a big problem, Bro.
The rotten system in politics is also there.
Aside from corruption and corruption, the stronger handling of powerful and rich countries in the economy of the country is still lurking.
And the Supreme Court himself gave the blessing.
How?
It is the child of tofu, in its decision to the system-list, it has gone out that the belief is the system to ensure space for the poor and small in the legislative chamber.
The Court said, any kind of society can be exported in the legislative chamber.
But, there are many kinds of people in the Philippines - too much wealth, Middle East, workers and farmers with moderate lives and the squatters, which are the violent group and others who have no voice in society.
When the rich candidates for party-list are suspended, they are sure that their wins are sure because there will be a chore in one of those who get billions of votes from one province.
And the rich party-list is win.
The party-list of the rich people are just going to get the small 20 percent part of the party-list in the Legislative Chamber, and it is very rare for the real part-list of poor people who are in favor of the fight.
Of course, the interest of the rich is the interest of the rich people to walk by the rich party-list of the rich and if that, the small people will remain hungry and poor.
Wise?
In front of the truth we mentioned, Bro, how can you use your intelligence in voting?
One more thing, how can you buy sensible, "those who received incentives and bribes from the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona who's the candidate of the administration in the legislative chamber, Senate and in the palace?
It will be covetous with what the intelligent voters have.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
