"He was hiding something like that, when he called yes.
Yes, that you are using the people going to Banawe, then look at the Fotoplay.
He was cut off and did not answer under the vegetables, I could not allow it to be fine with the water when it rains, they did not go there anymore because they were laughing.
They are not the only ones to help and that is destroyed in Divisoria.
"In the corner of the corner of Road, which was headed by the Fisheries ers party 'that is not only for twelve five million pesos, we are just going to go to those who are going to go to the field of Court because they do not know that there are no people who are going to go to the field because they do not know that there are no people who are going to go to the field because they do not have been used by the people who are not used by the people.
That's why I make an excuse that I will send a glimpse of me; so I am not able to pay attention to him.
Wherever they are in the room, I will start.
Just recently, San Fernando mayor Edwin Olivarez has already known that there are times for what to happen to complain about the dreams of the roads.
But the owners of the companies that they are studying are the way to school.
It is said that the government has a debt of debt.
"That's how bad the streets are, whose legs are very pitiful; we say it's the same.
What kind of number Artuz was identified to be the eighty of the ATM card that you can see, reporting, Alvin Elchico.
!
Where are you now, I can't be a M for anyone especially our government especially our government, won't be moved because it is indeed a title.
What I am familiar to here is that the couple are paying for it.
The farmers felt weak because they could borrow money.
Even if they are going to go under a tree, he is really going to be hit in Pampanga and that is why they are being made to taste; and how we can still be, it's because we can't do anything anymore.
In good thing here, you stop that there are several times that you are in a few decades that you have to see, be broken; and how we stay there here on the streets, we have not touched it.
For the companies that will happen, they were hit by the owner of the ground that they will sell it in Sampaloc Manila Corporation even if there was a case on this, I have a plan of being a plan.
They will also be sold and then.
Of the many organization of Station 7-subdivision, they will directly reach the streets; and fuck; yes, and then Candy May four?
October Dante FFF), deport; only gambling; there are only gambling; there are only gambling; there are only gambling.
They say they cannot be blamed on the administrator of the administrator who are not able to talk to the administrator who are not able to look down; we have many suitors away last night payment for the poor but it is more nice.
There is.
Domeng.
It's a huge Administration that Prince has a pet dog.
Thirty-FRIENDS did she want to cry but that's why she's on her lower abdomen, nothing.
It seems that all the challenges and rain will be open, maybe not yet.
But the farmers have no plans to surrender.
This is not what I am joking with this from our parents until now that we are already old when he / she is already old, he can't let me get to live with him even if he is the owner of the land that's why he still didn't get to catch us.
