
EDCA to change?

By Soliman, Santos May 10, 2014.

More. Aquino and US President Barack Obama on April 28 in Malacanang were asked for the signature of DND and the US Embassy in EDCA (EDCA) to the signature of Defense Sec. Voltaire Gazmin and Philip Goldberg, last April 28 at the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), that it seems that the military based on the United States (US) in the Philippines is returning.

There is no doubt that this was visited by US President Barack Obama to the Philippines with the whole heart accepted by Pres. Benigno Aquino III even if it appears that the former does not know what name he should call in the end.

But what is this agreement with the cooperation of US and the Philippines?

It is the purpose and it is in the first articles of the EDCA, its goal is to fight any armed attack in the Philippines, there is no basis to use the T-bala scam, to fight the alleged "threat from Russia, China and North Korea.

With the implementation of the EDCA, Cenes clarified that there is no approaching physical appearance, which is expected by the government of the Philippines from China.

The president was used to defend the Philippines from the meddling of China, but when Obama visited the country, it seems that he has no plans to fight for the side of the Philippines because he maintained the "construction of the relationship with China.

It is also stated in the articles for a long term modernization "of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), that will be suspended and improvement of security in the coast of Philippines and helping the time of calamity or disaster.

But just like the experts went out, a few decades of the Philippines - the Philippines is there in the US - there are still no "modernization that gave the US as well, and until now, the country will depend on America in the issue of defense?

In the issue of helping during the time of calamity, this month has been the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda in Visayas, but the victims are still protesters because of the lack of action of the Aquino administration even if the American soldiers have helped in the first months after calamities.

DND Sec. Voltaire Gazmin and US Ambo. Philip Goldberg is challenging the EDCA) from DND Facebook, which is against the Saligang Batas and the EDCA is also against the Supreme Court, according to Red PEG.

In relation to the prohibition of the entry of weapons, the newspaper which was stated in the constitutional solution was said to be able to enter the newspaper because the EDCA could possibly enter the territory of the Philippines because the US troops entered the territory of the Philippines.

It was given an example of PO2 PEG that was given 70 weapons from the Philippines during the time of cold war because it is still possible that it will happen because the authorities do not have power to prevent them from entering the country and they have no right to inspect them.

The US's rights are also being given to the US which is also against the Constitution and other laws which are against the Constitution, whoever will sin because the Americans are under the control of the Americans and there are no Filipinos who can know what is happening in this occasion.

The foreigner is silent for the signature of the government in EDCA, they allowed the American soldiers to use, from the help of Filipino soldiers and facilities, including the US soldiers, including the US should be used by the Philippines with no payment.

Although it is stated in the fifth articles of the EDCA, all that they have committed will remain a property of the Philippines, any establishment or construction done by the US should be discussed before just return the issue of compensation.

The equipment of the US can be treated as well because it is possible to transfer or sell the Philippines if this will cause the law and regulations of the US.

It is clear on what is stated in this agreement with the equal benefits.

An agreement that only one part will benefit from it and it seems that the government government does not notice that the responsibility being ordered by the Philippine government - as long as the responsibility of the government of the US - in the Pacific Ocean.

The next ten years will prove to the government of the Philippines with its owner.
