Oh, Rhea.
He / she said that he / she said that he / she was going to be a distance; he / she wasn't able to look at the same age.
I am confused.
V V V!
You have t-B.
I said that you have babies but you still do not have any idea; we have no idea, along with a text message that I love you very much; I am the one who loves you.
What are the things that you are asking are the audience giddy, who are proud of you, most of you, who are the ones asking you, that's why you are going to talk to you, that's why you are going to be proud of you, we are the ones who will be taken care of you; we are the ones who will take care of you.
In that part of that, I don't know that there is nothing I said about that, my friend is like that.
Tita, Jillian yes, that's why there's no one in there that's why only Kuya Germs', ah, what kind of Kuya Germs', ah, what she is asking about Uncle yes, whose interest is being taken care of.
They are thinking about it sometimes but not once, nothing.
Okay.
He / she grew up; he / she can see him / her; I can see him with a case yes, so what he laughed at is to look straight.
Meanwhile, she is a wife, very kind; he / she said that he didn't say that anyone is with anyone while I am, when my point is, I am really when I have a point.
You can see yes, i'll be able to see yes, very small; very fur; we can see him and you can see him.
Yes, I can see that I can see each other; he / she can see each other; however, he / she cannot go ahead and sometimes, he / she won't be the one who will be able to take care of each other.
I repeat, for them, I thought that I have thought that I am the ones who are proud of; I think that I am the only one to tell me, I know that I am the only one who saw the gun, that's why I don't know that I am the one who knew.
You can do you.
Okay, just tell him that he is the one to join the orders of you in this number of course, do not just say that I love him, ah, do not really love me, ah, right?
In that.
Ah, I will know what to do.
Grandfather, what will you give me as a number of letter in the 'hness; we can count on how you are in line with me.
Okay, we have a text message and text message, I just text me as a text message, "she said, you still have a text message," do you still have a text message, right? "I thought I will taste me.
I do not have any idea to be able to send the Americans for a regular; as long as I have no regular; no matter what happened to Manila just a few moments until now, I am going to be over and I will be over and then I will be over in Medical Center.
I will also be at the same age; as long as you do not want me to bring me to each other; we are going to look at each other; we are applying for me to look at me, whose side can be considered as if it's the strength that I have a drink.
Yes, that is the same time when Tata also has a contract, however, he's still a contract, but I strongly believes that it is a regular.
"It would be better if you have a regular; so you can see me here, we have to see me here, we can see me; we are not stupid; we can't take care; that's why.
