Covetous, fur.
According to the other night, it is as if it is true to earn.
Alright, he looks like the chore that he is wearing.
Because it is a bit because of my aunt.
!
Okay.
Claudia.
Yes.
Siony.
Beng said.
Here, I told him that there is something that is doing there in the barangay yes to make a curse on patrol for a curse, "Buddy," Buddy, will be ill-tempered.
Good in the barangay.
Now, I do not want to.
I'll be able to look down; he / she has an interview, right, "I might do that there are Two Joy.
Ninang, Benjie, to tell us, PNoy, all sorts of things, right?
Where are those coming from praying, how will they know?
Two four pesos were there.
Yes.
So that it can be avoided for him to be irritated; we are busy with Paulo when you call me as a politician, which is why I do not want to be brought to us, that's why I do not say that we're only doing something, that's why I do not say that we don't say that we don't say that we don't say that we do not say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you cannot say that it's not true that you didn't say that you cannot say that.
Like this, there is one patient that he has.
Okay, okay.
"We are just joking; we say," you said, "do you say it's the C-B) who is annoying.
Yes, for the span of twelve kilometers per kilo of PNoy?
"We are anxious; we are very busy, because we have told you that it is not right when I have told you that, that is why I have told you that we are going to go to us every day, that is why I am going to leave that even if I have already finished that even if I am in the whole world, that is why I have finished that all afternoon there, that is why I have finished that all afternoon there.
Okay, ah, what would we do at the commission if four o'clock will be done here in the barangay?
Um!
Barangay Clearance.
You can do me, very small; we are very pitiful; because we are not aware; we really don't know this since you already have a lot of people who take care of you.
Tel.
You will become more on July August.
But it is okay the fourth year of you.
Okay.
He was only four motorcycles when he / she was already old.
It is the two of you carrying six-four .22.
On his face.
You are in a place.
He / she was fur; he / she had a load for each other.
You can't do anything to look at each other; that's why they are five years old.
"What can't be posted yet like that, so that we're going to be posted yet, we said earlier that when we are talking about it, when there are a lot of mosquitoes that will push through, the mosquito will push through.
Yes, maybe.
Even if you get a mosquito who wrote a call who is in a call and deaf to the U Vs, I have an enemy, and no longer.
This is a game, that's why, in a point, that's why they say, they say that we are the ones who are proud of.
They are treating all sorts of things; that's why they take advantage of it everyday.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was fuck, said night in the afternoon.
"It is not right that you are part of your group right now, who are only included here in the evening, we can see that there are children here in the evening, that we can see each other in the morning, and then at a span of six P-M, I can see each other in the evening that's why it's in the evening that we can live-in.
"We are anxious; we are in the evening last night, because I am in the evening last night, but I am still busy at night, but I am also busy at night but it's all the all night but it is not the all of all.
"You said earlier that we were able to go to school; we are the ones who take care of you here in the house."
Yes.
And then, after this now, isn't it right?
And then you have someone.
We should do it.
Yes, ah, okay.
We already know that, what is going to happen is that, after we take a lot of water from the hospital, we can go to our school; we can go up to each other, because we have to live-up; we can only go to each other, which is why we go to each other because this is just a Sunday; we can go to each other in a Sunday.
Very small; very beautiful; we are better that the ducks, who are type of motorcycles, are not yet to give up, but I still don't have to give up, but all of them have not yet gone to school; we are still not able to go down; he / she didn't think that he / she didn't agree to each other; he / she said that he / she didn't agree to each other.
When it bled.
In Makati City.
Oscar Bautista not hospital.
"Isn't it that in Australia that Boy was cut off from Boy, isn't it that Ateneo won't have a head, but because I can't let him be ill-tempered; we can still give him with antibiotic, but it's okay that we are not giving her security but it's okay now that it's okay with that.
"What you said in his head and thirst, it looks like we have a resort and t-shirt that we have seen to be a resort that we have done to the hospital, but when we already see Father, we should go to the emergency room," I should do it to the emergency.
Yes, they are in the hospital now after they have something.
Admiral, Thursday.
One!
Problem.
Covetous, deport, are they being given to them.
Is it a need of blood?
It is said that you are not the only adviser of the blood that was given by the blood pressure; and to-t-shirts; it is more important that I am really important that it's really important that I am really the most important thing that's why I am the same adviser of our adviser towards them.
I can hear that we are tired; we are all important, you are all important now.
What is important is there.
Bongbong Marcos is in Bicutan, but I am also Two one four four o'clock.
He / she was able to take care of the case of Harrison and Development Assistance Fund), which is very low; he / she wakes up; he / she wasn't able to go abroad; he / she was just a small doctor, that's why there's only a small doctor that's not only a small doctor, that's why they were given importance to each other.
That is straight and that is what is being used, right Cold blood.
Now.
Fuck, deport, and this is the Lord in God.
"I did not control yes, Production, I did not go home to the mansion that I have been saying to him, to whom I have said that this is not right from us at the Office Lida." That's why I let it go to us at the Office Larang Tida.
If we see what happens, we will pass through the gutter and let us see that we have seen the bottle that we have seen on us, "we have seen that this is a few of the people who are calling us not to be bitten by mosquitoes with their bones in our bones.
Hmmmp!
They are saying that.
I will be able to make sure that when we are from a noodle house; we are slowly talking to those that we showed, we need to see each other; we look at each other; we look at that Eve; Rayton; and thank you.
Yes.
Yes to hell.
He failed at anything that he / she was saying earlier that he was a little bit old; that's the only thing that was.
It's as if he gets angry when he gets angry at the woman.
Full-tempered; the boss, who is a boss in Dapitan.
Here is it!
There is no need if you see something like that.
In a Second, you are still with each other, the doctor said to the children that maybe you are far from school; maybe you are far from school; it is important that you are far from school; it is important that Teresa Angelica does not seem to cry, that's why he / she says that he / she doesn't want to cry; that's why he / she seems to be crying.
"There are a lot of crisis that can be seen in crisis; hence, they are the ones to be victimized.
It is a bit more than the victims and other government hospitals that there are many times especially in school that it goes to school, that it is very hot in the sleep of a mosquito nets, which is why it's very big that they are going to be prepared.
Ah, it's true that you are lonely and you are just playing with Mark.
He / she grew up; he / she got tired; and then with dengue, four of your friends were tortured by her friends in the town of Iheth.
You are giving details to the children and then at the elderly, they are very derogatory;
Yes, to look at the elderly; we go to old people, because if you are old, it's as if you are old, it's as if you're already old, the children, who are children, are the children, who are five years old, right?
You are going to have a good luck or video of our mouth.
Ace Barbers to the children.
Maybe because of the children, there are many of the elders who will wear yes to friends.
Cold.
Yes.
