
Disappointed with EDSA.

It cannot be denied that the tragedy that happened in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, which killed the lives of 44 Special Action Force (SAF) commandos last January 25, is the biggest challenge to the leadership of President Aquino.
In fact, even the fourth celebration of the EDSA People Power Revolution was affected by the former view of the thousands who attended the celebration, only a few arrived on Wednesday, February 25.
Malacañang's reason is that the celebration of 2015 was simple because this is still time for grieving the people who died in Mamasapano last month.
Then that is why, why is the occasion of 20 teachers and 50 students, most of them are from Camp General Emilio Aguinaldo High School, to catch up in the celebration in the end?
Also not in the occasion are the famous heroes of EDSA like former President Fidel Ramos and former Senator Butz Aquino, who is the uncle of PNoy.
Another EDSA Hero was identified as Senator Juan Ponce Enrile was in hospital arrest in Camp Crame, due to plunder case.
But from the foot of Santolan in the southbound lane of EDSA, thousands of people from the group calls for the President to resign from the position because of the tragedy in Mamasapano can't come near because of the barbells that was placed by the police.
What they feel is that the law has become more alive because of the strict implementation of the authorities in commemoration of an occasion, who gave the desired freedom under the leadership of the late President Ferdinand Marcos.
It can be seen that many sympathized with what they are fighting for with the clings given by the witnesses to their protest.
Is the camp of the President worried that there will be a new EDSA Revolution against his leadership so they stopped going to the protesters?
There are doubts that those who have responsibilities and are saying that there will not be justice for the victims because the rebel Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) who killed them will give importance to the help of Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF).
Until the questions on the Mamasapano massacre did not answer yet, the call to resign from President Aquino is not gone.
Will the President allow the citizens to disregard her "Daang Matuwid", "his fight with corruption, and even the sacrifices that his parents did?
What PNoy will leave in the position in 2016 is that if it will not be a big problem for it, it will be said that it is the bitterness that was made by the 44 SAF commandos, and how he gave justice as their commander-in-chief.
He / she was wearing.
Short of course, Mr. STS. For comments and reactions, an email about the fragrance of mail or lemon juice on top of the side
