However, it was just a former truck to ten years that I am now able to pay for a taxi right now even if it is difficult to do even if it is difficult to do.
Nothing.
That is why I admire your Ate Vi.
We are many.
Two.
What if they are together now?
Where to be?
I tried to mingle with someone else when I am trying to find school diploma that I am trying to end, I have not finished anything but I have not finished anything.
Okay.
The damage to Noguides that we will be too much traffic, as long as I have long been happy because I might have a lot of people who will come near to each other because there might be a lot of people who will come close to each other, that's why it's not true that there would be a kind; we will experience it.
There was a holdup done on July four, when I was riding a close range, he said but he only needs it but I was focused on it.
I told him not to him not in Pangasinan, I said that I am studying as a taxi driver I told him that I am studying as a taxi driver that I am the only one whom I time with the taxi driver that I am the only one who left me as a taxi driver.
It is important that you are a good person because you are not able to get an obstacle to your father, co-minded; and will be able to do something good.
Your family knows that you are not a bad man.
Zailon and Two children are only beggars from parents.
Even if my life is difficult, I will find a way to study because just like a way for Monty Gonzales.
Very small; we were able to go to school; I have three years old, my eldest child, who was already in school, my second-year-old age, and I am still not able to study hard, that is why I am not able to study hard for my children when I finish school.
Two Wives are innocent.
Two Wives are two girls.
Two people stroll in four o'clock in the morning up to the next day.
It is not enough to sleep because I am not poor.
That is why I am saying for my goodness I have to study because I know it is difficult for you to write on your name on top of your first question how to help me your beloved day to you.
Okay.
Really.
Okay.
I have a class who I sent to a taxi only one day after I was able to learn how I am going to study, I was able to learn how I am going to be able to study so I am going to be able to study because I am slowly going to understand.
