
It turns out that the people of Tarlac launched a relief operation for those affected by typhoon Yolanda.

NPA-Tarlac Provincial Jail.
TV 5, 2013.
The unit of Bagong HE is part, the revolutionary forces of Tarlac, said activity that will be brought about by typhoon Yolanda in the city of the province, the spread of help from those affected by typhoon Yolanda in the city of the province last week, the spread of help from the affected provinces of the province.
In the midst of their sales from typhoon Santi last October where many houses have lost their roof, many crops were destroyed and there were also those who died, the citizens became strict in planning the said relief operation.

As fellow victims who are not able to receive help from the Aquino government for the relief and rehabilitation, they understand the severe needs of the citizens in the Visayas Region for the material aid, morale, and strict security for each other.
It gave a flicking and launched the masses to be imposed on the masses so that the condition of those who were devastated and how this was made by the slow response to the spread of rice goods that was usually made up to a wage of rice every family and a few pieces of clothes.
Those who were not able to join the vehicle, gasoline and food for the Volunteers Organization (gasoline and food for the Volunteers Organization, they left those that are going to buy the message of hope and continuing fighting in the middle of poverty.
Some local government units also joined the activities such as officials of the barangay and the municipal hall who also announced to ask for support from the mass and gathering of different religious groups who served as a lesson to response to the needs of the citizens in the middle and after a calamity.
The ten sacks of clothes, rice, noodles, delata, coffee, dried water and other help in the present, are going to increase the relief goods and the cooperation of the citizens of Tarlac to those affected by the typhoon.
