Just a few moments in other aspect, we still have a big contribution to the next few days to go to the next few days.
I am going to be together with my marriage; we are very proud of us; we are calling that we are calling out as a word of pesos.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was about to go down; this is what's happening every October.
Part of Agriculture in front of this is the barism; that's why its character was cut off.
This is a cauldron; covetousness and the mountain went to the mountain yesterday at October 23, but here.
Bicol sore eyes, we have something to taste because we did it.
Just one week, we started to start tomorrow, at the same time, to wake up; but on Monday to ten years, I will be seen.
They are avoiding fishes as well-deport; Bonifacio Quezon.
There are those who will make an outburst of pictures and then our yes, together with this is where they are going along with the progress of our government to endure.
Jason, what?
Full-tempered; he / she cannot take care; this is an important thing to be given to me.
In Agriculture and Production for our press yes, this will lead to this present while it will be the biggest copy of the cunning and fur.
Maybe I will not only go here in the Philippines where our way is and we are here in Regulations.
Wall Marison will post it as a point; but, as long as you still love me it is the problem with the other Contact Policy "in the Philippines.
That's it, and there are a lot of rent that I have been lined up for.
I'll be able to look down; he / she was the beginning of Monday, I was the one who took care of us.
Boy was able to look at Bombay in the same age; he / she was only seventeen years old, only on Monday until he / she went to the same age.
Yes, there is a gold medal that we have on the slippers that is why you're on the slippers that you're wearing.
Jovelle was already left in Caballonza-budol Gang.
In the 'side of Michael in the medicinal practices in the radio station.
Really?
There are meat processing in Juaning is even if possible to correct, because it is probably right to correct.
So I am happy that we are happy when we say that we are stupid; we are very proud; because there are people.
We were able to see each other on a telephone; we were able to catch up; there are buyers in the 'attitude of vegetables and lots of vegetables.
We are anxious; and we are starting to start a meeting with a person who has a meeting with no one who has a meeting, which is one of the most important things that happened to the children who are calling the children who are calling the children, whom we are calling.
On the spot on the spot, it is said that you are going to be open to hold-up; so that this is the use of hornets; so that they are using the ayes; that they use to report one by the trees that they use.
At home, there will be a boils in this house.
"We were able to point out; he / she announced that there were five o'clock in the belief that, at the same time, he / she was around five o'clock in the belief that he / she was able to pick up; he / she grew up in the record.
He / she really has a lot of children in grade four years.
They will be slow to avoid being removed.
We are very proud; that they will come today and start basketball, especially in basketball, that they are going to be different from the TV regional Monday that's why we are doing this year-years.
This will happen to two years old and we can see the good of Cristy before so that it would be for the eyes after we have chosen to be a former president.
Yes, good luck.
It means that the number of people who are going to go to our country, Manduen, "John Paul which is not only right here in our country, is not only right here in our country, but it is not right now that the government will help us with no assurance that enough food will help us.
Hala Baba, who is being made up by our culture; we saw me not to do not want five years of our countrymen.
Agriculture, but Propaganda of this is the highest and for our highest position and for our highest school; we saw the entire High School which we saw in the entire High School which can be able to go to.
"We are in Asia that I am in English; we are the most quick in English which is why I don't have any kind of Contact Policy" or PAO-PAO, I thought that we can't be able to ask for only a few o'clock; I thought of my fries.
I am with what we have seen in Ilocos, both of my fellow actors have been having difficulty in Ilocos, that is why many of our countrymen are always in Makati, and then in Mindanao but that's just that we are really in front of us.
This is the corn, who responded to the Lord who responded to the Lord that I also want to be exported.
!
My fiance is going to be a covetous, where should I be covetous, which is why we are going to look at each other, so that we can take care of our group on March 28.
Agency.
Okay.
You know, Francis Vanglement, the pork barrel; this is the pork barrel, second, the pork barrel, second with the pigs, and following the alphabet right, which might be said to be a pig that might lead to the piggery.
What is Berto, you, to be the third of a chicken, unciation, two reasons, that this is caused by them to answer what's right.
We are anxious; we were the ones who imported us, whose ones who are all important to us, more important to those who are important to us, we don't want it to be sensible for C-R.
We can say that whatever it is not in the Philippines, we have mentioned it earlier that we've mentioned it earlier that we have been observing the T-t-shirts; hence, they might get tired; and even dried-off.
"If I will fix it, what is important is that, it is still important that they are going to buy; that's why they are just going to buy here in anything that will be bought here in what they are going to do with what may be used here in spite of the constricted streets; that's why they are going to go to the country.
If we are those who are taking a chicken, it is like a chicken, and it's as if you are not answering, we have not answered that we should not respond; we have no idea that we have no idea, that we have no idea, how every week is that we have no idea, how every year will be given to each other just because of yes.
What kind of food comes with, that is why each one goes.
It turns out that you are together in the middle of the streets; that's why in truth, that is the right path that you'll give.
That is what I am talking now, who is with my colleague's agenda like that, the people who have money, what we need to do is that, what we need is that, what we need is that we are going to stop that we are going to stop that's why it's not going to stop that the Fotoplay ers will not stop that.
Because if you are looking for my child to you, I will be able to make sure that I don't see what I am doing?
That is what we are after us.
It is even though it's a little bit pitiful; as long as there are people with Cheska chicken and L), it can be said that this is a big contribution; that's why it's really a big head to our local producers especially to why.
It was Friday that there is a big school that has a big school there which is only meant to be a lot of Antipas, who has been seeing a lot of people who can buy the land of Batad.
Five out of those who imported me and with Kim a local voice, you have seen that we have seen the price of our voices that we have seen in the pork barrel which is the only game for the pigs to buy a little by little by three two.
This is because it is not too bad to get hurt like what happened last March.
That the height is too much.
And that is the reason why there is a little reason that we started in our Global computer especially in the end.
I have not been two years old and I can see the paper that I am not able to text too much.
Because it is better that she will not be able to talk to him now that I am going to talk to him and if I think about it, I am weak at home here in the Philippines, we are weak at least in the Philippines.
Yes.
It is okay where I will be held by Budo, isn't it?
Ah, we are very pitiful; we are starting to have a pile of regular patrons; so that I will be able to file a little by little; we will file a little piece of umbrella; we will file a while in the funeral meeting of the children who are coming to the streets.
In 19Uno in the morning, when I went to each other again because I was with us when she was with the eight-year-old Jason, then I went there to the secretary.
And all that I am far from, that, in the morning, we will be opened by Two people and that is when we can see each other; that's why he / she cannot go down.
Because we could have been hoping that there will be a lot of people, who are deported; there is a budget for Jumarito that there is no payment.
I am together with that I do not have a payment, especially that I am going to go down; he / she goes on to cahoots.
He / she was able to look at each other side, so they'll just go closer to you and will be the loser.
We can only talk to ten years already.
And then.
This is just a call.
We are very pitiful; we are looking at what will happen to the mountain depending on what kind of time there is.
It's only October.
Her Ate Joy.
"I am with your wife, don't you allow your cellphone to say that we do not have anything again.
We postponed and we do not want to look straight; he will perform his mother this kind of time that you will not forsake you and your family.
I was texting that, they were not able to reach each other; they were not able to reach each other; that's why they were not able to make it, which is why they are on top of the colleges; we are going to go to, "Francis Manayes;
Very well, we are proud, whose only four thousand P-M for the company Development Corporation (print media, are narrow-minded; and cowards.
About Skakel and Pampanga, it is like a fight, sir, before Cornes.
Yes, Ma'am, Cantos said.
Ma'am Pilar is listening.
Grace, what can I do; that I am going to go to the competition in a competition in the competition, Pampanga Development Corporation, they are based on San Fernando Pampanga.
Can I talk and do not want to talk about the March 28-Homicide Section, I am still going to hear each other.
It can be considered that the end of Ate Virgie is from us' end, and it can be said that it is possible for me to be the former National Teacher's School.
In order to talk with dogs.
I am full-tempered; but I know that I am now in the flawless problem, so I am the first to be our counter party mates from the motorcycle government unit.
He / she grew up; he / she wasn't wrong, that's nothing wrong if he / she was to be alone.
Only in the office director of the Office yes.
Typhoon Ruby was on the bikini panty on.
