SEAPRESDU30 was one of those good to Jesus so as not to be inserted in the coming earthquake.
By Zaykit, November 22, 2016) you should be careful not to cover the speaker; because if the Lumad are not able to escape, we will be able to escape if we will turn our backs to the heavens!
"In that moment, his voice shook his voice.

But now he promised that he is saying, "Minoras and annoying or annoying, not only the land, but also to heaven.
"Now, the word," Minsan Lang, "Minsan Lang," gives a blessing, just to maintain a blessing from God to maintain a blessing and fear, because our God is a fire that would not be shaken, because our God is a fire that would be cut off. "(Hebreach, 12: 25-29).
We are continuing our series of study in the letter to Hebrethren, who can be found in the last part of the New Year with the holy Bible.
Here in this part of the letter, it is as if the writers have already preparing to finish his writings are preparing to finish the advice and what the God's saying is a serious thing, and they will turn your back on the stool.
The writers have warned that they should not imitate the stubbornness of the Israelites during the time that God gave him the law of Moises, in Mount Halcon in Sinai and the rebels from Him for some people.

He defeated them.
Now, it's a greater "revelation, or statement compared to the statement of God in Sinai and what is the truth that the King of the king will be convinced to fix his sins and believe in Him, the law given to him and believes in the whole record of the history of the Israelites before.
Jesus is now a higher leader, instead of Moises, which is too much respect and feared.
"But you came to Mount Halcon in Zion, and in the city of God, Jerusalem, and to the spirits of the right gathering, and to the hearts of the oldest who are assigned in heaven, and to the hearts of the oldest who are assigned in heaven, and to the company of the oldest who are assigned in heaven.

Through Jesus, the Hebrewed christians, the city of God, was able to come closer to the real Mount Halcon in God and all of those who are still living there, the son of god is the one of the protection of the Lord, and they will remain under the old Tell that they will stay under the old Tyo.
The primary warning: A big "tremors were approaching, which is why the quake is not yet done with the second arrival of Jesus in the land; one arrival that there is a reserved reward for everyone who continues to believe in Him, and a tragic fate for all your backs.
A thing that will remain and won't be shaken by the kingdom of God.
So it's a friend, let us listen carefully to what the writers have told Hebrethren, people who have no other hope, but also Jesus' 70s, how the thousands of religions, who are made of people in different parts of the world?
Also included in there are no beliefs in God, the lack of religion, is also a religion (hism).
So a friend, let us listen carefully to the message of Hebrethren, okay? Jesus is the only certainty in hearing our voices that are not Him.
Let us think carefully about the instructions of service to God.

God bless!
