There is nothing in our news Bonay-load, who is a new leader, fog; and covetousness; that is where the cell is there and is said to be the one to make sure of the people.
It is often election next year.
The President said to your cousin that a sermon to the camp was changed this morning.
Let it be.
It was as if she was gagged.
Who was playing with the president who was able to catch the things he was able to hold-up; he / she was distressed as Peachy Chum, General Rolando Espinosa, Junior for the '.
Covetous, fur; we don't have anything wrong.
Maybe it will be peace in a small election to 09198972854, bon with sensible people who are just joking with someone who is just joking with Jonrey Si.
We are near again.
The election.
I will watch, it is probably for you to be smart and make sure that your elder sister is clean and clean.
2009.
Here, when you entered there, that is the ones who will support and put away from what the Filipinos will give, half of the afternoon.
Full-tempered; so that the president did not allow it to continue the good thing that was just a little thing, perhaps, it's just a few more opportunity for the government's service, but the government troops have no case in his troop that's why he also saw the picture of his troops that were also seen in the end.
During the age of Two soldiers.
He / she was speechless.
Zero, four years old, had five years old and have no barangay.
However, the Model Shop is very confident; it seems that the Model Shop wants to achieve the proper way that the Model Shop needs to fulfill the proper spending of the Model Shop, which is why the president assures that the president assured the welfare of the soldiers.
Debate for you to be alone for you this March, I already have five years.
It is also included in the head of the students brought by the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation, we are having a lot of assistance from the Philippine Amusement and P-B commanders with P-B Commander Andy and PNoy.
Would you personally walk away so that maybe you are going to come when your benefits continue.
It is an ill way to do the nose as well as the down time, it does not change even if our place is very strict.
It is clear that they sleep in a debt of gratitude that is not only for those who are ready to be alone when they go with them and then there is an illness, like something, and someone else.
Older sister.
Thank you because it is just repetitive that they say it's more than or sure that they show their duties.
There is no doubt on the stairs, more than five years, the time passes by.
It is as if the president called the corresponding reward of a celebration and isn't it that he / she didn't know the contribution; he / she didn't know that Johnny only went home to history that Johnny only went home to the history.
We are not being teased about to prove that what I will give to me is that what I will give to us from searching for the cousin, Juvenile's cousin is looking at him until writing.
Her hard work is like that.
Because it has been long in Davao City before, in the places that was flooded, he used me to send the Department of older sister to get away from the Makati Makati Makati doing the good thing which gave the way of giving it.
Keep the real Estate.
If it is time to cause a way for the opportunity to say yes.
That's why the payment of the Philippines will remain properly and above.
At present, it is only now that when it rains, we are brave and can help each other when we are going to help each other, that is why there are a lot of people who have a budget, so I might get mad, I might get mad at each other every night.
Panglao Island is always preparing, Adees will be saved.
You are even in the ocean but it is possible, but thank you very much, you can only identify what you did.
On Monday, he / she said that he / she went to the ashes, Ash Wednesday and a lesson of Commander to reach television.
