Sharon, sad in politics.
"It is embarrassing to Jose Rizal.
And our other heroes are "By Jun-October 6, 2016.
Last Tuesday night, many felt sadness because of the revelation of the Megastar, Sharon Cuneta in social media.
There are also others who cannot agree with everything that Sharon said and there are those who are against her husband Sen. Kiko Pangilinan.
Miangas, whose reaction was released by the Megastar to be released by the Megastar: "
"Well, as early as well," Man, "Man," wangwang. "
"It is an actor and in the TV show that I am just a celebrity and I have a lot of disagreements in terms of faith in politics from the beginning.
"Even if we, Daddy and I were like that as well, but because we have respect for each other, we do not need to express the discussion of our couple before or now.
"During the time of FPJ and GMA, do you know that FPJ is my friend, FPJ, and my heart is all over him.
"But it is also not good for me to leave my husband and to the public to disrespect her belief with GMA.
"But we were not able to talk or campaigned for how FPJ and we talked properly and since his mind was wide, we can easily understand each other.
"He is even the one who said that I should not think about it, and when it is over to all of this point, we are still friends.
"In the last election, do you notice that I am not campaigning for the president? Because of Senator Grace Poe.
"I love her when I love Tita Susan.
"Inday (Mayor) Sara Duterte, he is my friend since 2012 when we became friends with no idea about politics, and until all of these, I know we would still be friends.
"VP Leni Robredo, my friend, is the friend of our family with Secretary Jessie before he passed away.
"VP Leni promised to support her before that he will just run as congresswoman until VP.
"Bong-Bong and I, from the youth, I do not know that he is going to run for VP, but just like what I said, the mind of my friends will become complicated.
"They understand what you have given first words, others.
"It is probably the same thing they are," Bong-Bong, but I saw each other, with the amount that we passed before, "we did not even get an enemy.
"I love," I am sorry but I am really ugly, my friend who will leave without enough or bad reason.
"He / she said that he / she was able to step down to her godmother in Times Square.
"Alungani, I am tired of losing or being doubting the friend.
"Like before, the entire Estrada family is still in the time of daddy, as well as Tito Erap and they are friends," Jinggoy and Tito Erap are smart, "until now, Jinggoy will still be smart and talking.
"I would just borrow me, my friend, Jinggoy.
"Tito Erap, until now KC's godfather and I love us.
"There are still so many things that I want to mention my name, but just do not feel sad.
"I am not my fault that my husband has his own stand, and believe you and not, agree with him or not, he is a decent man.
He is a good man.
"It is right or wrong, he is my wife, and isn't it, it is more wrong" when I fought her to the public?
"Hopefully everyone serving our country unites and gets along.
"There is no own way," politicians are not the only ones who fight, but also we, fellow Filipinos ourselves.
"What is about?
"We should not be clean because there is no perfect leader, we should just wait for us.
"If I am disliked," that is what Kiko said in politics, because I really want to be very quiet "when I already want to make people happy.
"I do not want to lose or doubting your friend, because, I am loyal and true friends, especially if this is just because of the politics of my husband.
"And that's what he / she said, he wants to serve as loyal to everyone that we have, we worked hard for it.
"He worked for all the pork barrel she received by all politicians in the day, went to the right.
"What's really a joke here is, if the other person who has a fist, Kiko is Poverty!
"Maybe I am," I do not need to do anything that life is good and I still save a lot from my father.
"That's why we are okay, we do not need to steal!
"My education is also a few minutes of joy in my sacrifices for my life in life, from Aplasa.
"They are always first.
"Sometimes, in truth, even if I really love my wife and children, I want to leave and hide for a long time.
"" Where no one knows me., but in a place I love, there are more places "that's okay.
"But I can still miss you!
"I hope it would have been a month before I die, give the Lord to the Lord the one who gave me the same."
"He knows that I prioritized what I thought would be good for my life than in my happiness, I want to die with my heart complete," I am not afraid.
"Whatever that is," I know, "you know, I am a happy person.
"But aren't you wondering why I also cry easily? I am brought to my heart that there is nothing in order, that is why I just pray for prayers.
"I am sorry," I am not angry, I am just one of thinking and a little sadness.
"It is like I became the diversion which is why, even you are getting involved.
And thank you, thank you, thank you.
