Emergency exit, not the emergency.

If the crisis in energy has to be solved, President Aquino needs to give an emergency power.
The request is from energy Secretary Jerico Petilla.
This is Petilla as the secretary of the Department of energy (DoE) who should have a hole if there is a crisis in energy.
According to Petilla, there will be an estimation of 400 million worth of 400 million PDAF (MG) of the power supply in the coming summer in 2015.
And Petilla added that there will be a long power supply in April or May next year.
Petilla also admitted that there is a long power rate in Metro Manila and some parts of Luzon that will last long.
Along with the request of Petilla, the consecutive incidents of typhoon in the country were accompanied by the successive brownout in Luzon caused by typhoon "Glenda."
There are a lot of timing for PNoy's request to give the emergency powers by PNoy that is caused by the implementation of Martial Law in the public funds from the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
It is not a solution to the emergency power of the President to solve the energy crisis and let the proposal become aware.
Former President Ramos ordered the Congress to give him an emergency power which is limited to one year.
Because of this, the country entered a contract that built a new based on top of power.
In order to put some of the sectors that will build a very expensive power, the government gave a guarantee for the debt that was placed in the contract.
The Inc. is also given by the UV Expresses that can be provided by "tanim-for-pay" provisions in the contract.
That's why, we, we have electricity, the head is painful and suffering due to the disape-for-pay "provisions that is" in IPP).
We continue to pay for their monthly payments from our Pambansang Kamao even if we have not used it.
And to continue the huge income of Filipinos, there are those who seem to be the shield of the Electric Power Plant (SWS) of 2001).
So if you think about it, the country Philippines has the biggest power rate in the whole world, and what is saddening, the current administration seems to have not learned from the direct effect of the emergency powers with Ramos.
If PNoy will feel the emergency power, can it be sure that this is not "band aid solution" in the energy crisis?
With the number of problems now by PNoy, the illness of the head is no longer needed to pass to him in the crisis of energy, what does Petilla do to DoE?
For me, the President is not the emergency power of the President.
What is needed is the emergency exit of those useless in the government, like Petilla, who is the real disease of the people's head.
