
Estrella Street.

A dream which has been looking for a long time, was found by a Filipina in Thailand!
In the exclusive interview, Thailand, I met Estella Aaahhmm, the businessmen who owns a Antique shop there which is famous and truly visited by many patrons.
Although the state of Estella's life is good at present, he still cannot forget about the yesterday that he went through.
From a poor family in Samar, VM Leyva, she was only a child when I was orphaned by her parents, causing him to feel more difficult in life.
"My Father," I died for 7 years old, then, "my Mother." I am still young, so I worked hard for me to study, "said our story.
To be able to pay for the expenses in studying, he decided to leave their town and went to Manila to find a job.
In a small store in Quiapo, he was brought by the fate as a sales of a tree together with his hard bone, he was able to study the fact that he was married and when he finished college he went here to Thailand.
In Thailand, he became a teacher, before he thought of entering the world of business.
With the help of a close friend, she has given her a investment on her capital to have already been built.
The image of Buddha, watermelon seeds and wood or carelf, with different shape, can be found in a store of Estella.
It is slowly known and there are those who patronize his shop that most of the tourists from Europe and America.
As time passes, its products are increasing in number, and on the antique things that were used to sell, it will be added to other products like a pltie.
Also because of the continuous perseverance and effort, his business has increased.
One computer shop and beauty salon were added to his source of living.
At the end of our conversation, he left an advice and message for his fellow Filipinos who wants to become successful in life.
"Think of your hard work, the day will come that the blessing of God will come, give you," the end of his language.
For Estella Aaahhmm, the not surrender and skill is the way he is standing in order for him to achieve her wealth now.
