Assunta de Rossi's stress in the severe line of movie By Jun Lalin-5, 2016.
The movie The Super Parental Guardian of Vice Ganda and Coco Martin is weekend when weekend.
Is Miss Joyce Bernal believes that many will be surprised if he knew that he is the director of the movie?
"This is said to be different from the movies he will report to Miss Joyce Clavas well as the The Super Parental Guardian of the movies of the late director Wenn in Derna's favorite director of Vice.
The secret is said to have been very strong in the box office of the The Super Parertenomics, because it was not far from those who are used to be used by Vice President to be under the late director.
Star won't win yet in the movie "that is"
Assunta de Rossi has a villain in the movie, she does not want to watch even if she is being harassed by his friends.
"It's because the line is too much, according to Assunta, according to Assunta, who joined the X-party of Ammie Rico as Tell Tell, Tantos,"
"I told me, it is the 3rd year we are going to watch the Super.
Randy Santiago and Edam Manzano and Edam Manzano on the First Division of De La Salle University of De La Salle University's Crime Operatives) and Ateneo.
What we know, both supporters of DLime are both supporters of DLiwag.
While he was sitting in Sitio Panglaw, Edam, Randy is at the same side.
With the number of people on the game of 1, we have been defeated by Green banc anymore, we have not seen Edam, after the game game.
Randy was able to go with him because Alvin and Susan Teng, the one who made the so-called Fortuner King, Jeron Teng, who was the one who watched the said uites game.
She asked Randy to go with us and he even joked with him / her, "almost" my eldest child with Claudine Barreto, who is said to have hurt Santino, the son of the actress and Raymart Santiago.
Even before, we always talk with the singer / director, that's why we had many stories.
But just like what we always say to Claudine, if we mix with us, we do not want to dance again when it comes to family fights.
Randy pointed to us the youngest sibling, Raymart, who also watched the game.
The superstar Nora Aunor is now going to face the modern press of the Metro Manila Film Festival 2016 movie, which is a nuisance.
It looks like they are taking a lot of films which are promoting a movie.
Norway, Mama Guy, is preparing for a severe support in the movie.
There is a group of Northing which is said to be viewers of different cinemas in December 25, 26, and 27.
Because the MMFF is going to be shown to the MMFF 2016, perhaps, there is no assurance between the First Division, it is an ST of eight officials on this film fest season.
