Those corrupt and the Palace, where?

One example is the information received by "incentives and alias bribes that led to ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona from the Supreme Court last December 2012.
The palace is full of P6.5 billion money from the country just to be impeached by the congressmen and senators from the Disbursement Acceleration Program which is more than P142 billion from the end of October 2011 until October 3, 2013.
The bribery is ordered by Senator Jinggoy Estrada last October 3, 2013, and since then, the lawmakers that they received DAP last May 29, 2012 after a 43-day hearing in the case last January 16, 2012.
Question: Who made the DAP released from the Palace towards 21 senators and 188 congressmen, who are the congressmen and senators who received this?
Questioned.
On the first week of October 2013, two cases against DAP were filed by the SC in separate people or group of DAP, who were pulled out from different departments of the government and attempted for other departments.
It is clearly seen being illegal or taking advantage of the lack of DAP, as part of the general, to be a part of General to be exported, or national budget done by the Congress.
Even the transfer of funds of DAP came from the executive towards Congress like what was done to 3.5 billion pesos or bribes for the impeachment.
Awooooooo, AOIL.
For the sake of the "Ipit Gang," the SC gave the Palace for the accusations of the anticipated and violation of the Constitution because of DAP.
One of the answers of the Palace, is that the DAP was stopped in the month of September 2013 or a few days before the court filed a case against DAP in the SC, which is why the court should not listen to it.
According to the rape case, the suspect should have no case of rape because the suspect left the arrest of the rape before the case filed.
The child of tofu, is it possible?
One more answer was, the transfer of funds from a department to other departments have been made for an administrative case against another department, but the transfer of funds from the palace to Congress as "incentives and bribes for the impeachment?
Million New Year.
The citizens under the PDAF last August 26, 2013, which is why the million-year-March only reached the dates.
But PDAF only is not the only one to talk but, even the DAP, there is a threat to another million-March and there is a game held in Calaguas, Angs of bird and Fullido.
This is where the people of the Palace got nervous, especially when the SC released a temporary restraining order against PDAF last September 10, 2013.
People of the palace felt that the DAP would be felt in the next time of DAP, that is why DAP was stopped in the month of September 2013.
In exchange of DAP.
According to the Budget Department, the Palace released a huge amount of DAP in just two years from the end of 2011 until 2013.
Last 2011, there is no DAP that costs 2.5 billion pesos, 2012 - P56,8B, and last 2013 - P1330,000 pesos.
The anti-DAP said, for the most powerful DAP, those who have been freed from 188 senators who have not been impeached, Corona and 21 senators judge who voted to be fired by Corona as Chief Justice for sale or having a hidden wealth that is more than 100 million.
According to DAP being a P10 million, the congressmen have 10 million pesos while they have been able to get a number of 50 million pesos to 50 million pesos in the prosecution who served as congressman.
The senators received 50 million pesos to 100 million pesos.
It is still different of course for the regular PDAF which was accepted by them: P75,000 pesos in every congressman and 200 million pesos to each senator.
Let it be in the cross.
Yes right, Holy Week.
And do you know the call of the canned goods that I am calling on the cross of some senators who have been loving with PDAF?
The allegations that are stolen from the PDAF by some senators are worth P1billion pesos, but those are not seen by the cross that their loot are almost P6B.
It seems like the foolishness and disrespect of justice in the mountain of Christ, but Christ is the only clean conscience until now, duh!
The SC, DOJ, Ombudsman.
The SC's decision was quick against PDAF but it seems that the travel of DAP was slow in the turtle, if it is a fight.
Is it true that someone is blocking the SC to release a decision against DAP, and using the threat that they will release their own PDAF and DAP, if they will take action against DAP?
Why, why is it that only three senators are allowed to cross the cross of DOJ and Ombudsman to ask those who benefited from the billions of PDAF and DAP?
Forgive them, Father, because they do not know what they are doing.
