Binay hung on rebellion versus GMA.

Congratulations!

Looks like everything that can be thought and throw against Vice President Jejomar Binay will be used to crush his desire to run for President in 2016.
Many were surprised when Senator Antonio Trillanes recently said that Binay is included in planning the rebellion against former President Gloria Arroyo in 2007.
Binay's administration wants to say that, who was even mayor of Makati, a "tanim-military I went to, if the protests of the Magdalo partylist against the Arroyo administration have succeeded.
It is said that it is said that the employees of the city hall will experience, lack of Makati and other groups that will go with Trillanes when he goes out of court during the hearing of the 2003 Oakwood mutiny.
When Trillanes came out of court on the day of the rebellion Binay and his group were not there.
There are some who doubt Trillanes' statement because if all these are true, why was the senator quiet for seven years?
Why is it only now that he revealed it to the time that VP Binay is working on different issues and his chance to become president in 2016?
Even Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago entered the scene, and stated that Binay can still file a case in his position with Trillanes to overthrow the Arroyo government in 2007.
Even if Binay failed to look at his supporters, he said that he has enough for the protests to be made in order to become an accomplice.
Since the rebellion was discovered last 2007, the government has 10 years old to chase and hold the one responsible for it.
But everyone also knows that Santiago is one of those who are planning to run for President in 2016, so it is only natural if he wanted Binay to lose in the competition.
Binay denied all the allegations of anomaly and rebellion, critics and opponents in politics are not going to stop in politics with all that they will think of to overthrow him before 2016 comes.
But it looks like many still do not believe in negative issues against Binay.
The result of this is the result of the survey results wherein it is still the strongest candidate in the ranks of those who will run for President in 2016.
We are not saying that Binay is no fault on the issues that came out.
But the accusations should be done in court to undergo the right process, and not in the hearing of a sub-committee of the Senate, that the prosecution is starting to look for personal interest and not the duties in the country.

Firing line / Robert Manding Roque, Jr.
