It is the money that will be given to a person, "for pork."

It is hard to give back the money that the country has a direct effect to the victims of calamity.
This is what the government is saying while it is in the height of the rehabilitation rehabilitation of the places that are victims of calamities in the Visayas and Mindanao, especially the victims.
It can be recalled that the victims of typhoon Yolanda are asking for P40,000 to each family and this is where they will start to live normal.
But the government just made the frying pan.
And it is just that, he says it is hard to give money to the people, to the victims.
But in the end, it will be possible.
Challenge!
Budget Secretary Butch Abad himself, Bro, those who are saying that the government is going to give a solution to the people who have direct in the community, but he says, this is a challenge to the government.
At the same time, there was no problem with money because there was only a 23 billion pesos for the construction in 2013, with P20B which was allocated for this year and there is an P80B which is expected to be given for the future.
Abad said, Bro, with 35.B which is allocated for the construction now and it is supposed to be consumed within six months or first half a year.
So, where are the rehabilitation signs, the use of the lives of the victims?
Projects.
According to the Department of Agriculture, the farmers, coconut and fishermen who are victims of Yolanda are in need of P18B to get up from ending our country.
Cleaning and putting on the farms, explosion and throwing stones at the trees of coconut, hit, distribution of private items for the fishermen, making boats with the fishermen and using the canal in the canals in the irrigation.
Question: Where are these projects?
Of course, President Noynoy gave a huge contribution to one of his visit to a place destructed by typhoon Yolanda, but after this, what happened?
Sec. Abad said, the release of money is really a problem.
As of now, the victims reacted if the government's help is about the help of the government and they do not feel any help from the government so that they will be caught in hunger and poverty.
For the coconut farmers, they will reach 6-7 years before they insisted that their new coconut plantation will result.
Or maybe they will experience hunger and poverty in the six-years but the government is saying that it is hard to release money for them?
Sped away with the lightning.
On the other hand, Bro, the release of money public is faster than lightning for who among the government and my inmates.
We are saying, "who among the government and my co-inmates, because we are talking about the Priority Development Assistance Fund, Disbursement Acceleration Program, Presidential Social Assistance Fund, Presidential Social Work and others."
In the past three years of Bro, the government will resign from the amount of P72B which is based on the P24B of PDAF by the senators and congressman every year.
It is said that there is still PDAF (in other appearance) this 2014.
From the year 2011 until 2013, the government of P157-DAP will resign and no one knows the total value of the Police Officer the Office of the President.
You can see, Bro, how fast the resignation of the huge public funds are the bosses of the government for the officials of the government and they are accomplices of these billions of billion pesos.
But they are taking advantage of it in giving a little help to the victims of calamity.
It is the child of tofu, it is very hard to pass through the coming out of the public funds.
Where are the fruits?
The government said, the Philippines is really ready to progress because of the pouring of the government of PDAF, DAP, Police Officer and various funds of the country.
We are also recognized by other countries that we don't want to let go of our progress.
In fact, other countries and other sources of institutions like the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, Asian Development Bank and others are afraid because we have the ability to pay.
Foreign businessmen are also happy and they are planning to build their business in the Philippines.
We have already sold the ban of airplanes in war equipment, those coming out of gunshots and bullets and guns.
All of these are already liked by us, according to the government.
But the majority said, that they do not feel prosperity, instead, what we read is still there, they hear and watched the abuse of the public money.
It is very clear, Bro, what the government is doing.
It is the child of seven canned goods, the government strongly denied the money that the country is money from pork and not for people.
