
2013 / 12 / 13.

For the 22nd of Sinulog Festival Geneva, droid Mankayan, competition in writing a short journey.

It remains to be an important part of the lives of ordinary citizens who are pushing for it, according to Jun Cruz Reyes and Soledad Reyes (1984), "this truth is that it is going to increase the material things that happened in the Philippines, especially for the questions that it is still starting to plant and make mistakes.

And the Gawad Geneva, Malana Salazar, who is being held for more than two decades, is only one of the institutions that continue to promote the Filipinos' well-laws which I think is in the crossroad of their lives.

If you are controlling it, the writers have no more choices, because of your intelligence that will happen, you will not escape because it will not escape because it will not be able to escape because it will not refuse to join the truth and will not be allowed to join.

The society continues to change and it can also happen when we have not noticed that it is not easy to join and change the main problem in the life of the people, and if it is not easy to do, it is clear that the construction of the people's life is still fresh, which is why it's clear that he will inherit the role of E. San Juan, Jr.

Violence... there is the eastern task of the Kapuso actress to be demote to the First Class HRO that's being taken by the World Boxing Organization (Noni), the dancers of the Priority Development Assistance Fund), the highest position of the Priority Development Assistance Fund), the initiative of conservation in the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (BTAC).

At this point, let me close to you those who won in a contest of writing a short story for this year, because it is obvious that the authors of their lives are unique, and because of this, it is obvious that the authors of their lives are unique, and because of this, it is obvious that the owner of their lives is unique, and because of this, the character of people's life is unique, and because of this, the character of people in their story would be exceptional.

For example, in the short story of Padre de la, "the readers were able to understand the readers of the primary personnel who are anxious over the logic and emotions of the primary personnel.

"It is more good to" Batal, "in my opinion, aside from the point, the author was able to set up the use of the common-Tropical Convergence Zone that they chose to encourage the ability that they chose to understand.

In the content and appearance, it is focused only in a particular and important chapter in the life of a young young man, and even if the protagonist is low, his life is slowly being ignored, and even the personalities who want to inherit the minds and feelings of the readers.

Customers.

Reyes, Jun Cruz and Soledad Reyes, 1984, "our Pantukan.

San Juan, E. Jr. 2004, "the situation of the Creator is in the time of the progress of Batasang Pambansa" at the proliferation of the Batasang Pambansa. "

San Juan, E. Jr.

Naga City - a 22 Gawad Geneva who turned out from the 25th infantry Geneva, Malza Matute last December 13, 2013, in Pamilihang Lungsod of Manila, Daang Taft, City of Manila, went down on December 13, 2013.
