Your question is good, right?
Let us look at it first.
So what you are doing is okay.
Ah, our teacher's covetousness are really being observed by our teacher's covetousness; we are calling the questions that we are calling on.
So it is really needed to make sure that they make sure of a teacher Education.
The child of Ryan 'son, on September 24, is needed by our schools.
Today.
That is why he is not here in our loss that is why we are different from the store.
It's different from the elementary school that we are calling.
He / she was fur, a teacher and a teacher.
Where able to reach the hole; he / she was able to cover-up.
It's inside you, what is called Registration Authority.
For you, you have a new boss.
For the meantime for the elementary school for February because you are not taking advantage of you, you can still be left behind, that's why there is a need of training, especially when we come to medical services, alright, and high school.
But now that we are stupid; we are also one of those who do not know that we are not in the former controversy issue, but I am still waiting until now that there is a very clear position for our sibling, that is why we are ready to go home to the law, so we are ready for our family.
There is nothing to do that of what we are calling first because that's what we are calling for.
It was a 48 pesos second for what happened, when we followed, that is what his heart is calling, which is why he was assigned to the Court where he was assigned there, which is where a child was assigned there, which is why he entered the University Chiefs, okay.
Yes, look at each other; as long as we know that not all children are not there, so it is for the record.
University of insurance so we can see it.
We are anxious; that when the citizens and the child are working in college, it's because the parents are working in college that is why their parents are taking advantage of them, they are the ones who will take interest.
Now, why did we do this to me?
We can see that we can do something that we also do, and according to the interest of the children, we are going to get along with you, my sister-in-law; and we are our sister-in-law; and we are on top of you.
March.
So for example.
If the child loves, that is like that.
Okay.
You will ask something like that.
There was a lot of people who are pointing at each other; that's why they are calling for example of the bruises they want to commit suicide.
Who went amok in which he / she was crazy.
But if he wants to persevere, he will be able to work as a painter.
Possible.
This is just a high school; we are just being prepared for you to be studying in college and this is a good intention that she can see her but there are some parents who seem to have not been seen to us five, who are not yet known to us.
He / she said that he / she was able to take care; he / she was able to take care of all the things that she is going to deal with them.
Ah, it is good that we are in the third year now that we are going to be included now about the other parents that I do not have.
We are anxious; we are not even fooling us; we are not even if we have an excuse that's why they cannot convince people.
It's because he was able to say something to him.
Very short; he / she and his / her own lives there are the questions.
When will we stop the debate and when we are and our neighboring countries, they will continue to leave, especially when we are in a way that we are educated; we can be prepared for a way that we are educated; we are happy that we are happy, we are happy, we are happy, "we are happy, our business and other people.
Very short; he / she wasn't cut off; however, they were not able to catch each other, but there are all kinds of people who are pointing at each other, which can be considered as a person who does not hesitate.
That is the right thing, Vivian, if you remember that he is hiding there.
It is said that only at the first time of our generation, I have gone to sir, it is better if you think about it, if they do not see anything yet, with a complete feeling.
They passed and undergo ultrasound.
"We are proud; that you might reach your grades," when you reach you in your ear, you have already passed by me and I have already passed by me.
Maybe I have two years with my sister.
Very small; we can handle the tone of your ear, so that you can't see that you are in a high school; we can still see that you are still complete; we are still not able to see each other, even if we are still not over, I will ask what you know, that you know what you are calling (Station 6.
The education of education is not a good future.
April six-February.
Two worry of the Supreme Court of the New Year.
Yes, six years, that we have to go to school; we can look at each other; we are just saying that it is really good, but we are just saying that it is really good, but let us look at it.
Because that situation is different from that situation.
That is not the first part of the adviser of the I.
"There is also a City, that is why, so, we are holding the parents, someone is pulling it, and what's important is that, if you press it, it can be said that the future of the child has been suspended; however, we still need to be suspended for the future of the child.
That is what is difficult in the hotel, that is why even if we will be put in danger for the future, he is still here by our youth, but the problem is, his aunt is still here in the places where they are in different places.
Covetous, fur.
That's the only thing that we can see; we are not ordinary, not ordinary or ordinary ones who are stupid; as well as their parents, co-minded; and they are also trying to find someone else.
That's true that in his radio, that's why he / she says that he / she's in the radio; he / she / she's in his radio; he / she / she has to take care of.
What is the bad thing that he is not yet Inally, which is why he's not yet paid.
That is not a standing case that's not just a standing; he / she is irritating to say that it is not for them for their child.
This is still what is still a hold-up and diligence secretary yes to Department Avenue M Riyals, we are just going to help each other when we see each other, we are living together in the house; we are just going to help each other when we see that we are going to live together with the amount that we will look at, we will see all the number of numbers that we look at.
It's a waste because there is a need to be listening and watching the teachers that they are hardheaded, so we can just wait for it and then.
To older sister, if you are sure that you will fit him earlier about the field of view yes, we are the ones who want to know what we have, that is why we have to know what we have, that is why we still have to know that we are the ones who will go to the police.
But this is just like that, we are to be annoyed, of course, to be annoyed with the video?
Before the field of this field needs to be discussed, we need to talk about it, as well as their parents, we don't want to talk to it as well as the parents' parents who are just call, why are you in the field that we need to look at.
Okay.
You need to look at your former lover.
Live together with my parents.
That is what's important.
