
PNoy, Ibureaucracy.

Your head will be ruined, make sure if you will listen to the fights regarding the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Here are some of the things you will hear.
According to father, Joaquin Bernas, that PNoy was sentenced to the Constitution by the Philippines and being a basis of the impeachment.
And what is the impeachment basis?
Identified (Special Action Force (SWS) chief of the 1987 Constitution, graft the corruption, give and be the source of public trust.
I am not included with being a fan.
But is it not dangerous, "let us lead us to the Constitution?
Ehek, hmmmp!
It is said that Senator Allan Peter Cayetano is saying if PNoy is wrong in DAP, that is just a joke.
There is no intention to commit a crime or any nonsense.
"What if the 50-millions of DAP will be allowed to vote from the killing of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona, that is why?
This, Alan, is, with his brother Pia, who also received 50-millions of DAP, you can find a 50-millions of DAP.
We are not the one saying that the bribery has happened in relation to the impeachment.
Jinggoy is a picture of the millions of DAP as incentives but behind his words, bribes.
Speaker Sonny Belmonte said, there is no liability in DAP, because it is not a disturbance.
The Supreme Court did not say to chase the people who gave and accepted DAP.
But what is being said in the last pages of the decision that they have a responsibility, pro-list and implementation or implementation of DAP, but this will not be given appropriate taxes?
Presidential Spokesman Edwin Lacierda said it was reversed when it was said in the decision that the doctration of the group will be used for DAP.
In this short mother, it will no longer add to the projects which is used to use the DAP, but it is definite that the victims, pro-list and implementation of DAP, will be prevented.
King-mother, the SC is only right for saying that the person who is a sin in the company of his partner is right.
You want to give you a responsibility, Belarse, and!
