Sharon, softdrinks out of heart and womanhood "BE, October 18, 2016.
The ED-Remontadoses have no idea of all the audience of the First night of Sharon, to have a concert after four o'clock in the world upside down by Megastar Sharon Cuneta in the Pambansang Kamao and Solaire Casino.
Propaganda of a concert with Two cases were simple, with two live-in-law, with two live-ranking people in the middle.
The designs that helped a good piece of lights was helped to earn bigger and the ingredients were overflowing in the songs of Mega Shawie.
She was able to go to a concert but, of course, is because of Cuneta.
It is just going up to stage the form of politics and on stage, one of the Ortho-governmental organization of stars she could not give up to the meantime, "good fortune, Solaire Casino, the Shark V," Shara, "Shara," Viceral? "
All sorts of attacks on Her, and in the truth that she could avoid being carried away by a cauldron near Solaire Casino that night.
Madison be talkative, cherness, a lot of adore, a love, a love, and the Cardinal is taking out the power of God all kinds of concert in the concert.
All of his numbers, institutions that are picking up the small firecrackers in Her, could not avoid being thrown in form, which can be seen with Ammute.
He is an intense competition of the Snooky Serna Coming from the West side Swift and buh up with typhoid fever and Rihanna.
Being sold in Shawie's sales especially when he was playing with his / her biased.
He blames everything that he said that he was not wearing a point where he was wearing a point at the point where he / she was wearing a point at gunpoint while lying down a bed sheet.
There is an outburst of dates on the food that he is going to do and they were receiving payment.
One of those who hang out is Sevidal-New Year with My Life, Barbra to cover-up.
One of the winning adversary, "Ate Padilla," was almost as Mrs. Robin Padilla.
For him, a Two-month-old man, "
After the explosives, the reward to be applied with Ka-worker has been implemented.
He / she was also win over Mister Tulfo, "God, the source of my separation from my own power. Ibuine, Fight of this 12, twenty-year 38th day since Mister Molina).
"The Salas."
For the Megastar, "Deguer, and full Circle gang," said the conclusion that she is going to live with Frankie Armas. "
In a show that Frankie, white uniform were wearing a white cloth with a white uniform, which is why he / she is not in full force.
Side with Shawie's Her daughter Frankie Her / she was just pretending to be able to go to Ate Shawie, "Mr. Scorpio Girl, it was obvious that he / she was able to see each other.
A mother-and-child had a signal number 1, Sharon, who seemed to go back to Frankie, whom she admitted that she was a vacation-up, "mom, thank you, I know she was a man-in-law."
The wedding of Cuneta will be very entertained, to be compared to 80s, duh!
Another heart of heart, Sharon, "My Mama," krrrik, "krrrik," krrrik, "epal.
"I have long brought a long time inside Tabag-Song, the one of the Persist back," and that's his cision, "and that's his cattle.
There was a severe heat and loss of Cuneta Astrodome, just like the Montenero and Fight IT which was about to remove them out.
Epoissess, a line line of the Song, "said to be the collector of Humalig), which can be taken from his heart and womanhood.
A lot of Diva, thank you, a love, and grumm, while he is holding it.
Another effect of the part of the concert is what's been made by Ate Shawie in Aegantly.
According to him, he / she said, "he / she was near because it was really different because his voice was unusual."
Sharon Segantly is said to be here, Louie Ocampo led the voice and skills of Cuneta as a singer.
"His behavior is perfect and step that comes to the lower range of the Megastar.
And Sharon, to the actress Miss Deaf Bicolandia 2016, there is an acting element of the National Bureau of the Adelinquent driver, that is why he pushed the recognition given to him.
After the ten-year-old Dorina Pentrante, the sock of Sharon Cuneta will be the length of bars of Sharon Cuneta when it was of course, the national anity of a couple, and always a song along the wedding, is me.
Ate Shawie also felt the belief that from the The Carpenter. We Sharon DID, she became ill-tempered and having a lot of patience and romance to share to the songs.
Of course, the 24 years of Team Sharon had to sing from The Varice cream.
There is an only spot numbers of the Top Center, Antoinette Tell, Alvin Elchico and JC.
The highlight of the-year-night, is the shape of the vice number wherein Sharon, Two years of Her, Calinao, and with two four o'clock at the same time, look like stars that look like a lot of stars in a X-ray.
A standing ovation was given to Sharon Cuneta, Her, after half a number.
Before her fins and encore, Cuneta was a love for her fans and supporters.
His line, "38th year, is a lot of young women Stars, thank you, thank you," thank you. "
Camply, as well as Ate Shawie, and the person who has been in the crib.
Aside from his family, Senator Kiko Pangilinan, daughter Miel and Captain Miguel.
Older brother Higher Cuneta, the Miss Annabelle Rama, Donita Rose and Gary Valcariano, has another performance of the performance of Sharon on October 22, in the toll fee and Solaire Casino.
