Hopefully all was made.
By between Dacer August 15, 2016.
Even Vice President Leni Robredo is near to be victimized by the airports in airports.
In the report, VP Leni was able to molest the Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) and the airline that was held in the Pacific Ocean to investigate the attempt to meddle with his two children.
Robredo came from the US and attended the US to attend a few kinds of lights when brought to his office, it was discovered that he had been delivered to his office, found out that he had a lot of items being thrown at his office, it was discovered that there was a lot of people who attempted to open the baggage of the Vice President.
It was lucky that nothing was lost from the walking Vice President but he did not give the incident and reported it to the officials of MIAA and the management of the committee to give an explanation.
The MIAA and asserted that the attempt to open the burial of VP Leni is not in NAIA, according to the examination conducted in a closed-circuit television where the process has been done by the passengers from the Pacific Ocean.
This means that what happened to VP Leni is not safe from the hands of numerous men in the airports and any part of the country.
In all who are being victimized by armed men and the hands of the airport their hands can still be lucky because if it is possible that VP Leni is still lucky because if he is an Overseas Filipino worker or a country, he will surely lose his baggage like many complaints that we receive from the missing passengers of different airlines.
But hopefully like what the treatment of VP Leni is similar to the attention of the management of MIAA to other countrymen who are also victimized by opportunists in airports.
Because there is nothing compared to the airport and airline personnel who are not the residents of MIAA, that's why they should act on small or big complaints, you act on it immediately.
The passengers are not waiting for the passengers who have gone out of their time just to know the truth behind their luggage or some of their baggage going home to the Philippines.
