
Did they have a Kabarse, the month is angry at the length of Magandang Gabi, marriage, Cambot and Asumba compound, in the process of libel.

Postanes and Bonoan, Bonoan.
On August 21, 2015.
In showbiz.

For those who want to be able to watch the old movie, it can be watched in Rocas well as 5 from August 26 until September 1 that has a race in film Reelf, The Camping.
Included in the Onse Chance between John Lloyd Cruz, Bea Alonzo and Ginger Tell or Belt of Rico Yan and Claudine Barreto.
Together with the two films that are being discussed, it is still a lot of fact that it is being shown on the cinemas and even before it is still new if this will be repeated again, not divided in heaven, only wealth, Oro Plata Street, Karuhatan, T-3618, and Ching and Sarah.
It is said in the process to have been given to a couple of Kabanthem, the month is mad at the length of Magandang Gabi, married, Cay and Amagsaki, Pedro Pennsylvania, Soleta, Soliba, and others.
In the game held by Scud of Sagad movies, they attended the prime director Jose Almonte Reyes, Isabelo De Castro, Ibice Guimbal, Joey Romero, and Persist back, Manolo Abaya and Romy Vitug.
They asked the mentioned director what kind of movies they want to be.
Joey Romero said, "i'll file for what I want the all of the Public Works of my Father, and was reported to be a lot of" like this, "I hope that"
Director Joey, "all of my movies, Vangie Labuan,"
According to Director Brillante, "it was all my favorite film in Regal, I want to be all of a contract with for 10 years to all of my movies, they are at them.
.
This project is also made by Leo Katropa bench, head of ABS-CBN Film Festival (Izzy Canillo) to be together with Ronald Arguaving, Channel Hearse.
Meanwhile, Mr. Supreme Court said that why did they think of the project project of ABS-CBN, "many are asking what is really the project project of ABS-CBN, Tibagan, project, which is a relationship with the Filipino hospital.
"I am very young when I really love the movie, so I have seen the movies now that Christmas should not be different.
"So, we was able to let the film chuces over 20 years old, then, one of the person who wanted to do was we were able to do so very expensive, that's why it's very expensive to make me, the Roadversary, we was surprised to be his partner, and the person who is in the film.
"And when we saw a little amount that was built in a film, we was able to stay in a noodle house, 2011, and the first film that ended, 2012.
"Why do we do this?
"The problem as of Fire, IGAPAMORE by OPLAN) Arinoli, who has been in the case of the Philippines, probably, 40 percent, which is a member of the country, which is being taken back to the Senate.
"For example, you can see in the video 48," that's how different movies are, "the other movies," that's the only thing that's different and when it comes to the end of the movie.
"But it was also a big problem, most of Producers, DID, who was in the corner of the Virgin Mary, because before, there was no cable, no DVD, on TV and the cinema.
"So after that, the movie is very expensive, but there is a need to sell it, so it is better to sell, but it would be better to sell, but it's better to sell, because what happened is, most of the movies have gone.
"The other things we can see, GALLEor less, my appearance and not," we are already awake, that's why they are already awake, "that is sad to be seen in cinemas, in the provinces this kind of condition.
"The Our Lady OPLAN), which is very important to us, is one more saddening to us," why are you asking the youth now, "what they are saying is wrong," what we are saying is wrong, "what's lacking is wrong," the scenes are lacking. "
"Aside from that, she could not avoid going to Adamson University, the said director," the director who made a movie that no matter how far from they came, Mike de Leon, TIDs, TIDs, "hey, the writer of the movies, which is saddening.
"What we have done before is better, but after now, there are a few who are able to worry, after now, the number of those new to be flat, but after that, they have no idea, how to make do with the youth, how do you have to make do with the youth?
"So our point is our point, we can change the views of audience favorite for old movies, we can handle them as well as if you do not know that this is just now or just yesterday.
DOLET - Regi Bonoan.
