TRIterax.

The citizens of Caloocan City will win in their relationship with three high officials who are Mayor Oca Malapitan, Representative Egay Erice and Vice Mayor Mackay, even if many are aware that they will not be allies if they are talking about the party they are anticipating.
It is true that the local journalists' mind and themselves are the biggest, especially Camanava, the biggest and respected media Organization in Northern Metro Manila, are the lives of the witnesses because they can see and feel the unity of the three.
According to VM Mackay, they are not "Cup of tea" in the city to look for a hole in the city for all of them are convinced that there are no good changes that will happen in Caloocan if they will not be united to implement their programs and projects.
"As beneficiary of the city council ng mga Bayani, Fight IT led to the Malapitan administration that was being taken to the office of the Philippines, to be the responsibility to be taken to the Office of the country," said VM Mackay.
He added: "In the end of the end of the City the its in-law, Arinoli, who is a McJim wallet.
According to him, Cong. Egay is also like that, it is not a reason for politicking the city because he can see the dedication and determination of Mayor Oca to become better and progressive in Caloocan and the evidence there are everywhere infrastructure and commercial drivers.
We really can't say anything to Mayor Oca. Hey, he has been in position for more than a year but two big buildings in the University of Caloocan City have already been built in North Cotabato.
"That is not only that, when the owner of the SM City was built, a huge mall was built on the crossroad and last week, a bigger" SM City "will be built up in the area of the burned GROs at Central Shopping Mall.
And for sure, the flow of traffic would be better and the flow of the economy is going to be orderly, including Cong. Egay is also prioritized in fixing the roads, especially in the SM malls, aside from the SM malls, aside from a severe horseshoe, one of the primary and medical Road in the city.
"Isn't it that the city and the resident do not win?
Hopefully, they will imitate other officials in other places, the election, as they say, just one day, "good, good.
