Become the protagonist right!: A simple award to our big sister.
By Bam Aquino July 21, 2016 are the protagonist, one of the personalities that I admire and called to the personality are former education Secretary Bro, Argie Luistro, one of the most hard work of the cabinet in the previous administration.
Bro, Armin, as a teacher in De La Salle College was started in the decades of clothes since then, he went back to the position and became a leader of the eight institutions in De La Salle University (DLSP) in the first time he will be placed in the secretary of the Department of Education (DepEd).
Please immediately put your face to the challenges of Bro.

He was met by many, such a lot of problems, like the lack of 61.7 million in the book, almost 12.5 million pesos in the chair, 66,800 classrooms and 14 5,827 teachers.
Aside from this, Bro, Arayyy admitted the preparation and set the controversial K to 12 Program.
Bro did not make it back.

Arayyy admitted the huge problem that the Aquino government needs to help.
He faced these problems for the welfare of millions of students in the entire Philippines.
In the midst of the criticisms on his every move and movement, effective and silent will be fulfilled by Bro, Arida.

In an interview with Bro, Arus, before he went down from his position, he said the backward was erased in the classroom in order to build the agency of 118,000 New Year from 2010 up to 2016.
Aside from this, there are 66,000 pesos that have been built on 185,000 but have already been built under the former administration.
Unresolved are the lack of teachers in taking more than 258,000 teachers from 2010 up to 2016.
Luistro also pushed for the beautifying of facilities, placing a internet and new etiquette in order to improve the quality of education in the country.
Luistro also led the proper implementation of the K to 12 Program, including the start of the first batch of grade 11 on June.
Almost half of the out of the school Youth Foundation in the country is also reduced by almost half.
Because I saw that said program is effective, I submitted the Senate Bill 7172 or the best servant to implement it in the whole country.
When it comes to this, this will respond to the needs of Filipino youth who are aging seven to 24 who are not studying in making programs to give education to every Filipino, especially the out of-school Youth (OSalas).
I thought why Bro, Arus are not proud of what she has done.
But I remember what he mentioned before that this is our duty as public service and we should not wait for anything in exchange and praises because this is for the needs and welfare of the people.
Aside from this, I still always hear what Bro, Armin said that even if there are many criticisms on his duty to serve the fellow, he will be taken from God.
My success of Bro, Arus, despite the heavy challenge, give me an inspiration to do good in serving the people.
We hope that a lot of Bro, Arus will show up and serve the government.
