Drilon wants to be president.

The Senate President Franklin Drilon is said to have been suspended for now if he can join the vice president of the country in 2016 election.
This is what Drilon's way now, according to the political analyst from the country, a severe jumping from the political ambition of the lawmaker from Iloilo because the President of the Senate is not like that.
Even his works on the law has no effect that is why if you notice it is not a popular for the filipino masses, and there is a possibility that this will not be brought to Top 3 to be able to enter the Top 3 which can be held at by Top 3.
As of now, Drilon's actions in the country is said to be abandoned because it is part of his campaign and even to the pulse of the people.
Even the Liberal Party officials were also heard by the people because the group of Roxas does not want to get a fervent prayer to make the wife of Korina Sanchez.
As a matter of fact, it was just this past convention center of Bulacan in Davao City, it is said that it is said that he did not intend to make it to the captain, Sen. Drilon, who was very obvious to be obvious in Bulos City.
Drilon made a unique message to the barangay officials because it is said that his statements are in 2016.
"That is what the LP is expecting from the LP and that is what the citizens should remember because it is time to accept and put it in danger.

So that the citizens will not be complacent about the issue of PDAF, maybe it is also time for him to have his allies in the Liberal Party.
This is what PNoy should do because this is the only way to remove the doubt of the people that his administration is giving favors.
A high-ranking official of his administration is what the people are waiting for and this is what the people are waiting for.
Sevidal and harassment of the three senators who are charged with plunder, which is why he should prove to the public his straight path to service.
The public's challenge now with PNoy is heavy, that is why he should prove that his administration has no different leadership in the palace.
One member of the Cabinet needs to follow Senator Bong Revilla, Juan Ponce Enrile and Jinggoy Estrada and that is what the public wants.
