Meningococcemia and safety of the public.

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T.

Meningococcemia is a fierce infection coming from the bacteria that its symptoms are high fever, vomiting, white vinegar and swelling of the neck, often because they do not have an immunity against it.
When a person is infected with it, it will wait 3-5 days before the symptoms come out, it is possible that meningococcemia because 10 percent of the patient will die even if it is given the right medicine.
Where to get meningococcemia?
There are 5-10 percent of Filipinos who are positive in the crash site, bacteria (Needia,), but they do not feel any reason, there are people who get sick when it spread in the community, this can be an outbreak.
The saliva of the patient will be fruitful and it is possible to pass the bacteria on others through kissing or drinking the glass of a sickness when a patient will be infected or cough, we can also be infected.
To determine the reason of being sick, the doctor evaluate the blood or CSF, water in the spinal cord, of the patient.

But there are times that in just a few hours, the infection spread in the brain (Priscilla Mireilles) and blood of the patient (EAMC), if it happened, it is hard for treatment even if the patient had a complication with heart disease, deaf or trace of hands or feet.
Protection to the public!
In the hospital, the patient will separate from his own room and all who are going to visit her need to wear a face motivation and wash your hands.
Clean the room and classroom where the patient came from and wash the glass and plate that he felt.
Everyone with the patient in the house and school) should be observed for a few days to know if they get sick and we are looking for the infection started.
Given all the patient with the patient to be with antibiotic to lessen the chance that they will have meningococcemia, for the age of 18, and above, they have to drink a score of 600 million pesos, 2 times in the afternoon within 2 days.
It depends on the advice of the DOH, it is possible to give a vaccine to those in the community, but the effect of the vaccine is only 3 years and will be given 7-14 days after defecating.
Remember, always wash your hands and to protect yourself against meningococcemia, when someone lost interest, he should be checked immediately by a doctor to know his illness.
