
Versus PNoy, against PNoy?

When the anti-martial law attacks on the streets, there are those who are from Malacanang.
But their enjoyment is that they are willing to express that they are not only against the martial law of Macoy but they are against the term for-term for the Supreme Court.
The people of the Palace failed to discuss the brains and hands of the martial law declared last September 21, 1972.
It's because they felt that the evacuees are aware of the minds of Macoy that they have their own clouds in the attempt of the 1-Macoy, for extension.
They know that the Maceda and PNoy are the same in the treatment of the SC.
"Is it possible for the SC to do the SC for just following them.
Thousands in the Philippines.
Thousands have passed, but more than million people have not forgotten the urge of the law.
The citizens who has condemned where the government has condemned is the government's kind of military and police, and at the end of the gun they are living.
Of course, there are some who were pleased before that they thought they were free under martial law.
But eventually, the fact that the truth should not end the dictatorship.
And millions of people or majority of the Filipino people have joined or joined the martial law and saw the body and souls when the People Power 1 happened.
They are the ones who came out from the road these past few days against martial law or any kind of this today.
Cannot be blamed.
We cannot blame those who marched on the streets when they involve the current administration with their criticism on the government.
Because there is a big similarity between the difference between the Marcos and the Aquino government.
There is it that what the people in the location would be there, their positions will worsen and they want to protect the Constitution in order to ensure that this will happen.
If the Chief Justice of the Philippines will only take advantage of the martial law by the president of the Philippines, the Chief Justice is just going to be a puppy and a toy.
But one of the worst is the similarity of fake progress.
It is true that there is a progress in the country, but for the few closer to Malacanang and Congress, those big businesses in the country will go to school from the phone, airplane, airplanes and infrastructure.
The citizens are left behind and in the actual survey of the government, there are increasing number of those saying that they are suffering and increasing in number of their lives where they are in poverty.
OFWs: Signs of the nightmare.
If they still cannot understand the general condition of the majority of citizens, they will just look at the neighbors and neighbors, and there, they will earn the similarity of the similarity of martial law and the Tuwid na Daan "now.
Because of the lack of work in the country, the martial law has been exhausted from abroad and there are many who have lost their lives and hope for tomorrow.
When the Tuwid na Daan, as well as the problem with employment, including the salary, it has already been an announcement that PNoy himself has an announcement about Wage as well as his State of the Nation Address?
Now there are millions of people who continue to be driven out of the Philippines as a worker and a slave of the foreigners.
You are even the one who got hit by a horrible scene before you can find a new job without assurance and only until five months only.
This is in spite of the government saying that the Philippines is rich and being admired (or lying to the foreigners.
"It's as if I am the one alone.
Of course, Bro, the current administration does not want to be called a crazy dog like what he called for the government of martial law.
That is why he was abandoned by the Tuwid na Daan, which is allegedly using severe corruption and corruption.
You cannot feel the masses, Bro, and words.
There is a halo-halo or the right action of this.
One, don't take it with the Constitution so that the Supreme Court will be released until he is a puppy and a slave in Malacanang.
One more thing, do not let us live in hunger for the increase of our citizens and only a few people will get infected and to the natural resources of the country and transactions of the government.
One more thing, they should put the higher corrupt and corrupt people in Malacanang and his allies in the Senate and Legislative Chamber, including the local government.
If all these can only be done even in the last two years of PNoy in his position, the extension of the extension is not needed.
There are also those who have, and millions of people, will take action to continue the government of real service to the country.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
