36IB, is honored by TESDA Surigao del Sur.

October 3, 2016, Nida Grace P. Barcena.

Tandag City, Surigao del Sur, October 3 (Pia) - 7th Infantry "Valor" Mangundadatu), Philippine Army were honored by the 22nd of awards "who complained recently in the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the province.

According to the report, Lt. Gen. RallRojas himself, the highest official of Foreign IB, was the highest official of Foreign Affairs that attacked the award and thanks for the continuing exchange of strangulation on the said agency by bringing and giving support to bring their program on its territory.

In the term of Rojas as a leader of the said architect, a lot of classes held in different types of livelihood is given to the residents who are more asking the said training for their daily livelihood.

Included in this are the following: 00am edious; eardrum Tapayan and Nargalliances, Trece Martirez; Chuwariwa-governmental organization; Chuwariwa-governmental organization; Chuwariwa-governmental organization; Chuwariwa-lualto; and Cambitious; and Cerezo Valle), according to the complaint of the civilians, according to the report.

Along with this, Director Rey Cuya was made to thanked the current leader of TESDA (CIDG Region of Caraga and chief of the said agency in the province of Surigao del Sur, Valor battalion or his services given to the civilians in its jurisdiction.

The rise from poverty can rise from poverty that is being given by TESDA to each other, which is being given by TESDA (each other, which is sick with the various agencies of the government, including the military and local government.

In the message made by Rojas, he said that the residents need to give appropriate attention and help from the approval of their livelihood to earn livelihood.

The official added, "let us continue the good relationship of the military and TESDA (TESDA), including the other those who are assisting him and the stakeholders) for this way that we can give the Supreme Court for this way."

There is also an official who continued their support and moving forward to achieve real peace and improve the community community (Pia-Surigao del Sur.
