Yellow Ribbon versus the Black Nazarene, Red and Peach.

It looks like President Noynoy, Butch Abad is left alone and those KKK in wearing a yellow or yellow party.
Most of the majority wants to wear black, red and peach or color of Erap.
The direct report is many of the employees of the government who do not like yellow and want to wear black, red and peach.
Why?
Share the government.
Where do you look at it, Bro, and our government has already divided.
"Is it that she does not get carried away from the Tuwid na Daan".
Because of this hundred pesos, it can be seen by others that Tawad or hundreds of secrets and exposed thieves and abusive towards power.
This has been feeling for a long time but it exploded in the face of Malacanang when the judges of the Supreme Court of 13-0 fight against the Disbursement Acceleration Program which the most important of PNoy and those who are opposing it.
It is clear that Malacanang is getting bullied by his critics, especially to his enemies in politics in relation to the election 2016 and the court himself because of its decision against DAP.
The right.
After the SC attacked him because of his defeat for DAP, PNoy was calling his bosses to wear the yellow party as support for him and his Tuwid na Daan which was allegedly stolen by the economy of my beloved Philippines.
The thing is, like what everyone knows, the boss reacted, I mean, employee of SC and wore black and red and unyellow.
There is no obstacle to wearing a yellow party inside Malacanang.
Those in the Sandiganbayan initially complained about the harassment of the boss of PNoy in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, through taxes that they are trying to collect taxes.
And this past Monday, the son of their employers, not only the people of the court, showed other colors but the teachers and other employees of the national government.
Even more.
The situation worsened when PNoy attacked the judges about the arguments of the Palace and the SC, and do their ballots to fight the Congress.
PNoy did not mention, Bro, the congressmen and senators may take action that the judge will not be impeached, and the exchange of judge who will be just following each other in the hands of Malacanang.
And like what is expected, his followers in the Congress immediately act, especially those from the Legislative Chamber.
The Commission on Audit pulled the Commission on Audit to know the state of the pork barrel allegedly of the judges, the Judicial Development Assistance Fund.
When it was fired from COA, whoa, it took out a research that there is a miracle in JDF.
And now, the congressmen want to erase the congressmen for their source of income, just like what happened to them on the Priority Development Assistance Fund and DAP.
They are opposing.
Bishop Teodoro, a pastor.
Not only are the government involved in the fight.
The people from the church took as well with different colors.
Even though these are campaigning, they will not be saved to hell with their not a helper, they are united with saying that PNoy is too much of the right way.
There are those who joined the impeachment fight against PNoy that are men of Bishop Teodoro Greg Aglipay, United States of the Christ of the Philippines, priest, nuns and archbishop of the Catholic Church and others.
The catholic bishops conference of the Philippines with PNoy is getting bullied in PNoy while he was called out from the Constitution by Father Joaquin Bernas.
Always gambling.
It seems like PNoy is a bit stingy in what he is doing so many will not agree to it.
He was a pastor or bishop or the priest when he became a guest of a big church or sect in the Philippines.
One's time to use words from the Bible and expressed good news, he looked like a Bible, which is still sports.

Put them imprisoned.
But the next day, the news exploded that the plunder case was filed in the position for the election in 2016.
Why is it that the KKK of PNoy was shot in the survey as Mar Roxas in the survey as vice-President Jojo Binay.
And there is a higher grades in the survey of Grace Poe who is the son of Da King or Fernando Poe, Jr. or Roxas.
PNoy is really fed up and Roxas.
Solution?
Put all over them.
Maybe next time will be, Grace Poe, who will be jailed because of its very clean name, duh!
Feasts around.
With what we feel, Bro, good things that are only at the TIDs, ehek, "Tuwid na Daan.
Maybe they should always talk about their passports so that if needed, they will not remove their departure order if the weather will suddenly change.
What we don't know that he will come to other hours for Erap, hehehe!
In addition to this, it is also good to stop the KKK of Malacanang that Filipinos want to remain in six-years in the palace.
