"RL" A "KEPS-HE."

Halo-halo is the cause of being sick in the heart and increase of blood of many people.
There is an amount of insult, the fear of the non-turn call from the onslaught of the riding-in-tandem or even a single rider like the police who escaped to Princess Pastor.
It's because there are riding a riding-in-tandem who just kill as this form or because of being cowards.
There are also those who do not have a hold-up but they kill if the victim will fight.
There is also getting sick in the heart and blood is increasing because of poverty.
For example, the hospitals are rejected by the hospitals because of the loss of the patient for the emergency of the patient's condition.
There are also those who have said disease, Jews as well because of the dirt of politics in the country.
It's because politicians are going crazy but they want to have them imprisoned their opponents.
There is also getting sick in the heart and high blood because of the lack of debts and just as long as a massacre like the police in Pangasinan.
And do you know, the attack of the heart and high blood is the leading disease and cause of death or murder of many Filipinos?
If you think about it, it is hard to stop this illness due to the said problems and situation.
But there is a solution against this illness.
In a study of the European Soccore of Cardiets for half a million people, make sure, especially in the country China, if you eat fruits, you will reduce 25-40 percent.
And there will be less 32 percent of your possible death on this day of eating fruits.
"Here we remembered what the doctors are saying," said the doctors. "
We only have a wish, to collect it.
Hopefully the riding-in-tandem don't eat fruits, they have to massacre to the media, and because of debt, the patients refused to borrow money, abusive and useless politicians so they will be hit by illness and are pests.
But, a mother and mother, these are the ones who have money to buy oil and other fruits that is why their lives will be more than the citizens.
