
Bangsamoro Islamic State.

We can't do anything anymore.
President Benigno Aquino III and the leadership of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) have signed that they will witness who will witness their allies, Malaysia.
Isn't a clings?
Hopefully the release of the Bangsamoro State will end with all kinds of chaos in Mindanao.
Because that is what President Noynoy said and those who are saying that, under the Bangsamoro State, the entire Mindanao will improve especially our Muslim brothers and all from the region.
I am one of the many who are asking, is the Philippines flag down the new state; however, I am still trying to go down because it is more than a dozen, but it is even more than a dozen, but Malacañang has no answer.
Will the MNLF and Abu Sayyaf Group stay quiet?
Will the weapons from MILF win?
"I just went straight to G. Aquino when he said that ARMM came from an unusual agreement, even like other organization, even the leadership of Malacañang, not a system but also running it!
In the hope that Mindanao will bring peace in the time of former President Fidel V. Ramos, after he will get an agreement with the former MNLF chairman Nur Misuari, he pulled the funds to the former MNLF chairman Nur Misuari, FVR's fund for all the laid plans of change and projects.
Now, Aquino's first damage with Aquino is 50 billion pesos, which is why the funds will be used in the right direction?
Can the streets and bridge be done?
Will the kind of life and education increase?
Will our siblings have a job there?
Up to now, the teacher and employees of ARMM came back to AOIL.
Of course, I hope that the new state of the Philippine state of the Philippine State in the name of peace and advancement of the economy and livelihood in the entire Mindanao is good.
This is not able to do this, this is a big challenge to the leadership of the Bangsamoro Islamic State in the length of the New Year in order to achieve your aspirations in the state, to prove that you will not be like the abusive and greedy politicians.
