"It is just an impeachment.

Complaint of impeachment against the current president of the country is the only solution to the declaration of the Supreme Court that is against the Constitution the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), or the Presidential pork barrel.
The controversial group expressed their readiness to comment on the impeachment complaint, according to them, it is clear that President Aquino violated the constitution when Aquino used the funds from other government agencies to make the pork barrel he used.
Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) said that they will be submitted to the impeachment complaint even if there are saying nothing will be reached.
"The Supreme Court said that the President violated the Constitution by many of his act under DAP, because the president could not file a case against him before he will be filed against him before he is removed from his position," Reyes explained.
"Whom to massacre!
Aquino still defended his allies in the legislative chamber.
Included here are Representative Ben Evardone in Eastern Samar, Joaquin Chik or Junior of Laguna (Southern Tagalog), Cesar Montano and Cagayan de Oro), Elpidio Barlam, Quezon City (NCR), and Eric Singson of Ilocos Sur (Ilocos Sur (Ilocos Sur).
"Thank you for them and it is easy to find out who are having a" pork barrel "by pork barrel" BS Aquino in the House of Representatives, "according to Aquino, in spite of his violation on the Constitution, the proof of their confusion to Aquino."
The threat of the massacre against the impeachment complaint should be made into the impeachment complaint even if it has not been submitted to the House of Bayan and other groups in their complaint.
"What kind of system is what we have is stopping the people to use (legal ways to use the power of funds?
Reyes also explained that the "good belief that the palace is saying is not to make a reason for the use of DAP, according to them, the president needs to take responsibility for all the issues regarding the use of funds.
"The contribution of the team (which" good faith "in the use of DAP) is what has been implemented, it needs to be held accountable (Aquino) to ensure that the chaos happening in DAP," said Reyes will not happen again.
Bayan and lawmakers are hoping that they will agree with the impeachment case but they want to agree with the impeachment case but they want the public to know what really happened to the funds of the country, "said Reyes.
It was covered with employees.
This is one of the groups who are supporting the submission of the impeachment complaint of the group ConFootball Federation for Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of government that they are offering benefits that should have been taken from the questionable funds of different agencies that they involved.
"It is usually the benefits of the benefits that are allowed to be the benefits of Collyer Needious Agreement (CDO) of the employees and Magalang, health personnel and social workers," the national president of Calaguas.
These funds are said to be done, Galite, the himself used by Malacanang under the DAP to fund the programs for its age, including the impeachment trial of former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
Despite this, the employees of the government complained about the policy of the Department of Budget and Management Council to get cals in, or sometimes it is prohibited and the benefits of the benefits.
Meanwhile, the farmers of Hacienda Luisita also complained that P173 million pesos that was paid by the Department of Agrarian Reform of Mejorada as a solution to the distribution of the plough, Pero until now, the farmers of Hacienda Luisita still haven't paid them.
