Thank you very much.

What is really, human beings work, what should be done to the senators and congressmen who are accused of corruption and corruption in the issue of suspension and trust of them?
This is the question of the citizens in different actions of the Chamber and Senate in the suspension of the three senators who were charged with corruption in relation to the controversy on the pork barrel or the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
It appears that there are two kinds of suspension for the punishment done by the lawmaker and suspension of the steps to stop the lawmakers to use his power against the case he is facing.
The question is appeared, causing the action of the Legislative Chamber and the Senate in their respective members who are facing charges of corruption.
The Chamber did not follow the order of the Sandiganbayan to suspend the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of 90-day as a lawmaker.
This is supposedly the statement of the 1987 Constitution, especially the Article VI, Section 16, Pares.3, saying how the congressman can be punished.
It is also for the senators to put this out of the Constitution.
On the other hand, the Senate followed the order of the said court for Senator Juan Ponce Enrile inside 90-day.
And he did not use the provision of the Constitution like what the Chamber did.
Included in the meaning of the suspension of this competition, the lack of power by lawmakers, who made a job as a senator, like the construction of laws and rights in salary and benefits and benefits.
King-mother, for the citizens, when the government seems to be vigilant, it will cause confusion in their ranks.
This is confusing because their acceptance of the expected benefits from public service by lawmakers and human rights that should be given to all, lawmakers or ordinary citizens.
It is good to clarify this issue to the citizens so that their fear of dirty politics is what's happening which is also a twin of lack of fair justice.
If there is politicking and lack of justice for all, a mother-and-child, where will we be if we will be removed from there?
