De Lima even more!
By Boyet Jihadist, August 3, 2016.
Even if the Senate President also has not yet opened the extrajudicial killings, even Senator Leila de Lima even increased his speech.
"In every day that God has made a clear day since the result of the past election, we have been used to our breakfast, suman and butts," said the senator, who has been covered with "The balls."
He is now asking the same story, "the drug personalities involved in the authorities, the reason why they were killed, said that they fought with a gun while handcuffed too, but we know that sometimes, de Lima has an old explanation for his very first speech in the Senate.
"We Are-out of the Office of the Police District-Fi'll be known to be the leader of the-law enforcers in the guise of self defense, the senator explained that he was the chairman of the Senate Committee on Justice and human rights assigned to investigate the said issue.
With the number of those who are killed by the police and vigilantes, de Lima said that the people are going to wake up in front of the television on the news that one Juan dela Cruz was killed by the police when they fought in a buy-bust operation or thrown in the road and was placed in a buy-bust operation.
Along with this, the lady senator also rejoiced at House Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez, Justice Sec. Vitaliano Aguirre and Solicitor General Jose Calida because of the cooperation of them to destroy his reputation when he was dragged to illegal drugs operation in the country.
According to De Lima, Alvarez ignored the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation that he will file a resolution to investigate the possible connection with the spread of illegal drugs at the National Bilibid Prison (NBP).
"On the way, the all-out of the Office of the Philippines, the President's Men, the world's-Men, the World Boxing on its / her biased.
In spite of this, the senator believes that the three were given false information.

"I just wish that before they believe the lies of those who were hit before, they should examine the character and motivation of these people.
"Hopefully, they should not just judge him, and I will build a cardboard, and will be released of a huge tape," he stated.
