
MRT 3, A Rolan OFW who's being called!

DOTC Entry SEC. Jun Abaya, the boss of the boss, President Benigno Simeon Aquino III's stand against him / her.
Or, Better ", run for president for a x-x!"
It is obvious that Secretary Jun reminds the released report of Hong Kong MTR who is scrutinizing the MRT 3.
The Hong Kong team said, "
Instead of Secretary Jun on the HK-MTR team to give up to a solution to the help that they have seen in the MRT 3, first, the MRT Holyfield and Consortium?
After this, he is insisting the government will buy the entire MRT for P54 billion pesos!
Mr. Secretary, listen to your boss, "there is no one to do with the eateries beside it!"
Instead of blaming the MRT Holmesburg, it is better if the whole of MRT 3 is better because they are really the one who made it and the real owner.
The rotten system and bureaucracy in government agencies are busy with the advancement of every program of the country.
The MRT 3 in your management today, which is always being destroyed, can be considered as a coffin of the road or "Rolan aids."
Are you still going to wait for the passengers to cause death before you believe in real experts in the derailing?
It is painful but the Manunuri ng Pilipinas is true based on the criticism and documents of the MRT.
It is too dangerous for almost 500 thousands of passengers to almost 500 thousand passengers everyday!
You can't blame the distraught or MRT Holding because of their management before, the problem is just for their hands.
Even if the damage is over, there is a quarrel or repair of the right process that is not like the hands of your party-ally and allies.
P57-million every month is the payment of the DOTC on Higher Education, which does not have their own capital and has no sufficient experience on the derailing?
You are very lucky.
Now, the crack is seen in a lack of sufficient use for the railway and coaches.
It is raining inside the wagons, the black thing caused by the black things from the airlines of wagons, it is dirty and the escalator, even if it is not working, it will be broken immediately.
Is that the most important thing what makes your gibboulevard, Mister Secretary?
Thank you a good military, thank you.
Salute to resign!
