
Be the Enhanced Defense Cooperation NJ for the time of calamity.

We were impressed by what President Aquino immediately did to call the meeting with his officials to prepare for the onslaught of the storm.
We saw their immediate action for all of us.
Because the Visayas Region which was destroyed by "Yolanda" then are now here is Ruby.
We continue to continue our praying and hopefully no one will be harmed and the storm will not be destroyed.
Only the Lord knows and God is our guide.
He is our reporters.
He / she was wearing.
Hopefully each one of us should be responsible.
It will not be better if they will wait and take pictures when the storm is there to avoid accidents and bigger inconvenience of calamity.
Let us not be stubborn and not a burden in the middle of the government that they are doing to save.
All of us have obligation not only to yourself, but to our family and to your loved ones.
The warning given to us by the government is enough.
They should evacuate especially those who are getting flooded especially those who are getting flooded and in the area to stop being hardheaded.
If something bad happens to you, you will have a problem.
Do not rush in the government.
He / she was wearing.
We also praise the cooperation of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas in response to the calamity.
He is continuously meeting with local government that are affected by typhoon Ruby.
Yesterday, he is in Eastern Samar and together with the local officials who planned to be saved and evacuation of the victims of the storm.
He appointed the governor and mayor as "First Division" in the calamity.
He / she was wearing.
The local government units also seems to have learned from the past calamities.
They were evacuated immediately before they criticized the typhoon.
The soldiers and coast guards are prepared to be prepared as the rescue team.
The police, the order is also on alert and order such as clothes that are happening in the department store.
The Department of Health (DOH) also spread the medical team and supply.
The church and school opened the door for evacuees.
The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) is focused on the price of goods and opinion buying "because for sure there will be a businessman.
He / she was wearing.
Let us ask Secretary Dinky Soliman of DSWD.
What will the DSWD do as response to the people affected by the current typhoon?
It was reported that many people are in evacuation centers.
They complain because they do not have enough to eat.
Isn't it that DSWD does not have a job to ensure that evacuees would not go hungry?
Isn't it right, DSWD is the first moving before the storm arrives?
Those that are from the provinces should have already been seated in the provinces so that their difficulty in traveling will not happen again which caused the rotten noodles, rice and even canned goods.
DSWD is one of the most important agency in the time of calamity because they are the ones taking care of rice cakes, but we do not hear any of what they are doing.
