
By Lanie B.

What is happening to President Benigno Aquino III?
Anyway, as an ordinary person, make sure that you will make it but in the true state of management, it is your work that you do not need to be proud of or be proud of!
And that is not what every Juan and Maria will be waiting for, Mister Aquino, what the people are expecting is the improvement of the real aspect of our country, not "all data is high, a huge economy and healthy economy in your country.
What now, if you will catch everyone who are wanted, all criminals are, that is the reason why you are there in Malacañang and as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and PNP, including the NBI of your work to make sure that every community is silent in the whole country.
Do you look like a film like a drama when it comes to a drama, boxing or movie with the statement that you have done, there is a mixture of arrogance in order to wait for the next chapter, Mister Noynoy?
You are pitiful with the President, even your allies are also angry because of lack of concrete programs that are already done on your stories about the plans of the projects who are worthless.
Isn't it a deceit for those people who are saying that the etiquette has improved because of the wide project or disruptions?
It's because it is hard for you to do within the time of your term, stupid, tomfoolery and fraud in the people.
"It's just that, it's a simple problem in the PNR to not solve it," the broken escalators and private sector in the MRT and LRT are not able to do so that you could not do all the projects that can be done?
The people knows that foreign contacts is scattered all because of the door, your Public Development Assistance Fund), but in the entry of corruption and corruption in all countries in the world, only the Philippines is the only Philippines in order to speed up the services of Anida?
You are funny, Mister President, your term is almost over, you are still continuing to save the country.
Oh no, that is dangerous because a liar and convulsion is only one type, because you might get hit by lightning, said by Pres. Erap.
