
Regular soldiers of the 3rd IB, 73rd Marine Brigade and Lamar Odom were pretending in the southern part of Nueva Vizcaya: Pretending to be a NPA to recover and spread terrorism in foreign contacts.

Alexander Guerrero.
NPA-Nueva Ecija.
26 August 2013.

Just this last week of August, the fraud and abuses done by the Philippine Army were reported to the radio and newspapers, residents of the nearby barangays of Dupax Del Norte and Kasibu, Nueva Vizcaya after the indigenous people who introduced themselves as NPA from Nueva Ecija.

The provincial government strongly condemned the said act, stealing of pet animals, harassment and abuse of some residents there, threats, and abuse of some residents there, which is currently being done by the soldiers of the 3IB, which is currently based in Barangay Sibol, Nino II, San Jose City, Nueva Ecija.
It's not just a few times that there have been such cases of theft and abuses from the barangays of Carbon and Pantabangan, even if they do not hammer, they seem to have a trace of interest of the local government that took advantage of their uniform and protector of a powerful foreigner.

It can be recalled that it was revealed in a local station of radio in Nueva Vizcaya the robbery, pain, and harassment of a drunk soldier based in Barangay Gatid, Caringal, Nueva Ecija, after they admitted that this is a part of their "peace and development in the area, however, the excuse that their answer was to hear in the said interview.

Three months after the incident, the troop headed by Lieutenant Quijano, in Barangay Bagumbayan, Dupax Del Sur, Nueva Vizcaya, which is currently detained and used by residents in fear that they will return to and repeat the dark experiences.

The Brigada Eskwela is getting stronger in the countryside of the SETC) of town of Nueva Vizcaya.

Since the Philippine Air Act of 1995 was already started, there will also start a widespread brownout in different parts of Nueva Vizcaya after it is scheduled to be destroyed due to the aggressive company of the farmers in the land, which is set to be destroyed due to the aggressive construction of the farmers in the land, which is set to be destroyed due to the aggressive construction of the farmers in the land, which is formed in all corners of Nueva Vizcaya.

However, just like what their employers remain numb, blind, and deaf to the citizens who are assigned in power by the citizens, they were not allowed to lead the masses in the path of fighting for the true reform in the land and the national aspect.

But in front of the failure to achieve triumph in court and petition to different offices of the government, the citizens have learned to depend on their own strength and decision to know that a strong movement of the masses in the middle of the town of Nueva Vizcaya!

An armed domination of the regime ended in a peaceful defense of the citizens for their land and livelihood.

In the looming martial law, the sound of a sound is noticeable in the middle of the violent protest in the southern part of Nueva Vizcaya.

It became a sign that the price hike in Quchest Examination (FED) Corporation) was a sign that this is just a part of the general against the farmers to reveal the rights on the land of illegal immigrants and defending the native Aetas and defense of the native continents.

Roño immediately filed a case to declare a Temporary Protection Order (TRO) against the suspected burial of a Temporary Protection Order (TRO) against the suspected ones who were ordered by the PNP-Dupax del Norte and soldiers of 88th IB, but the residents of 88th IB, but they tried to separate them.

Along with this, a truck filled with soldiers in Barangay Giuliani in the barbells that they occupied before the masses were placed under intense interrogation where they were forcefully sent to us in relation to the NPA.

Before the month of July came, he arrived at Barangay Belance, Dupax Del Norte, 73rd Division Recruitment and supported by the Philippine Army that were involved in mining and supported by the military Surveillance Response post in their houses, and observation of their activities.

Next to this was the arrival of those who are pretending to be NPA in the early morning of August 19 in Barangay Yadao, Dupax Del Norte, they said that they were trying to leave each other when they left, they were carried out by the rebels from Nueva Ecija.

In these times, the robbery of their pet chicken, extortion of rice, carrying a woman, and abuse from a relative of the captain, to make it look like the NPA are being blamed by other troops of the soldiers in the nearby barangays of PAO in the jurisdiction of Kasibu.

The abduction done by the PNP-CIDG in Bryan Estill cannot be taken care of this while on the evening of August 21 in Bayombong, until now, he is still not making it look like the call of different organizations.

PBALUSYi'll be able to give a reply to the approval of the terrorism of the Marcos regime.

This experience is no longer new, as time passes by many years, the community who are concerned about the leaders of the AFP, who are concerned about the opposition of the citizens, which are alleged to have been victims of violence and fraud, and those who have long been victims of violence and fraud and for a long time has never lost their fight.

The worsening crisis of the Marcos US-Aquino is ongoing for human rights in the entire country, this is part of the intensified implementation of the economy of the farmers in order to remove its natural wealth and national funds for the destruction of the Filipino people.

In front of this situation, we are calling all kinds of democratic types and sectors to be united in order to expose and fight the counter-laws and programs of the current Marcos regime.

The NPA-Nueva Ecija was saluted and the whole suspension of the citizens of foreign mining in our scope, and to whatever help we chose to promote the Saligang Batas of the Philippine Consulate in Nueva Vizcaya, we should implement the Saligang Batas of the Liberal Party in Nueva Vizcaya after our natural resources to promote the Saligang Batas of the Pambansang Kamao in our country.

We should be united in order to reveal and fight the elements of CAFGU, 73rd Marine Brigade and 3rd IB, who are spreading terrorism right now in Nueva Vizcaya after they cannot be irritated and destroy the prestigious contest of Bagong Hunan Bayan.

In the continuing strengthening of the movement of the masses and the armed fight, it is certain that the Filipino people will succeed in order to bring down their type, local government that will take away from the abuse and taking advantage in order to achieve their complete freedom and revolutionary justice to our society.
