PO 3 44; EDCA and pork barrel, proof of the lack of freedom "under the Aquino administration.

By Filipino Weeker.
June 14, 2014.

Pio Emmanuel Mejares, red-red) in Naga City, after being able to post bail, June 13, contribution / Insp. Casanas.
This June 12, the regime showed how this is celebrated today by the Independence Day, through it, the 19-year-old Pio Emmanuel jares, "Aquino," Aquino, was arrested by the President of the president for a free and under democratic society.
This is the message of the citizens who responded, which was led by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) near the embassy of the US in the morning, and the huge Nationalist Alliance (pork barrel scam, and led by a government which is taking the widespread corruption in the form of the pork barrel scam.
The two actions are set up in the direct relationship of the two problems, the ranks of those who are fighting against the pork barrel scam, even the allies of the local Elite, but for the welfare of the local Elite, and for the welfare of the local Elite, and for the welfare of the local Elite, and now the majority of farmers who improve the land are still severe.
That, in short words, the Philippines has a short word, to short words, the lack of freedom, from 1898 up to the present.
The pictures of Boy Bagocboc, Macky Macasac, PPETion, LJ Sion, and grandchildren, Quijano, were pictures.
It seems that the policemen were greeted by the police in the protest of Bayan in the embassy of the US: The leader of the US: The leader of a worker identified as Sammy Malhes, Andres Bonifacio, together with the Katipuneros.
The "guns of activists are set to gather from the Honor Code, in front of the police at the embassy of America in front of the policemen in the embassy of America, from the left by Gabriela Rep. Emano de Jesus.
The policemen also agreed to take the pro-bala "gun" of militant activists.
The protest continues even if there is a strong rain showers in the picture of Garry Martinez of Migrante International.
The Comprehensive Tax Reform Program of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, which is said to have failed to break the monopolize of the land of the few, is that the reason why there is still no real freedom from the farmers of Macky Oryang.
The image of the President and Australian who were involved in the pork barrel scam, LJ.
Mother Mary John Irvin, of the woman Laban, Katie (warning) and number of Abangtze River ferry trips.
The Bayan Patroller has brought again the protest of number of Abaca Karangalan Village, afternoon last June 12 in Liwasang Bonifacio, the "Golden pork" that seems like the politicians who are involved in the scandal of the pork barrel in the country now, LJ.
The pigs are wild at the prison.
Against pork, salads of nature, in the protest at Liwasang Bonifacio. Macky Macasaids.
Dante Jimenez of a Volunteers Organization (Crime Operatives) and former Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino's former Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino Representative Edcel Lagman.
Severe is the symbol of death of the country about the signing of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (several years Quijano.
Whatever was identified as Monet cetera.
Thousands of thousands went to Mendiola.
Footage by Boy Abunda.
There is a mask of a pig and a sign about lack of freedom to arrive in LJ.
The wedding of those involved in the pork barrel scam is included with the President and his allies.
Torch March to Mendiola.
