Farmers, victims, relatives of the massacre in Mendiola.

Macky Macasaverted!
January 22, 2015.

Twenty-eight years have passed after the bloody massacre happened in Mendiola, there is still no justice yet done by the victims, according to Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas, the huge tax that their lives are doing is still there, and there are still there to be a huge influence to the Lord the land owned by the Lord Nazarene like President Aquino.
The foot of Malacanang protested again in Mendiola Bridge in Manila, thousands of farmers from different parts of Luzon, to insist on the true reforms that are being fought for by those who were massacred by the farmers who were massacred by the farmers who were massacred.
"A" Mendiola massacre "said this incident last January 22, 1987, which happened in the administration of the current President Aquino, Corazon Aquino.
Just like the huge protest of the farmers and other sweetened bosity of the farmers and other departments of the Philippines (KMP).
Alberate a bullet.
"What I heard is that, I heard that it was at the end of our ranks, I was sitting at the sidewalk that time when I heard in the sidewalks where I saw each other."
This is the arrival of Pedro Gonzalez, leader of the National Lakas ng Pelikulang Pilipino (Pac)) in the said massacre because he is not yet a leader of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP) in the province of Quezon.
The farmers were supposed to be charged by Pres. Corazon Aquino to file a case against President Corazon Aquino in his promise to implement true reform, including the free distribution of land to the farmers, including the farmers in Liwasang Bonifacio in Manila, and marched towards the foot of Malacañang in Mendiola Bridge last January 22, 1987.
A long line reached Mendiola.
Despite the farmers insisted that they will protest in Mendiola, they fired at them by the police and military who were killed before, the wounded were wounded and arrested.
The deceased were identified as Danilo Armada, Leopoldo Marasigan, Adeleza, Vicente Campayan, Vicente Campayan, Edgardo Campayan, Mayor Boy Perez and Roberto Yangbo, Sonny Boy Perez and Roberto Yungga.
Looked for the companion.
Teresita Alico, who is a wife of one of the victims in the Mendiola massacre, who continues to ask justice to Macky Macasaids.
When the shooting started, Gonzales was able to run to a close store to hide when the surrounding was able to hide when Gonzalez attempted to go out, "I wanted to look for my companions," he said.
But what he saw: Fellow farmers who are dead and wounded, what happened to those who have marched after I saw the bloody body while they were brought inside the vehicles, he said.
"I was not hurt then, we immediately went away and went to our vehicle along Espana bosity, but the husband was confirmed dead," the wife of Danilo.
Teresita's chest is severe every time he goes to Mendiola, he said, "here, her husband was killed, 28 years old and he has not been abused," she said, while tears are dripping.
Danilo left the five-year-old child in the forehead, but our eldest child was still small, only four years old, when they went through with my husband, she said.
They just want to have a land that are planted.
Macky Layague.
"We thought, Cory Aquino will fall into the sky," Gonzalez said, but the massacre has proven that the previous dictator Ferdinand Marcos is similar to the use of violence to suppress the people who have insisted on their rights.
As of now, Gonzalez has not yet been removed from the fight of Gonzalez after the massacre in Mendiola said, he got stronger to fight for the rights of those who were going to commit suicide during the time of the regime of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, she tried to take the life of Gonzalez.
On the part of Teresita, he is still the participants of the rights of the farmers for the land that he is fighting for, even if he will still fight for justice for his wife Danilo, even the son of the head who attacked the massacre.
"My children are still young before, like Noynoy Aquino, now, he is already president.
Gonzalez said, they will just keep on the strength of the farmers to achieve justice and their rights on earth.
