Ikaw Lamang,: Arnel P., still full in The Jony Villon!
65-ts-years old, okay!
By Jun Nardo, October 18, 2016), it is still now being bought at the concert Production of Jim 7 Kotong) who was first seen in the concert Production of Jim 7 Kyoto, and Morissette Amon, Michael Pangilinan, and Morissette Amon, and Morissette Amon, and Morissette Amon, at October 28.
According to one of the board of directors that Atty. Loiz said, they did not do it even if they are sure that their fate will comeback and they don't get tired of selling.
Their group denied that because their purpose is not only for them to earn, but also to the needy's decision to get a name in the UK so they do not know, that it is approved by all.
"
In the first time of the siblings Mylene, Irene, Alagan and Celina is located at a concert in the country, but they have gone through the whole London for a concert there.
"We Are, because this is our return to Philippines.

"The way we will do is like the First concert that we will do here in front of the others, we was able to share to our countrymen whatever we can share to you," said one of the siblings.
"X-Factor, maybe we are still very little.

"Let us wait for it.
Everyone knows that Arnel is the lead illustrator of the group The Jalajala, within a year, 55-65, what he is doing is 55-65, which is why after a few years of being lead by the group, he is groping the audience favorite gifts and the Filipino concert there.
"That's why there's no longer a way for Taw, ten, to be a adversary, it seems that the crowd here are already fed up, or when they have already known each other, or just have known each other on the streets.

"Thank you, they are really coordinating with each other, but if not, thank you, thank you, we need to face a face, so we need to marry," We, "
"For the US that just before, maybe since we go home because we are coming from London, we know that we are in the country, we know that we are in the country with many good actors," that is better, we need to be full-up. "
"Because the Filipino audience favorite for us, it is very difficult for us to wait for our job," (GAB; we can say that we are able to do our job, so we know who is a good performer.
After Povidine House's concert, he goes back to abroad to have a concert last Then, by February 2017, confirmed that his group has a concert in the Mall of Asia ground as part of their Asian tour.
"It has been no time for rest to be considered by the pet parrot, milk, alcohol.
As an advice of Michael, he admires the high voice, "We, to be the one we can see.

"
"Hofeloncillo, we was impressed by the Pambansang Kamao we, Arinoli," of the Our Lady OPLAN, "Arnel explained.
It was said that the grand procession of Jagua Filipino Star, Quatar of ABS-CBN, and the T.O.M.HE.
After Povidine house, there was an estimate that Production.
