School utensils for a good future.

If you have to return to you and you will not be successful in your studies, you will probably have a mental problem.
There is nothing else to be blamed but you, why are you that way?
Elementary and high school students are free in public schools in Marikina.
There is an intensive care, there is an alternative Lealite, even when it comes to college, it is very cheap for the disputed city of Marikina.
And the quality and quality of education in PLMar.
"They were not able to enroll to review, that means that, what they learned from PLMar is enough to have passed by the BJMP, while Dukhovnaia, who went to Ireland before they were assigned there.
That is just one example, that is how good education has been relieved (with a hard work) the life and future of our fellowmen, which is the future of our fellowmen.
The indication for me to fix the program of Marikina in education is that the former OJT) in Public Information Office.
Hopefully the people in Davao City should see each other, especially our youth, to take care of a school diploma that they can take care of each other, especially in these times, which is why those who want to work for them are being monitored by other countries.
"That is what our leaders and officials of Marikina said to our residents from Mayor Del R. de Guzman, to Vice Mayor Jose Almonte, Representative Miro Quimbo, and even the first barangay officials and other officials during the time of former Mayor Bayani and Marides Fernando.
It is lucky that there is a fortunate that the officials of our officials are really priority to education and having their school diploma that they have eaten and clear in schools.
Congressman Miro is a very big budget for the additional classrooms and buildings.
It is also a big thing that Miss Eva Aguirre and other councilor are also a big thing.
Hopefully, it will not be fun and go to all the hard work that will improve the life of each family, which is better to improve the life of each family.
I clearly remember Mayor Del Sur last 2010 his dream and intention to increase the appointed winner in every town of Marikina.
There are some who said that the one who can tell if he is coming true or not.
