It is a good words to talk about the sock of democracy, decision making and release of the people.
The European Union as long ago in Brussels, Belgium,.

The struggle of the Filipino people for the national and civic works.

Luis Jalandoni.
NDFP chief superintendent.
September 23, 2013.
The Filipino people, similar to other people who are oppressed and the people who want real democracy, decision-control and release, a deep goal is to make a long tradition of fighting against the foreigner and local people who are understanding and opportunists.

Within 333 years of Brigada Eskwela is owned by Spain to the Philippines, from 1565 to 1898, more than 200 families were launched by the Filipino people, on the midst of the construction of the citizens of Bohol from 1744, 1829.

He does not want to surpass this tradition of the armed fight for the freedom launched by the pro-known leader, Andres Bonifacio, 1896.

However, this success of the controversial US which launched a race against 1899 to 1913 which caused the death of more than one million Filipinos which became the basis of the 48 years of colorums will be followed by more than six decades of the US in the Philippines.

The deep goal for freedom and release did not happen under the pro-elected leadership, the workers and farmers, the national areas, the fishermen, teachers, Filipino workers and other sectors of the Filipino people.

They know!

Owners of democratic power at the 70 of 81.

At present, the revolutionary movement of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 81 provinces has been tainted by the entire country for more than 110 provinces of the Philippines (PKP), including the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (Putatan) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

They prioritize the human rights and in the national rules.

Duterte declared the compliance of its commerce at Block 3 of Geneva Conejero, protocol II and the national proposed law.

Last July of this, Duterte declared the commerce at Geneva Conejero and protocol one that he did as a candidate of Filipino people who were involved in the armed Filipino people who were involved in the International Committee of the Red Cross, the sake of the extrajudicial law.

Last July 18, 1997 and January 14, 1999, the European Union released a resolution to recognize and criticize the peace talks between the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the government budget of the republic of the Philippines (GRP).

Saban will give importance to Universities (Decongestion Program of Human Rights (general of declaration of responsibility for human rights to fight the rights of the citizens to fight their release against the foreigner and local people who supported the UN of 1986 to recognize the UN of 1986 to recognize the rights of the citizens in progress.

The peace talks.

In negotiating with the GRP Tubbataha, the NDFP members were able to take care of the more than 10 agreement including the The Hungitan Agreement (1995) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (WBC) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights (GAS).

In the CAYETANO, two parties are recognized as the principle of human rights and the international law, they recognize that the long-term conflict in the Philippines is in need of the application of HR and IHL.

The International Criminal Court (Commission (ILI)) the national group of Chairman of legal issues and the Special Office for the Children (SOPC) of the explosives they are going to do for children.

The NDFP members will help more than one dozens of legal issues which are comprising the International Criminal Court (ILLIE) last year, he was helped by the Armed Forces of the Witness Protection Program (PEPC) this is advised by the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (SOPC).

The basis of the wide support of the people.

The uncontrollable fit of the CPP-NDFP members who oppose the goal of the Filipino people are implementing reform the land, health, education and culture of this is the constitutional reason for the highest support and participation of the citizens in the struggle for release.

Program on the true reform in Lupa.

Because of 75 percent of 100 million population are composed of being raped and being a farmer, the program for the true reform in the land is the primary content of the constitutional program and responded to the Saligang Batas of the farmers.

Millions of programs are composed of the land that will lower down the land, put off the wages, and increase of salary of the Filipino farm which are widespread and gives benefits to millions of population in the countryside.

Meanwhile, the construction of the soil and free distribution of the land is being implemented, which is why it will be possible that the implementation of the ocean is enough, but it will be possible that the implementation of the whole country will be included in the entire country by the Intertropical Convergence Zone that will affect the entire country by the Pambansang Kamao in the whole country.

Program in education and health.

The revolutionary education will be implemented on the history of the Honor Code for the history of the Honor Code, especially the programs of the farmers and national establishments that the thousands of farmers and national establishments are benefiting from the revolutionary movement of the Filipinos and language in the region.

The pro-health program in using illegal drugs, degrading and southern parts of the citizens are successful in order to give them first aid and treatment to the common diseases and traditional treatment of the poor people who will buy treatment of the masses.

Widespread corruption is the most important of the Marcos regime.
The current scandal of the widespread electricity which is involved by President Aquino of the United Nations and many congressmen are showing-off the anger of the people around hundreds of pesos is stolen from the legal movement of the Aquino administration.

The US is full of martial law.

The US and the Marcos regime made an agreement with accepting a bigger troops, of ships and airplanes that are based in the Philippines and the US's visit to the Philippines on October 11 which is currently being pushed by the US's visit to the Philippines on October 11 which is the cause of the challenge of the forces of the US in the Pacific.

It is the call to push for the Pambansang Kamao for the Pambansang Kamao.

The nominated forces are determined to launch their fight for the real democracy, that is for defense and making decisions for the national and social gathering, they are thoroughly preparing to push for Filipino people for the national and social media to push for financial support.

He is the national challenge.

In the implementation of this, they are coordinating with the other citizens and the anomalous force of the NDFP members who are centered in the national challenge for the citizens and the poorest force of the national community.
