
The call: The national!

On the 25th of May 2014, in an interview by the media on the 116th anniversary of the Philippines (Philippine Navy) in Palawan, he was asked by President Benigno Aquino III if it has been said that the Philippines is already going to build the island in WPS such as the last report that China is doing in Mabini, which is owned by the Philippines.
The president's answer is intelligent that the Philippines will not do what China is doing, he stressed that one of the provisions that is happening in Asia that has an interest in the South China Sea (West Philippine Sea), some of them are China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, and the Philippines.
"If we will do it," said President Aquino III, "what China is doing," made it a habit to be able to make it as a fan "in WPS."
It's because according to Paragerh 5 of the said declaration of declaration, the people of the country agree to stop himself in implementing peace and peace (in SCS / WPS) like the form of the land in top of the sea on top or under the sea x-x "
If in spite of that, there is no reason why we do not have any agreements with our facilities in the island we are claiming that, in spite of being obedient to the United Nations, the 1982 UN peacekeepers in Southeast Asia, and China continues to violate the international law, "China continues to violate without care.
China did not follow the agreement that this was proven when it was proven that last 2012 on the encounter that happened in the Scarborough Shoal between the Philippines and China, they agreed to avoid trouble, and since then, China entered the surroundings of Bajo de Masinloc.
As the result of the days, China continues to be aggressive in the jurisdiction of the ship of China, which led to the bombing of the fishermen at Bajo de Masinloc.
In front of the challenges, (the latest report on the 25th of May 2014, the Chinese fishermen which is allegedly caught in the video of the Chinese fishermen which is taking advantage of the giant wolves in our ocean), it is good that our country has no ability to defend our territory and enriching sea.
We really need to be true and be humble to accept the help given to us by our friends and next generation that if not for the "patriotic" and "good of our fellow Filipinos.
The weather is not right now and we do not have a time to waste so that what we have is one of the strongest Navy in Asia, let us see what we have now, cooperation, dialogue or any agreement or improve them so that they will support the national benefit.
Most of all, stop the criticisms that instead of helping, help and be united, especially those who know how to know, politicking, and let our national interest instead of personal ambition.
(Commission on 90 / 90), for sure, for your reaction to Atty. Arevalo, your reactions.
