The All Soul's Movement (Adona, of the People's People's), launched.

Footage by Otto Abunda is being used by giving strength, 091514.

Joint press of 15 to September 2014.

Respiratory Syndrome) was launched by different groups against the Emergency Shelter Assistance of Aquino, charter change, extension, and attack of the Supreme Court.

"If justice has been served as a law, it is the duty to protest by Atty. Aaron Hitolle, Secretary General Ronald dela Rosa, while various groups are increasing in the launch of one movement, which they called" the all of the movement, which they called "all the All Soul's Economic Cooperation Agreement (AUERM)).

The leaders who are from the territory of Filipino Workers (BMP).

Lefde Guzman added, the president of BMP), two President, who insisted and used an emergency power; and was used by the high prices of electricity; and Gloria Arroyo, was paying for the sake of the high prices in the 2004 election, in the same time, the citizens did not have any use to the sake of the country. "

"Why does he need an emergency power? The crisis in the energy is the result of EgRA, a law, after more than ten years, it is proof that Noynoy did not give an emergency power to resolve the crisis in the government of control of the industry of electricity," Flora at Santos of Metro Manila Film Festival.

"Let us look at the crash site of the power of the Congress in order to stop the funds of the government, and now, Aquino wants to lessen the power of the Supreme Court, and now it is not for the power of the Supreme Court, this is not one of the management of Marcos's management," do not just wait to stay in Saudi.

Also against the said groups in the Pacific Economic Cooperation, which is headed by House Speaker Sonny Belmonte, which is headed by House Speaker Sonny Belmonte, the action of PLM, the action of the foreign corporation, and not only in the factories of the United Kingdom, and not only in the factories of the UV Expresses and houses of a lot of properties. "

While Aquino is being given by Aquino and his allies, the interest of the foreign corporation is the interest of the foreign corporation of our economists, and PNoy was heading to his eight-day visit to four countries in Europe for his eight-day visit to four countries in Europe.

"All of the leaders of the state and personalities that would be talked to by Aquino are going to know how much the system of Filipino workers will be known, and how we go to the country's growth, and if the constitution should be implemented, they will become a source of profit from it.," Untalan added.

The all Human Trafficking Operation (ASAP-People's) denied that they described the concern of Aquino as a response to the plan of Aquino, which is continued to be helpful to the constitution and use of the implemented provisions that will give him the emergency power.

The campaign of the People's People's Day, the militants have also clarified that he is also the response of the people and fighting against the crooked path that Aquino and his allies in order to ensure their political ambition in the election in 2016 through continuing use of pork barrel. "

Choose to stay in Tondo, "after the impeachment charges of the Minority Floor, the call to raise the weapons brought by the president of Aquino to address the four-year failure of the president of Aquino and the continuing neglect and poverty of our citizens."

The Asibars will be launched next week from the 25th of 16 through the series of waste of masses to bring them to Malacañang, in Congress, in the Senate the struggle of the people who do not agree with corruption, justice or for them to remain.

On September 21, there will have various movement in the level of the masses in different cities and towns in Metro Manila, and to the mayors who are part of the city in Laguna, Cavite, Bulacan, Cebu, Iloilo, Bacolod, Tacloban, Cebu, Cebu and City of Ozamiz.
