The Bangsamoro Basic Law is truly poisoned by the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

In one of our column, we have discussed our fervent desire to end our Muslim brothers in Mindanao because there are many obstacles from both sides to improve the discussion.
In that column on the 19th of February 2014, we went back to remember how to remember the initial discussion.
It is not because we are capable, but to be able to study this failure that it should not happen again in the future.
We said how and why there was the MNLF, the MILF, and the BIFF, the difference of view of the next leaders of the next leaders of the next leader and their first leaders from Nur Misuari (MNLF), and the American Development Authority (BIFF).
This is not unity in the construction of a new group that members are all of the same people.
"
In total, it has not been implemented, if it was not disregarded, the signing of the Tripoli Agreement of 1976 is between the initial peace talks which caused him to be strong and followed by some of the dialogue with Misuari that the last will lead to the bloody fight in Zamboanga Peninsula in 2013.
Meanwhile, MILF attacked Hashim, thank you that there was a new conversation at the time of President Gloria Arroyo, the Supreme Court failed and approved by the Supreme Court (GAA-ABB) that resulted to the bloody fight between the government and MILF.
There was a new conversation between President Benigno Aquino III and Al Hacademic, and even before that happened between the troops of the government and BIFF, where more than 50 rebels were killed in the historical signing of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro (CAB).
There are still a lot of need to end the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL) and it can be given solution regarding the jurisdiction of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, but the important issues like the Bangsamoro Basic Law are finished, its important issues like the MILF, power and abomination.
In the incident that happened, ARL) was replaced by Bangsamoro will be replaced by Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (ASG) in Basilan last 11 April 2014 or twelve days after the signing of CAB.
Sixteen-eight (18) have been reported killed - four members of the MILF attacked the name of the MILF as the name of the MILF, the involvement of the members of the MILF and those killed by the MILF to help their relatives who are members of the ASG.
This is not the first time that MILF and ASG have been involved in the fight of the military and ASG), one of the people who does not want to give importance to the peace talks which is existing for MNLF and now that the MNLF and MILF are called a lost command, "
In our experience before as a young official of the Marines, the fight or war between the clan will be common in Mindanao, the question: Between the MILF and PNP?
In front of an enemy, like soldiers of the AFP or members of the police, the issue of law or reasoning is that, in a corner of the law or reason, the Enforcement group of MILF attacked the entirety of peace agreement is one of the challenges.
But what I consider is a critical condition and important is the implementation of the BBL to present to the Congress because it depends on a law, and because this is a law, it is part of the power of the Supreme Court (SC) to decide on the constitutional process of the law.
There is no need to rush the BBL even though they are running after a very long-known "country," Bakaamoto, because if that happens, it is in danger that this is against the Constitution.
Because according to Senator Miriam Santiago, what is allowed by Senator Miriam Santiago, it is allowed by the Saligang Batas and not to separate countries inside a basketball player, which is not enough because the evidence of BBL in Malacanang is lacking.
This is amidst the lawyers of the Palace to fulfill the purpose of having a law to pass the Congress before the end of 2014 and it should not be because according to Sec. Herminio Coloma, it should not be because it might not affect the desire of the MILF.
Despite that, it is not possible that the BBL will not let the BBL, wherein most of them have no skills in the law that we should also know what will happen if the BBL will not know what will happen if the BBL will suffer the fate of the GAA-370.
It seems that we are weak at nightfall, we hope that it would be successful to reach the end.
