Wrong but I am right.

The fragrance of Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista was right in a drug pusher who was caught by the operatives of Quezon City Police District (QCPD) last Friday.
But Aling Einstein said the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) said that what he did was wrong based on the principle of human rights that Mayor Bistek was immediately asked for an apology to the public but not the rude drivers.
It is wrong if it is wrong but for the animal's behavior when the people used it in front of the people, someone can really forget the right thing in front of the people.
It is obvious what the term is called, "or the term to our stores who keep sucking up or the reason why he admires our law, as well as our authorities including Mayor Bistek.
CHR is right for human rights but I do not believe in "given protection from" our rights is only until there, when the rights of other people started.
In the capture of what the customer is saying, "the customer is saying that it is not enough that is why it is wrong.
The right thing is "the customer," the customer of the restaurant, that's why he / she doesn't want that to be. "
The vendors have the right to sell the streets for their livelihood but they cannot move on the rights of the motorists to use the streets.
I have the right "the checks they bought but only until there is the rights of the authorities like Mayor Bistek and talking to someone else but are rude to his nose.
It was pointed out by a well-known idol, that sometimes, we are like this: We people have the highest type of animal, so do not let it go to other people, animals should not be defeated.
It seems that they thought that he only has an attitude of an animal, if we get irritated, it turns out that our animals are going out especially when you think that there are many lives where the illegal drugs they are carrying in that pusher are being charged.
Mayor Bistek now wants to push back the death penalty so it is certain that it has criticisms but the right to live with heinous crimes is already done when they finished their right to live with their victims.
However, there is a problem, although I am in favor of death penalty, I do not want it to be in the Philippines because of the system of our judiciary when there is no assurance that the death penalty is really wrong because of corrupt justice.
