I am also useless in the social media!

When President Barack Obama was visited last month in the country, a journalist asked President Aquino about what he is doing in the chronic and consecutive killings of journalists in the Philippines.
Seems surprised, President Aquino is looking for an excuse that he is surprised and he has no concrete answer.
He also appealed to the arrest and prosecution of more than dozens of suspects in relation to the media killings, most of the suspects have something to do with the one case - the 2009 Maguindanao massacre.
But there are still many big cases, since 1986 when his mother remains not solved.
In the administration of PNoy, since he was elected, it almost reached 28 journalists.
Before the visit of Obama, the shooting of this in Cavite, Rubie Garcia was shot and killed by armed suspects while his breath is in the hospital, he pointed at a police official who is a possible brain in the attack against him.
It was Friday, a golden retriever in Digos City became the 117th journalist which was held under the Aquino administration.
It is possible that the possible motive behind the ambush of Samuel Delorino, a person who is a member of the cauldron.
PNoy was ordered by the Philippine National Police to search for the culprits of Stephanie Nicole.
But, like many cases of murder, they expect that the police will take dust because of the behavior of the police that is only active when a case is hot.
Since democracy was returned to the country in 1986, the journalists became the target of killing journalists and we are continuously counting the next?
With the failure of the government and police to resolve these killings, the attack of journalists continue.
In many cases that the theory is the strategy of influential politicians or officials of the military and police, we are intentionally going to find justice.
But with the ConFootball Federation of ASEAN journalists (CAJ) in the leadership of Benny Antioquia, and National Press Club (NPC), we are not going to stop and will get tired of criticizing the government for the killing until they wake up.
