Jona, should be invited by Regine By GRTECAYETANO-September 16, 2016.
The face of Jona has a joy in the moment we talked with Scud of guidance.
Together with Jona with those who will give to the teachers are Regine Velasquez, Ogie Alcasid, Gary Valenciano, Pops Fernandez, James Reid, Nadine Lustre, Lea Salonga and Sharon Cuneta.
It is said that it is a big honor for Jona with his respect that he respects for Regine because she has been together with Regine for a long time because she has been with her for a long time since he became a Kapamilya.
Regine was one of those she wants to be invited to be the Special Action Force in a big concert under the Kapamilya network for her.
Her concert might end up in November, but she cannot say every date.
Their communication with some friends in the Kapuso network is still there.
If they wrestled, she might be invited to borrow money from his concert.
Even his companions in La Diva, possible because they are okay.
"We were not able to talk about it that we are really okay, okay?, because, in front of a new friend, we met a casual period," we met a casual period, "we were able to support Jona.
The tandem of lovers Daniel Marquez and Gaming Corporation) are good that they are scheduled to get married in the next year.
Forbes Park still does not want to mention the date of their wedding to a old church in the town of Dauin in Bohol, but in the First Class "in 2017.
One of the godfather is Senator Allan Peter Cayetano because he still cannot say if Pres.

Rodrigo Duterte will face the godfather.
When they talked about the wedding, the couple agreed that they can still continue their career.
Gwen supports the political life of he and he is also the support that he is going to give in the showbiz.
One of the support of Liza is to just not watch the indie film Governor Gwen, Aaahhmm, who is a calderogatory because the beautiful actress is a little bit there.
But he is proud he / she is proud to get rid of the winning best actress in the upcoming Social Weather Stations.
If Gwen wants to continue acting, even if they are married, he will support her.
But if he has a baby immediately, he can set aside work.
