Filipino Workers or workers.

Our fellowmen working in Libya and other countries in the Middle East are pitiful because they are forced to stay and put their lives in spite of severe chaos there.
Even though the government is doing everything so they will be brought home to us, it seems that this initiative would be neglected because of the continuous refusal of many of the OFWs who evacuated.
In fact, the government launched the ship M / S Bridge with ability to take advantage of not less than 1,600 passengers, for the evacuation centers from Libya going to Malta.
Based on the plan from Malta, they will be transferred to the airplane that will bring them here in the Philippines.
But what is saddening, based on the last reports, it seems that the number of OFWs who voluntarily went through the repatriation team to evacuate from Libya is not yet reached 500 pesos.
This is despite the truth that all the government and answer to other expenses when they come home here in the Philippines.
Labor Secretary Rosalinda Balentz initially reported that they will leave a higher salary which is the reason why he decided to go home to our countrymen.
But it appears that this is not the worst reason why our countrymen are afraid to go home here.
Aside from that they do not have a job here, the government does not fulfill his promises to the benefits given to them.
It's because OWWA are the OWWA and other agencies in giving a promise to the financial help that they will use for the start of their lives.
But when they went to the offices of the government, they are experiencing hardship, due to the number of tourists who are asking for them.
What is happening is, their money is getting shorter because for the return of the fare to complete, before they receive a small amount of 10,000 pesos.
Now that those going to OFW are feeling that their situation is still difficult here instead of a complicated place where they came from.
Many of them have said that the life of the lives in other countries is more than they are here who will die from hunger together with their families.
Because of this, I am calling the government to support the OFWs and do not have a hard time to have a difficult time.
Have mercy on them!
