
FBI has a boss and de Oro?

Who is a boss in Oplan Exodus, who has a goal to get Zulkifli Bin Hir alias Marwan?
President Noynoy admitted that he himself as the bosses.
Even before the burial of former PNP Chief Alan Purisima or avoiding, it's as if he has power in the said police operation, he is also with PNoy.
He is said to be coordinating with DILG Secretary Mar Roxas and OIC of the PNP, General Leonardo Espina.
After this, it was also the responsibility of the responsibility of General Getulio Napenas in everything as the bosses of the operation himself.
You will be surprised.
Included in the mysteries and it seems that the authorities continue to talk about the involvement of the Americans, especially the federal Bureau of Investigation.
At first, until now, the FBI has not admitted his participation in Oplan Exodus.
It means that it is a pure operation of the Filipinos.
But now that the former SAF chief Getulio Napeñas confirmed that there is a Americans or FBI, it would lie or they will cover their faces and continue to turn around on our own surface?
Napenas himself admitted that he called the Americans for the medical evacuation center but in the end, he gave the finger of Marwan in the people of FBI.
FBI has a boss.
This was the last point of another mystery why from the people of FBI, Bro, Napenas was given the finger of Marwan?
What happened and was not given to PNoy or to DILG Secretary Mar Roxas or to PNP OIC General Leonardo Espina or is the National Bureau of Investigation?
Isn't it mean that this means more than a boss of the authorities, like Napenas, to the Americans instead of their own bosses in the government?
Or there is understanding between the FBI and the authorities?
"Isn't it wrong.
Here are the grim incident.
Will the SAF not to massacre as long as the Americans will get Marwan, dead or Alive?
It appears that the partner of the Americans and the highest officials of the government will be strict with the objective to get Marwan.
Bro, Bro, everything kept secret until they lost protection from the Fallen 44 and let them recover the forces of MILF, who defeated them in the fight.
The Fallen 44 and those wounded were served as the bait for Marwan.
De Oro!
For us, admiration to the Fallen 44 and wounded SAF is what we feel.
It is also prayers so that it will give way and the lives of those who were left behind are the ones who left the lives of those who are orphaned.
But in the point, they have a point that the performance of the construction as a hero for the Fallen 44 and injured is the same.
In the end, if Marwan was already true that Marwan was already dead, we can be sure that all the dignity of the FBI and those who attended the death of the SAF were exposed.
It appears that Marwan's call on the call of Marwan was the call of Marwan to his companions and it turns out that they are the ones who taught them where Marwan can be found through electronic gadgets.
Of course, the informant reported by Purisima is different and the information were on this information to do the Oplan Exodus.
$5.
The reward that is $5 against Marwan, dead or Alive-in live-in-law.
The authorities have not been able to run away from a resolution to receive reward.
The Americans said, "the reward could not be given to any police or military but other people who have a tip where Marwan can be found.
What if the Americans will say that they are the ones who have been identified to have been identified to have been identified as the location of Marwan because of their electronic Surveillance Response?
Collision.
Because of the thickness of the faces of the Americans in saying that they do not have anything to do with the operation even if they are included in the operation, the Filipinos still lost a scene from taking a reward.
That means, they are just depending on any blessing.
The question now: Does not show up that means to invent a reward?
The style is, all that the reward is given is Top Rank and the faces will be hired by the faces of the time they take for them.
So, what if they need to invent a tipster that another tragic truth will come out.
"The SAF cannot die long as they have money to make money.
Corruption?
If it is believed that if this happens, those who want to treat these are more than the lives of the police who died and are wounded, the child of tofu there is no end of corruption.
Where is the public going to the Philippines when this is happening?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
