
First in front of SE Asia: "Master's degree and ReneCard.

August 26, 2016 Cherry Joy D. Garay.

City of Batac, August 26 (Pia) - the university of the Mariano Marcos or MM) in Batac City, Ilocos Norte is being received by civil engineering that wants to enroll for the FIBA-Illegal Drugs Group (PPET) program.

The MMR is the very first university in the southern East Asia that will be displayed by said program because of the cooperation of the United States Agency (International Development (UPP) and Public Works and Development (CTRIJ) and the energy Development Corporation (PPETE).

According to Doctor Pradia, or, officer-in charge of MMD, the university who received the said program is prepared for the said program that will focus on giving abilities based on the needs of the students.

"

The master's master is scheduled to open for the year-academic 2016-2017 where the payment for tuition is going to be the same program in the low school of MMR.

Francisco also said that their coordination with other schools and agencies to inform about the opening of the said program is currently present.

He also added that the students should not remember their surrender and work after the course, because they are ready to help the media, one of the colleagues in the implementation of said program.

Those who will be leaving the course, are also expected to be active and lead to research, programs and projects about alternative energy and others.

In the launch of the said program, there is also a signing of Memorandum of Brigada Eskwela between the university and the electoral position (EAMC) and of West C.

These are the primary implementation of the USAID-STRIGAA project, which aims to support and make the economy and other goal of the country through research in Science and technology.

"Tindan, which is a model of the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines," said to be a broad-ranked leader of the Philippines, "said Doctor Susan Bretaña, USAID mission director of the Philippines, Pacific Islands and MG-ia.

The PPETREM program is expected to be placed in the reputation of the MMR and the province of Ilocos Norte as the center of the toll fee (JO P / CJDG, Pia-1, Ilocos Norte.
