JaDine Love, a concert ticket, went out to 7 hours!

Postanes and Bonoan, Bonoan.
On February 18, 2016.

SANGA-Can older brother, James Reid, Nadine Lustre is the oldest person in love team today in showbiz, why did we say that because within seven hours since it was released at the Smart Araneta Coliseum last Saturday, February 20 will be held at Smart Araneta Coliseum last Saturday, February 20.
What is this, it is just a new release or CD only that even if it is only for an hour from music, it will be stopped again, but this is different, a concert, and a loved one.
And because it is only seven hours for the Pharisees, JaDine Love concert, there have been a lot of protests that hope that the Araneta Coliseum will still be released.
JaDine Revenue, JaDine Love, on the first profit of the country, was said to have reached 9 million pesos and even added a SRO (standing room) to be released last Tuesday, February 16 and SOLD).
But before the concert, which has been taken out for a long time, all the OTWesmerchandise are always out for a long time and are always looking out, especially the pillows that are really fighting back to other countries.
Meanwhile, JaDine has been on the third alarm and according to ABS-CBN Publishing back, that's why James and Nadine was surprised at the criticisms that they received and they really admitted that it was their debt of fans.
That's why there's a big challenge for James and Nadine Lustre as a big challenge to James and Nadine's concert, and admitted that they are scared because of the entire Philippines they can watch out because there is a paper.
James said when Nadine asked them what they can say about the events happening in their love team and what kind of them is that they are famous?
"According to him, he / she was able to go back to the US as well, I was proud that he was able to get up to the US Sec. IT's survey, the Dream Team, the person who was able to go on Towerville, Araneta)," X-old concert in Araneta's (IED), "said Clark.
Lea's request, "we will give the 120 kilometers per cent so that they will be happy."
And after the Araneta concert, they went straight to the World tour last March 18-Doha, Qatar; March 19-Dubai; March 26-London, Italy together with Jay-R and Yeng Constantino was made.
For the th time, JaDine asked again what is the real score, "a friend," the actor answered, "the actor agreed to it.
Do you have friends together in the All Soul's Day, February 14 at the Tuwid na Power Plant?
This was not denied by James, "she was also worried that she could not avoid passing a case, but he / she was impressed by a heated argument, but he was published in computer games."
"To the question if Clark and Lea had a gift at each other, he / she went straight to the young man.
On the other hand, JaDine Love was just waiting for the two to wait for the two so that it will be more intense and it went back to James that it is not about their relationship but about the upcoming end of on top The Wings of Love on February 26.
That's why in the Ocaskets, let's go at the Smart Araneta Coliseum last Saturday, February 20 which was taken by ABS-CBN, Dreamscape Entertainment Television, and week Conejts.
DOLET - Regi Bonoan.
