
Human rights are being looked like PDU 30 to Obama, 17 World Football By Aries (September 10, 2016.
President Rodrigo Duterte is going to wait to US President Barack Obama and 17 World Leaders' alleged human rights to the United States against the Filipinos during the end of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) East Asia summit in Laos.
Duterte's decision was to witness the 18 World Leaders' including US President Barack Obama and United Nations (UN) Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.
Although there were some speech for Duterte on the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), it was said that this was not read by the President and instead gave a 10 minutes from America in the Philippines on 1898 to 1946.
Subsequent to the statement of Duterte, the Foreign Affairs Sec.

Perfecto Yasay, said that Duterte and Obama's hands were not able to talk or, because they have their own activities to attend the two leaders.
According to the payment of the AFP, US President Obama and asked about the summit in Asia and ask about all the leaders in Asia except for Duterte.
Yasay also warned about the reporters in Jakarta, Indonesia regarding the incident and insisted that there is no time for Duterte and Obama to meet with Duterte and Obama.
Yasay also explained that there is no time for Obama to sit on Duterte because he has already needed (Duterte) to leave the cauldron between Russia when he came back to the position of Duterte when he returns to the position of Duterte during the time of Duterte.
Meanwhile, Presidential Communications Office (NPC) Sec. Martin Andanar earlier said that the partnership of Obama and Duterte will happen in the middle of the international ship of the ASEAN country.
Senator Alan Peter Cayetano called out that he is also included in the delegation of the Philippines with Laos at Laos, "media," the spread of the critical condition of Obama, Duterte and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.

However, the Supreme Court initially admitted that it came from their office the press of relation to the scheduled arrival of the three of the ASEAN summit that did not happen.
Even though he was not able to go back to the streets, US President Obama admitted that he and Duterte had a short conversation.
