
He wants to try everything!

The long time has been long before Christian Bautista made a soap for almost a year since he was last seen in the bamboo container with A Sevidal where he was with Andrea Torres and Mikael Daez.
Now that she is acting out of the same time that he / she is looking out of the age of GMA which is the protagonist Bea Binene, Joyce Ching, Kim Rodriguez and Joanna who, Sheryl Cruz and Sunshine Dizon and Sunshine Dizon.
"I am in the middle to greet the two of Sunshine and Sheryl) because they always fight," he said.
"Because Sheryl's child died because of Sunshine, I did not intend to go home to the Philippines to get along with their fight with Fight IT's because in my true life, I should be obedient and should be under a little bit.
"He / she said," it's as if I am always in the middle. "
Did he be able to choose a person or from the series he will accept?
"
"
"So now, together with the time of Strawberry Lane, Marian Rivera, the Easter All Saints' 70s, she is just finishing her way home, we still do not know what would be a nuisance," we still listened to, "we even listened to."
"It is said that the content of the release of the release of the 119th Independence Day is the all of a love triangle as Fight IT.
And there is no need to prove that Christian should not prove if she is a good singer is being talked about by acting acting, she is able to fulfill all of the characters.
"It was also stolen by him who does not care for him?," he was laid before the former?
"Yeah, I dreamed," that I do not know when when it is in an indie film. "
What kind of gratitude is, which is why he would want to be alone?
"We will be able to make sure that he is accusing, like that!" Christian laughed and laughed.
"I do not know, because I do not know it, because even if he / she is ill-off, it should still be a thing, but if it is true, it seems that it is not allowed.
"You should really learn all of your partner in your partner, the script of everything."
Don't be a sexy or sexy like... there is a snake or an example?
"Her answer is that... that it depends on the script" depends on the princess that depends on the script "Fight IT."
But he was not able to do anything that was a bit sexy, right?
"It is not yet said that there is already a number of" there, "there was no one with Bench, me, and Cosain, a cent of August.
"That was the reason why he was like a sexy performer.
"I asked for a challenge to the sexy image before, what happened, is that it seems that I am the one who can be able to make it so that I can't be able to do it," that is why he should always be different. "
"I do not want to push through that... there was a sexy Christian," however, they should also adjust.
"Because, if you really loves the sexy star, you will not be able to deliver it to the come ones, you will not be able to return to that.
"There is a meter" that's why they are now good, "said something different from this.
"I just want to pick up anywhere."
It is his friend, Eric Santos and Angeline Quinto, what did she do with the news that the two of them are together? "A o'clock, but I have not yet seen them, but what I have seen in Together" at the Star Ngayon.
"That is where we are all.
"It's obvious that Angeline was surprised when she and her two children of Sharon (Cuneta) are going to be seen by the two of Sharon (Cuneta), Are Together" Anida.
"Epal" a fan of Sharon, to a Mahogany, to a singer is the Commercial Center with Eric Santos.
"It's natural that it can really happen," said Christian. RUB IT led by Ruben Marasigan.
