Executive agenda, shown on the first session of SP Calapan.

August 08, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, August 8 (Pia) -- on the 120th Infantry Batallion of the city council (SP) of the Calapan City (SP) of the Calapan City (SP) of the executive agenda for the year 2016.

The Barangay City stressed that it is the priority of his administration to the programs of poverty, particularly in the field of health, education and housing project, and the construction of the health centers in the City Hall Complex and the construction of the health center in the City Hall Complex and the construction of the health center in Barangay Bucayao.

Panaligan, ordered to pass the resolution for the operation of the Bangsamoro Emergency Shelter Assistance Fund scam and the city program in the program of education, that the Philippine Amusement and Higher Education) and she also wants to give financial help to the youth who are in the level of the basic education.

The facilities in the City College of Calapan is going to be transferred to a better place for studies, in the field of housing, improvement of the program of housing for Severe Actor) and a young housing program (LAMP) that the municipal hall (LAMP) of the employees of the City government.

The third part of the hope is the Land Emergency Shelter Assistance and Land Tantangan, in relation to this, it is lined up to the scheduled resolution of the title for those living in Brgy. Wawa, Relocation Site, Barangay Bucayao.

Meanwhile, it is said that the bigger sum of funds for the agricultural sector just for the agricultural sector such as Regional Trial Court Production Project NOAdolfo Saure, Project NOAOIL and Fisheries Code and Fisheries Code.

Aside from the Food Park, this is also the goal of the programs for the producers and food that, according to the Barangay City, will open new and alternative routes in order to lessen the traffic in crowded areas.

He is also planning to mix the multimillion level of parking area between the city public market and Cantangan in the next year, he also said that near the Comprehensive Final Peace Cup in the city for an effective flood control.

The construction of the new Landslide "will start on the current solid effect of the city in order for the sanitary Landfill around 100 percent of complicated because of Egag-Waste Management Act of 2000 or Republic Act 9003.

The City Development Assistance Center Development Authority) will also be included in the 2017 LBC Ronda Pilipinas where it will be added to the construction of the City Sports Center for the city and will be able to organize Calapan City Public Market particularly in the second floor of the market.

In addition to this, it will also build funds for the intelligence fund that Calapan City Police will use for the anti-crime campaign against the buying of three motorcycles that can be used by the PNP for the quick response aside from one of the sub-Station station in a part of Barangay.

Santa Rita.

The city government will also build a CCTV footage from important projects and streets of the city and the implementation of the ordinance which is related to the rules of the ordinances that are connected to discipline and safety of the ordinances that are related to the traffic. (CIs / LTO).
