Should the president ordered it?
July 18, 2016 - Filipinos are impressed by the brave words of President Digong Duterte for the government that does not have the payment for you, eight hours, the work has been prohibited, the work is prohibited! "
This is how these kinds of words were sent and pushed through the more than 16 million tourists who have put President Digong in Malacañang.
But the question: Is it really needed is the highest official of the country to say this, but the President will say, isn't it?

Do you really need to have a threat before doing what is right?
Let us think!
It is time to reach the right age and right mind, it should be clear to understand what is right and wrong and included in this day is the morality which should not do what is wrong and supporting all times and time to make a right time.
Any person who works for private or public office should have a proper mind that he will work at the whole time that he is going to work for the whole time that he should not be beaten-lazy, not to beat up and raise it.

Because that is wrong.
The person with shame, should not be told to do what is right!
But it is really sad that it seems like cancer is being touched by the faces of some of our countrymen, especially in the office of the government, it is noticeable that the government's office are given attention to laziness in work and being a fan. "
So now, there is a president who instead of the general management of the government to worry about because it is very serious, there is still a need to drink lazy and abusive government that you won.

If you think about it, every agency of the government has the manager of the government to be guided by Civil Service Commission (CSC) what is being done by Civil Service Commission (CSC) what is being done by Civil Service Commission (CSC).
Change should be coming from yourself, it should be coming from your own place where it will be imposed by a popular leader of the country, this can't be recognized as the start of this.
Each one has obligation to yourself to be a good person, even a good citizen, to be a good citizen, is planted in the mind and heart of each one and this is not equal in the hands of the government.
