
It is full.

When the Integrated National Police (INP) and the Philippine Constabulary (PC) are having a lot of gasoline, office, and creative, and even the operation of the Philippine National Police (PNP).
The officials and holding of funds are almost giving away their gasoline to be used for you to be used for a month.
But because of the increase in price of goods, the supply of gasoline and office will be flooded and also affected by the GAE) of every division, unit and Section.
Only, not only the increase in price of goods is the reason why the budget is small for the offices of the police but because of the construction of those who are going to sign for allocations.
Naturally, their respective officials will not agree that they will not be rude because there are vehicles that are just being used not only in the office but also for their personal plans.
And of course, it is impossible that they will not give their wives a lot to their offices with their own vehicles.
Which is why the lower part of the low number of police will be quick to respond to the call of need for peace and order to be more affected because the vehicle that they should use for response is no trace of gasoline.
Juan dela Cruz is pitiful, before the need to answer their needs, it is as if the police will be respected and have a contribution to just to feed a mother.
And other Juan dela Cruz (BTAC) is ready to ask help from the police for support to respond to the call of his duty.
If the allocation of the PNP continues to be very small for different units, division, Section and technology, because of the increase in price of goods and throwing of officials, the time might come that the supply will finally disappear.
Poor policemen are forcing to improve their situation when saying that the PNP is slowly being rude to the PNP but in truth, they will be left because they will not stop to steal high officials.
Maybe the Senate should investigate on the continuous increase of allocations while the police's supply and other needs of the police in their fulfilment of their duty to fix it and eventually lose.
The government needs to act before everything becomes too late, the citizens will be pitiful if the order and order be affected.
Um!
Belt, birthday of SPO 1 Crisanto Ocampo, of Manila Police District-Homicide Section, that it is very long for your grandmother to greet you because of the volume of work.
