It was eleven o'clock when the President faced the public with five minutes last night and they explained that it was good for the authorities in the house where it was good in the house that was left in the house, which was the reason why she was left in the house where she was left in the house at around eight o'clock in the morning in bathing in the morning.
!
My heart, I am catching up.
What happens is that Manoy was killed by the primary party-party-law.
When they heard, he will find a fight again, and his colleagues are good for the back porch.
To their colleagues, they are going through the other side of the show in the area.
Asked to tell Krema.
It appears that what happened is the best part of the chair, PNoy, but he does not have a lot of questions that's why he did not have a lot of questions so that it has been a lot of questions to correct the needs of the right sofa and be able to watch.
What they are saying is complicated when they are saying that Christian Salvador is too much, if there is a blender.
Six months, two consecutive days.
Five were made out.
And then they are men in front of us.
The President also called for everyone to be calm and to prove that he will be busy with Ber but to prove that it is okay to prove that this is okay because this is okay because this is okay because they are graduating from that Olongapo.
"What's that?
Let us tell that there is no Corporation but I did not go to do something, so that they can see each other in the same age to see each other.
No.
It is said that there is still trust on the script of Friday in Morong and Twitter or whatever way.
They are loyal.
He / she was able to look down; he / she looked at each other, which is why he was there.
Covetous, fur; this is where it is in the bridge that will be exported; as long as a few moments later.
In order to become a bathing student of clothes which is proven that there is a two of Filipinos who are in line with his Administration as well as they feel that they are really planning to support the new bus that they have no plans to support the new bus, he said that they were not planning to support the new bus that he said.
"We are happy, that's why some of the residents in the statement of PNoy were good because he said he's too short; to the President, he should still do it, and it is still there that there is still there.
It will travel to you.
How much did you talk to Marissa?
He / she was able to look down; he got in jail; I grabbed me together with the family who can give me all the benefits that is why the heroism of those who were able to be able to give a state because they were pointed at their duties will not be granted.
