
Rest is very confused, a lot of people are everywhere.

It is right that President Benigno Aquino is also a person so he needs to rest this coming Christmas day and be with his family.
But it would be better if he is just with our poor citizens in the celebration of Christmas, since it is rarely seen for it to be together with the poor people who have put him in position.
Instead of listening to music, read and shoot a gun with his military and police escorts, why did it not be given a chance by President Noynoy to the children who are orphaned by their family?
It can be better for the hearts of the citizens who started digging and plant anger towards the President because of its lack of action on what is happening in the country that the country will be stricter in poverty.
We will forget about the citizens (small) that the businessmen are more weight in his heart instead of the poor blood and sweat is the investment so that there will have money to pay for electricity, water and fare that have no rise because of the incessant increase in the Aquino administration.
Um!
Last Friday, there was no grand Christmas party held in Manila Police District under the leadership of Chief Superintendent Isagani Genabe Jr.
Instead, a Christmas party for the "tanim-og" and dependent on said office were witnessed.
The children were very entertained by the game and cadmium that will lead to their happiness.
Aside from the food, the children have received a gift to the MPD.
The project was implemented due to the getting tired of Supt. Villamor Airbase High School, chief of MPD-Intelligence Division, who served as "Street, of the children and even the police, NUP and reporters around his office.
Not only among those from the MPD were given blessing but also in some residents of Camp Crame, who went to his office so you were able to make a lot, Sir Amor.
Um!
But Genabe should be careful with the people around him because not everyone is like this, which is so good for the sake of the command.
There are some officials that Isagani Genabe, who are just thinking is beneficial for their own.
Zamora should investigate some officials who are using his name in some operations.
"If its group earn, it is always said that 38 DD."
MPD-joo should also investigate the revelations of the District Anti-Illegal Drugs (DAID) who are involved in the names of some operatives who are not assigned there.
