It is going to support the agreement of human rights in spite of the taking of GROs at peace talks -- PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
May 05, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NPA) to be human rights violations and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (NPA).

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling out for all the Pizarro and Commander of Bagong Hiwatig and Commander of Bagong Hagdan) in spite of the various parts of the republic of the Philippines (PCCO) in spite of a part of the republic of the republic of the Philippines (PCCO) in spite of a part of the republic of the republic of the Philippines (UPP) in front of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

The KP has also called out for the Filipino people to be ready for the sake of the attack of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) for the human rights "now that it is not tied from the CAHala BL and its goal is to speed up the armed fight of the people on this year."

"In one part of taking the peace talks in NDFP, the Philippine Amusement and CAAP) will be gay for the danger of its unusual meaning," said PKP, "said the AFP will do not let the national attack of the citizens in the process of implementation of the race."

The CAAP) was formed in 1998 by the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the GRP), it is called by President Joseph Estrada of the GRP) and the chairman of NDFP members, Mariano del Norte.

"The CAYETANO is one of the important steps within the 20 years of the peace talks by NDFP-Glamang," emphasized by the PKP, which aims to build a separate responsibility for the rights of human rights and the international law in the Philippines. "

"As a part of its responsibility, it was exposed that the provisions of the CAAP) is put in the provisions of its discipline since 1998 and was given priority to implement its implementation," said the KP.

"What is contrary to this, in spite of the CAYETANHL and all of those who have no idea of being rude on peace and human rights, the Marcos' Marcos' Aquino and the armed forces are connected to the entire community in the legislative chamber.

"I asked the number of cases of violation on the rights of the children and they have to pass through with women's rights," said the KP, that a seven-year-old child was identified by the soldiers of the 71st Infantry Battalion in 9 years old, a seven-year-old child who was wounded by the troops of 79th Infantry Battalion in Barangay very popular, Calamudi, Occidental Mindoro.

"It has long been a long time for the corrupt troops of the AFP, like those who are taking advantage of the human rights such as hostages by the houses, throwing of food, illegal activities, illegal activities, illegal activities, stealing, violent, and annoying for the killing."
