
The Philippines is dangerous with the failure.

If truth is true by the police and military about PNoy in relation to Mamasapano, the Philippines is in danger.
According to the investigation of the Senate, the police and military, around 5: 00 in the afternoon when President Noynoy gave the knowledge of President Noynoy to the fight where many people died.
Former Special Action Force Chief Getulio Napenas said, that more than 250 kilometers of their killed members of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters and Armed groups have been killed.
There are 44 dead and 17 wounded in the parts of the SAF.
If truth is true and it is not boastfulness, all of 300 people were killed and a miracle for the miracle, PNoy had no idea?
Tell out to Inday Miriam, to the Marines.
Classes have been suspended.
The government is also dangerous.
Can we think of the suspended PNP Chief General Alan Purisima the police operation which is the national interest of my beloved Philippines.
Secret to PNP Officer 1-Charge Leonardo Espina and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas was the operation against international terrorist Zulkifli Bin Hir alias Marwan?
In addition to this, Purisima was allegedly not assigned to Mindanao and did not have any idea on the alley ways of Mindanao and this was even the boss in the operation.
Which is why this is the primary reason why many lives were killed in the part of the government?
That is why the government is dangerous to us.
Those who have no liability in life are around 150,000 police and not the legitimate leaders?
National security.
It is the child of tool, in Zamboanga City, and the fight in Mamasapano will only be under the nose of PNoy in the morning until evening, including those who are taking the national security guard in the cabinet.
Anzon is the leader of the National Defense, Philippine National Police, Armed Forces of the Philippines, anti-terrorism Council and others.
They were there in order to visit and serve the bombing in the area where two people died.
But the whole afternoon passed and the corpses of the SAF from the fight were released, PNoy and the national security Council were able to do anything.
Child of tofu, yes, to hell and ravine at the Tuwid na Daan "there.
World Caba?
What is scary, Bro, is not the World First Class both of the PNP and AFP.
You did not think that only a cellphone was just a cellphone, the communication between the generals about the murder was just a cellphone.
Does the generals do not have a different and modern equipment for the administration in a big operation like what happened to Marwan?
Is it only until now, there is no evidence for communication with the police and soldiers even if it is very fresh issue?
It's so easy to discover the communication from the cellphone and do not keep any secret there and you can know all of these from the enemies of the government.
One more thing, Bro, proven that the communication between the police in the area and between the generals because there is no direct signal in the area.
Nothing is known for FBI OPS.
This is one scary thing.
Is it true that PNoy has no idea of the operation of the federal Bureau of Investigation in the fight?
The two municipalities in the area was flying into the area while the war was happening and there was a medical evacuation center and was passed by Napenas on the fingers of Marwan in the Americans.
Nobody believes that PNoy does not have any idea.
The people in the country's leadership in this issue will be in full force on this matter.
Remember, our Constitution is prohibited for any meddling or actual participation of the Americans and other foreigners in the operations of our police and soldiers inside our country.
FBI, Gerard Lorbes.
Another scary activity of our generals is to treat the Americans or foreigners as their boss.
It was the child of NJ, Napenas was given the finger of Marwan to those from the FBI instead of giving the appropriate authority to the Philippines.
Or maybe there is a blessing or ordered who to do that by Napenas?
Who, "those who are hoping for the $5-million pesos in the head of Marwan?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
