The famous author, which is being done in the filipino language.

By Tomas, Santos - July 30, 2015.

As a part of the project of the Filipino Workers (KWF), which is part of the community, the writings are set to be implemented from different discipline in philosophy, history, antangan, and even the foreigners.
According to Virgilio Mendez, the administrators of KWF, this is a project included in the Filipino language and aims to make their called "hey, their knowledge."
"There is a need to show that the Batasang Pambansa can be used in different kinds of course, to show the Filipinos' knowledge and so that it will have a lot of reading materials," says Almario.
Together with the National Commission on Audit, the Arts, who was initially published in the books of Michael Cortabista, associate, at Ateneo, Manila University, and former writers, Vena and La Revilleza, Cormorant in philosophy in Facons of Arts.
It will be launched today on July the Ang Metambato, of Frank Malabed by Frank Resma Reyes, professor in Facadty of Arts and Letty Go of the university.
"It is said that these kinds of writings are being done, which is being done by our language so that more will understand," said De los Reyes, "its goal is to give us more beautiful reading materials."
For Cornes, one of the good things caused by the transfer of the colonizers is more than 100 pesos because these works are the source of the lack of culture and art "which will be a source of lessons from foreign readers.
Even though the suspension of the writings in the country is no longer new, particularly those who are popular stories like Tantangan, Fifty Go of Grey and Harry Potol, according to De los Reyes, but these should not be a box in this kind of view.
In the process of "traslacion, you can consult it to those who are known to pay attention to those who are known to pay, those who are part of the" traslacion "and then they are presented by the five pages in order to prevent their actions.
The works are currently being put in the filipino language similar to the The count of Del Cristo of Handapon, the Peace Process of Miguel de Cervantes, and The Nawooooooo, according to Delos Reyes.
Most of the transfer of foreign businessmen, the usual education of the students are published once, the most nutritious and culture in the Philippines through the transfer of the good author from the indigenous people, students, and other parts of the community.
De los Reyes emphasized, the Filipinos should focus on reading especially the writings that will be launched as a member of the Bayan.
"This will not be stopped which is not worthy to read," he said, to maintain the economy of the publication, give it an opportunity, time and just a little money. "
