KJ Si.

Many lawmakers were able to attract the head of Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago when she called out that the distribution of priority development of fund which is more known for the call of pork barrel which is included in the call of pork barrel which is included in the former Supreme Court, despite that he is declared dead in the Supreme Court.
In his departure speech, Miriam said that the proposal that the Congress wants is dangerous for the Palace to continue the pork barrel which is also the Disbursement Acceleration Program which has been declared by the SC last year.
It's because Malacanang wants to just let the DAP pass through with the changes in the word "savings, or in Tagalog, he does not like the government's money.
Miriam said that the distribution of the pork barrel continues through submitting a warning to the leaders of the line that they want to do in their jurisdiction.
He said that the 37.3 billion pesos for the departments of the public Works, health, social welfare, Labor and Commission for those who are not allowed to be divided among the lawmakers.
He said he has changed the meaning of the government that if before the year is not over and cannot be given to other branches, now it can also be transferred to other branches.
It is also suspicious that up to a few pages has been formed which is composed of roaming around, 24 percent and dinner, which led to P4.7 to billion pesos.
When the SC initially declared the PDAF and DAP, there are many political dye that nobody is going to run as a senator or "will be a congressman because they cannot borrow money.
But there are still many politicians who are able to run and that is the reason why they know that DAP and pork barrel are not gone, but only the good of our good lawmakers.
They still have a reason for people and groups who approach and ask for help from them.
But because of what Miriam has done, the congressmen and senators are already known for now and for sure they will greet those who are asking for help.
Heeking will be good for you!
