
2014 - you have been deceived!

Every time the New Year arrives, the joy and hope of every person is strong, progressive and hopefully, how can you make a decision for you?
Ichine, January 1, the first day of New Year 2014, the gift given to us is an additional price of petroleum! Of course, let us expect the reaction of the market, expect the increase of additional expenses.
I hope that I am wrong, okay, "the gift to us during the Christmas of the Supreme Court (SC) against the additional expenses of Meralco, but my mind was strict so that we could not go amok in the streets - protests.
The Chinese national said, the year of the horse or the horse is said to be a horse of a horse or a horse, so it is lucky that the blessing this year of 2014 will be lucky.
How will it be that if you are still strong and locked up, it means that the rich will benefit from us, the rich is blessing, in small and poor people.
What are we expecting this 2014? For the victims of typhoons and earthquake, is there really a way for rehabilitation and buildings to the places of grief?
So it is clear, Ping's duty is not included in the duties of Ping's duty, okay.
To those who do not find any job, will it be there?
"What," of squatters, poor, you hope, you can show that they do not have interest on you but all of your votes every election, okay?
Government agencies, before the year 2013, took out their employees to call each other or casually.
The reason is, it is for them to save expenses in salary and be able to save money for your agency, the reason why you are looking for people in your agency, what is the reason why you lack the logic in order to lessen the logic in order to dry it?
Many are saying that there will be a lot of protests in different groups and civil treatment that the goal is to fight the regime of Noynoy Aquino III, what is the intention and direction of that?
Just say that you are involved in his policies, raw, ampbell, and there is no matter!
I am not stupid, but instead of serving the people, you are the one giving strength to the Marcos regime, it is up and no direction.
2014 to Aquino?
