Murder of Greg are and NDF-Bicol, 7 others, against the International Space Law?

Killed in an operation of the 31st Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army was the spokesperson of the disputed National Democratic Front-Bicol (NDF-Bicol), Ka Greg are, and seven who are opposing against the vicinity of July 4, Thursday, in Brgy. Callejon Dos, Juban, Sorsogon.
Samuel Guerrero, spokesperson of Celso Mabalaca, of the New People's Army (NPA) in Sorsogon, that three of the killed were identified as Loida Rivas (ALS), Ka Ness (Ted Failon), both were armed and left from the area of military operations when they were found by the soldiers and shot them.
The statement of Colonel Senares was led by the said operation.
In the interview by Drum Radio, Lt. Col. Ramon Zarraga, spokesperson of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, armed men were armed and the exchange of gunshots lasted for 35 minutes.
But Guerrero meanwhile denied this, according to the investigation of Celso Mandez Command and as well as the report given by those who were able to fight and had no weapon against the house where the soldiers were able to fight and were shot by the soldiers, Ka Greg, Ka Nel, and Ka Gary, "he stated.
Guerrero also said that the three were shot on the face with the national laws of Filipino people in relation to armed men and have no ability to fight.
"Col. Aquino and his personnel will face multiple cases of violation of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Resma t for Human Rights (Carhacienda)," he added.
Aside from the murder of eight, Guerrero was also reported by the officials and soldiers of the 31st IB, the germs, as well as the four assistants.
In this website, the Liberal Party of the Philippines (CPP) stated that the 31st division should be investigated and responsible for its violation on the International Space Law.
"Because they were armed and have no ability to fight, they should have been arrested by Ka Greg, Ka Nel and Ka Gary and that's why there is no pity for those who are involved in the war in Geneva (Enhanced Defense), instead, they have no pity and massacred the soldiers of the 31st IB," according to the CPP.
The CPP's response was appealing to false investigation of the massacre to Irosin last July 4, he also asked to investigate the said incident.
The JMC is the committee who took care of both sides in the peace talks (NDF and government of the Philippines) to manage the implementation of Carhagat.
"The people of the nation!

"The highest recognition given by Celso Mabalaca Command, the entire citizens of Sorsogon, is the only one who risked their lives in the flow of their service to the people who are oppressed and being raped by the citizens to serve the people to achieve a Filipino who is free, fair, and progressive.
According to NDF-Bicol, Ko (Soriano) is a former student in philosophy in Ateneo, Naga City, who became aware of the information of the CPP in the region last 1998, he was sentenced to the information of the CPP in the region last 1998, he was assigned as the spokesperson of NDF-Bicol under the name Patintero.
Ka Milk (Peking Humalig) is said to be one of the best-in-red Commander of Celso Mabalaca) and even a member of Civil Defense in Sorsogon, "according to NDF-Bicol.
Her intelligence in the university are Ka Gary (Ted Palacio) and Ka NJ (Izzy Canillo) and Ka Noni) at Ateneo de Naga University, while it was finished by Jimboy Dario Abulencia in the university of the Philippines or UP in Diliman, Quezon City.
Ka Rey (David Likod ar), Ka Nene (Romero (PPO) and Ka Jay (William Villanueva Jr.) are the members of Celso Milo (Ka Kevin), who were killed by the NPA rebels from Padre Diaz, Bulan, Sorsogon.
