
Tagalog news: Taking care of nature, center of Marian Rivera.

SSeptember 13, 2016.

Balete Drive, Batangas, September 13 (September 13 (Pia) - the center of nature was given by emphasis and became the center of celebration for the 25th anniversary at the 19th of Pilgrimage Site in Lipa City which was held last September 7 and 8 as a celebration of the birthday of the Virgin Mary.

The procession is started at the lake at around 6: 00 in the morning which was laid down by the different Batanglement and devotees of the In Maria where it comes near the lake while lying at the lake after an estimation of prayer.

After that, a mass was held at the nearest court in the town of Balete Drive which was led by Lipa Archbishop Ramon Arguarse, together with the priest of an avers, nuns, seminarians, teachers, students, teachers, students, employees and supporters.

They became the center of homicides, Arguaving, the continuing care of the environment to be useful for the next generation of the youth.

According to him, the natural resources that was given to the province of Batangas like Verde Island, which is considered as good in the whole world, is considered as the number of those affected by the fish and only the sea which only can be found.

He also emphasized that the continue to take care of the lake is low and the totally removed from the coast guard was devastated that it will increase and even the famous fish that can be found in the lake aside from the legislative chamber.

In relation to this, Arguelf is calling on the government not to allow the environment to finally destroy the environment that will be destroyed in the plant such as a low price hike which could possibly affect the natural wealth.

Meanwhile, Governor Herdando is experiencing the call of the archbishop about saying that he will no longer allow the construction of the new leaders in the province because he knows the big effect that he might take in life especially to the health of the Batangeno.

Meanwhile, Balete Mayor Lefino Hidalgo was greatly thankful because their town was chosen to cross the said funeral parlor.

"This thing is difficult, although it is difficult and there is a hard preparation, they should not refuse because it is showing affection, respect and love of the Virgin Mary, if in the next year, we will think that we will not be able to think about it again because for those in Balete Drive, it is a blessing," Hidalgo added.

Hidalgo also emphasized that in their town, it is one of the care for the environment that he strongly implemented, which is why there is no Fish cals devastated from the lake so that it will not be destroyed by the owners of the big piggery, to not be destroyed.
