Tanim-NDF-NDF-NDF-NDF and Aries (Aries (Aries), Bernard Taguba, August 27, 2016.
Militant groups celebrated the initial success of the first part of the peace talks between the government and the National Democratic Front (NDF) in Oxford or, Norway.
After the report, the government of President Rodrigo Duterte agreed that they will immediately conduct a celebration of a competition of the concerned speaker (ACT) party-list which is being implemented by Representative Antonio Tinio.
"Hey, the release of the show-up for the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines (Izzy Canillo) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) to be given 500 political issues to the country, especially the elderly that according to Tinio can continue the peace talks.
Bayan Muna Party-list Rep. Carlos Zarate strongly believes that both sides agreed because this is the root of the true reason of the Armed Forces of the country.
"This is the start to resolve the real root of the past few decades that has been built, said Zarate and hoping that this will not be stopped by the groups against having peace in the country.
Prior to this, the Philippine government and NDF were able to agree with the 6 point of data where it is acceptable and orderly and rushed the four days of talk.
The featured in every round of the conversation was the two parties who declared that the two parties have been declared in line with the devastation of the peace flow.
Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process Jesus G. Dureza said that the OPLAN should be considered as an ally of one of the administration of President Duterte.
"
Dureza was also happy that there was no shouting or a heated argument between the negotiation, instead he became happy and had a joke that was why he was not able to avoid the laughter inside Holding Judy Taguiwalo, Hotel.
According to Dureza, he finished the negotiation between a bothers fight versus the host of the host of Royal Canadian government (RMC), who are contented and also happy in the historical course of OPLAN or round.
