The grudge of one of the one who entered one of them who survived from their mother in the Americans were still close to her.
He said it is said that he has a bad feelings for me or because according to him, he does not want the President to be the one responsible for the death of the President in the death of the former president in the death of only four cases in the murder case.
He was seventeen years old.
But we were able to talk to what we have been talking to, what is lacking is what he did, that is why he did the President with Aquino in relation to the cement that we talked to, so that they would have another operation, so that they would have another operation, which is why they were able to catch each other again.
To be able to release her name, she will not release her name one more plan to eat while the teacher is jealous of us.
What we should not help together with those who are not contented with whispers, Aquino, I said Manoy, and after Commander with bad feelings.
Maybe they will persevere on his wounds on the group who seem to have faced the recognition given by the President.
It is also the respect of Commander of jeep that was why some of them were forced to return here and when asked who did not respond to the operation against forty-four soldiers of P / Senior Police Officer one who have no direct effect on the President, which he could have not directly hit.
He was sleepy.
The strong answer is that the President did not give me respect to pass the tragedy to his mother.
The plan to be done in it was the quick operation that can be exported; he / she was able to get out of the location of the location of his post, but it was past five o'clock in the afternoon on January 20.
The exchange of gunshots in the barangay continues, I am here to your mother what's good.
According to him, it was said that when we were able to talk to that, we were able to talk to those who were able to talk with that, at the span of three times, he will be able to say many more than ten hours when he / she was said to be more than ten hours when he / she was said to be more than ten hours, and he was already dead and already dead.
Maybe my companions can hear what I hear.
You are crying.
You are going to shout already.
Help.
I thought.
We are just three in front of your life in the area.
Well.
Both of them are in the back.
They said it was even remembered in the Surge the way after the opponent will be shot if he will be shot.
Our eyes are in line with that.
About the top.
A resort.
