
It is better that Aquino is separated from the people for defending the DAP, and the controversial pork barbells.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 31, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Defense of DAP was the Presidential pork barrel of Aquino to make a lesson from the CPP-NPA.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) identified the stubbornness of Benigno Aquino III to defend the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), the Presidential Special Action Force (NPC) and the whole system of the president and congress.

Aquino went out last night in the television and 10-minutes of speech in order to defend corruption, DAP, IOS and the system of pork barrel of the president and congress and he insists that he is not a thief and no robbery under his genitals.
"The Filipino people have long been fed up in corruption through the pork barrel which is controlled by the Malacañang," said PKP, "said the latest arrest of Aquino in DAP and the system of pork barrel and they insisted his immediate end here and in all kinds of corruption."

"In defense of Aquino on the pork barrel of the president, the name of the pork barrel scam is becoming fair," said the KP.

"It's said that Aquino snatched the attention of the increase yesterday that his depression is only showing up in front of the widespread brownout in DAP, and pork barrel that destroy politicians and corruption," said the KP.

"The defense of Aquino to DAP, and to the system of the president is a desperate step to make the popularity of the popularity in the midst of the expected relationship between Aquino in the midst of the said relationship with Aquino and in his ayes until now," said the KP.

"Aquino continues to separate from the citizens in the middle of the excessive bonus given by Aquino to the lawyers of the government budget, especially in SSS, GSIS, PhilHealth and MWisconsin," added to the negotiation between the government budget that has been entered or put again in the negotiation under the Aquino administration. "

"There are also allegations of corruption involving his brother, Ballsy and immediately dismissed by Malacañang even if it has not yet been investigated, in congress or anywhere," said the KP.

"Aquino did not make a word that he used the suffering of the hundreds of citizens in humanitarian crisis which has been used by the government agencies in the country to give straight and preparation for the disaster and preparation for calamities," said the KP.

"Aquino's refusal did not mean that he is not a thief," said PKP, "Aquino really needs to release the mandate and policies of the government against Janet Napoles).
