We alternately raped by the father and son in Saudi.

After many years of the bitter experience that happened in another country, a happy Beatriz Street is once again shown in Bantay, meow.
It was year 2007 when her mother went to our program to complain about the rape of Beatriz Street by her father-and-son in Saudi Arabia.
When the male boss left, that is what the son will do to her, she is being threatened not to tell anyone because she will be killed by the father and son, but also to follow the fear that it might be his end.
When the complaint of her mother came to Bantay, we were not able to make a waste time so that the rescue operation was immediately put in order for him, that's why when she and her employer had already been put in order, she did not want to tell the real happened to her.
Instead of this, he denied the complaint of her mother that he is raped because the only thing she wants to go home to the Philippines was not able to do anything but also said that his mother did not have a story and said that his mother might just make a story.
If she was not being raped and abused by her employer, there was no reason for her to go home, which is why when she wanted to go home, she will pay an amount of 100,000 pesos, including all the things he spent to get through Beatriz Street, including all that he spent on the agency.
Bantay, may not be able to do anything because, because no one complained about it, but the mother of Beatriz Street admitted that his son did not want to lie down in front of his employer so that he would just be allowed to go home.
After hearing that, Bantay, Bantay, asked the agency to be sent a plane ticket because she is afraid to report and so he could not pay those who spent on him.
The agency immediately responded and sent the embassy of the Philippines to fix the documents that he needs to do, which is why it has not been taken back and returned to the country.
She almost cannot talk in crying when he went to our program and asked for forgiveness that she denied all of his complaints that he could continue to kill him, not the father and son who took him to him but Mrs. Ladja.
Beatriz Street did not lose back then to win and he thought that he will be able to go out of life from Saudi.
