The Marcos regime will be held accountable for the simultaneous fire in the people.

Guide de Guia.
Put Southern Tagalog!
October 23, 2013.

The National Democratic Front of Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST) has not yet recovered after the continuous increase of bills of electricity, fare and fare in the MRT and LRT.

The increase in history is the increase in power for P4.15 per kilowatt hour (k V) since the month of December.
In the face of the hot topic, Meralco approved the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), which is currently being endorsed by ERC Commissioner Josefina AOIL and P0.50 pesos per hour in February 2014, about 300 percent increase for 300 pesos per hour for 100 percent, and around 400 million pesos for 400 million pesos.

An insult to the poverty experienced by the filipino masses is experiencing the lack of action of the government agencies that should have been investigated by the irregularities that should have been investigated by the irregularities they should have in relation to the irregularities that have been linked to the pork barrel scam.

The Department of energy (DOE) is useless now to stop the price of LPG this month of December, the citizens will pay additional 1,000 pesos per kilo of LPG which will increase the price of LPG last March 2012, which reached almost 1,000 pesos.

This is too much burden to the number of people who are suffering to finish their primary needs every day, there is still no idea how the wound left by the typhoon Yolanda which until now is a new disaster brought by the criminal case in the country, a new calamity brought by the criminal case in the country, a new calamity.

The fare increase in the MRT and LRT is a big challenge to the citizens of Metro Manila, and some of the main public transportation are being rushed by the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) and the fare increase in the LRT-1 from Baclaran and P25 to 15 pesos from 15 pesos from Baclaran-2 from Recto.

The government budget allocated for its role to the suffering of the citizens is getting worse because of the implementation of the price and services of the Philippines, and the World Health Organization (Tanim-T), and World Health Organization (WB), which causes the destruction of the filipino citizens.

The NDF-halo is calling and strengthen the fight of the people for the improvement of the citizens of the country's interest to help and improve the status of the citizens of the society who can be able to help and improve the economy of the masses, but it is more difficult to change the masses of the country, but there is a severe burden and pain.

The worsening crisis in pushing the revolution.

The citizens of the citizens are reaching the entire islands for changes as well as the people's wishes for the country as well, and will just end up to all kinds of abuse of abuse and bullying of the country.
