
Answer by Kim, it is said to be the fault of MIA?

Malacañang hit the media on the orders of Revenue Chief Kim Henares in the question if he is going to file a case against Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao when he comes home after the successful fight against Timothy Bradley in Las Vegas.
Kim answered, although he won, Pacquiao should pay taxes as he clarified that it is not only the US $20 million income but also for the 120 million income but also to 120 million pesos.
The truth is, even if Henares talks about the media about the information gathered by Manny, as respect for the win, he can ask the interview not to talk about the win of Pacman who brought a new acquaintance in our country.
She can refuse the question no matter how much the media knew about it.
He can say, "is it possible, Manny will fight, but not yet, it would be embarrassing, it would be embarrassing, let the people celebrate his arrival."
Even just a week before the Pacquiao fought against Bradley, Kim Henares said that no matter what happens he is going to be charged by him, if ever he is thin, he might have been affected and will possibly be defeated by the BIR.
Last year, isn't it that Kim was released by the press release of Manny about the tax he received, this is after expressing the Pambansang Kamao in the party of VP Jojo Binay!
In the consecutive press conference of Malacañang, it is obvious that Tourism Secretary Herminio Coloma has already known that he has a lot of answer, he remembered his answer about the serious problem of MRT passengers, we rode a other vehicle because it is not only MRT.
Abigael Valte said that the victory of Pacman is clear and it is a sign of the progress of the country and economy of Al Vitangcol, all he is doing is all work and the shortcomings of MRT are done by former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
There are many people from the media who before are in full move by their boss Benigno Aquino III, television and newspapers, they have a big hope for Noynoy in the issue of change.
Now, many from the media who have loved, defended and took his side before are all critics.
You are mad at the media?
