PNoy, fight against them because of that.

It is just because of a charter change, the people can see what kind of leaders who are attending to President Aquino.
Because of course, the allies of PNoy are fighting with each other, this is a sign that the group of PNoy Group is having a hole.
Like the conflicts happening now to House Speaker Sonny Belmonte and Department of Interior Secretary Mar Roxas.
It is hard the resolve of Belmonte against Chongqing, but if it will be implemented, the change in economic provisions is what he wants.
Because many of our economy, according to the speaker, will need to change the economy of the country.
But if there is a celebration for extension, just like the issue of Roxas' group, they will allegedly fight Belmonte.
"Chacha is no longer new because it was planned to be pushed for by many past President, but did not succeed.
This is what the Aquino administration is trying to do.
The statement of PNoy that chacha is a big surprise because the people did not expect him to follow him.
First, in the time of former President Corazon Aquino's mother, it's the constitution and secondly, his mother does not want what happened, especially for the time that he is talking about.
Many believe the advise from some of the allies is the reason why the president can say that he is open in Chongqing.
"It will not build a limit to the instigation from Roxas' group because the secretary of DILG will be elegging and in the survey.
Like this, there will be no power for VP Jojo Binay, it will surely be if Roxas will be defeated in the coming May 2016 election.
"The people might have enough for them so that the events will not be understood.
Those who are pushing for Mayette is also those behind the Senate hearing in the said scandal that is being implemented by the Makati City Hall.
That's for sure.
The extension of Noynoy is pushing for power to remain in power over the companies that he is applying for power.
And the meeting of plunder, which is going along with the Senate hearing, is a defamation to destroy Binay in the eyes of Juan and Maria Napenas-Kautasan in Bong Revilla.
