
Thank you, Senator Grace!

I did not believe in the past election that Grace Poe Lailbo and because of the assumption that he has no "courage" which can show her if he will be elected in the senate.
Aside from being a child of artists, Fernando Poe, Junior, there is no famous "record" that this woman is being discussed whether the public service is in public service.
But I am mistaken for a mistake, it is really wrong, because since he is elected as senator, the show-off of the son of FPJ, especially in pushing the proposed law, is for the majority of citizens.
Just recently, he was headed by the advancement of the advancement of journalists in our country.
Can you think about it, because of the numerous cases of murder of journalists, there is still no "brain" or child imprisoned!
Even though there are still small suspects, but until it is not for a blender or the "brain" will continue the incessant killing of our colleagues, that most of the said killings will continue because of the lack of protection from the media from the PNP.
And usually, the police themselves are making or brain the ones being slaughtered in the media, but now Senator Grace Poe encouraged the police to have a line with them especially during the time that their lives are in danger!
Because of the concern you showed to our ranks of journalists, the word... there is many thanks, Grace Poe!
Isn't it?
On the point, it seems that PNoy is hoping that "Tuwid na Daan," they are from the palace to just say that this is not being mentioned, especially those that are spreading that we pass through now!
Which is the only administration that happened while "Tuwid na Daan" what we are leading is together with the tons of foolishness?!
For now, the names of most of the senators, congressmen, supporters and even some of the judiciary and the Supreme Court are involved in the issue of graft corruption!
The mercy, it is clearly seen that our government is being slashed because of using words even if they themselves cannot see the truth!
Let us not think of Abby because as long as it is as long as the primary creatures in the palace and the Liberal Party have no right way!
That's for sure!
