We need to take real strength.
By Zayungan, August 13, 2016, "The Prayer Life"? "
It seems like I do not want to believe before, "I am talking to one of the Bible because I am talking to him, but when I told him how I have been in a long time, I cannot believe it.
With the weight of the problem that I brought before, that the church has something to do with, I am not talking to any of the christians who are in a long time.

My resentment became intense, I avoided the brook, I lost faith in the neighbors, and I have chosen the christians to get along with me, before I have forgiven the people who hurt me, before I have been able to step down again in a big church.
The Lord made me a lot of healing, I believe that it is still happening until now and there, "I asked me to see me again," I asked me to believe my answer, I was slightly surprised.
It's sad, what?

It seems that many of the christians do not impressed by the power of prayers, "The Prayer Life" is a classic example in the internet but it is still free; you can take a load for the internet any time because it is in public transport.
I proved the power of the principle set by BBM.

Murray in that book, that's why I consider it as the most "Second Bible."
If my feelings are heavy; if you are weak and worried about what is happening in my surroundings; if you are getting hurt, when I am looking for the meaning of God who wants to happen to his children, there is only one who wants me to give me the moment.
I run in front of the Lord God, leaving his presence through my spirit, howled in His mind and feelings using his holy words in the Bible because I applied the truth about my personal situation.
That is why sometimes, just a few moments, they have not recovered again; sometimes, there is too long time in the mud at the mud but not yet happening "what I cannot return from the end of the ravine.

"I am extremely thankful to God, he himself is the one who takes care of him sometimes," my real daughter, and I am his real daughter, Jesus will really pay my mistakes because my relationship with God is very much alive.
Friend, I am telling you as a testimony.
And after that, I am sure of you, his honor, the answer to what you are going through right now, the rays of the sun will become clear to his real life.
"You will look at me your roads, or God; you will call me your path, and you will ask me your safety; and you are the Lord of my safety; I am waiting for you in the whole day." (1325-4).
Amen.
Sip you, cheerful readers. God bless.
