
The MNLF 'Cuya was held in Sulu (Lefur.

The month of September 2000, is also a critical time in politics at ARNC that depends on the pulse of the national leaders, the fate of ARMM Regional Governor, Primo Nur Misuari, who is a leader of the city of Mindanao during that time.

His term is over and his feet are already over and the feet of those who want to replace him as a leader of ARMM) since he was placed in position since the 19th of October of 1996.

Even if we still do not care about the AFP, what are the conflicts in politics in politics, we are being affected by whatever events here especially on the peace talks in the ranks of MNLF.

We feel that the problem is with the ground especially that there are still many weapons which are still in the hands of its members who are no longer new to the AFP and PNP in those times.

In our travel to the consults of Sulu when we arrived, we can see the so-called American who is recognized as MNLF as to where they do not have any permission.

I remember the few of these kinds of 'camp in Lua Hill in Indanan, in Karawan Complex in Indanan, of the air in Patikul, and in Silver Brigade of the said camp and we were caught in our map.

I have been to the few of these camps that are not similar to the camp of the military which can be seen in the middle of the community or the corners of the community or the side of the community or the side of the community, which is why there is a checkpoint in their area, which is why there's a checkpoint in their area, which is why there's a checkpoint in their checkpoint.

The only problem that we are always problem with the MNLF rebels, which is why the Abu Sayyaf members are getting mixed into them, the Abu Sayyaf will know that we will not be as if the person who is recognized as MNLF).

Egging on.

After we encountered the Abu Sayyaf in Lanao del Sur, we received a report that there is an identification of the opposing bandits in a place in Silclan.

When we watched it on the map, we found out that this is almost a part of the MNLF Chairman 'in the said barangay, because the situation is complicated when the ASG and the MNLF have no ID or identity but they cannot be shot at by the armed men.

Just like before, my controversial unit was caught by Lt Cleofe Morales as a message to our movement, but it seemed to be my favorite for Sir Bobby but tomorrow to my mind to lead the said operation.

After the commander's Office to LRB, I talked to my Team Leaders', here we gave the order and made him understand our own strategy as a leader and how to fulfill his own strategy as a leader and how to fulfill the plan in our own unit.

"What was given to us was a little thing that was given to us but was given to us inside the box office," according to my Team Azkals.

The box was placed at the 80th square meters or a 120th of 120th Infantry Battalion in the map where the information was being given, which will be allegedly given, and it will be the one who will give orders.

"Make sure that because there is a camp of MNLF in the nearby areas of Bahong, those who are at the side of the sea are not sure who are Abu Sayyaf and who the MNLF."

Our situation is difficult, sometimes we are losing because we are complete from the identity but we are still complete because our innocent civilians are involved in that time, how can you know who is the real opponent?

We always say that, if the armed men are being blamed, even if they are fighting, or if one is pointed out, it's hard to follow but it should be followed.

It was dawn that in the past, it was around four o'clock when we left our Dansalan College so that our will be the cause of the side of Barangay Silclan.

I was a bit scared before, just after the encounter that happened, we can wait for anyone to walk, and it seems like someone who wants to stroll in the road, I can always remember that those who are noisy in the road will be touched, "Buyers Limited but I want it to be like that, all the security guards.

It took a light back then at around five but we are under the coconut plantation and those scattered around because it cannot come out, which is why gnomes and yogiddy.

"I am dear!" He / she said that our lead Scout Gandanus will pass in the word where we stopped and put up to our area where we joined in the surrounding.

When we all became silent, we can even hear the damage and noise of being swept off and noises from driving backwards.

"Hhhhh. Hhhmmmp!

"Clinic and Closeup forever!" I heard that all their safety can be picked up by all their safety and are lined up while all the noise came from, I approached them to save them.

"Hhmmmp!" Hala Bira!

I can see anything moving with a distance of 50 meters from me and I want to be assured that we can exterminate them immediately of the first caley of fire.

"Please tell my gunshot, I will be first," I whispered to the team of CPRO, Rodel Bonifacio.

It seems that my ear was burning, my chest intensified with me, I am also nervous but I don't need to control himself.

I looked back to the surrounding because we were able to leave the coconut where we can hide in front, and we were too much.

I use the fragrance of my AUG whether I remember where the noise is on, I remember the noise of the noise, but I remembered what happened to the ship, which is at a low light using a motorcycle at a low light using a concert: Aldoms, Anito.

"My Lord, it is up to those who survived us!"
