
Traffic chief of QCPD.

How much is the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) in suppressing traffic in NCR, as well as the Traffic Management Council of Quezon City Police District or QCPD.
What is being done by QCPD-Tse chief, Superintendent Ely Pinugay, and he did not give up a solution to the severe traffic in Quezon City?
Let us not go away from here at the corner of V-Luna Road and Anzon, just a few meters away from Camp Caringal, where it is already a few meters away from Camp Caringal, where the length of traffic is severe.
I am just wondering why this is not a solution, but here, all the policemen in Quezon City will almost go through with their entry in Camp Caringal.
It is impossible that this is far from Colonel Pinugay, past chief of traffic in Quezon City because, "the chief of before, you will really see that they themselves have traffic in the road, especially in Cubao, but it seems that he just locked myself in his air-up office.
That is why even his personnel are angry at him and they cannot talk because they might be touched.
There was an information gathered by lily's Calvento Files, aside from it will cost P80,000 to the commission of the DPOS here, the ghosts are still taking half of the commission of the sector commanders.
It seems that it seems that it will be a huge influence of ghosts, it will cost P80,000 from illegal terminals of UV Express in the very big salary of the UV Express that they don't want to cut off, from the sector of the UV Express, they should not be cut off compared with the ghosts that they are receiving.
What's good, the bosses who are residents of Quezon City should show that their commission is deserving to go to them.
It is said that this is said to be Colonel Pinugay, "a child," of one of the highest officials of the QCPD, that is why he is strong in spite of the traffic in the city.
Anyway, the police of QC said, that the child of God is really different, there is someone who survived the case if there is a basis and this is the son of the Lord of QCPD.
QCPD director, Senior Superintendent Joel Pagdilao, sir, you have a lot of Filipino officials in QCPD who know that it is worthy and hardworking than the chief of traffic today.
Colonel Pagdilao, sir, do not want to prolong its retirement next year because it is only one day that you will experience that kind of traffic going to Karylle.
He / she was wearing.
Lily's Calvento File are open for your complaints, suggestions and comments, just text 09184177565, lily's Day.
