The Doctor Willie Revillame should be ashamed of talking about this afternoon in my afternoon to you.
How about the things that we have had an outing at all.
There are many children who are ill-tempered; very fog; but sword.
You have been saying that it is a tree that has been in the eight-month-old, you are looking for two students who are not looking for two students, but because we are looking for two students, we should not be together with the supervisor in Manila and we should not be with us in Manila to us.
We are doing it properly so I am happy.
We said that we should start Doctors Hospital but our security security might be done here in the same time.
We are pointing out by the Quezon City Hall, they are the ones who will give the rights to the Sampaloc right to use the children with Alma Moreno whose own security guards aside from that, we still have four children from it.
Insistent.
We are really hardheaded with our countrymen.
And because we are in our duty because they have a lot of people to wait for me, there are also many visitors near that 'in number of children who are very kind of video.
They might get tired of something, that's why there are four men who have been victimized by four men.
Because on the last training of my mother-in-report, he sits on a vacation of Brigada Eskwela.
That's why he was given a chance to be given a chance.
He / she grew up; very wet; like a wet things to be able to play immediately that he is the one who teaches her room.
Of course, it's really good but we should learn how to learn.
Hopefully.
It is better to understand the distance of the house that is still good that in case our children are still young, it is still another before that we are doing a new case in the door of Lo Kiblawan school, I am thankful for the times that we will change in Marikina of a resort when I will change in Marikina.
That is why when we were beside our side, you will be able to bring you up to the beginning of you going to the beginning, right now.
Just like our generation that we are going to sleep with that, if you do not go to October 18, he will continue to have a contract.
He / she was able to look down; he / she had five five-six-five-five-five-five-five-five-four-four-old; that's the most important thing that we can reach up to six minors, because what we did was still okay because even if we had a big sister.
You are getting drunk January of Speaker and even if it's not that fast, I drove him down so that's why it was only noticed by the room and then when we are giving a difficulty.
At all of you, we have been telling the length of our youngest child last night, and other morning that is near there.
What would be when I arrived in school, his older sister-in-law enforcers does not fulfill his / her sister-in-law; he / she can solve the dynasties; management 'brook at around eleven o'clock, at eleven o'clock.
Yes, David, who has been with my parents for a long time, is it that, of course, we have a seminar, which can cause many seminar in the airport, because we have a seminar, which can only be carried away by a sensible person in the airport.
As long as I want to look at the two councilman, I have a chin that was given to each other in front of the operations held and over.
It's because it's as if we have a meeting here in Quezon City Police District - it's a sign that he deaf the smile of the Agency of Dodon't be able to talk with Dodon't be able to talk about it.
They were in the past a ten o'clock of course when there was a fire that we had a bath at each other, we were given a bath by each other that we have given a bath just because it was a eight years since we were able to give way to each other.
All the children are from the parents and all the teachers, I just want to know.
Isn't it that we have been together in Plaza for a six-year-old son, this afternoon?
Do we go to our office so that we will be able to know the actions of the students so that if they sleep there in the hours, it can be two older brother who has two older brother who has two older brother.
"Who would be the ones to look down; we are okay, but it would be better if it would be better if you will be diligent in what I said.
Okay.
It's really good.
The time is long so that the child will get better.
Now, I am surrounded by summer.
In each other.
It is still okay for me to look at first.
We arrived at Academy at night.
The child.
I noticed that we were able to look at each other; we were able to look down; we have to look down; not like all kinds of hornets so that I will save our students.
Here, we look at each other; as long as I have been to each other, right now, I have been to each other so that they do not have a child, because we still have children who are missing; we are still not studying; we are still not studying; we have not seen any problem now.
He / she was able to take a good upbringing by the household help from her.
Yes.
She said that.
Joy is said to be the children who are saying to enter and be good in their first day, hence, I don't know once that I call you, my students, that I can catch up in the plastic bags.
Yes.
We cannot believe that, we can't accept Indonesian as regular; and covetousness.
We will accept him now.
In education, there is a thing that has not been implemented, but as long as we do not have a school; we will not be able to accept until we are living together with our fellow countrymen, you have seen that we have a lot of people in my school, you have seen what I did to me, "you saw what I did to him.
But with the number of people around me, I said that I want to.
I need to control it.
Because he can be removed from the system so that you can be able to see the colleges; however, I don't have a pity for a teacher in a Teacher's who is taking her pictures in the afternoon.
And sharp gazes in the morning.
Entered.
You said.
Are your parents every time we take care of us, because you know that the occasion will not pay and add to what we see, that is why we should not do all of us, that is why we're really doing all of us for just a few hours.
It is just dangerous for the principal that there is an elementary school that we will be with, we will also be with each other last night, we can also join.
There is a good afternoon.
I think that I am going to look at each other; that's why they don't have anything to go down when we see each other at the same time.
The act is to fetch your opinion as well as our opinion as well as our opinion as well as our countrymen who are inside the pipe, they say, "he said.
They are able to steal and then take a cellphone in school first.
Why did she be the one to be the one who will be the one to answer.
Four Indonesians, one hundred years old, deacons, are proud and you want to show up that our position is not equal to our office eight two hundred five-four children.
Two people with four-month-old trouble is lucky here, so he will not be able to see each other with six two puppies so that two motorcycles can be found.
Two-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-years old, are innocent.
Be careful with what you want.
I want to know if I give me a comfort room, after I released a few months to beat him up.
It is dirty.
You are all in our grades.
So, I will look at that, on Saturday in Las Piñas, Tanim-asa; they are only able to pay their bones on their bones on their bones, which we really bought which is where we will pay.
Teacher's Day, when the parents cannot understand what are all sorts of things.
.
Really.
Susan thought.
Our position is to make it look like he is not distressed; the process given by a graduating from the high school.
Cannot be four.
Fuck, 39 years old, two teenagers.
Two Wives are at the same age; as well as your high school; we gave one's high school.
Other people whose children are proud of, they can be given the right amount that can be given the right way to look straight.
Two worry that he can really take care of clothes which is why he gets addicted to each other.
We need for your work, okay.
Said conversation.
If there are those who are looking for a different business depending on what takes up to every night, we are going to have a hurry to have a lot, but what I can do is just low and what I can still buy at the same amount, which can still be bought, Olongapo.
It's because it's not the child's cold because it's not my parents who are going to go here, we have a lot of rice; we have a lot of rice; we are from our eyes; we are already good but we already have one job but we have said that we have a fishing.
Who works, isn't it?
Which is why it's just a child who is a child for a child who is a child of C Karin, whom he is going to take place where he is good at Juvenile's lungs, he will really give emphasis to it.
He touched it and then taken her.
The students are going to help but when I go to their salary, do they think that we would explain to eggplants, we have thought that we should be treated like four years old when we have been together with Dodo not let us start, thank you, Tina.
Fittish, dearse; you are planning to be famous.
This is worrying when we are taking advantage of who are the high school students whose grades are difficult for the bidding, it's hard to be Christian.
A congressman is the program in the league - Two Wives are not allowed to be four-six-four-four-four-four sons.
Rose is its subsidy for a doctor, who is very horny; because his birthday is not in the bus back to the bus, who is with TESDA with someone with his co-worker.
Maybe it's probably a few times that we have a tomboy who has a tomboy in meeting with four times like you to be given a point.
That's why I have a plan on what is needed so that my cousin would come true.
She is at fault.
