
"Habana, the government of the abuses," did not mind the proposed bill "long term solution" of the chief of AFPreso, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 22, 2013.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) admits General Emmanuel Bautista, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), that it's too short to declare a ceasefire, "it is too short and has a proposition to the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) that will declare a ceasefire," last Wednesday. "

"It will only cause no one to be able to release no one to the power of the abusive military, property of land and the environment of the environment will destroy the declaration of a long term solution," said the KP.
"According to him, the proposal of General Bautista said," said PKP, "said that even though they did not think thoroughly about the lack of ability of the AFP to understand the deep reason of the armed fight of the Filipino people and they are just looking at the narrow-minded perspective of the closed brain."

Last Wednesday, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas released a declaration of ceasefire with 12: 00 to 11: 30 to 11: 59.

"If it is not the BHB), no matter what the Filipino farmers, fishermen and the national establishments are against the mining companies and big operations in the electric posts and the funds owned by the AFP to scare the people in order to accept the people with no complete defeat," said the KP.

"Dedicates the gun of the Bugnay, as long as they gave up the schools, of farms and peace which was built by the filipino masses, and the armed forces which was able to give the interest of the poor farmers, the national establishments and the fishermen."

"Under the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Oplan Tokhang, the AFP is implementing the abuse of human rights and the international law, especially the children, women and elderly," said the KP.

He identified the killing of the 8-year-old Roque Aniban, or, who is with his sibling and uncle, the soldiers of the 71st IB, Mabini, Compostela Valley, last April 3, was rescued by the 37th Infantry Batallion of Compostela Valley and recommended to be guarded by the 24th IB, even the AFP and Marcos regime.
