
June 12, the corrupt and corrupt.

Day of the National Independence Day, June 12.

The desire of General Emilio Aguinaldo was declared last 1898 in Kawit, Cavite against the Spaniards in the midst of the revolution.

Together with the desire of the citizens to return to them is the land owned by the Spaniards so they can stop working with almost no salary in Filipinos, stop the killings of foreigners to the Filipino and many others.

That is why, the revolution became fierce for freedom, which is what our ancestors are asking about their lives in order to achieve freedom, but also for prosperity and peace in life, who are convicted by the Spaniards.

There is no change.

After any years, what is the situation of Filipinos before under the Spaniards, it seems that there is no change.

It is obvious in the economic system that around 47 families have the control of our national economy or owners of the wealth of the country or the business that ran in the Philippines.

If the Spaniards are controlled by the Spaniards and their followers in the country, the Americans are controlled by the Americans, Japanese and Chinese in the economy.

The Americans have the control of oil, including the mining and selling of oil and naturally, mixed with military and police, airplanes and others.

The Americans and Japanese are together in controlling the financial situation, especially the improvement of the government of the Asian Development Bank, World Bank and International Monetary Fund.

The Chinese are holding the big businesses in those who import exports, mall, bank, a few planting of electricity, including the dams and national cellular phones, and many businesses.
There are also many of them succeed in the illegal numbers game, like rice.

Very much.

The Americans have great freedom, Japanese and Chinese in my loved Philippines.

They even heard the law of the laws to ensure that they will not go bankrupt and they are always buying them.

Included in the laws done by the Lord who are also done by the Americans, Japanese and Chinese are Oil Derna Law, Electric Power Plant (WestMinCom) and the law of Malacanang now that the government is going to pass through with 600 billion pesos.

Even to anyone who asked to ask, only the foreign to replace the Spaniards are those who suffered from the Spaniards, and their hairs stood up, and the laws are always being looked at every time there's pictures at them.

Charter change!

Foreign businessmen are still not contented, they are the ones behind the rushing corruption, abusive and with congressman and senators to push for charter change.

The lawmakers said, it is needed to erase the fate of the constitutional solution which is owned by the colonizers and 60 percent that are owned by foreigners and 60 percent for the Filipinos to make sure that Filipinos will benefit more and decide.

The congressmen and senators want the 40-60-60-60 years old and do 100 percent owned by the foreigners.

Even in any business in land, factories, mining, mining, airplanes, school, import exported, electricity, media, hospitals, and all.

If this will happen, it seems that the bastard legislators do not want to bring back everything to the Spaniards so that they can lose the millions of millions and majority of the citizens of their possessions.

They are going to get the employees, squatters, in their own town and a puppy of the foreigners, even the government.

Corrupt and corrupt.

The people in the government will lead to the increase of the flag of the Philippines so that they can easily understand the importance of National Independence Day.

There will increase the flag in Kawit, Cavite, in Rizal Park or Luneta where to be hanged to Gat Jose Rizal and other places in the order of the foreigners.

He will look like a hero in their speech and remind everyone who should be like what our ancestors have done before to fight the understanding, greedy and clean foreigners.

But you will hear all of us, we are still hungry, Bro, from them that we will be weapons, like our ancestors to revive the spirit of the National Independence Day.

The call now of those who have weapons and want to have a complete change against those who have control of the economy and their followers in the government are terrorists.

During the time of the Spaniards, the call of Filipinos, who are proud of you, which is now known, corrupt and corrupt, are corrupt and corrupt.
Day of the people.

In the act of high-ranking officials of the government, the Spaniards considered all the foreigners to put all the entire country through it, they are even worse in order to choose a Japanese with the traitor of the people.

And it is still suspended because they are the first ones who will increase the flag during the Independence Day.

Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
