
Friday, August 8, 2014.

Two Jose, two Heroes.

Two Jose, two Bayani of Gregorio V. stars Jr.

Typhoon Jose in the country destroyed this past week at the height of the typhoon Jose, grandfather Jose, radio, a songs of Corilling, to his older brother until he entered the minds of the two heroes with the name Jose.

I met Rizal in elementary, and on the other hand, you will see Rizal's statue in Manila, while I was identified to be activists, and once I was able to attend the image of the Philippines-Cueto, and sometimes they were able to attend the image of the Philippines-Cueto in the Philippines.

Cueto is the national hero of the Philippines, Jose Rizal and the Philippines as the same part of the Philippines in the jurisdiction of the country at España, their respective countries, both are hoping to free their country from the colonization of the Spaniards.

Jose Maralit was born in Havana, 1853, 53, including Jose Rizal was born in Calamba, Laguna last June 19, 1861.

Both of them had a lot of sisters from seven women, the sibling of Maranon, nine women and siblings of Rizal.

They both became a painter as an instructor, Jose Maranon, who had a study at the National High School for "Jose Rizal when she learned about painting under the famous painter, Agustin Abrigo, and a witness minute under the guidance of Romoc de Jesus.

Both of them wrote the Spaniards written in the Spaniards written by Jose Maranon, "Love, Requiestas, Dr. Love," Rebuprofen, Doctor Love, and La Solidaridad newspaper last 1880, and in La Solidaridad newspaper last 1880, and in La Solidaridad newspaper last 1880, and in La Solidaridad newspaper.

Both of them went to the Spaniards, and wrote the messages to the Spaniards, and it was published in 1913, but it was published in 1913 last October 4, 1882 years old, which was published in Berlin, 1882, and molested the said organization in Berlin, 1882, and published in the Pacific Ocean.

Both of them have grown up in front of the coldness of Jose Marti, in her book, "Guda," said that she was a young lady in my own language, and said that he was a young lady in my own language, she said that it was not good to write to my own language, what was said to be a filipino songs such as Kabata "who said that it was not a good thing for me, Kabata."

Almario, national law of arts for the duck meat.

Both of them wrote the children published by Jose Marti and La age de Oro, who is one of the young man, while Jose Rizal has written to the turtle and a fool, and senseless fire.

Both wrote the newspaper. Jose Maronilla, who wrote the in the eastern part of the Philippine National Police (Caracadryl and La OPLAN), La Loma, and La Onok Island, La Loma, and La OPLAN), who wrote the articles in La Solidaridad newspaper which is based in Madrid Street in España Street.

Both of them were given attention by Jose Marbella, the Mes FFF) of my youngest daughter) of Victor Hala, from the filipino language, Maraykit, history, Rizal, which is owned by Jose Rizal from the filipino language in the filipino language, which was said to have been mentioned in the front.

The Karamihagan in Tawo is dependent to Rizal when he was in Humalig) of the White House of Man, the Cuya of the Philippine Islands) of Antonio Moros, 1890, along with his pet parrot.

Both of them got a special study in order to be professionals, Jose Marti and was able to take medication for a doctor because he wasn't able to be able to pay school diploma that is needed in Paris and Germany to treat his mother's eyes.

They've travelled to different countries like Jose Marti in Mexico, Guitionist.

The foreigner married the foreigner who was married with Cuandola, Carmen Zak of Guese, and they were married on 1877, and they got married on 1877, and they got married in 1877, and they were married a few hours before the execution of Rizal.

Both of them had a son with the son of Jose Marti and he lived together for a long time after the son of Jose Rizal was killed a few days after she gave birth to the child to commemorate his father.

They both stated that to grieve with the killed people in the history of Jose Marti, while Jose Rizal was hit by the execution of the three Ghanaels, where he offered his novels El Filibusterismo.

They are also the same anymore of their relationship which was established by Jose Maranon, 1892, the Revolutionary Proletarian Army (Partido Revenue, 193, and La Liga Filipina, but he was arrested by the Spaniards.

Both were jailed and assigned to Jose Marti and Jose Rizal. Jose Marti who was sentenced to jail for six-years of extreme work (scabies).

Because of the help of his parents, her sentence is smooth, but he was thrown at Fort Santiago from July 6, 1892 before he was imprisoned at Fort Santiago last November 3, 1896 until the morning of his death last December 30, 1896.

Both of them were identified by those who are fighting in the current system of society.

Jose Maralit was identified as Fidel Castro, Jose Rizal and Jose Rizal, who was identified by the Kotong Filipinos, because of his stars that they want to reach, the gathering of a gift to a house as a sign of a dialogue to the people.

They both faced their death and died from a gunshot wound on May 19, 1895, Maronilla, while he was fighting against the Spaniards in Bagumbayan last December 30, 1896.

Even the rent of Jose Marti and Jose Rizal were identified by their own countrymen.

There are many similarity but there are still a lot of difference.

Both of them did the symbol of the struggle in their respective countries together with Martillano Marcelino and General Antonio Mackenzie in the fight for them to free the revolution, especially the movement of Bonifacio and the Filipinos who fought in order to achieve freedom.

Jose Maralit was identified as the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines, but many are saying that he is the national hero of the Philippines, because he refused to be a leader of the revolution for the freedom of the country, however, he refused to be a leader of the revolution for the freedom of the country.

Here are the few admirers of Jose Marti and Jose Rizal about their love for their country, which was felt by the filipino language.

However, although a 26-year-old Jose Maranon Junior is dead after Gregorio V. stars Jr.

It is thirsty for 13 years.

I lived even though I have died which shows a good news because last night, I became a proof of love.

If putting on the mouth, a person will be resolved so that he will be able to die so that he will be able to do all the goodness, she will be sent home to the light.

Meanwhile, thousands of Cuba, Jose Marison be able to listen to Gregorio V. stars Jr.

There is a 14-mindedness.

We are blaming each other in the ground, Banica is one of those who have heard the heart of my heart and Cuba in your heart, my heaven is Cuba in your book, my word is Cuba.

Maria Clara's Clara and Jose Rizal used to listen to Gregorio V. stars Jr.

It will smell for 15 pesos.

Many of the hours for the country that they are home for home will be affectionate, where the sun are accommodating and the life of only wasted the same with the loved one is affectionate, and peaceful.

Playing with the lips is hot with kisses while in front of our mother, she was woken up by her eyes glaring while they were staring at him.

Many things will die if you will die in a home country, where the days are affectionate, where the day is accommodating!

The death of any creature without love, no mother, and no town!
