Their quarrel has ended!

Just this past week, the quarrel between the family of the actress Heart Evangelista on the dinner with heart and her husband, Sen. Chiz Escudero in Quezon City, is the father and mother of the Kapuso star, and her sister, Cecille Pilot and her sister, Cecille cannot buy her bag.
The three together as part of one of them are together again as part of another separate encounters in her Instagram account, it can be remembered that Heart's parents were against her relationship with Senator Chiz.
Because of this, Heart's parents were not able to attend when she got married to the senator in Balesao Island Club last February.
In relation to the good news about their agreement, they talked about having a second wedding for Heart and Chiz to give a chance for the parents of the actress to be able to attend the altar.
For now, the couple is still not giving a statement about the second wedding but Heart has not denied the people who are asking about the possibility that the Second World is going to happen.

Last Thursday May 28 was celebrating his 51st birthday and along with this is the press conference with the coming concert in Divine Diva, "one of those who became famous in Divine Diva, who was not in-law that will be married again even if she was already in 50s?
He was immediately answered by the singer-actress, "time-called gold, i'll take a time, in-time."
She said, it would be better if everything was planned before they got married.
Zsa Zsa Padilla got married at a young age to her former wife, Doctor Modesto, three king but they have already separated.
After that, he became married with the deceased Comedy King, Dolphy in the long time.
And his name Conrad is also separated from her first husband.
She also said, "I know, I know that you are wanted to really want to know the person who wants to be recognized by the person, Jerbehind bars.
"If we can't take a point, thank you, thank you," isn't it?
"Krrrik," we, was we we was able to make sure that he was being able to make sure that he was being able to make sure, "isn't it?"
In the opinion of Zsa Zsa Padilla, she is okay with her children, Karylle, Nicole, and Zia Quizon if she will get married to Conrad, even if she has not even asked him.
"Yes, I am so long, they have known to be known as Condad at the age of Are all okay," he added.

Just recently, the funeral parlor that was held for a famous singer Rico J. Puno already became a collector.
The said sign of the concert show to the singer was held at the Rock Crib. It was said that up to 43 people were able to respond to the plea to help Rico as one of those who sing in the concert, Rannie Raymundo, Freddie Aguilar and Darius Valdez.
Rico J. went to the concert to personally thanked all of those who supported him.
Rico J passed away last month and according to anyone, he feels better now that he is still hoping to return to work as soon as possible.
Rico is happy because there are many care and love for him that's why he is very thankful to everyone who attended the said concert show.
