
There are "Home ones, Jean or Janet" Singson, have the Q.RTEL.

Even in every barangay, no one believes that Malacanang does not have anything to do with what is happening in corruption and corruption in the past four years and time of Miss Gloria.
No one believes that three senators are involved in crimes against the people.
And this belief is spreading now that Janet Lim-Napoles spoke again.
And if the list of deaths from being thieves and cheaters in the country's funds will be allowed to talk to the public funds, he is ready to talk to the rehabilitation czar, Ping Lacson.
I am intrigued, elegant and Humalig).
If there were Hello, Garci, during the time of Miss Gloria, there were Hello, Jean or Janet now in the government of PNoy.
This is contrary to Lacson's thick document given to him by Jimmy Napoles, the ex of Janet this month of March.
The question now: Who is from Malacanang made the Hello, Janet or Jean!
If Aling Gloria was accused of calling COMELEC (Virgilio Garana, last 2004, to win Miss Gloria for President, who is from Malacañang who called Janet or Jean about the robbery at the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Malhmm?
Is PNoy himself or one of his followers in the Palace who are sure to be influence?
For us, this issue should come out and in the hands of Lacson, in case Secretary de Lima will not release it.
There is an elephant.
In the meeting or session in the Senate, the meeting or session will not push through if there is no police or most of the senators to show and attend the meeting.
Lacson said, that there are 12 senators who are involved in the camp of Napoles.
According to those who are shut on the mouth of Janet, the list of those involved in the burial, the senators reached 19.
There are four people, because if the senator is only 24, there is no need to show up to have a meeting or session.
It is not impossible for the newly-elected senators to be clean in defending them if they are included in the opposition if they are congressmen.
Those who are sure before and not congressman before are Senator Grace Poe, Nancy Binay and Bam Aquino.
Noisy!
This is what Lacson is saying that it will be a report by everyone that one of the most noisy senators against the three senators who was initially charged by the Department of Justice and Office of the Ombudsman in the Sandiganbayan.
In other words, its hands are dirty and these are just clean in being noisy.
Who or who are these?
Again, we can say that they are in the hands of idol the ball about all of these.
Responsibility in the town.
Napoles can no longer guard the names of the senators, congressmen, and from the Palace who are included in the implementation of the public funds if there is no basis.
Same with this, Lacson does not reveal any basis if he has no basis, including those who are not in the list of Napoles.
Because the two already spoke to the public through cleaning the media, they have a responsibility to fire a whole truth for the benefit of all citizens.
In the time that the two are having a secret, the preservation of the truth and justice that the people want to achieve the issue will become commendable.
And the rottenness of the most powerful is still continue.
Too much force.
The government's hands are too much in order to let justice prevail together.
There is a number of 400,000 policemen and soldiers who will get arrested for 100-200 people who are officials of the government, there are also many personnel of the National Bureau of Investigation who will help in arrest.
There is said that many personnel of Ombudsman Conchita Morales is saying that the evidence for evidence and study so that the cases to be filed against the thieves should be filed.
And even more than the fiscal will be more popular, under De Lima, to help the spread of evidence and filing cases to all the fiscal.
Added.
If ever there will be an increase in the hands of the Ombudsman and DOJ, what will Janet and Ping do?
Their revelation to the public of the whole truth will be enough for the people to act and force it to act on the authorities that should take action.
They need to try to try the power of the citizens to launch actions for real change.
History is what the people are saying that the government is making their own government, any hour and day, if there is something turned down.
Even martial law or iron fist will use 400,000 military and policemen with armalite rifle would not suppress the million arms that are raising the fist against corrupt and corrupt.
Accurate!
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
