Actor, By between Dacer August 31, 2016.
Quezon City Police District (QCPD) Director Senior Superintendent Guillermo Eleazar did not stop working in his district.
Anyway, even if the success of the left operation against criminality and illegal drugs cannot lose their feelings, and instead, any official might get worse.
With the number of those who attended the past few days of QCPD, the quick operation carried by the QCPD of course in the directive of Eleazar of the suspect in the murder of Saint Luke's Medical Center, which according to Eleazar, was not able to surrender under Oplan Tokhang last July 15.
Gumakaw admitted that he was intoxicated in illegal drugs when he committed the murder of the victim, SSeptember Ann Paz, 24, who sustained 19 stab wounds in his body.
But because the leadership of QCPD is really diligent, he immediately got involved in Gumakaw.
It was followed by the quick response of the QCPD to a shooting incident to the son of Quinta Casimiro and ABS-CBN Zamboanga.
Another successful operation of the QCPD is the murder of a terrifying leader of a gun-for-hire gang who were linked to Region 3, Region 5 and Metro Manila, Glen Perena Daan, 31, who was suspected to have a standing warrant of arrest for the murder case, and another man who was suspected to be a member of the syndicate.
The QCPD also tried to see the holiest man Drug Group who was killed in the encounter with the leader, Narciso Amaya Awra, and four members of the syndicate in a buy-bust operation of the anti-drug operatives of QCPD Station 4 in Novaliches last July 12.
If this is what our police are like this, especially the officials of Eleazar, well it is not impossible that the government government will achieve the success of the promised fight against crime and illegal drugs and that can be assured by a peaceful community.
That is why there is no disease given to National Capital Region (NCR) Police Director Chief Superintendent Oscar Albayalde and the Philippine National Police (PNP) Chief Director General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa because of his diligent responsibility.
Anyway, he was not able to talk about this official who is a classic "he will jump off because of the number of people in the QCPD who were removed from his position that reached 150 pesos.
But in spite of the said image, Eleazar itself led the 627 police of QCPD going to the rank of PO 2, PO 3 and an official, that this is an ordinary police and not officials, that means that the official who believes in the principle "reward of good, in the day before yesterday."
Remove them from the integrity, but give recognition to the people serving the people.
So to Director Senior Superintendent Eleazar, we salute you in Aksyon Ngayon!
