No matter how strong you are.
Yes, whatever that is the end of yes to me, it's okay that I don't have a hard time, I am not the one who will do it to my grandmother and his grandmother, not to be lazy in the mountain without a vegetable.
We are very pitiful; as long as he will tell us that the reason why you are with us here is that we are not the ones who are going to go to each other, who are the only ones that I can eat.
Who passed away.
Okay!
Hala.
I am not there.
!
!
That is happening.
Okay.
NJ.
When the day ends, their house was filled with darkness while the name of us, who's the name "'Villa Family, went to our house first.
When will it be?
I am not able to go out of land, because I have no money to buy.
Money to buy money.
Okay, the key to the leading is no light in the evening.
What?
Surprised.
Her child was really quiet and crying for a few nights ago, Joel, almost rice, is just being eaten by his childhood sibling and nephew.
Let us take care of food and there is no light in the evening but number of head.
This is the content of my mind while I am trying to get her godchildren in darkness.
The next day, I was brought by her elder sister in the payment, where they are living one of those who are living on the tree of speeding water in the tree, because it is obvious that there is a large amount of plants in the tree, because it is obvious that it is not accustomed to each other, and here we are tired of this in your house.
Stolen or that, in the middle of the nose, barbells; we themselves go to the river, very low; and very low; not now, of course, even the land.
I should not know it and his sibling is supposed to have been delivering the land for hiring their house.
I also visit the former position, who went to the office where they went to, and then they are currently standing at the payment of dengue, now that they are not in the end of dengue, who are students who are studying to transfer to different countries.
When the storm was about to talk about more than one of the five-five years old, they are still missing until now, they are still missing until now, because some of them are still missing until now, I have not thought that it would be another student if I still don't expect that you are still not expecting.
I am one.
What is it?
A teacher in there who is selling students is for those who are taking advantage now that they would be given to the school that they have three children like that.
We are able to see each other again and we can clearly see that you are having a cold; because you are really not thinking about it now, I am going to talk to the church, I am still going to join those who are going to move on.
They are really included in the past yes, but there is a need for the motorcycles to continue even if they have experienced that in order to be strong as a week as a person.
Yes.
In an outing at the victims of the storm, it has been a long time for us to have the family of more than five who were also able to be with each other on the brook.
Your voice is, you can't hear that you have given it to you, "if you also give it to you, it's as if you're on the same age, that's why you don't know that he / she does not know that he / she didn't know.
Nothing.
Mariel is beneficial for a high school but she needs to stop in order to work for her family.
It is cold that in an eatery now, you want to study even if we do not have money to eat there when there is no work in us.
Her sister, Nawo, is in the morning, Susan went out as a house helper in the afternoon to Buting me who has no education for her employer.
I am happy because I do not understand if I was able to do something for my former boss, that's why I could help them.
Keep your siblings' dreams.
So that we can rise from poverty.
In the early morning, it seems that they are the same in his return, Michelle will be the first to finish the High School in his siblings, which is why it is also three times for the young lady.
For those who survived the tragedy, the lives continue in spite of the hope of each one.
Just like the flowers that might feel bad for the wide point of bitter gourd, I remember those people from where?
I want to be a lawyer that he has a lawyer, sometimes I want to be a doctor.
I would like to be ill-tempered; as well as the police.
It's a sign that it has a severe headache, a few of the youth still lives in spite of the gch, which is why they are at the cunning Elementary School.
Four.
They are lucky that there are people who are fed up in red and red.
Just when you will give it to them, it is Charley Calayes; we should be doubly careful of going back to you, we also want to help the call, that is why we are not rich, that's what I can eat while I am eating this card.
I feel that we are lucky sometimes in the time that there is no change in their life, if you can see the green tree you feel, I feel like four P-M-April four o'clock in the afternoon, Two P-April 19) every age, Arayyy, whom you give in Saudi.
Okay.
The change in his life is being thankful when Liwag.
Very kind; we will look at your life back then when I have seen that my life is very difficult in your life right now, because there are people who are helping me, many people who are ready to help me because there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready to help even if there are people who are ready
Celine was fur, very small, not just the good thing.
He has been six six months for six months but Justin Timberlake, they don't know where it goes to the 'game.
Batangas is beneficial for the goodness of others to dream of a day with the title.
Okay.
Okay.
Very small; he / she can't take care; it is possible that their wound gets jealous as well.
Two maybe they are still visited by bad dreams.
But these children are increasing in the company of people who show good few months.
