The student fought against the high bills of PUP.

The students of the Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) reviewed together in March 10 in its peak when it came to Taguig and the campus.
They are holding a-page document which is allegedly from the administration of PUP who gave payment for P16,000 pesos to students next year.
But PUP de Guzman denied that the said proposal is approved by the said proposal which will be hit by the students who will enter the university as junior and senior High School - in the very year that the Aquino administration had no enrollees.
But students are not convinced, any increase in charge for school - even to the students who were caught by the K-12-12, it is possible to give way to the increase in total price of students.

Chaos in the height.
Many students of PUP were surprised at P16,000 bill, even if most of them are not directly affected by this, it can be said that one of the most low tuition in State Universities (SUCs) in the country - even if they get rashes on a high quality of education.
In the statement of the administration of PUP, he said that the price hike for students is still 12, "there is no increase in tuition in now and in the future," it strongly emphasized, in one statement that the administration spent on Facebook account.
But he also admitted that it was just out of P16,000 pesos in the coming of the students of the junior and senior high school in the implementation of the K-12 in the year 2016, and long as senior, High School.
But the administration of De Guzman said, nothing will be seen in the coming of the students, because the Department of education will be funded by the Department of Education, which is meant for the P22,000 pesos which is reserved for every student, the proposal of P16,000 pesos.
But the group of youth were showed, including PUP Central Bank, the documents that were said to be passed by de Guzman, which is said to be passed by De Guzman, and the approval of the Board of Regulations (COR) of said university, which is why the total amount of price increase was there to P16,000 pesos.
The group of youth Anakbayan, where it went up to P410 million budget that was gathered from other bills, "why did they not give money to the athletes, Medical toll fee, which is why they have no insurance)," the leader of the toll fee), "said the group.
The Liberal Party-list is said to be the price of Representative Terry Ridon in congress, which is not yet approved by the said P22,000, which is said to be the budget for the Department of Budget and Management Council.
The department is only able to give up to 50 percent only for the entry of SUCs from PUP, according to the World Health Organization (Students, contrary to the reported administration of PUP, and it is contrary to the said proposal of P16,000 pesos.

OPLAN School.
After the meeting of boR last March 10, what de Guzman went out and faced the students, he insisted that there will be no increase in tuition fee but also said by de Guzman, the students should not meddle from other schools on this issue.
But it was recalled that it was Charleston, official of the College was identified as Edominic Estilles of the Philippines (CEGP) who graduated from PUP last year and now, the corresponding filing of different bills was questioned.
"
Jules Asedillo said that it is from the Sports Development Office of PUP, that there are many questions in the administration about the Sports Development Office of PUP, that there are many questions in the administration about the Sports Development Assistance Fund scam, because he is one of those who talked with the students who agreed to convince the students to agree with the additional wage increase.
"The capture of all the people like the State Colleges and University Athola's Association of Top Rank Promotions and other here," Asedillo added.
This is where it should be used for 400 children to spend for 400 athletes, particularly for their equipment, homes and food, and even a mystery is being used by the athletes.
He pointed at the construction of the gym as an example.
"It is painful here," those who take the funds to do the broken equipment in the gym were given to the students, but the national budget should be done in the basketball player (GAA, or the national budget for the athletes, but they took it out of money which is for the athletes.
According to him, the funds given to the Sports Development Assistance Fund) is the funds given by the Special Action Force, "a big Banga, which can be done on the construction of the athletes, but why are you going to get this) from the pocket of the students, in fact, it is at a GAA," he added.
From the 150 cases for the Sports Development Assistance Fund, it will be P2, its 500 pesos, which is currently being swept up by the P225, is composed of P2,500.
"They are asking for any other bills now," says Jess Ferredo, the chairman of the Central Bank of PUP, "but (they are asking for the very high level, there is no explanation on the role that was given, as long as it reaches to P16,000 pesos.

Right in studying.
Feraris also complained that the administration has been done for students about the proposal.
"Of the Board of Regi meeting, it is clear that he will just do to reach P16,000 pesos so the steps of the students will not continue, even the students of schools, in PUP Taguig - to stop the progress and approval of the proposal.
Meanwhile, Ferredo also said that they are also worried about the effect of its height and private school, "if it will be approved and it will rise to $6,000 pesos, they will rise from P16,000 pesos, they will rise from P16,000 pesos, they will rise from P16,000 pesos.
Also said by the group Anakbayan, which should also be blamed by the government for tuition and bills of course, President Aquino is also the primary implementation of the education Act of 1982, the Commission on Higher Education, "the Commission on Higher Education," the Commission on Higher Education, "the Commission on Higher Education," the Commission on Higher Education, "according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Others even said that other students of the students of PUP have also said that their rights are not allowed to insist on their rights in education and fighting for the high ranks of students and the entire community, just to show how the militants have their contribution to the change in society, "he said.
