Which is the investigation, that's why yes, because they do not want to go to school because of the peak of the computer in the Santo Niño at the peak of the success of their grades in their school, which is why they have done that there was a ceasefire, which was the reason why they were able to look at their school, which was the reason why they were able to look at their school.
They will just look at the video of the ball, what is true is that it is true for ten minutes that Chriselle will follow.
It's all.
Yes.
Okay.
.
Covetous, fur.
For a gay station that will be used to stop this case, but not on the C-B (C), old students from the '70s!
Okay.
Chriselle did not end up.
When I was talking to Chriselle, this is just her way for remembering the coming from school because he is not in his own vice presidency.
You will kill the piggery, he was not allowed to see the prostitution of a jeepney Sampaguita Pictures, I said I should have said that I should monitor what I want to see.
How are you?
Do not hesitate to give me a reason.
Here, do you think who?
Umm.
It was also different when we were able to go to school; he / she was shy in their school, that's why they were surprised at that kind of school; he / she was calling on a name that's why they were calling on a name that's why they were not able to celebrate a rat, but it was too bad to celebrate a rat.
A young lady, Diane and t-shirt, she said that he / she was wearing a t-shirt, she said that he / she didn't take care of each other; she said that other ducks would be innocent; he / she was supposed to be a thief.
Also according to him.
I am in Nueva.
Ecija that is not for the 's or footage of Sara Sara.
But in the text message of many that will be hurt, what was said to be hurt in the school she was stopped in the school that she was not able to see because she was not able to see that his partner was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see that she was not able to see each other, which was why their school was not able to see each other.
What the child got was from.
What I want is what I want.
Isn't it that he is ready to be cut off in order to lose whatever it is that I do not have anything wrong to disappear, it seems that we are not doing anything wrong, it seems that we would not separate, that is why I will pay it like that.
That is why I ask me that I go back to that kind of age; he / she'll take care of my contribution?
But they are not going to live when we are after a case but we do not have any plan to receive a voice.
"We just want to play the piggery, that's why they do not want to be favored by his Tito attitude of the department to let them know if they will be able to find out if they will be able to find out if they will be able to determine if they will be able to determine whether their investigation will be fair to David.
