
Cheating.

As President of the country, it is a priority to serve the interest of the people and the people.
As president, the care and protection to the people is a priority.
It is clear that his duty is clear, it is a town first before yourself and personal friends and relatives.
As president, we prioritize the country's needs.
Health, education, food, housing projects, peace of community, security, peace and most of all, give livelihood to everyone.
The question, is this happening in the hands of President Benigno Aquino III?
"Is it happening for the administration being said when he was severely cursed, I mean, I will finish his duty as President," you will finish corruption, because, there is no poor if there is no corruption! "
He imprisoned the corrupt police.
He was kicked out by the corruption he said.
In front of a twin billion worth, he won against corrupt cops?
I was even asked, he was still trying to lie down and pushed him.
When the appointment of the country's funds broke out, P10 billion from the Priority Development Assistance Fund which is made by one of the many kinds of types of Janet Lim-Napoles, Aquino is having a feast.
He is happy because it is just a proof that it is part of his cleaning and corruption.
But Aquino is only to the three senators and his allies are feasted in in politics.
It reached to the construction of the prison in Camp Crame, which was full of the national police station.
Not long after, it suddenly exploded that the three opposition senators are involved but more than the allies of Aquino and his Liberal Party!
He added that the real motive is, the teacher of Napoles, Budget Secretary Butch Abad, and his favorite liar, Secretary Proceso Alcala of the Agriculture.
No matter how much the posture and stubbornness led by Noynoy Aquino before against the three drug pushers in Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla - he himself seemed to be a lawyer in his statements, now the majority of his allies are trapped and the lawyer of his opponent is reversed.
As a President, Noynoy Aquino should show that he is the president of all Filipino people.
As a president, he should show that all of his governance is equal.
And as a president, he should be the same to know those who have sinned, his enemies or allies.
The president made the action of the President if he is just making noise with his opponent but he is blind and deaf to his allies.
If he will remain closed on the side of his sins, he is only one of the consequence of the removal from the strength of the people!
