
Statement on the 120th anniversary of the Bagong Hunan Bayan.

Congratulations!
The KP - Panay.
March 29, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration ation: A statement on the 120th anniversary of the bag of horseshoe.

Since last year, they are preparing for the Philippine US-Aquino, of the 3rd Infantry Division and the Priority Development Assistance Fund), aside from the Bangko Sentral ng mga Bayani, especially in Central and western part of the mountains, BPO, tourism and others in order to get the support of the senior citizens.

Since the midst of 2009 was the strengthening of the enemy of the enemy, but during the last room of 2012, it was only last 2012 when the additional force of the AFP from March 2012 until the encounter that happened last March 2011 when it was only ten o'clock in one o'clock) in their separation.

Last October to November 2012, the mountains of Leon and Police Officer 3 1st Infantry Battalion and 31st Infantry Battalion are carrying seven times, which was used for seven times by the Botchok (Coy of 82nd IB, which was used in the operation that was used by Mavo Coy of 88th IB, which was used to revolt against the BGHMC) which was used to revolt against him.

Even in the middle of the successive attacks of 1st Lieutenant de Leon, he was still able to crush one group of the one who served as the support of the military in their operation in Brgy. San Joaquin, Iloilo.

It has been a long time for the forces of the enemies to be declared dead by the barangays of Tapaz and Calanoga, but they are still continuing to gather peace in the northeast of Panay in the middle of the coast of Panay in the middle of the coast of Panay in the middle of the coast of Panay.

It is now ready for the units of the BHB) to remove the initiative of the launch of the level of islands being thrown at and outside of the narrow-minded areas to solve it, which is why they will not just be able to steal in a narrow-minded area for them to not just be allowed.

They are mixed with ten thousand pesos of poor people in the mountains and narrow streets of the people because they feel that the form of their Preso or peace in the mountains and their respective barangays are lacking.

Together with the armed men in this fight are the campaign of the citizens against the Filipinization and the fight for their training and the PNP for their training and "tourism."

More than giving away the regime, it is considered the campaign of the Botchok and thousands of Zesto Gang in the countryside which is being ruined and their crops are being destroyed as an alternative which can be achieved by the higher prices as an alternative and taking advantage of their debt.

The places left by the enemies are quick to leave because they are crammed in the area when they think they are strong at the Botchok (HB) and action of the citizens in many places that they have declared long time for the Israelites.

For some years to be distracted from the barangays who think that the movement is strong, they are finding it hard to control them because the citizens are still having a hard control because of the destruction of the people and fear of the citizens and fear of the citizens and afraid of the offensive of the BHB).

A politician is going to be counted in the island that it seems to be fighting in the BHB) for the revolution and not only during the time of the implementation and strengthening of the Botchok (revolution.

The military admitted that it is an effect of the terrorist group that is an effective use of the Bugnay of the command of the Philippines and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the use of CANDEx "and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the use of CDEx - in the attacking troop.

It is proven that it is the BHB) in pushing self-ups in the ban of mine which is not used in the ban of mine that is why it's not prohibited for the bombing, it is not prohibited, to conduct a rocket attack even if many civilians got involved in the incessant use of it.

With the important information of the armed enemy, there is an additional source of difficulty being faced by the revolutionary movement but it is expected that it will only be experienced by the revolutionary movement and help to weaken the strength that will take on his strength in the entire country.

On the fourth anniversary of the BHB) what is the following responsibilities?

1 - an active fight will be active and disappointed with the additional attack of the enemies in the island, especially in terms of the basic commodities in the entire island, especially in the leadership of Cojuangco-Aquino and it is important to show those who are in the custody of Cojuangco-Aquino and even Roxas.
2 - on the improvement of the huge companies and strong winds and strong winds and strong rains, and set to increase the biggest mountains and destruction of the theater of the filipino masses to increase their enemy, and broaden your enemy, which will crush the enemy.
3 - the movement is going to be used for defending the regime, which is being taken by the regime for a disastrous project and the camp of the citizens in the island where most of them are farmers.
4 - it is continued to reveal and fight the deception of the Marcos US-Aquino and the policies of those who are opportunists and violent places in the island to fail your understanding but cruel to Oplan Tokhang.

Congratulations!
Speaker.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
Kautasan in Region of Liberal Party.
March 29, 2013.
