What are Labor Law? (2).

The best example of the failure, but the goal of the government is good is the case of our domestic helper (DH).
More than six-years have passed when the government is on top of the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA), for the funeral parlor in the US $400 or 100-million pesos increase from the former US $200, this is a good propaganda.
But their salary is not supported by the market, even if the official official is still under the US $200, the government has problems that the government will accept the market.
In fact, the government was able to act on it when the Department of Sinulog Festival (Dou), who was headed by Secretary Patricia Sto. Tomas, who was headed by Secretary Patricia Sto. Tomas, who was about to be given a job for Filipinos in Mindanao, especially those who want to be returned from Malaysia, especially those who failed to return from Malaysia.
Even though this is not continued, this point is this: Because of the offer of the salary when they don't consider the reality in the market, it seems that the reality in the market, seems to be pushed through a bigger violation of the hardship and suffering that is in the agency.
This is aside from prohibited unlicensed agencies to collect payment because of domestic helpers.
In fact, many agencies answer the other expenses like taking care of passports and for medical attention.
The government knows that its policy will lead the resolution of the different violation.
What is worse is he did not even tried to talk to the host government to accept the said policy for their release to the private sector the responsibility in the Wage of policy.
I am sure that the government can release a list of meeting and consultation to prove that they did their part but the best proof is the best proof of the results of this effort.
Sometimes, just like what I said in my column in the past, the POEA was able to replace him, which is very clear that the government wants to stop his trip to another country in the murder of the industry through pretending to be additional benefits.
If examined the result of the work of POEA, a sudden increase was suspended and killed without license plates but it cannot be determined if the target was made to happen.
It is not said that there is no abuse on the side of unlicensed agencies that have of course, and most of them should just lose license.
No matter what happens, illegal Recruitment and Ali remains widespread, that is why even just six years have passed, the POEA still failed to make sure that they will steal a higher salary.
To be fair, it is not right to blame all the POEA and the DOLE who are extremely low in searching for the blame so they can't monopolize the mistake.
Is there a need to deal with co-helpers when he goes to other countries if there is a better work or just like work here in the Philippines, that's why we will go back to the root of the issue - enough work to our most beloved.
