What are they Hala?

In a point, that is the answer that Representative Sherwin Gatchalian for the two attacks of Mar Roxas a one of the Liberal Party which said that Vice President Jojo Binay should not run as president in 2016.
Gatchalian is right why Binay will not push through when he continues to be a No.1 presidential candidate in Pulse Asia and SWS surveys even if the country's budget is being used for a chemical against him?
The only thing that will withdraw is Senator Alan Peter Cayetano, together with the two more eggs, "who are being used by Roxas to criticize Binay through the Senate.
In the downfall of the rating of Cayetano from 5 percent of the 1 percent, even in the barangay captain, he might not win and he should not be blamed but his cowards in politicking.
The people are not stupid in order not to see that among the numerous cases conducted by the committee using the defeated candidates of Makati, Ernesto Mercado and Renato Bondal, they have not proven the smallest allegation against Binay.
It appears that the Makati City Hall Building 2 is not in a parking building for its construction because aside from the green office building, its foundation was also covered with a soft land near the river.
And in the release of the businessman Antonio Tiu, all the questions of "three egg" in the said company of Binay, are very lonely in the ownership of a farm in Rosario, Batangas.
Tiu is right, because he will file charges against Binay and VP Binay, who is gay for nine hectares there, it is easy to have a wrong thought that Binay is the owner of the whole farm even if it is not true.
The truth is, Tiu would go out of credibility compared to the senators because the businessman and his company have been set to be put in a P1 billion pesos in the floor for the P1 billion pesos to be taken out.
As a matter of fact, the Value-Illegal Drugs Group will suddenly rise up with the company of Tiu, which only means that the name and local government does not believe in the accusations against him.
"That's why the"
There are a lot of problems in the country like the worsening poverty, hunger, traffic, criminality and LRT and LRT and LRT in order to use the funds of the country through defamation to Binay.
