The livelihood of farmers in every head and challenges of the time we go with in the country are affected.
That is why the experts of conscience are helped in D: M / Insp. Project NOAmaya 3; for the farmers, you think of us chatting.
There have been two years since the Nation has launched a project since the wife of his wife launched.
His Department, and it's also a waste.
Maybe it is natural for the local government to be a big help to local government when they are ready for the first and to lessen the effect of these.
For example the payment left in school Samar, a big cousin left by Yolanda in the area this November.
You are applying.
Fuck, dearse, old and former.
In Fullido.
They were able to look down; he / she went to the other barangay hall.
Just like some barangays who are astonishing, both are pitiful.
Nobody is beautiful.
Our former administration is noticed by Yolanda.
You are in a area even if they are already different.
So!
"We are different; we are very different; we are already different because in one barangay because we have changed there because we have no integrity of what else.
The provinces of Bicol are needed to be done in a barangay but aside from Jasper liter, it is better to use the project to be postponed to the farmers.
He was asked by the new use of the project this July 10-twenty seven in the house that he did to him that's why I was full of previous girlfriend in the technology that has a problem at the Technology.
I'll be able to look down; he / she can see the U-U) for you to see it when it came out that the farmers will know how to drink.
This is a big help to avoid the financial loss of the six more, especially the climate City Hall, which is why the climate of Binoe.
There is a project.
Make a debt for guidance for the farmers of rice and noisy places where there are parts of El Niño that are often hit on the map where there is a high branch of El Niño that can be put in the map of the website were the fiesta of El Niño that should be passed on Saturday on Saturday and the Don July.
For television the payment.
