A few in Tagaytay.
That is why you are here in our place where the rot of my co-shirts might be destroyed because of this kind of arrogance, but this is done.
The victims of the work of Ramon Orly that I am working in, I am here.
It might also be the time in Metro Manila that is why their favorite salary is being used in Tagaytay so that it is very hot.
My children are not too hot here.
And now that you have a new in-law, those who are working in Tagaytay.
This is where I went here in different places when Ramon was released and this is not for an unexpected news which is the most good news that she will pay until the favorite medium of Orly.
I study and study so much.
As long as I can see, "you saw the course of the people.
Like that.
At the end.
What was Joker.
That does not push through with my things that I see.
Tita, I told us that we help us.
It is not for those who are fond of Jesus Christ the distance of Abby ate Vi's distance to other art such as dancing and it might be open to each other so that there is a card that you have, who has a card, are you a big card?
Orly is also not there.
He will support him now.
It's the lungs of the but.
In your trouble, I think that I am going to be taught here, we will be able to teach him / her; that's why you are.
You have already reached far away again that in more than three decades of being in a few decades of living, it's as if the life of an artist is difficult, especially when you started it.
They were selling.
Your strong wind was cut off.
This is, Casurao, started to be a architect and study said on the other painter and school hours since it was seen in Tagaytay.
I know that because he loves so much, he has a lot of things that can't be able to buy a lot of people who can't be able to buy-up; not just what is possible, there is no signal.
It was just like a Joly Spirit that can be looked at and there is also a area where you can talk about it, it is okay to talk to the public because they say that it's okay to talk to the public because I am sure that it's okay to see the children that I want to see.
Ramon M.
"Jesse Robredo shared to us to have a grades in April that's why it's as if we review that we can see that, after two years, they will be able to see that we can see that.
Why are you patient in your diet, this is a good thing that it will have a long time for a few hours to maintain C.
It's okay thank you so much.
