"I am sorry, Mister PNoy.

There is no end to condemn the previous administration of the Aquino government to wash the hands of other hand in front of other hand, ehek, controversy of his own action.
Sampaguita Pictures, the DAP, said that they are not alone, instead, they also have the previous admin, like during the time of Miss Gloria.
"Why are we just like that?" He / she is just a famous Echo.

In order to be clear about the DAP, here is a few record that has only reached approximately 42 billion pesos from P177B, and all are really used by the citizens so the Philippines will suddenly progress?
Crazy dog, where is the progress that is happening, huh?
Here are some of those who have been to the DAP office, according to the website of Secretary Butch Abad's office to the Central Bank of the Philippines (P12B for the local government and some district or a few districts or for some congressmen.
There are also P400-million beauty of Tacloban City but because politicians are all against yellow here, it is where PNoy and Abad faced the DAP funds.
The number of government agencies or officials of the government and this is part of 117 list of projects or programs brought by the DAP, as proof of what the SC himself said that the DAP himself has a good fruit of DAP.
PNoy also said in his special SONA in DAP, he cannot understand why the SC supports the DAP while he was praising it for being an instrument for the progress of the Philippines.
It was earlier said by the judges for the vote of 13-0 that they cannot understand PNoy, and Abad is also, in having the power to make their own law in budget, using DAP, and they are also implemented by the projects or programs in the DAP.
If you will ask Leonor Briones, former National Security System, king-mother, there is no direct result for the quick growth of the economy for the progress of the economy.
Most of all, ask those from barangay and without being judgemental, they will say that Heard cannot feel the DAP, and they never felt that they will go to the DAP.
King-mother, their life is already burdensome for their life, all of all, all their lives.
