It's only a joke that it's just an ordinary person in Batangas to help if you're lacking in the housing program in the legislative chamber that you are going to do.
Of course, he / she is ambil on top; he / she does not like me, but I do not want me to be ugly.
Yes, I agree with the viand I love with Binay and this is a signal for their payment for the coming election.
But the removal of Binay and lot is called out.
"There is an outing at a pattern in Batangas for their father-in-law, whose father is ill-minded; and I am ashamed of here at work.
Fuck, deport; and to prove.
That was the start of the meeting not yet in the act not to make a Japanese 't-shirt that you say to Erry Ortega.
It is a good meeting for the political meeting, which can be seen as well as if there was a point where he / she was in a noodle house; he / she was distressed as his Entertainment Television, Batangas for a long time.
Why did Vice First Family's adversary say that she has a plan to run in defending them, which is possible to be the one to make the best.
Maybe a wall is under the book to the President to make a clear thinking if the agreement is possible, but he said it is only four thousand pesos in Batangas.
I do not want to be a good country if ever.
A big Factor is a big actor to me, who are the ones who came from the local government.
It has been different from the local Goldie, even if it is summer, there are times that those who have been victimized by the Emergency Shelter Assistance Fund) are different from the reasons that they have been paying.
That is why it was not direct, but it was just earlier that I courted her as if it's as if it's as if it's as if.
I do not know me but I am not answering until I do not speak.
I will only respond to me; I am courting me, I am courting me, but until he is not courting that maybe he might be embarrassed.
It might be.
It is also here that I am also included in Batangas for what I have been saying that what they want to pay for them is that they do not say that it is impossible for you to happen when you arrive in our politics.
