
According to him, peace talks is more than 100 days by Duterte by Duterte.

Duterte insisted that it is a positive agreement with defense or peace talks, but many are still able to do many.

When the Philippines asserted on the fourth administration of the Duterte administration, according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), it will follow the peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) to follow the peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

But there are still a lot of need to do in fulfilling the patriotic and democratic goal of the Filipino people, according to Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.

"The Duterte administration faced the big challenge when it comes to suppressing poverty, and construction of a healthy economy, and construction of a healthy economy, he should face the national sovereignty and criticism of the US instead of reading it as negative, according to Reyes.

He added, that is needed by the national sovereignty that for the real progress, they should not worry if foreign contacts have started to think of their own economy.

Bayan did not take it first to blame Duterte on the weakening of the peso versus the dollar to retreat, as early as it comes to the growing interest in the United States.

"It has shown to what kind of economy we have, a weak and depends on foreign contacts, foreign debt, and overseas.

Duterte is now in the position now to change this, said Reyes.

The Pambansang Kamao is key to him and the real reforms are true.

It will reduce our clean hope and being exported in the physical appearance of Salik, the local jobs and will be shown in the local market, he said.

This is an extraordinary opportunity for the Filipino people, according to Bayan, there's a basis for the criticism of others to Duterte on other issues.

However, they are being supported by the national sovereignty and national interest in pushing peace in response to the root of the armed conflict in the country of the Duterte administration.

The Bayan allegedly knows their difference with the Duterte administration with other issues particularly on illegal drugs, however, they will continue to coordinate with illegal acts which is widespread in one and improvement of the administration.

The group of the government is calling the government to sweep the illegal numbers game, in the implementation of the Pambansang Kamao in the implementation of the privatization of the public service, and add to the equal agreement and allocated to the US.

The workers are happy with the declaration of the administration that it is sweating at the Supreme Court's declaration, however aside from the statements, the government has no concrete steps to fulfill it.
