TV Patrol, January 28, 2014.

Where is the Lord?

This happened, many years passed, when there was a boy who always prayed for every day, and she hopes that God will show her to her.

"My father, my father, I want to see you personally and talk to you so that I will wait a lot and prosperous for the food," his request.

"Because of his continue to beg, one day, God showed me and spoke," Oh, "I need to give me your friends," why won't you give me your friends, "why won't you give me," the reply of God. "

The boy invited all his friends and acquaintance that he started to prepare the most delicious food.

It is being spent by a big and I already beautified it.

When Friday arrives, it is prepared for a big table for each other and there is still no wonder that God will arrive at the same time, but the Lord knows that he will go inside the building and let us go outside of the building and let us go outside of the building and see that he is there, "what happened is that he is there," what is that he is there, "the man's request would come.

Due to a big surprise and anger, he saw a black dog eating on the table, all of the food was touched, "maybe the man grabbed their food and repeatedly stabbed the dog.

The boy faced his guests and spoke again, what can I do now?

"What happened to you?" The question of the boy, was it an accident and was extremely hurt?

"I did not get an accident," the response of God, "why did you blame me," why did you blame me, I do not have anything to do with the disaster that happened to you! "The man's reason."

"Because I arrived at the right moment of noon, and I started to eat.

When you suddenly came and I hit it again, I repeat it repeatedly, that's why my bones will have broken, "the statement of God.

"But I did not see it, and it is really nothing for me to be prepared for the chance that I have prepared for it," the boy explained while she made it out of the head.

"You are sure you really do not have anything to eat with your ready?" The question of God.

"There are also a black dog who ate.

"And who else, in your opinion, if I do not know, it is really true that your food will become a taste of your food, so I arrive as a dog."

Woman ------- widow woman ------- a virgin!

Let us join our eyes, each other and each thing is included in God or a man, we just need to remain ready for the blessings given by him from each other alive things.

Discover how these force were taken back to us to be hiding as blessings.
