PDAF, DAP, and there is a need to put all the energy.

The energy of every country is important from the smallest community until the biggest city needs energy in order to improve life's course, "Meralco said," there is a light in life! "
It is said that the Philippines is the first use of the modern energy during the time of Spaniards, Britain, and America, just like that when we first had an airplane for the terrorism, ship and services of the derailing or train.
Now, we are less than all modernization that will be with energy, what is painful is that, in the entire Asia, we are the one who is the most expensive service of the electricity and that is the reason why local and foreign countries are in our nearby countries in Asia.
Our economy fell in the time of former President Cory, the mother of President Noynoy, because of lack of electricity.
The grandchild of former president Fidel Ramos and the economy was able to recover, but even if the interest of the price hike for power Development Assistance ers and Detroit Pistons.
The lack of cheap and effective energy or electricity is pushing the downfall of our national economy.
During the time of President Noynoy, Mindanao is suffering from an ordinary citizens up to businessmen and capitalists have already been suffering, instead of stopping, it seems that President Aquino does not pay more if the people of Mindanao will suffer!
In the Senate, Senator Serge Osmeña said that in 2015 summer, we will probably experience the experience of electricity during the President, Cory, mother of Noynoy.
Just when G. Aquino will make a right and will make a right away, the forest or electric power are already lacking because there are many areas that have been used in the water level, but many are destroyed in nature.
The toll fee is expensive but in service, there are a lot of enemies whose huge income source because their huge income will be lost because of its huge income from the pension increase of oil companies and pork barrel scam.
There is a need to take an alternative energy from the wind power in Bangkal, Ilocos Norte.
Especially if what South Korea is going to use is going to be used to lessen the strength of wind power, like a vocation, the wind and exported power is free from its energy.
Hopefully the funds of PDAF, DAP, and colorful are the energy that we pour.
