Put it first.

It is suspicious that President Benigno Aquino III is blaming the politicians who helped him to win last 2007, causing Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
If Estrada and even Senator Juan Ponce Enrile has a big help to win and be able to win and be able to win and be able to win and be able to win the two?
Aquino first attacked the former President when he fought against his two last 2010 presidential elections when he said that former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo has not given forgiveness to his opponents.
However, instead of answering, Estrada let the son of the former President to ask for forgiveness from the former because of the wrong disposal for him, which is why he and Aquino took the opposition.
Does this mean PNoy has no debt of gratitude with PNoy?, it is true that these politicians were assigned in Malacanang because of the help of those who love his mother, former President Corazon Aquino, who became the way of the return of democracy in the country.
PNoy is trying to imprisoned Senator Alan Jinggoy Estrada, son of Erap and Bong Revilla, who are all aware of going back to the 2016 presidential elections which is most painful for a parent to see his son in prison, which is why he hit Jinggoy.
When the result of the 2007 period of 2007, Aquino wondered why he was able to enter the Magic 12 in Ilocos Region when he was able to believe that Estrada asked for a favor for him to be brought to their place.
If Estrada was not able to rest when he was still running, he / she was sure that he will be at the top of him now, the Estrada did not ask them to give them "Special Action Force" what he wants should not be touched.
Wait a moment, PNoy was able to declare his "Daang Matuwid", "but in a democratic path, if President Aquino's boss is leading the citizens, hopefully, he needs to clean his name through investigating about his wealth.
Why is it that at first he is hot in jueteng, why is he just having bruises on the spread of illegal numbers game, because he is benefiting?
After all, he has been used to receiving monthly payments from jueteng when he was still a congressman on top of the lawmaker every month in 1998 to 2007. If he denied it, he is a liar.
Noynoy should first investigate the wealth of Noynoy Aquino even if he can say that he will steal the opposition to him, the country is still the right of the country to know the real amount of wealth of "King of the country."
