The doctor is selling Agriculture in spite of just a little time that we do not need to treat rice from other countries to prove that we are the second to be exported by rice but they will still need to be a one to be able to send one thousand pesos.
Mark has a report.
Yes, it will go to the first of the Philippines' burial of rice.
Within a long time, we are going to go to a long time that our Production is needed.
The department budget for sure, just like a little bit, it seems that the rice and other products will be exported again.
It was a while ago when they had a stomach, which was known to a few square meters of rice in sensitive which exported in Indonesia and Dubai.
It's because it's only ten of us looking for us to look like a regular patrons of the deport, Mercado, that is why we do not want to be true, that is why we don't want to believe that we are we, Are-shirt; and i'll be brought to.
It is too many pesos and early so that you already know someone who owns.
That is why there was a chance to go to the house of the association.
In spite of this, it is not right at the talk of Dick, a one who is the eighty of the five-worth of rice that we need to import five years.
But do we have a lot to put it down compared with our own position since the five-year-old Charlesetta Williams and Two four-four-four-four-million.
Ten Filipinas who were played in the eight thousand pesos were said to have been planted.
You are aware of me half a million-old lady.
And he / she became four thousand pesos.
Yes, the eighty Corporation.
What is the meaning of this is that we are sitting in a noodle house; and local problems, and local problems where we will be cut down and we will just be able to support our farmers.
We are full-tempered; we are going to go to the D: 30 to be replaced by rice what you're talking about to the Philippines every year, to protect what is needed.
It can be said that you can help a farmer in D: Dick for the winning win now because the income will be bigger if they will be exported in their products.
The farmers of onions are sure that they pay the videoke songs to always sleep.
When you were able to do what you can do to me?
!
And then the call of this is called by him.
That is when I called yes.
But one of the drop of the lives of the vehicle is one of them.
Don't you think that they are very pitiful; we are not going to buy from the farmers because it is more beautiful when we talk to Mercado and it is better if we talk about it, "Ang one of the CEpiPen.
So short; we can just continue to go around; we might just continue to go around; we can just continue to go to other people for what happened, you will have a hard time to reach the complainant like how to enter the morning.
March legal, of course.
