Bongbong, New VP Alejano, Aries Cano, Bernard Taguba, Noel Abuan, October 21, 2016, in front of the Filipino community in Beijing, China introduced the ex-Senator Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos as the new vice president.
But this is if the victory of Vice President Leni Robredo will win.
"Bongbong, if he will win in his position, maybe before our vice president," President Duterte expressed all of the Filipinos from Beijing to Marcos who is also seated on top of his sibling, Ilocos Norte Governor.

Imee Marcos, the Marcos siblings were included in the delegation of the President in his first state visit to China.
Even though he did not become a running mate of Bongbong Marcos last May elections because of Senator Alan Peter Cayetano, his words became open and he could not hurt the feelings of the defeated vice presidential candidate, that's why he could not hurt the feelings of the defeated vice presidential candidate, that's why he could not hurt the feelings of the defeated Vice President.
Up to now the burial of the President to the late father of Bongbong, who was former president Ferdinand Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani (LNMB), who was filed in the Supreme Court (LNMB), will be filed in the Supreme Court.
In one speech recently, President Duterte admitted that he was one of those who helped him "Atong" in the campaign and thought that the governor also borrowed money.
But this was firmly denied by the governor.
The camp of VP Robredo, does not want to give any meaning to the words of Duterte in China, the statement of former Akbayan Rep. Winston Castelo and now the Liberal Party (LP) Spokesman Attorney Winston Gutierrez.
But he is hoping that the president will follow whatever decision of the Presidential electoral council (PET) for the election of Marcos.

"We thought we will follow the decision of the PET and we are confident that the election as Bongbong," according to Gutierrez, will have no basis.
Meanwhile, the camp of Marcos will shoulder the Supreme Court's camp on more than 1,000 vote counting machines (PMs) in the company where the PET has no permission from their protest.
"Senator Marcos is in the custody of the COMELEC (Comelec) to the 156-Ms in Smartmatic for the simple case that the PET in the light of the PPO)," says Atty. Jose Amor Auto, lawyer of Marcos in the protest.
