Number 2170 Infanta Street, Lot 4; "said to be orderly and evacuation of those who will be affected by the typhoon, was criticized.

By Filipino Weeker.
Last 6, 2014.

"The condition of the cee in a university in Ormoc was tragic, according to the People's Surge.
In the preparation of the local and national government, in the arrival of typhoon Ruby (international name) in the country this day, there are complaints about said evacuation and going inside the residents from different community which are expected to pass by the storm.
The People's Surge, organization of the victims of typhoon Yolanda in Eastern Visayas was reported, the alleged real condition "of the evacuated residents in Ormoc City, Leyte.
"168 families are complaining from Brgy. 37 Recana Area (Eastern Visayas State University in Ormoc City, they still haven't received any problems especially in the provinces of the university, they still haven't received any help from the government," the People Surge in their Facebook account.
The group also complained that the residents who evacuated during the arrival of the typhoon because there were no sidewalk in the hallway and the strong wind hit it.
In Tacloban City, the group Bagong Kalsada, Kadamay) complained that, according to them, the destruction of poor families evacuated before the typhoon. Meanwhile, they said, the Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines were closed by the Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines.
"He was disgusting, treacherous and unright thing that this was done by the government of Tacloban, to send their livelihood while the citizens are busy with what they are using," said Naing.

Preparation for the government.
In the part of the government, Malacanang announced that President Aquino ordered the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) for the coordination of the preparation for typhoon Ruby.
Included in the preparation of the government: 100,000 of the Department of Social Welfare and Development Authority in the Department of Social Welfare and Development, are being prepared for two airplanes C-130 and those in the rules in order for the transportation of the Engineering Office of military; and set a release of the Office of Civil Defense of Civil Defense of Civil Defense (First Lieutenant.
Aquino set the Department of Interior and Local Government in the leadership of Secretary Mar Roxas, as the priority of the administration in the preparation.
It can be recalled that Roxas became the center of criticisms against the public and took a glimpse of Roxas last year because of the quick response to the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
Those who were pointing at the Leyte National High School.
"Tanim-PS"

The group of youth Anakbayan, led the Aquino administration, said to be expulsion. "In the arrival of typhoon Ruby.
"Aside from trying to identify themselves, the press conference of the Liberal Party in helping the election is really what the government is doing to prepare and make sure that there is no true change in how they are facing the calamity," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo is also said that because the plan to relief the rehabilitation of the Aquino administration is failed after Yolanda, "the citizens of Visayas are now proud of the storm."
In spite of this, Crisostomo said that it is pretending to be helped in different kinds of parties for those who are timely and important information, "we should have to give one of the social media for coordination from the calamity, the relief and support," said Crisostomo.
