Far from the truth.
By Bernard Taguba, September 11, 2016), I want to cry loudly when I hear from the National Democratic Commission (NTC) in the budget hearing by the Department of communication and Information Technology (DCXL) that the internet service in the Philippines is good.
NTC stated in Congress that up to 167 countries in the world, around 98.
This is far from the truth because it is difficult to stay in the internet but it is still enough for him to be surprised and it looks like this is not being felt by NTC because it seems that the political services will not be ignored, because they do not feel what is being felt by NTC.
Even the congressmen are complaining about the destruction of their mobile internet and the NTC), it seems that there is no problem which is why I don't know which is why they don't know which is why they can be able to live in which is why they have a strong foundation.
As said by the elderly, how can you act on the problem that you have not experienced?
"Will they be the ones to pay their own mobile internet and not the government if they have something to experience the problem.
He / she was wearing.
It's a good thing that the leaders of the Legislative Chamber noticed the long time trend in the government, which the major agencies are from big companies that they have a business.
House Speaker Pantaleon "Toto" Alvarez himself admitted that it seems like the undersecretary's Department of Transportation (DOTr) knows how they will serve now that they will serve now that they will serve now.
There are some officials from the DOTr and the companies that have interest on the projects of the agency and what Alvarez said, and although Alvarez already resigned, there are former officials of some big officials of the government that after their term comes back to their Mother companies after their term.
I know and surely you know what Alvarez wants to find out and why are the DOTr and other agency that they have big businesses and some big companies that they just return after their term.
Why did they not put the big companies by their people in the agency that they do not have a business like the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), "Alvarez said," Alvarez said, "we should not enter it."
In the previous administration, there are some congressmen who criticized that, which is why the officials of the Department of energy (DOE) are soft for the power industry because they leave the DOE.
But maybe the government needs to be careful in taking advantage of people who are going to help them in driving the agency so that there will be no interest of interest, but there is a lot of good actors not from the giant companies.
