Two eight four suspects.
So many questions, how are you having a chance to live if Papa is going to live there who would have to live-in.
Yes, all we get along with this kind of kind of type, are really the first ones to ask, to ask himself as four consecutive questions so that there are things that you can say, you are not sure or okay to confront each other so that you will see nothing or not to give importance.
For the doctor, I will just comeback like that at the pier.
Because it's like that, it's like that, to the children who have to be cherness, there is a party-coloured car that will be taught to look down;
About the start of the Lower House in Mandaluyong, it was also an illness that was too high, but there are other people, he can also try to try this in the office for him to be killed in the office.
Yes, so we think.
She is still having fun when it can be cooked if I will be able to let it be.
He / she was able to look down; he / she only happens not only in the hospital where I was not only in the hospital where I was happening to the doctor in the hospital in the house in the school.
George, are saving money.
So?
Very short; he / she grew up; that if there is Saturday in the group, who knows how to be persevering is the answer of C-R, the flawless; and flawless, will not be very beautiful.
Yes, for us.
It is okay in Pampanga that we have been in the fourth blood pressure, because you know that what we are saying yes, an example, and I know that there is one of our countrymen who are in the field of course, that is why it's said that one of our fellowmen, which is on top of the height that is at the height of age, "that's why it's said that those who are from the height that are from the height of one.
"You are calling us from the height that is called by her blood pressure, that's okay, that it's okay for them to pay the payment for Two percent of their hearts to face the face of the heart.
It's okay that we are okay with the high blood pressure, Jenny, second, because it is the price of those who are not in number.
He is called for president Ferdinand an hhh yes to the veins that we have to come to, Arthur "so, both of us have to be removed from the same blood pressure, and then the price that is called Tony for each other and the price hike which is being called.
Yes, April Pers, what can be found in April Pers, what can be seen at around eleven o'clock in the span of eleven o'clock; we are okay with the youth, there are also heroes those who are under the number of those who are under the number of those who are under the number.
And that is not what we need.
It is okay now on the glass of gratitude for the doctors what I can help but the First Family, what I am going to go abroad is normal, but when I call that we are going to go abroad, we will go out to the case that I am calling each other, which is why they called the eight-called global warming, Joy.
Let us follow me, fog; and fuck; do something about this matter.
Because of this, it's time to go back and go back.
Yes, one more than four years, they are just saying if you are a patient, old age.
In line, he / she was distressed; he / she said that the First Lieutenant said that he / she was the First Republic.
October 23, it's up to the chin.
You chose to be a catholic.
March, in the middle of the Senate Blue Ribbon, Zailon and four months will be regretted.
Two Wives are dead from the storage room that you are not from your mother blood pressure, fog; and drilling, whose number of-hectare lot, that's okay, one thing.
Four to!
That is when we also take this form of blood pressure which is important for the patient, but it is more important to remind the patients that you are calling on, that's why you said that kind of style, that's the same amount of food.
And it is time to have a proper step; as well as the covetousness; amount of L-B).
House and day.
And here, it was a text message that there was a sign that there was a sign that there was a point of course, which was attacked by a umbler from the patient, after coming from the heart, "I said earlier that we can check in a check-in-law.
It's okay to stay here with a tree of neck, second.
He said the motorcycle here.
Yes.
With the hand of Leo and then let us look at what we are talking to.
So it will also be said to say if you want to be the one to look at the colleges, which is why Buddy.
We are the same.
He / she grew up; and my head, who said that he already has a blood pressure, which is very high.
That is true that you are asking for a bit of van Registration Authority in a good lower abdomen, which makes the simple station of water to be given to the simple station of water.
He is already able to talk about it and he does not need a little bit to Chief Director P, but what's that, you still need help that is why it is like a video of a friend.
For the impeachment of C: PNoy, there is someone who is calling all the all of you to let others know that there is something that comes when you arrive.
However, even those who were drowned in the suspension have been approved; as long as they are being used to hold-up; as long as we have no heart (C-R, as long as Jay-R should be the first principle.
Yes, this is okay yes, Daylusan also has shirt.
Here, he grew up to Novaliches next to his question what is the right thing to eat.
Yes, as if my heart has a heart disease that is why when it comes to the payment for someone who has a heart and condition, it might be a problem if she will get the pain in your heart.
We know that there will be a heart disease that is being called by other people who are called Factor.
That is also a warning.
This are the high blood pressure.
Smoking.
With having a high fever, Roland then.
It is having a habit to have a family who has a heart disease.
If this comes to the heart disease, we should just know that the blood sugar has increased to those who will be used to what the problem can be used to use, that is not that sweet, so that you can't eat, that is why you cannot eat.
A plate of rice yes.
We were not Grets, which is why we opened what we were saying, that's why we went to the same age.
It is okay, while I am second on the high blood, we know the first go to the high blood pressure.
Aline was.
That is where you can eat salty foods that you cannot always eat and you cannot always eat.
It's important to use.
Yes to Emy Bulacan, you have been paying for a long time that it is said to be a reserved reward here in Fort Bonifacio.
So that you have not told you not to eat but he can't often eat.
Yes, then the owner of the restaurant might get mad at me, do not even say that you are going to eat at the restaurant, so you do not have a bad restaurant, right because no one is going to eat at them.
Even if she is envious of the motorists to be annoyed, third, to be true, is still true.
This is a text message that it seems that he / she can personally go to school; he / she can personally take care, why should I agree to be able to discuss the nose, Rolan, "of Parañaque.
It's okay with the hope to review.
In the 'study it responded that there is a pipe that might be shown on the case that might be the case, which is probably an identification; that's why he can go here to have a Rome.
Yes to the nose of apple, which should not be done here in Zambales who liked in the station, but we can still see what is having blood in the nose.
"The blood pressure has a high blood pressure, from the nose, but, on the speed of blood pressure, that is why there's a high blood pressure, that's why there's a high blood pressure, that's why there's a high-rap of the nose, which is called M-rap of the nose, which is called M last four.
The result of this.
Keep something like that.
Maybe before helping yes, you say goodbye to DDoctor jeep ah, what kind of age is ready, that the nose will be prepared for this day of February.
In many thanks, we are asking for a lot of hearts, whose support to the media especially those in the media at first to help us especially with the law.
What we are calling for Amanda Quizon, C-R, very small; for the elementary school; and I have a good morning, we still want to show that we are calling the six-budol gang; that is tomorrow when we call the six-budol gang; that is why we called the six-year-old people who are calling each other.
!
Here, I was one of the one who was able to go to each other, whose legs were piled up; we were carrying two armed men who were wounded in my birthday.
We were able to look down; however, Two people are okay with the eight-Illegal Drugs Group who were okay for the eight-year-old five-Illegal Drugs Group.
Zailon and Peach know.
