After anything.
Our guests have a time that in the province of our celebration, we should have a lot of words on the day.
Two by August, you can tell me that we are going to go to me; we can see that you are the friends of Jordan Love Toledo in the morning when it comes to the morning, C-C Tell V).
You are good for you to ask for your medicine when we visit your house when our mother-in-law, which is why our mother needs to know that there are still a lot of things that our mother will know of a Catholic Church on top of you.
October, isn't it?
We have friends who prayed for our old loved ones.
Yes, make sure that all Bon-Bon-chan is really not really for prayers for the souls.
Of course, the first eight days of November this November.
That is then when I visited the cemetery, they have received a lot from Mario so that I have long been visiting another country for a long time.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was able to wake up; in the trip of that, they visit the cemetery everyday.
"Your birthday.
My question is, what is just for those who cannot understand the Indonesian as to the plenary, which is why it goes to the plenary, that's why it means that it is a dog that means there.
We believe that the catholics believe the way that we have done, there are also rights of some who have the right to have the right to take care; that's why we are able to pay attention to what we need to pay.
And we can only be able to help.
"What we are worried about is that we are worried that our sister and siblings are worried that maybe it is important for us to fall and what is important in our visit to our visit to Philip Morris of Holy Spirit.
Yes, and then.
We are our lives, we can hear that we are our visit to the cemetery to assist us all of us, but I can also remember that I am going to be here in Bulacan.
On the face, it is like that, but we have written something right now tomorrow.
Okay.
They are both in Bulacan.
.
Bulacan Calumpit, 33 years old, Calumpit and Calumpit are pitiful, which is why, it's okay to have an outing; so that we are going to be a black; so that we are really black, we will just give you a black; we will just give you lazy to make you happy.
Where and now the captain of the souls that might be on the condition where we give, it seems like we are given the age or TJ TT for the old things that I could have to do so that I can't do anything.
"Do you not worry about it," it is not all of these, they are already dead.
You should believe that, it's as if they are the Pope who are first elected to the elder sister.
We are anxious; and probably because of this, it is possible that in relation to what we are doing in Qatar, we have been used to visit a cemetery last November one because Two people are believed to be in the cemetery yesterday November four.
Okay, isn't it that he / she wasn't able to look down on the telephone; he / she was very angry; but what's important is, "I said.
Maybe it was November 7-November.
It is as if you should pray to pray to pray on the Bible because it seems that it has already been a mass.
It is really hard for him to go back to go back to go ahead and come here.
Yes, Toreno, to believe.
He / she grew up; he / she was able to take care; this November one was the one to take care of that of the successful in heaven.
We have two Filipinas who take care of it, to the souls that I admire.
Okay.
What we can see here is that we are all together with each of them and one of their prayers will be a person with what we have, what else can you help my family?
Like that, to the souls of Torresna.
In line, we believe that we believe that our prayers are our prayers; we are stupid.
There are some here for our loved ones that we see, we can see that we are talking about it.
Father and father on our band is written.
He loves you to be able to buy.
Susan mentioned that the people are going to do something like that of those who died.
My Lord who got killed was like that, just like that, for those who have died, he is also a business partners in us.
George Sevidal, very fur.
Einstein said that they will get along.
Let us just eat for food for our siblings.
Let us remind us of our self-control.
That we can't be done.
How can you found out here that we are busy with what we are busy with now here at four o'clock.
That's why when we see the importance of visit to each other; that's why I say it's like that in the airplane.
What you should do long live in the interview, do not make noise.
Because it is usually the visitors of Peria, what of your wheels to your house, videoke songs and others.
Do you do that there are his buddy, who, as I have said, I have to do that, but I have to do that, I hope that I would just be able to let go that they are the ones who will drive you in your house.
They will look at the cemetery you are going to look at, at the age of Mount Athos).
For something but there is a mass place.
That is what you mean to the sister.
It turns out that they will sleep on the souls to sleep and know how to dry the water.
Go home here if I want the moon to be a month.
If they will not mention anything to us, do not mention what our siblings will say.
Let him see that you are lucky because you are still alive anyway because you just want to ask for a lucky line with my children, that is why we are lucky that we should be defeated, we are lucky that we lose in your life because you prioritize you first.
We are crazy; we can talk to our sibling, we are going to talk to each other again.
He / she was able to go to school; that's why the prayers I prayed for are our prayers; however, I hope that if I am still alive, I hope that I will be able to use my prayers.
You can see that because you have not noticed anything that you have not noticed, we are just being watched over by the material that were not given care of.
It is important for us to have a happy life and you are still happy because you have a lot of problems, maybe we are still breathing and many complaints in life are still breathing, we are still lucky.
Like this yes, stay or be Totoy's live-in-law.
Just bring people to go to the cemetery, do we really have something to do with such a soul, which is the effect of this, which is the effect of this, which is the effect of what we are doing to, which is the effect of what we are doing to us, which is a text message or a text message.
Yes, Delarming, which is probably in the phone, maybe even in Cebu, isn't it right in Cebu that's why even if we are the ones who are going to live-off; we are the only ones who can take advantage of the memorial for the memorial lot.
So that is not all.
That is what we showed to us, our love for us, C-C because they make sure that we do not need to show it, but nothing.
That we are the flowers for what we will give to our loved ones.
Ah, what's that, so that I have known each other in my age, it's only now that we have known each other for the age that we should have to give, that we can also give yes to the church that we're going to give, we can also give yes to the church that we're going to go together, which is why it's as a result as a result to each other.
It is like this November one holiday when we go to school; we are really clever because we are still very wise.
That is why it is done by Two four-four people like that.
Covetous, deport; we are really in the coming days of what Anzon is calling on.
Even the two of them have already been high but I said.
We have been seen for a long time even if they have been watched.
Covetous, deport; this is still the same.
They are not able to catch each other, we are able to go to school; we are the ones who will go to each other so we should pray so that it would be a good in the sister-in-law's sister's sister-in-law.
To go to church.
"Isn't it that I am an illness, isn't you going to church?
That is it!
Just like what we have been saying; we should remember, that's why I remember that you are still young, what kind of times is that we are the youth in the cemetery who are in the cemetery.
Their loved ones, now there are now so that it is a trend for those who are scary!
Yes, they share with each other; as long as we recognize that, "we recognize that," we know that we are very stupid; of course like a civil wedding.
Ah, it is okay with his parents to hurry up their children.
But if yes.
He / she was very angry; he / she was not able to pay attention to him but he / she also saw that he / she was able to visit the Holy Week that's why he / she said that he / she was able to visit the Holy Week, it seems that he / she was able to visit the Holy Week, it seems that he / she was not able to vote for the one of the first-year-old age old when she arrived here.
The children, who are the ones who are in their Santa yes, look at the same age, who are only one of those who will push through in the fourth year-year term.
I think it looks better if we will do it even if it is better to look like a big sister.
We hope that we should do what we want to happen.
Yes, I have seen the record that it is a type of press who will be a customer of what is Francis yes.
"It's good that it's good but in short; she is still one of the mother, she said that he will give emphasis to Father Cito.
Here is it that you are the only ones who are at fault; we go to the same age, we will just buy our blood pressure, "we will say that I am open to the truth.
In the ears of conformers who are still here, we really do not have a chance to leave when a person has already left, that's why he / she was wearing a human soul that's why he / she grew up.
First of his / her condition, we are the ones who will die; the ones who will die here in the land, will really die here in the land.
One thing we do not know is his stomach made out of it after a person died.
"We are just stupid; we are the ones who say, you are also here in other countries, that is why it's okay for you to report to a report that we are going to go to report to us, instead, we are the one who will go back to our office here in the land.
He will wake up.
As long as life is alive.
Let us look straight; we should avoid what we are, "my daughter-in-law.
So that we can see something from the souls that we think are not coming from the veins that might be done in the forest of Thursday, but in the end, they did not seem to be hit in the forest of Thursday when they were not yet found out of the forest of Thursday.
It is here Butig, Belle of you, set on the issue yes, should it be so that the noise can be made into anything.
Wildflower is one of the things that I will push through with the cleanliness of your program that is just in order for the empanada, Junard, and Iligan of Agency, just call me one.
Father, maybe it's a message that we learned from the whole world, right the catholic now is the capital for the celebrated four persons or an American.
We will write to my siblings who are not a Catholic.
You are the ones who left the days of souls that are important to remind us.
Which is our name, all of us.
Not yet again.
You are your siblings' siblings, we will just help them whatever we are lacking but we are busy on April Two; we can take advantage of it.
There is more important thing that there is a big thing that there is a big thing that we will transfer to church in life than we have a child with no sweat, and it is more important that there is a question for us to always pray for the end of Christine Atienza.
