That is our poorest sector.
Very short; he / she might get tired; maybe even before, he / she might go to school; he / she was able to go ahead, the condition after March, cousin of the people.
When are you?
Very small, whose beauty is low; your beauty is the door.
It is a bit time that yes, i'll look straight; we can speak yes, the price, that is why what's happening to me, which is why what's happening to me is to be affected.
They say they are malls to go to the malls; and deport.
It's time to exuals are in line, and deport.
What is happening in our country, we seem to get carried away from the local government, most of these, most of them became a born yes, which is why other kind of price of it is higher in other countries.
Now, his older sister continues.
So, you should just say that we are stupid; you are also strong; you are also strong.
According to the vendors, they are very beautiful; but good.
The price in Pandian is a good price, it is suddenly Mercado, so what kind of cats; the cat-ranking people, that's why the cats, that's why it's too bad.
It's okay but, but before we are insisting, we know that we are going to go to school; we do not need to take care of our country, which is why sometimes there are some places that we need to take care of, especially to those who do not have a huge loss, especially to those who do not have a huge burden to the country, but they are asking about it to be a huge sum.
The burden to each other; that's why in the campaign period, we can find out that when it comes to those who took place, they can find out that there are a small-month-old; however, he / she didn't go home; he / she wasn't able to go home; he / she wasn't able to go home; he / she wasn't able to go home; he / she wasn't able to go home; that's why he / she wasn't able to go home; he / she was not good in the situation of the tree, that's why she was not good in the condition of the tree.
So he can also be recognized as Marvin Alonte.
You are still here.
For the first key.
Ah, that is the beauty tree, ah, it's like a plants being swept up at the side of the sea.
Yes, we are also used to other areas that you will just go home with, but I just use it away.
"Ah, maybe I just want to look at each other; the administrator of Rosales; we don't have a lot of friends to get our own friends with our own friends to be able to save, and to other countries with what we get to, our friends, who are our fellow countrymen, are proud of us.
Ah, it is still strong that you want to Industrial.
Covetous, fog; and this is the path that can be at the village level yes, fog; and covetousness.
Called Industries.
Say that this will be a waste to small-minded people; we are thinking that we are thinking and do not need too much.
I can get it.
For what the two neighboring houses do not want to happen to the big marshmallows; because Lida Lida should just be used by it even if I do not just like that, that is the same time that it will be fixed.
As if you are sure that they are nasty 't-shirt and they can use it to make sure that Tito I will use all that they will use.
In public, this can also be the same water for the end.
That is why I still have a little plan, which is why I haven't accomplished much.
This may lead.
I have text that it is dangerous.
To get.
In the farm's farm, we need to talk about the conversation that we need to talk about, we really need to talk to us, we are really good so that we will benefit from our gibbosity; this is still strong; there is still a strong investigation, that is why it is very strong.
Who took care of Jason to the elderly who have age title, I said, so if the presence was strong, he bought a lot of human beings which can buy people in the Philippines.
It's okay but, but in line, it is the aspect of this, which is why you're the only ones who are at the same age; it is nice to know that we are very derogatory; however, we are very low; ah, not just a little bit little by little.
We do not want to look at each other; we can succeed for the dogs to bathe him but are there people in the private sector to see the patient in a private sector so that it would be okay especially our Production, Villaving.
We were able to point out; he was only a lot of people, but I was only yesterday, I was able to talk to a big company, who was talked to by a big company in front of a big company, so we were able to go away from each other in a grassy part of a cauldron; Gulanggani; Mindoro.
So everyone is supporting all of you if you want to come here.
My five-year-old child can happen because he / she can see all those who are lacking in Mindoro to all my troops in Mindoro before he does not want to be fought for.
Yes to visit.
Super indeed.
Aunt.
So that's what he's saying.
Here, I will be able to assist you for a Japanese person who will help my love?
Yes, please advise me in Japan.
What they are saying is not yet done by them.
A baby is a liar so we can see the beauty of my text message to see our enemy.
I asked what kind of drama.
But here in the Philippines, who will be in Tody Avina; we are already living with each other; we are going to use those who will benefit from here so that there will be someone who will benefit from here so that the process of our coconuts will easily be easy, so that the process of our coconuts will be easy to make it easy.
Ate Vi could be sent to school; we hope that those with a mechanic session at the 'Ko'clock of Agriculture.
Yes, we are very pitiful; we are the ones who are fighting that I am fighting with a condo that is fighting there in a condo that's why the level of a coconut tree will be finished. "
And going up is a help of Coca Cola PanCorporation in Makati Makati.
Like that!
Alright, forget that it will only be asked.
I was able to finish the Wac, Uy, whose legs are giddy, ".
Yes.
Let us go to the L-B virus.
In what I help me, Jason, where I entered C HJ Manila, this is not just a simple thing.
Yes, he gets drunk again to buy this level, and it seems that this has a hangover when it looks like a hangover in his t-shirts; becoming a businessman and a witch FFF).
I will give them a point or fine so that the system will be better.
We are going to give them the training to leave the training of training to know what they are going to defend and go against me, not just to protect me, not only the blind; we will help them.
Even if you have mentioned that we were able to tell me, he was called by your attention, he said that he / she mentioned that he / she mentioned to him / her former card of Caesar Rojas allow him to be alone in Production.
My mind is simple, whose name is low; we can't look straight; he / she didn't go to school; he / she takes care; we can see the Virgin Mary, "we said as the Virgin Mary.
Should I maintain the Virgin yes in me if this is in our equipment for other example, that's why we wills tart again.
I am still approaching the Virgin yes when someone comes to us.
Very small; as well as the cats; the cats, which are not being lessened; we are not getting lesser; the news of hornets; and deport; PP-C WL).
If there is a store or that person, it turns out that in the mean time.
Even Vangie, just drink it next.
Rich others, Two people are really help in the exam even if we do not want to go back to the exam even if I am not able to send a text message, but it has already been better if there is a new regional branch that is really beautiful.
Sister, but if you will not make it too much, I will not be able to say anything about it so Paulo is going to have a hard time with me, "I said.
Also a lot.
It's okay that it's okay because I know that the Red Virgin Mary, Tety; we are really useless; we really don't have a fruit; we are just full-tempered; we can't think that they will not guess it.
Yes, he / she takes care of us.
We should tell what we have been waiting for so that this will not be reduced; we can't be lessened.
There is still there where you are.
Repeatedly who you are.
It's okay we have.
"Epal" will also be at the same age; as well as the amount that you will catch up to P / C: I am for free number of Pandi.
Our crops are free to be free; we are just for us, sir, and I have been texting you, sir, you, my friends, who have texted here in a noodle place, which is the office here in Quezon City.
I just do not know what to do.
Well.
Please do not have a strong rain, and if there is something in your departure, you also have business.
Yes, we still have a text message here in July 24, I am in front of the seminar in P / C "I) for those who plant coconuts but until now, there is still no promise that Boy might have no said yes.
I thought that I am a little bit because of Bataan.
Where it comes from being a little bit that we are being teased about it, they are still coming from other places because they are not able to look down; we are going to go home to Bataan when we feel ashamed that we will stop with Jana who has a cellphone with me.
I will still have to repeat our provincial buses that's why he / she might have made a promise to you, but he might even be in his promise to us, but it's okay that he / she was being asked by San Fernando Abby whom we are asking in different mountains for different mountains of Pampanga Manny Pacquiao.
Okay, my co-mates; we have also asked us to ask for help, but for a few call ten years, I am not in unity, because it's okay for us to go and go to our coconut and then let us go to a coconut plantation.
They are Two years, just have a record for you and it is really just that it depends on the building they say.
What?
This customer, this is our text message that we have texted for our text; as well as the administrator, maybe it's really good that you are able to personally talk, traffic, and fittest; that's why they are not stupid.
Can we see each other for each other; he / she can see each other, on Saturday; he / she said that, here in my fourth year-old, you will go back to me here, "you said," you said in the same floor.
He is the L-B!
What can I go to?
I will buy if you can go to this Saturday, how will the morning up to until he / she will go to school; we pretend to be stupid.
