US, Obama is aggressive in charter change in the Philippines.

Last was the scheduled visit to the Philippines of US President Barack Obama and the aggressive government of the US to the government of the Philippines to review the Saligang Batas of the Philippines to review the Saligang Batas of the Philippines, or put a charter change.
Aside from the controversial Agreement on the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement) to give way to the more influential military and US in the Philippines, Obama will be forced to get the condition of America in order to become part of the Philippines in Tramo-Pacific Economic Cooperation Agreement (Izzy Canillo), a free-bust operation of the US.
Last 2010, after Aquino sat in position, he announced the desire of his administration to put the Philippines in Onok Island.
The US's condition is a priority for the Philippines to enter a charter change, causing the provisions of the provisions in the Constitution so that the businesses of these corporation will become the Americans.
Aggressive in charter change.
The Ibon Foundation also identified the resolution of research on the economy of the economy and politics, this is being verified in the form of the 1987 Constitution by the Philippines for business which is part of the foreign ownership of the land and business in the country.
"In the 2014 implementation of the National Football League (report of Foreign Trade Center (USTR, the said agency of the US is identified the 30 percent implementation of the foreign policy in the operation and management of public funds, telecommunication and transportation), according to Ibon.
The USTR is said to have also said that one of the obstacles in business in the Philippines is the ban for the foreigners to practice law, medicine, nursing and Customs brook, architecture, and Customs brows; and of course, a hindrance to 100 percent owned by the foreigners to the land of the country.
Ibon added that it seems like the remaining visit of the USTL in the Philippines under the Aquino administration, including a regular conversation with it and the government under the US-Philippines Trade and Inc. is of the US-Philippines Trade and Inc. is of the US-Philippines trade.
Meanwhile, accompanied by businessmen and Americans were accompanied by businessmen and other foreign businessmen) to be rescued by the Aquino administration to do a charter change.
"We are strictly reminding the administration (Aquino) to consider the amendment of the economic provision in the 1987 Constitution, that placed the suspension of the higher participation of the private sector," according to the letter of 13 business partners in President Aquino, in English language, on July last year.
Included in those who cannot be prevented by the American troops of Commercial Center (Ammunition), Canadian hostages of Compostella Valley, Korean National Bureau of Compostella Valley and the Philippine Association of Multinational Street and Philippine Association of Multinational Street and Philippine Association of Multinational Street and Philippine Association of Multinational Village.
Also included were the association.
This past March, Philip Goldberg said, that the US's ambassador to the Philippines is approved by the local businessman that if the Philippines wants to be a part of TPP, the country needs to make the country pass through it.
"What is needed by the government of the Philippines and the business community in order to fulfill the said agreement of the said agreement (NPA)," Goldberg said, in English language.
Ibon is identified to be released by the US to gather charter change, including the United Nationalist Alliance (PFFF), which will be implemented by the US Marines for International Development Authority (PFFF), which is part of its limitation on the Saligang Batas of the foreign ownership.
Pressure in the Congress.
As of now, Aquino's allies in the legislative chamber are slowly being pushed by a charter change last March, with the leadership of Aquino, House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr., the resolution was passed in the House Committee on Constitutional Ammendments is not the resolution to review the Constitution.
Ibon shows that a foreigner and local businessmen who are not interest of the country are behind charter change but interest of the US and local business partners.
This is opposed by the families of the organization because they are still investigating a charter change in the economy of the country with foreign interests, he can still stop the national economic provisions that is the key to progress for the majority of Filipinos.
"The pro-Kidnapping Group is saying that this will bring work and progress for its members but this is not happening in any kind of alliance between the Philippines," Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman said.
The poverty in the country cannot be reduced but it becomes worse in spite of the everywhere business of foreign corporation in the country.
"The rich and progressive countries, and big foreign corporation, the benefits that they will be given to the government," the end of De Jesus.
