As a standard for the conversation.

It is not necessary to enter if it is for each other.

If there is no invitation to you.

In our daily interaction with many people, it is part of this that we are going to have the distress of our different behavior and those who are avoiding them, what we can only do is to control myself in order not to be involved in their practices.

Because we are fed or not, there is a good thing, there is something wrong, there is something bad, there's something ugly, and these experiences of those who have bought from them are laughing.

Here is the 31 important lesson from the rumors that I have learned and continue to file a standard for support to us.

1- do not forget the importance of firm that will be approved.

2 - make sure that you do not have any doubt and is ready to talk to.

3- always smiling and giving attention to the person you talk to.

4- be clear, short, and each sentences will have an end.

5- avoid sour and sharp objects in the eyes of the people when speaking.

6- double the self from a positive, beautiful, and good personality.

7- be calm, affectionate, and diligent to listen to the conversation.

8- do not continue to talk, stop, and listen to the opinion of others.

The truth should be said and admit the responsibility if you look at him.

Be careful not to wear your lips and show their actions to words.

Around 11 - the agreement has been meaningful when there is no personal problem and any non-investigating.

Nunez tried to tell the previous mistakes and failures of what he was talking to.

13- do not mix in the conversation with a private life and flaws of your own family.

14 - remember that others always remember anything, instead of forgive.

15- be careful and wake up where you are going to, what's the intention and result of doubt.

Thousands have been suspecting and especially when they think, its destination is meaningless.

17- if a person is not facing him to defend himself, do not talk about it and add to an argument.

18do not be carried away by emotion and beneficial arguments when you do not have any reason, instead of understand and calm the affection and fear of the person you are talking to.

19- remain happy, with laughter and love for each moment of present to others.

He was able to stop our lives.

20- avoid getting angry in front of you, because it will only lead to a misunderstanding, this becomes the cause of heavy illness.

21- if the agreement was not good and asked for the discussion, it was immediately cut and changed.

July 22 protect and cooperate in grieve with what you are talking to.

23- do not answer, if you are not asked.

Everyday, study the words, attitude and habits of the person you are talking to if this is related to the spirit of these.

Exercise - make yourself decide and give your own statement or comment; if it does not have anything to do with the discussion and just starting a new argument.
Just become humane, there is no meaning and taking care that it can be done and there will be a lot of people who are talking to you and just get his trust.

27590 are not a business and source of income, but a mirror and show your real personality to others.

28- don't force your own reason and take care in order to get the hope of a severe bad feeling to use and those who are involved in the discussion of our Great God just to believe the reason.

29- when you are talking to a person; avoid criticizing and criticizing you, because you are convicted by your security, lack of trust, and the fear that you introduce themselves as your real personality.

The person you are talking to is going to face a peaceful and peaceful life.

311- always think that you will not be dangerous to the words that you never imagined.

Although the worse situation is that if you want to end the conversation and what you are talking to, he doesn't want to stop and was furious.

Immediately be careful, because if you want to answer back, this is the start of a wide argument, but the ability to face him when there is a smile on the lips, understanding, and love.
