Angeles just after more than a week, the noise of the military is said to be said to be there.
The dote will be held in Buyat games in the next said military, that's why they did not easily get in their meeting with each other.
According to him, it was said that five houses were said to have been the camp of a good group.
Boy was clearly seen on the road going to the house of Butig in a checkpoint, which is why all of the motorcycles bought from where he was standing.
In the town is Dubai Ar.
Until now, he is still left behind.
This Friday it's only Friday that Alyssa Valdez of Biboy has given birth for four years.
What is happening to them is still afraid, especially that they are just waking up their area, it is better where the troops of the 20 pesos will be removed after we are fighting for the rice harvests and those.
What will happen to us more than a week after they have learned that there is no meaning in the house of the pharmacy but there are still a lot of patrons who are stubborn; but are still there.
Here, they have an accident in an accident that is why they want them to give them help so that they will continue their rise from envy as if I am familiar.
To others.
You are going to have a cellphone house now to evacuate the residents from the place where he is being stepped on.
The children will go to the middle of what he said.
Well, maybe they got sick in that's so you can help us lose the ball here in Mindanao because, Sevilla, who are included.
A few days passed by the military defense, which is a good group in Barangay.
What happened, they already reached the person who owns the product.
Conscience, it is very good.
You have taken the news on the house that they are holding on the latter, who is ready for the fight.
Gunshots.
What they have done to the children, Oscar, is also solid as she is not able to be greedy.
But it is not right.
And then he even gave birth to the house.
You are doing.
Just let it go to the window.
I was only five years old when my heart got from the Philippines.
They are paying anywhere to die from the public.
Last Saturday, he / she said that the ones who did not do anything in life said that they might not be able to hit their Nihonggo, especially if they could not be hit in the fight, especially since they are still relatives who have not yet spread wrong on the faces of the people.
What?
It was as if he was not able to deny that.
There is it!
Your gun.
Covetous, fur.
That is when they catches her.
There?
Of course for you.
Well.
It is also not yes, but a bath that is headed for siblings can help but I am just angry at how you are just asked to leave the office of the Congress who was asked to ask if he is already dead while his sibling is dead.
There are those moments when the military continues to undergo operation there.
A barangay was opened to a good thing, after a while ago, they were able to find an accident; and they did not want to happen again and if they do not want to change the bad elements, the reason why they do not want to change the bad elements, that is why they continue to go back to the bad elements.
In the right vacation, everyone said that it was wrong for the previous vacation yes, "said the tire he made, that's why they said that it's just the beginning that we should help him but it's just the beginning that we would not help us but we are able to help us but we are all in good business.
The political party is still connected to the D billion pesos.
O'clock in a feast, the theme of reading on reading materials, which is really being told, what are they saying.
Just like with what I have watched, I also saw him and saying that they are not saying that, they should not be sent to school; they should not be given to the service that they are fighting for.
He / she was able to look down; he / she can stop the ceasefire, and what will the military believe that they were saying that this group will be able to believe what they were saying, that they had a bomb that is why they were wearing a different experience, which is why they were wearing a different experiences.
We are anxious; we have already told that, but it has already been said by the M TD), "we then remember that there are other groups that can be used to go to Indonesia, that is why all of our relatives are going to go to school, which is why all of their relatives, which is why this is happening now, has no doubt.
Ah, it really has something to do with what happened that he will buy at Adik-barya Gang; he / she can only taste the B; however, it will not be V-B.
Who really is that of the big reason for him to be together with four people after saying that I can ask me his computer in Cotabato City on Saturday, how can you prevent the members of the Emking running, which is why you cannot blame the members of the Emplayer, which caused him to be an expert of the kilo of Phone Pals.
When we were able to talk to each other; we are asking Gina, and then I can stop it with Gina, then I cannot stop what they want to fight, that is why they cannot stop the mother of parents even if they say it's hard to stop the mother of parents.
Thank you very much to you.
