
"WILLIE, WALNAs" of the COMELEC)

The lawmakers on the high and low ranks of congress can be counted as well in the issue of corruption in pork barrel.
It is sad that this is why there are organization and individuals who are calling the dissolution of the Congress which is supposedly only done by pork and crocodile.
That is why, when I hear the involved senators and congressmen who are already clean and saying that he is not benefited from a project that the funds are from the country's funds, we were cut off.
The majority of the Senate and congress are looking at the nest of thieves.
It is unreasonable for people who are really not thieves.
Um!
There is now a campaign for the Comion on Elections which is called "Walhh, separation."
This is their tour in every corner of the country to inform the new people who will vote for the importance of plastic bags for the coming 2016 presidential elections.
The COMELEC can also identify that you are regular or close votes, you need to undergo the biological tricycle.
Under the biological tricycle.
The objective of this is to prevent the cheater and Flying V to avoid the election.
On the 52 million registered voters of the present, there are more than 9 million pesos to undergo the biological tricycle.
Suspending "epal" is important because we will be given a chance to choose the right leader for our country.
As they say, we should choose and be elected by leaders or leaders who are honest in their service and also good at their work.
They will not get tired from work but they are thieves in the treasury of the country.
But before we vote, it should be registered to be registered to filipinos with age 18 years old and above, you can get registered.
The voting is important because many of us always complain how many of our politicians are, we are the ones who got elected in position.
If he does not want to do with their bad work or corruption, we are the ones who will take away from them through choosing the right, sensible, good and honest candidate in the election.
Let's go and get registered, vote and even part of the upcoming election.
It not yet too late.
We can still do something.
