I was also hired by the U S. PNoy's release to us by two men when they were able to buy their trip, but it seems that they are going to reach the farm when they are going to return to the farm when they are calling them, which is why I call them Commander after drinking with them.
Later, I cannot talk the good doctor and the employees, they will not be hit.
Food for us.
They put our backs on our room so that they are the ones who will release our clothes to my family, do not just get tired of us with the help of our government and understand what we are intelligent.
Sir who went out to wait for it.
Yes.
There is a color price for the source of profit.
I called him about it.
Because it's because he's a mother and a mother.
Let us wait for us to wait for me and not for your own family.
I can talk to Virgie because it's true that you walked in English a good noon.
Yes, this afternoon Ara is in everything she was carrying now and there is no gay here in you.
It would be completed that a stingy has two soldiers who can buy the employers in Supan.
A first before, it was two o'clock when it was ten o'clock in him, he / she was able to catch up with him / her; she was caught.
We have two soldiers after that of my answer to all of my answer before this is your health.
That is when her Ate Vi has thought about the other side.
We are anxious; we are corrupt; second are the criminals which have been done by those who have been done by scalawag cops, whose side is what kind of group is in dealing with it against the law.
In spite of the statement of the statement of the statement of them, it will be the easy Contact Policy "of its beauty because they continue to pick up; we will continue to increase.
Yes.
And the fault of the two is ongoing.
It's okay if you are doing something like our government as vice-PNoy to serve the Independence Day.
We are very pitiful; we were able to convince if there are people.
Four o'clock in there are those who sell and have become creative.
To be sure, but it's not that beauty that might be the beauty of the other side, we continue to continue.
A voice that I have learned from here is that I am sure if I am going to this, which is really being done for a long time, which is why he / she has been done for a long time.
"It's okay before, when he rode a situation on what happened, I can buy a soldier, who can buy soldiers, whose legs are burning!
That is why, in the same age, he / she is very angry; we are going to talk to our conversation with the owner, I have already reached the situation, and what I have reached for is a president, and what he asked for a president for the high school of my two soldiers.
A first before, he / she was very weak; he / she was very weak at the very much problem, the former president has a very much problem, but he knew that I am here on the other side of you.
I did the Americans in the morning while I was cleaning her in the morning.
That is a clear violation.
You are still a while ago.
Ah, this is a negotiation like that, so that we are stupid; we are saying that we have a hole on who are in a hurry to local products.
And that's when the other people who can help if they have thought of what they have thought of but are already asleep when they think that the man they did will not cover-up; he will no longer cover-up the man they did here in the 'party.
This is a criminal case that is against our law and this is part of our law.
The cellphone that they say is to run for what he said.
It is still not that he will cover it.
Sin.
"It's okay for us to change a little bit more; as long as I think about it, the German national was taken to the German National Police.
Covetous, deport; this is the same age; we are very proud and are their own welfare in social interaction.
Fellow countrymen good luck to answer bitter gourd.
"If you do not want to pay March 28-M; we continue to pay our government again, we continue to take our government again in Bataan.
There will be a meeting between the Lorenzo policy that maybe it is on top of it that's why we have long been talking with it for a long time.
He was just joking.
Any of them being treated here is the only time for them to fall for what they are saying.
Like what I mentioned in the case of two soldiers in San Antonio.
They are looking for a good way to become a good way, I want to teach him just recently of the cellphone that we are talking about, we are talking about it every time we talk about it, we are going to talk about it, which is why we're going to talk to them.
Senior citizen who worried that we are being deceived by Abiera.
It is in your side to face the colleges; so as long as you are always important, there are times when we are always new; we are always new; we are going to go to our case, we are okay, many are going to go with it.
