We decided to talk about the problem that we have discussed, so we look at each other; we are looking at it and they put it together.
Very small; we have no idea, and that's why you have no idea that you are not hurt, there is nothing that is about to be hit that is why there is nothing that is about to be hit that is why it is good for him to be hit by his older sister-in-minded; and goatee.
If there is something that was about to be hit and in case the law was implemented by the law that we called on the procession.
We were able to point out that there are times when there are times when there are times when they are able to finish the things that they have to make, that they're a bit affected, right?
Vigan more, especially during this time.
But no one is talking about the illegal activities at P / V-C in this issue.
Yes, there is a need to point out; that we can say that we can say that we can say that after we have done in the Philippines, we can hear each other.
"Maybe I am in the Philippine Philipines and of course, we are going to take care of our problems and that's why we are looking at each other so that they will take care of all of your problems for the name of the Philippines.
Friends who are ugly.
Yes, and we still have to call, Bogard, a month-old counting here in Davao, that they are the ones who are living here in Davao, that they are the most ones living here in Davao, so how much you're living here in the same place, the story of our ugly there is our voice there.
Yes, with our problem, we will call the water in up to the Elite, which is why there are people who get to see each other.
I am only here in Davao bosses, there are parts of some of the friends who took the secret of the cousins.
There are the band in all provinces of the province.
Where will it be better if the cheeks will be faster than the cheek of the child instead of the flawless; that's why they are full-tempered; in Agriculture.
Let us go to us.
I have a big amount, right?
Ah, so.
But it's just like that, when we can say that we can buy, we are still here, Raj were also here in the end.
In my opinion-Break, on the age of eight, it really happened that many are at Stage 3, "I said.
"I said, because I know, because you know, because we know, we are going to talk about the criticisms that I will pay for and then on Sunday.
It is big that their decision is in Agriculture in Mindanao.
Ah, it's okay but it's okay.
We also have faults.
Yes, we have five restless desire to stay here at work, yes, they go through the same age of Panabo City.
Yes in Panabo City.
That is why there are also many things that you are apart from there are different kinds of yes, that is why.
You are really known, most are doing well; we are taking advantage of it, are they getting it here?
This is also when it is also near where you will go near and deport; psychologist Camille Gracia.
Angge.
There is a lot.
That is what they are taking care of here, we are taking care of it, so we are just here.
And it is only then that I don't have to look at each other; that majority of those who are living in Metro Manila just go to me, there are those who can help here in Metro Manila, and then, we have something to say.
"We are anxious; we are asking about the eldest child to the market, to those who have come from a car, just like for example, there will be a visa when there will be a visa in the area, that's why there's a visa in the place where the Star goes to.
But he was able to say that we are going to the things that they are asking about, no matter what they have taken, we exchanged items.
Which may lead you, thank you, thank you.
Very small; we are the ones who go ahead of the sofa or what we are going to play or what is Pope Francis first, of course, from a noodle house; so that they will just stay at work Fish Port and will go straight to an example in Japan.
Yes, we are really complete, it seems that we are still complete, that we are in our place there, we are the ones who are stupid; our fishes are acceptable; we are acceptable; we are pitiful; we are more beautiful so that it would be better for him to be famous.
This may lead to dried coconut husk, even if there are some who just want it because of our program at Tell first.
What is it, but he / she is very proud; he / she's the owner of the government that is why he / she is your mother.
Ah, what is this Complex in Davao Fish Port in the government which is owned now there are some sectors who are applying for something, and they have each other to live-up; we have their own traits that are their own voices that they have.
No matter how much is the man Dana who is in the position that we have, that is why we have a lot.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was not able to say that he really loves it.
He / she didn't see him because I was not as big as a huge amount that's why he / she was five years old.
"A few of every day of practice each other with the GAPARK.
Thank you as well when there is someone else.
He / she was able to look down; he / she had a different network, that's why he / she was already able to talk to the people.
Sometimes, he / she said that the average rate of the Landfill in here in Davao is very popular.
But is it really expensive to say that this is really a process, and it might be said that we already have to say that ah, we have already been there.
We are very pitiful; we are innocent and we do not have anything, that it's only twelve o'clock in Saudi that's really okay.
That's why there's a lot of people, who are stupid; we are really the ones to be exported.
!
Yes, brother called out in front.
According to it.
Maybe, what else can we know; that we know what we know.
Let us see that you are together in this.
So that those who are brought to Japan are the ones brought to Japan.
Okay.
And your father was over, he / she was distressed.
Yes, I go to the market or fifty for those who are going to go to school; we can go ahead and go ahead; yes.
Covetous, dearse; "
But we will no longer see that you are bleeding in your line, not only four o'clock; not only doctors in Japan.
There are only March, those whose legs have been absent from the local market.
Yes, it has been four years that I am only five years old.
What do you think about it so that we can't look at that.
Most of the yellow ones that are the yellow ones in spite of it, most of the yellow ones that I have no color, most of them, what among them is the back of them, who will go back to us.
Yes, that is what we are calling on the same here in Davao 'that there is a Bacolod national in his dynasties; Gulanggani.
Heard.
You are telling that grilled birds are even grilled; uncians, right?
"Most of those who say that they have been paying for a while ago, they look like a gun that I came from in the said place, and then tell anyone.
Hmmmp!
Very short; he / she grew up; as long as he / she grew up; he / she's very beautiful; he / she wasn't answering; he / she wasn't answering; he / she was not answering; he / she was not answering; he / she was not answering; he / she was our countrymen.
Our doors!
In line up; the place where there are areas with the eighty pesos and one liter, we will buy at the market, not one who is cheap.
People around.
But earlier, it can also be said that even if I can go here at work, we can stay here in Davao, but when it reached a tree that comes here in Manila, but when it comes to the yellow party, you will not lower than the yellow ones that you will not lower than the yellow party.
That is why it might be seven o'clock in the evening and here in Davao del, it seems that the fishes are very cheap; so that we are almost pitiful; our friends, who are really full of fish; and we are okay, are those who are very full of fish; and we are okay, those who are very full of fishes are different; and we are okay to violate the fishing; hence, there are those who violate the fishing boats.
Just tell us that we have no idea, we were caught, like that, at the age of bust operation, Vawt-T).
The Philippine Coast Guard and those who have faults with TESDA as if they are in the same age.
We have not only put any counter which is really released because they have something to meet with them, because it's still different, that they can no longer have Standard Lunch; so that it would not have been complete, so that it would not have been complete, so that it would not have been complete.
Doing it.
"Are you the good of the people that he said that he / she said that, when he leaves, they still see that they are not being neglected, but when they were able to use, they will be able to take a source of income, which is why they can see that they are going to have a source of income.
It's because they are with Ate Vi, as long as they do not like the food of D's, meow, there are also those who are going to give them everything like that, so many agencies who are going to support the most.
"According to me, it is okay, that, if ever we are in the case, he / she's the one in case, he / she's your mother, what's the ones being searched; as if she is moaning with his lips.
Ah, that's why when you want the ghost you want to order the ghost, they are very fond of order; similar to Pong-IBIG; so they will be caught in our sales for six months yes.
One day.
That will start their again this vacation but it is only needed to be fishing again.
They do good for six million pesos for now, so I don't know that there are so many cases like that, so I don't know that we will be forced to have a license to each other, so they would not be forced to be forced to be forced to be forced; but only one peso, that is the only thing that I cannot do.
Yes, it's just a small month but it's really just a few months but it's really right at manipulating people in Davao for almost ten years, which is why we are implementing the right time to drink it.
We admire you director Perez.
There, but our small things are our small things.
Covetous, deport; we can say it's possible.
They are so different; not all the fishermen, but all of the fishermen, are just prohibited, not just like that, who are really prohibited, not only one kilo of title only, only one kilo of title, only one kilo of title only.
Covetous, deport; we can do a lot.
