It is dead for SAF: 15 to us, 35 for them.

Each of them are involved in the bloody fight of the police-Special Action Force, Moro Islamic Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
According to the BIFF, only 15 were killed while 35 were hit by the MILF on 50 SAF 44.
It is up to you, Bro, what is the meaning of the statement of the BIFF.
Is it possible that the BIFF does not want to pay attention to the authorities against the MILF, the MILF are the ones talking to by the government for the widespread tone or end of the war on the big part of Mindanao.
Pointing fingers.
Three forces are unaware of the painful incident.
"There is no coordination with the SAF on us, the military said that there is a jurisdiction of the area, the town of Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
This is also what the MILF are saying that they are insisting that they should be focused on any entry of police or military in their territory. "
Of course, the government is blaming the MILF for saying that at this time, even if there is no coordination, it should also increase the alarm before the attack.
Until all of these will be buried, no one knows.
Just the gunpowder exploded when it pushed more than 1,000 people who ran away from their barangays.
A bigger war is building up, hopefully, Bro.
A different finger.
There is a big or more finger pointing at other parts.
One of those is about the implementation of the SAF's operation against the militants who were allegedly involved in the notorious, "Al Qaeda who was rushed by Zulkifli Bin Hir alias Marwan and Basit Usman.
Marwan was said to be one of those behind the street, Indonesia bombing, who killed 200 Americans, British and other years ago.
Are the SAF affected due to the desire of merits or acknowledging in success of arrest or murder of the bandits' Cemetery of Al Qaeda and rushed?
From the command of the SAF in the area and Mindanao until Camp Crame and Malacanang is on this issue.
The issue of Al Qaeda was rushed to this national security guard and in fact, Malacanang himself admitted that they know the operation, and in order to fix the huge mistake, as long as it is called by Malacanang that the only thing happened. "
It seems that they are taking advantage of the life of many of our police.
So, if they do not have any intention, the demon can dominate the foul smell?
He is 5 years old.
There is another question that is the reason of the foul odor that caused the massacre.
Massacre because one of them, who had been wounded, are only wounded but their opponents are cut off to die and will not be enemies.
One of the doubts is that the Americans are at the $5-6 million worth of the Americans in the government to get or arrest Marwan, including Usman Salik.
Just a question: Is this a big reason for the entry of SAF in the area where they are killed, and who are the ones who ordered the operation to get the reward that is behind the peso which is up to 200 million pesos?
The said money was said to have surrendered.
But with the news that they put the "reward of money," by who among the government, it is only right to put any doubt in the operation.
Investigation.
The authorities are already conducting an investigation on the incident.
We are part, Bro, in the investigation to determine the problems in the operation.
We want to know who ordered the operation which is full of failure or mistakes.
We also want to know if it is possible to do this so that the progress of the peace talks in Mindanao will continue.
We want to know if the SAF killed SAF are allowed to be sacrificed.
We also want to know if this is related to the coming election in 2016.
The arrest or murder of the bombing in the election has a big piece of points.
This was even the door to be a successful puppy of the foreigners who will be attracted to him and we also want to know the other valuable things related to the national security of my beloved Philippines.

Ultimatum at him / Benny.
