Vice-Coco, it is more fiery than Vic-ALNAs of Jun Lalin-1, 2016.
Although holiday yesterday, traffic is still severe, especially in areas with the malls.
It's as if the Christmas season has been moved yesterday because the movies which are hiding yesterday can be moved in cinemas.
"According to Bossing Vic Sotto, Enteng Kabisote 10 and The Abangers being ignored, it's okay at the box office so that Enteng Kabisote 10 and The Abangers being ignored, especially since Enteng Kabisote 10 and The Abille.
We know a lot of fan of Maine Mendoza (also Alden Richards) and also Alden Richards) that it's too late to see Enteng Kabisote 10 and The Abille.
One of the many things that can be seen in the field of Tramo, Lies My Mama Taba, Ruffa Gutierrez, last Tuesday in SSgt, La Trinidad, his brother Donita Rose.
In the hness, the huge loss of Donita, after he looked like a few-month back, duh!
In the entry of Donita, we are the first one he saw when she was immediately approached to us, but it is not because when the eldest Lorin Bakag was held at Director DeBandola in Senior Maire of Conrad Manila.
He just smirked all because of what we have written to him that he has much more weight and he still asked us to greet us first.
We said, it depends on the kind of attitude.
"Because, I was really sulking, Tito Jun of all of me, you are the one who wrote like that (about his much exhaustion)," according to Donita in us.
"You do not like that, you have an inspiration to lose weight and so, the big amount that you got tired of!" We answered to Donita which is a good luck!
Our conversation is already different when we talk about our conversation and forget about our misunderstanding.
We asked him if Marion is possible to have employers in Magandang Buhay partylist, but she said she has a taping.
Fortunately, Alice is also telling the actress that she also mentioned to the actress to contact her in Magandang Buhay for the episode, but she is also not allowed because there is a reward for the show of Donita.
"The taping of Donita is for his own show, that is why it is gladdening to let him be depress (equivalent to Her Friends) because of her separation with a non-showbiz person that she looks like Eric Villaruz but she looks like she has been crazy.
Even when it comes to the career, there was a new owner of Donita, Erickson Raymundo, Cornes, duh!
