The cooperation in the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the third anniversary of the Liberal Party of the Philippines is strong.

Fortunato!
DOTU - Southern Tagalog.
21 Dec 2014.

CPP-6th Provincial Council of trade Universities (Southern Tagalog (RCTU-ST), German organization of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), is the only leader of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), is the only leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines-Maire of Kovalev.

The PKP has to be strong last December 26, 1968, the birth of a new hope for the kind of Filipino workers - it causes a revolution that will support the release of death penalty through a justifiable Filipino.

The PKP has exposed the right solution for the very long time that the meddling and direct jurisdiction of the colonizers.

The ranks of the tallest workers in the southern end of the 46-year leadership of the unique party of the unique party, the PKP, in spite of the remaining armed revolution in the entire world, in spite of the left violence and propaganda in the recent violence and local issues that each have heard.

The PKP is the inspiration of the indigenous people under the Value TU-ST, in pushing the interest of the workers and anti-Filipino law, in the research of the anti-Filipino and anti-Filipino law, and the strong fight in all attacks of illegal US and the government government budget.

The PKP remains strong until the present, and growing up, along with the worsening crisis in politics and the economy of the country's country; and it is being clear to the country that they can't rely on to Aquino, and the public funds that they can count on Aquino, and from the rotten system of the country.

The workers give the highest tribute to all of the burden of the filipino masses, friends and members of the Liberal Party which are full of gratitude for their blood and sweat due to the advancement of our blood and sweat, and there is no meaningful path of service to the people.

In the intensified crisis of the international system of our country's current administration, it is certain that there are more workers, farmers, and citizens who are going to support the interest of the filipino masses, and aims to change the rotten system to change the rotten system to change the rotten system to change the rotten system.

The KP has not achieved all the success that was obtained and will be achieved if there is no hot and strict support and cooperation of the filipino masses, which is why we celebrated the unending support and unity of the Filipino people's goals towards the revolutionary taxes of our most beloved party!

For the unity of the PKP, the citizens, will be able to spread the terrorism basis for the progress of the people and not by a few, the safety of the citizens who will serve the country, and the local government budget for the country, and the local government of the country.

Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines!
Workers, lead the national under democratic revolution! Join the New People's Army!
Filipino towns are able to push for a hint of arrogance!
