It is Lupit of PNoy in the SBMA.

The fact that President Benigno S. Aquino III is saying, that there is 2,000 families of employees of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) because it is only the reason why he is the only one who knows that the person who knows is likely to understand the mind will not be understood.
This is the truth: Six-years have no additional salary for the employees of the SBMA because it has been two years since the Malacañang did not take action.
Malacañang, particularly the President of the country, the approved salary of the employees of the SBMA as government organization (Up Corporation (GROs)) is approved.
But this is PNoy, it looks like it seems that it seems that there is more wanted to play in the X-bust operation instead of taking care of the company that has a effect on the lives of thousands of people.
The SBMA earned billions of money in the past two years and this 2014, it looks like the 2013 record is still widespread, but the employees, but salary remain in the past six-years.
The Lupit of PNoy is his boss here in Olongapo, where there is only 200 of the homeowners who are addicted to the presidency, Dick Gordon last 2010.
Just imagine, the former Senator Dick Gordon is from Olongapo but the near defeat in his own city because the opponent is PNoy.
But it seems that it is nothing for PNoy to give importance to him by the residents of the SBMA, not sure not to study their children, not for medication for the illness, sometimes there is no one to eat and whatever is the suffering of these.
This is the truth: There is no reason for the corresponding additional wage of the workers in the SBMA because there is money for it and the management of the said agency is approved.
The heat done by PNoy to the employees of the SBMA is a violation of the rights of the workers and their families.
If PNoy will just leave one or two games in the computer games in one set day, he will focus on the recommendation of the current administration of the SBMA the truth is true, this is the truth to Vic V. Vizcocho, Jr.
