Junior is a good morning.
It is a good morning when we are very good in the morning, it would be good if I will bring to you all the things that I will bring to you so that we are going to be in line with each other, that's why we are still in red; we really know that you are no longer crying.
That if you are going to transfer to the right time, it is a lot of thrifty person that we need to increase, so let us not know that we do not know what to do with him.
Fuck, dearse;.
What you are saying about is true that all his older sister are on the right side, and then we are starting to look at the ducks, and then we are starting to see that we have five years old; we are still starting to see that your blood is still walking, and I am walking that time.
Sixteen members of our communication.
And because yes.
Which I pity the stairs of our abroad.
I started to reach the police on Saturday, but the game should be held yesterday, it is said that it is only yesterday afternoon when the ministry, we have already arrived, there are only twenty-year-old sister.
Help.
You will hurry up if I arrive in the afternoon.
Kalibo was the start of the arrival of the students here to sleep, Saturday, so that I decided to get a picture of our picture in the Philippines of the police on their voices that they are picking up.
Yes, just call on our room in our room while we go back to it.
The Office is that, right now, is it that until now, we still do not get along well, you are still not sleeping well, the news coming from Caloocan here with Ate Rose, which is a big amount of selling it.
In good thing.
All of them are not able to see any serious problem.
After making a check-up.
Here, we will just continue to stay in line, so they are going to continue.
And that is why until now, we have no idea, they still do not know how to show up.
Country a lot.
Which is being searched for.
That is the medicine that we can see in us.
We are not holding the Abaya, all his older sister is like a hostility between you.
Let us check on the elder sister who is called Zero.
Zailon.
Okay.
He had a black cloth.
"You have just mentioned it earlier what I've mentioned earlier, what is the increase of Alliances, from the Red alert, after this is an attack from his co-budol gang; and he / she had a plan to go to him / she went to your plan, after this.
Yes, it's good that you have asked that to go to you because I can't understand that when we go back, I can't understand that when we go back to our positions, we are not able to meet.
You are going to play for graduating from all of all the vacation.
And everyone has the record in the other room for his personnel.
You are both members of April 19.
It is gladdening to have a thousand for a long time.
She met with her help.
Drilling, whose security; as Lorie, we are our security guards, if there is still a hold of sleep that happened in the show and in the show.
What our officials saw in the security of Two people after two consecutive years, were found.
We are not so eager to adjust because we are all sent back here.
A step needs to be avoided this morning.
I asked the sister's call and I answered the beloved President.
What we are calling for is for you to rob you.
We still have something to eat, Joentice are the one who will buy a pattern.
That our fellow citizens will see all the streets when they will buy the elements of the police that they will be first in the sofa or passing by security four hundred pesos.
They also have companions who are members of our voice.
I will have a long vegetable if you know that it is me who will be stabbed.
We do so that I have an assurance for our people who are playing in our dangerous places to bring them a text message.
I have been cut off; we will look at the situation and look at the situation and our security in Manila are good.
In the year of mine, the Aquino administration inspected it in areas with debt of text; we hope that it would be our love for us to text; we should agree to it so that it would not be something like that, men say what his parents said.
We are anxious; we are going to push through actions to dedicates our plan to make sure that our plans will come true in the right time and to the people who need to be sure that it will be sure that your Ate Lado will come true.
But we don't know that our Philippine National Police can't be prevented anymore; our Philippine National Police can't be able to solve it, but when it comes to the age between both sides, it is so that you have the balance to balance the sale of the both sides in the same age, "Francis Manayes;
We are still here and I have a lot of siblings who are looking for someone who is driving backwards.
We are anxious; the members, who are members of this, are also members of those who are going to pick on me, but it's Derek's clothing to feed seven of our voices.
I don't have five customers, that is why I don't know too much, but it's too much.
But you did not feel the feelings of your life because you are not included in his post.
In our half-prone areas for noodles as they are ready to help if there is a need to help if there is a need to help each other, it is natural that there are people who are saying that we don't know what we are saying, we don't know what we are saying, that we don't know.
It is still a month that we can remember that all the best things that we are talking about are joking, even what we are chasing him but what do you do?
It was then that she was hanging and was not going to happen.
We are just in front of what Tata we have been in front of, but many of our Clyde Fernandez, "
You did not say to comb here and Viceral?
There is a lot of Linda, who is the capital for us to continue to stroll when there is a commercial drivers.
Okay, they are wearing the places that we have said as a day, but when it comes to our dangerous places, we started when we started in a meeting.
And all leaders of those who do not attend to us will be together with us.
That's why we are pointing at each other; we are applying for those who are applying for it and that is the same, as well as those who are different.
Yes, I already told her.
A motel, something came from something like that, on what happened in the hut, the entirety of Manila Bira will come from him.
Covetous, dearse, are going to run.
I continue to have a place of GAA.
A barangay captains, who is very low, Cavite, who are at the age of Saint Jude Torres, is the only ones from Saint Jude Torres for sure that it will come true to our siblings at the Philippines' debut of my force, prisoners if there are things that I will enter there.
They do not know that you have a cellphone with that.
That's why we have a very kind yes, despite the members of the Philippines as well as the size of the Philippines.
Answer to Lida Lida to look at Lerio Bompat; our Philippines has a lesson to fried foods.
This is included here in other people who are riding the government such as sharp gazes, ah, because they are giving children to defeat for the return they are looking at.
There are some who are asking me to go home, which is why our fishermen, who are our fishermen, are said to be one of our fishermen, who really do not allow them to go to the meantime.
We are anxious; we are like that, aside from what has been stated in the said area, they could have a order to go around later at the end of Cavite.
That's why we are going to be playing; we are the ones made by the heart and then by the Philippines to be able to talk to our countrymen.
In the hospital, it was said that we grew up in the places where we are going to be affected.
You are going to know.
Ah, that is the way that dealing with the leaders of the places I am talking to, even Abiza Espiritu of them, it is up to them to get rid of them.
Is there anything to endure when they go out in Trajano of that?
There are those who look at each other; because they are bashed by their budget, they are hoping that it is ready for them to face the car stories that is why our request cannot be done so that we won't look like it.
For all, what are going to be done in order to finish the end of midnight.
You, your sister, aside from you, just show that the whole country of the Philippines is discipline and orderly and orderly.
We need to be cooked and do not have something to do that in our six-year-old, he / she said that he / she didn't think that he / she didn't want to turn my sister, six-years old, and she was not able to turn my sister-in-law, but not all sorts of pieces, are just income from before.
We are crazy; we have things for so long but there are things that can't be seen, okay, but since you also mentioned it.
All of our famous songs are in danger especially in the physical areas that I have to buy because they are being watched over by all of us here and then you are saying that the windows are not allowed to open together with the streets.
For the political life, we are applying for those who are applying for.
The airport's lives are the lives of the airport, that is not the same with other people.
We are anxious; the Clavdie Organization, who is a member of the building of a security pesos to text it on this steps.
We are anxious; the help that you said and what you said and the people for the height of the building he can see is Jerry.
Ah, the night is Vista, and then he is seeing watching the surrounding.
This is part of the steps that we are listening to for sure all the places we see.
Only one is the biggest.
What we are facing right now is that our other siblings whom they want to say will be the same.
He came from a woman.
That is all.
Even if there is no permit that the will to go, we will go to school; that's why we can talk to you, "we are talking to you," this is our request that we have places.
Really.
Where do you not need to get permits?
Here are our cousins who can go to me as your barangay councilor, sir?
Let us organize it and then.
There are several kinds of establishments, whose space is the source of space in our public.
Which is where anyone wants to give mango, which is why they will cook anything.
You should use it because you are busy.
It is getting hotter with permission.
Not outside of places.
You need to ask permission from the local government that you will go to where you are after the mud.
If you don't have permission?
I permits.
We are anxious; we are proud that you will be together with the politicians who say that is why it is against the law.
Let us learn now that you will be taken away, there are still those who are calling Clearance or STD.
We are not saying it is possible to say that because of those who liked a few admirers; as well as the inventor of our countrymen who will sacrifice for you, I am ugly.
Those who drowned in Manila are hungry; we have fried rice cakes, isn't it that we have something in Lawton, yes, "Boy, yes, I do not want to be here when there is a point; we should live-in.
Yes, they will be angry at that even without permission.
They will be fervent for twelve years, to always be close to those who are close to those who are close to those who are close to those who are close to those who are close to each other, there is really a need to be able to resist, the local government is forcing him to be alone by the local government.
Yes, they are in Cavite because you are going to go back to the places that are beautiful.
Go through and talk.
Very small; we are in danger; the vehicles are good about what we are dangerous about the truth that we are loyal; we need to make it.
You can't even be allowed because of your sleep that I have said, we can't sacrifice our fellow countrymen who will sacrifice, to make people sacrifice.
Just an hour.
We are very pitiful; we are full-tempered; just because of some of us that we have passed by.
One hundred million Filipinos.
Which is just because of the ten thousand Filipinos whom you want.
We are low-shirt that we have a big disease that is for the sake of two thousand.
More.
I have not yet been a percentage that's why even though we have not yet discussed, yes, so we can see the heart of our country, the Philippines, especially to the traffic conversation, a traffic is just because of those.
They are mad at my brother.
My government hopes that he will take care of the welfare and well-headed by the grader is most of our countrymen but it is prohibited for jogging in the waist.
My God there are places there that, because there are those who are looking like this, they will be able to come true to each other, which is why you cannot go to school, and I can no longer go to school in the places to listen to my former lover.
When you put it in these kinds of these, I can still see each other here, but I can still remember that I am not alone with my blood in another place, maybe it is okay for me to look for it.
Station, it is okay before we continue to release our good line with the fact, it is true that there is a message given to the filipino citizens in relation to the t-shirt APEC Summit.
It is the first to be a high school school that is very much given to our countrymen.
That is where we are hoping for the date of April wait for the possible possibility of security passports.
This is his way.
For us to fly again to the whole country.
That's why for us to ask for an apology that was affected by the morning that was affected by the morning so they had a chance to go on vacation for a long time.
So if this is what they are going to school, we need to use the shirt that they will use, the relatives there in the province so you will not get hurt here in Manila because of those who are from Bulos, one more.
Let us imitate the people around this, it is not the possibility of our policemen to our soldiers at this time.
And if they are not for every Filipino, if I see you on duty, people around and things that just leave.
In giving out this to our police to our soldiers who are around you, it seems that they are already looking for it to be immediately arrested and broken down; not all sorts of people.
It's okay now.
