The Gift of Life and Campbell October 30, 2016.
Their bodies fall down, the white t-shirt suddenly fell down, the five-year hard work, lack of food and beating, which was experienced in the hands of the pirates.
But when they went home to the Philippines last Friday, the murder of the captain of their boat and death from the illness of two more colleagues, the smile of five Filipino seafarers were expensive.
Its height is like their idol President Rodrigo Duterte, heroes that the fishermen including Antonio Hoyumpa, Arnel and Elmer Baldoms, Ferdinand Doren and Akit Edwards.
The five were included in the 26 crew of the commercial fishing vessel that was held at the Somali border stations last March 2012 in Seal-ray.
In their arrival at Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA), once she cried and once jumped off, Antonio, Elmer, Arnel, Ferdinand and Akit.
And why isn't it that for five, they probably do not think that they will be able to see their land where their land is gone or won't be rejected by their loved ones.
Praying for every night.
"My happiness will be fervent," Arnel, 33 years old, from his agency, Agawan France (AFP) while the four siblings in NAIA surrounding him.
"This is my prayer for every night, I will be with my family this Christmas, even if we almost do not have anything to eat, I will just be with my family, I am very happy," said Arnel.
The sibling of Arnel, Lilia, identified the release of five "miracle" even if he said that he did not have a hope for Arnel to be free.
Sodenim.
A travel in 1978, 3 crew is the second most longer in the history of Sosimo Castor.
As the primary suspect of the seafarers in the whole world, the Sosimo piracy is a thorns in every neck of the fishermen which can easily get through Aden.
The bitter experience of the five Filipino seafarers is possible to happen on the hundreds of other countrymen who serves as the role force of global cybersex industry.
Tried to live.
"I did not know them anymore when I left, they were still small," said Elmer, 37, while her two daughters were touched.
According to Elmer, the pictures of her family was the only one who gave the strength to him and tried to live in front of almost every day that their Somalian suspect was beaten-up.
From the new OFW, long live with Elmer, Arnel, Akes, Ferdinand and Antonio, thank you, the Pambansang Giovanni by the Lord-IBIG.
Just a little warning to all the traveling of Halloween, be careful and cold of headache especially if it is super traffic in the road.
