He immediately wanted a few lawmakers to the international friend to take him an investigation to tell her mother about what is good.
Aside from the further investigation, it will be said that the investigation will be done and it will be said that someone will be carried by Aquino in the hearing but there was a need for a few minutes on Monday that started to pay the international airport with Mikabalon family.
Okay, even just a month from his mouth, he might go with anything but until now, justice is still weak; because even if there are other lawmakers, they are still weak, because even if there are some lawmakers, how they think is that they are just waiting for a moment for the Court to wait for a moment.
Four fifth is the answer of answer one four o'clock.
C-asa; Pavors, said.
I did not.
I have a lot of debts.
But it is impressed by the Congress.
According to the investigation, it is the blind of P / P / P / Police Officer 3: 00am edious; there are people who do not get rid of the prosecution.
He went home even if they had a lot of praises after they went with what they are doing, which is why some lawmakers are used to build the height of the international things that can be used to top the height of the international things that I have like ten pesos.
The investigation is with him.
You don't love your teeth the case in the love they will get especially when it is the same.
There is an American and a crazy man in the cow.
These kinds of investigation can be heard even if there are shortcomings and laughter.
What they are saying is that, if you are going to enter a cobra, it is clear that this is the first time of Talk 'former in Santiago that they can make them doing.
They are Tony and buttons, while there is a fire, there is already dead in a case in violation of Junie which is why he slept.
Before, in the house, right?
Buttons, bye Philippines and easy to convince the profit.
Yes, nothing more than a minute.
France.
Covetous, deport; isn't it?
That means to be first.
Fuck, deport; and part of a part.
I am a letter as a letter, TIDs; TIDs and Humalig) in the area, whose legs are distressed.
Even in Cavite you are going to live in Cavite.
Before, you will go home together.
He / she wasn't able to speak; he / she was only one by one, he / she was only one by one, he / she was only one by one, he / she was Ping Lacson.
According to a little clothes, we are inside.
The U Vs who can prove that they are carrying a violation of human rights in the middle of the war.
But the in-law is that I am in-law because they have the Philippines first.
It can be said that it is better to have a good and put in the areas that would be said to be worse than penitence in the house where there is nothing.
They will be united if justice will be achieved if it will pass in the international things.
Because according to him, there are more disclaimer of the classes we go there, we said that we need to pay the bathroom to the people who should take care of the bathroom because they do not just tell what is patient for the victims of the ship.
They say they are the only ones who will be able to call for a year that does not even face anything.
You will be able to look straight at the same age, Pavarse; Aquino.
If needed, it is clear.
Positive in the investigation.
The events are carrying the money here and the loss of other people who went to each other did not resist, even though he did not pay attention to each other.
But even if it is true that now, there is a fire that you need to lie.
"Maybe you will not be able to understand you so that I can still wait for the same time.
Fight against the people.
This is my problem.
That's why he / she didn't have five children.
That's why there are a lot of people who are going to go to school; we are proud.
He / she was fur, the International Agency (International Agency.
Yes.
Then.
He is December.
Jay-Jay will be the next step of the sun for what we have talked to, which is why he doesn't want the lawmakers of the victims to go with him in case they were able to talk to the lawmakers, they say they are just going to help the lawmakers, they are just going to help them by lawmakers.
It means that we are aware; as well as the relatives, they can make a child, but how long as long as the black they can use, just in case they are here in IOS in this case.
Yes, Gigi, it is hard to know how long the Philippines will take this case, because maybe even before the Philippines is still new, we still do not have a case against the Philippines, we still do not have any case in Saudi Africa and we are able to talk to.
Very small; we are complaining again, they respect the case they are doing in Irisan; we do not want to give priority to the cases of others but he does not want to give a priority anymore from the said case that is why we are trying to find a priority from the height that we have seen from the height that we have not seen from the height that we have not seen from the height that we have not seen from the height that we have seen from the Pacific Ocean.
Might be true.
It is really important to go to this kind of age because we saw each other than the elderly, who is really included in the classroom; it's as if you have already mentioned each other, that's why there's a fire each other, that's why it's hard for you to wait for the international communication in Morong and beef, which is why he's lying down and lying.
Explanation about him was mentioned.
Yes, he told the words commission of Morong and his words, that's why there's a lot of people who are sleeping with the Moro-Moro brothers, who are very well-tempered; and of course, a lot of men are living in the international airport; and of course, a lot of minors are from the level of international airport; and of course, they can't handle the glass; Gulanggulang; and course.
Isn't it that we look for someone who is a little bit pitiful; we are fearing something that when we bring to the International committee, that is why when we brought it to the international committee, it might be a payment for me to have it.
Thank you very much.
