Baron was able to take advantage of Baron, to anyone? By ORL-5, 2016.
The decision of the OMI (Commission On Management Council, Incorporated.) ensured that they would inhibit from the actors they are holding at work with Baron Geisler.
Part of the crash of OMI, "after a point, the burial of the meeting happened, in the Office of Geisler's manager-PAMI, Arnold Vazole, OMI, and the decision to inhibit on the television series for a new period."
They also decided that they will not allow the artists that they are holding to work with the director Arlyn dela Cruz, it is stated in their office, "Inocencio Street, Vegafloat, the person who is full of responsibility on the set, which is being full of responsibility in the set way to be in the field of the movie.
"Even if they were accompanied by the Our Lady Oton of the set, Fight IT led by the producers and the director, to ensure the ensure safety of the Our Lady OPLAN).
"Tawo'clock, we were amazed that he would inhibit on the Our Lady Of, which is a huge amount in FB dela Cruz.
"The manager of Baron, Arnold Vegantly is accepted to her decision that she takes up, and that's where the actor is like that.
Baron asked forgiveness to Ping and Director Arlyn, but according to him, he said in a point, he should have been fair to express their decision.
He / she also insisted that, it is being investigated well and look at the name of the suspect in the shooting that happened.
"Thank you as vice-Seal of the Scene of the Scene of the Scene of the Scene of the Scene of the Scene of the Crime Operatives), I know she'll be known to be the camera of the camera, said Baron.
Hopefully, they should find out what is really the whole truth.
But in fact that he made Ping Medina on the scene, she was even tied and his mouth is tied and there is no fault that Baron did not want to be complacent about his fellow actor.
Baron asked forgiveness to Ping and to Direk Arlyn.
Baron posted his picture yesterday on Facebook while he was wearing a miscarriage.
"Though thank you, thank you, thank you for a number 1," the text that is with the picture.
Ping carried his finger on him when he revealed the urinating on him by Baron in the set of the movie.
The director Brillante dela Cruz was posted on Facebook, "One Up Street, thank you," thank you. "
Some complain, hopefully the residents of OMI director responded first or talked to him before he was carried away by the said decision.
But it is stated in the estimation of the PAMI, under the responsibility of the director and producers, that they are entrusted to their artists to protect and ensure the safety of the shooting.
We have kept the reaction to the chairman of FDCP or Film Development Council of the Philippines, Liza Dialogue, in relation to the decision of the PAPP.
The counter case will also pass by the counter case if they will receive a complaint from the PAMI, as their support on this issue.
"Hopefully, we really are making a state on what is really being done by them, to catch them, do we have a direct translation, right, when the ban is wrong," if it is wrong.
"Hopefully, we will be able to make sure that all parties will be given, all parties will be clear in the movement that they will do," he stated.
"In the other hand, I was the same age for the head of the head of FDCP, I will be able to deny that she could not avoid being bitten by an insane man," he added.
He also said, hopefully everyone will pass through the right process.
