
The Labor AOIL and Region 3 are useless.

This is a cruel fate, sometimes the people look at the hands of the authorities in the hands of the authorities instead of justice and suffering in suffering.
This is the truth: An example of this is the Filipino workers who are currently locked up on the table of the Labor Argive er like Reynaldo V. About of the National Historical Commission (NLRC) in the Middle Luzon.
One of these is the Anti-Illegal Drugs "and other" traslacion "which was filed by Alexander Nuñez, against Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
The case has been held for two years but it is not allowed to discuss this merits because it is still being speculated that it has jurisdiction or nothing is jurisdiction or not.
The SBMA insisted that all the term and condition of the people from the government are included, including the "government officials who are also included in the SBMA the scope of the" Civil Service Commission, or CSC, which is why the complaint of Galang should be filed.
At the position of Galang, who is in his seven years of service as a member of the SBMA media Production., he did not give "an appointment" as an employee but only an intensive act under the "contract of Services Program" that's why he is not holding the "contract of Services Program" that's why he is not holding a law by the CSC and DOLE only.
This is the truth: If you think about it, Abiera should have a decision within 30 years but in two years of "Boy," said there was no notice or hear from the case.
Labor Secretary Rosalinda Baledz, is it just okay for you to be done by About that it is not a decision if he will stay or not in NLRC the case?
What is Abiera said and he is very busy and taking care of the cases he is holding?
In the end of our last interview, Abiera said there is still no decision for the four years of the illegal number of illegal numbers, Angelito F. Jacinto, Incorporated., a year has been filed against JJ Mart in Olongapo City by Renita Eatane; and many others have been filed against JJ Eve) and many others.
The employees of suspending the case would be pitiful because according to him, "Justice Sec.
