When will of history, continue the fight.

By DBP.
July 9, 2015.

7th of Buhay and Pahiram ng Andres Bonifacio.
The production of Chairman Andres Bonifacio.
The culture of Filipinos (LKP).
Philippine Anti-Implementing Rules and Pac).
2013 on the 25th anniversary of the birthday of a great hero, Gat Andres Bonifacio.
In that time, the Buhay and Pahiram ng Andres Bonifacio, a video gathered the documentary on the history, life, and fighting of the Veloso family to undergo autopsy.
The voices of Alfred Vargas (who starred as Andres Bonifacio), John Arcilla (Jose Rizal) and Jaime Fabregas) and Jaime Fabregas), Joel Lamangan (Emilio Jacinto) and Jeffrey Santos (Artemio Castillo) and Jeffrey Santos (Artemio Castillo) and Jeffrey Santos (Artemio Castillo).
Some of those like John Arcilla, Pen Medina, Ted Failon and Rafael Bayodo of the statement submitted.
Dilawan around five parts, to the coast of history of the Philippines as the burial of the Filipino people from the Spaniards, until his infidelity to Bonifacio and in continuing the revolution.
In fairness, the scattered events in history are centered in the history to be centered on the lives and struggle of Shell, until it led to Katipunan.
It can be seen in the image used by the documents of the documents of the documents and statements of the historical events that will enjoy the image of events at the time of the Philippine Revolution in the time of the colonies of the Spanish tourists.
He is also strong with his infidelity to Bonifacio of Emilio Aguinaldo.
This is the new chapter of colonialism, not only in the Philippines, but also in some former colony of Spain like Guam, Peras Rico and Cuba, and it is still existing until now.
It is said that majority of the books are being put in history as the imposition of death of death among the siblings, Andres and Protesio, that is why it is still important for the division of the siblings before they went to the mountains of Maroons.
It was stated in the documentary about the destruction of Mt. Pregnant as a place where the death penalty was imposed on the siblings, aboard the information gathered by Guillermo Magarao, the method of the killing of the siblings Bonifacio.
Touching.
For sure, the documentary will be a source of inspiration and important information about the history during the time that there is still an effective weapon in history during the time that the economy of the Filipino society is still ongoing.
This, it can be said that the interest and goal of the documentary about the documentary on the lives of Andres Bonifacio, and continue his fight in the release of the country to the repressive administration.
