Nonsense, By Rey Maryo, August 24, 2016.
Even before he ran and sat as a congressman, the members of the Lower House did not give the knowledge to the members of the Lower House, which is why the media strongly believes that they will be called for senator Leila de Lima when they will be called for senator Leila de Lima.
"Let us not mention the name of those who were taking the" genius "in Congress and they might be famous, it is a big difference if de Lima will take back to the investigation, except if the senator will take revenge on the" Special doctor "by those who are looking like a genius."
Even though everyone wants to hear the side of De Lima in relation to the allegation that is related to illegal drugs operation at the New Bilibid Prison (NBP), the hands of the Congress between the Senate will agree if they will be involved in the scandal when the members of the House of Justice (DOJ) will agree to what the two ships of the Congress will agree with in the scandal.
That is why they have been saying anything against de Lima.
Whatever is included in the stories of President Rodrigo Duterte against de Lima - he is in the hands of the senator to clean his name, we do not know what kind of action, especially if he is not under a lawmaker.
It is so easy to shout about the congressmen, especially when they are trying to catch up with the Commission on Audit, however, it is not thinking if there is going to be used by de Lima that it will be called to the Lower House, instead of taking the issue, why are there not being acted as "or" the Congress.
The Congress can only do and force it to face the alleged "lover," de Lima, "hopefully when it comes to the state of the senator - it's as if he / she is just like a line with Vicky Morales" it seems that he / she is just like a line with Vicky Morales "that's why it's an truth that I cannot send the sparkle and light in the camera.
In total, de Lima needs to answer the accusations especially that the people who are talking against him are true or not, the rights of the Filipino people, most of all the people who trusted and voted for the lady, to know the truth here.
As of now, it is possible that de Lima's decision is, "by President Digong because it's deep who will pull the allegation and," he said the woman who has been serious on illegal drugs but your servant believes that the typhoon will subside.
Even if they do not get along well today, time will arrive with other programs of the government because it is a year when the conflict between them and where the question is, who will just give in to these two?
