
Straight path to the ravine!

There is a typhoon or not, it is clear that the weather is bad for the Philippines.
"Isn't it a trend now?
"Will the authorities ask the total wealth of the people of the government, officials and ordinary employees.
What is happening?
Many are fighting back.
The reason, they do not want those who will meddle with the person to check with just a defamation to the goal.
If they are carrying bad bread because even more, even before the whole truth will come out, they are already broken into the public.
This is what happened to Senator Manong Jhonny, Jinggoy and Bong.
And now, Vice President Binay is currently being attacked.
Blocked!
These are the congressmen who are in full force today.
Their reason, they should be the one to check on the case they are facing just a case.
Do not involve the without cases that happens, and live on the straight path.
Hehehe is the reason of my etiquette.
Even if it appears on the list of Commission on Audit, there are many of them who owns the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
The COA (COA (COA) did not only pay attention to them because the Department of Budget and Management Council is giving them the transactions of the said senators.
I am a judge.
But it was first answered, Bro, the judge at the Supreme Court.
It's because, it is clear that they just want to listen to their duties as revenge on their decisions to dismiss the PDAF and DAP.
There are a lot of fraud in cheating in the country's treasury because of the declaration of the judges in the PDAF that is directly against the 1987 Constitution and the DAP that was formed.
After the foolishness of PDAF and DAP was revealed, especially the congressmen who are fond of reading PDAF and DAP, they tried to undergo a joke and disgust for the public.
In the end, until now, nothing is happening in the judge.
SALN and check.
"It is brimming of assets, which is the Netsmen of one of the things that wants to be put in a check.
This SALN was served as a bolo to head ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona from his position.
And this is what the congressmen are pushing for the judges to own the judges that they think are getting involved in their corruption and corruption, I mean, livelihood.
It would be better for them to insist on forcing to check the judges.
They are all public funds that should be under the kind of eyes of the people.
But when someone desires to bring them in a check, the child of their employers, they are in full force.
They say that, those who have cases should be allowed to check in order and not all of them.
It was the child of seven canned goods, he forget or turned his back on the congressmen on their reason against the judge.
Nonsense.
"When you go to barangays, they say, they are just nonsense.
They say, Bro, only the enemies of the administration who have been made into a politician.
Even if corruption is said to be very afraid of corruption and corruption, there is no snake who will check them.
One more thing, it was known to have been put in a check but immediately put it out if the KKK were hit.
And then they have not let debt, even if they are becoming a case in the Office of the Ombudsman.
If there is something to make it pass, it is just small like the PNP Chief Alan Purisima.
The senators, congressmen, and residents of the Palace, were bigger but they did not stay on it, aside from the opposition.
They have reason, Bro.
Continue the joy.
Because he will not be favored to check, Bro, to those who are working in power, the happiness of these will continue.
See, before, PDAF only is at P24 billion pesos for the senators and congressmen.
Now, there are saying that it ended up at P27 billion pesos.
A call on the parts of my PDAF is Assistance to local government units.
Their reason, as long as they do not have the fund for the non-governmental organization like what happened to Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
And just, the lawmakers would not get involved in the implementation of programs or projects which are favorite for them, there are no prohibited funds that fund.
That is the trend, Bro, lawmakers, and they are capable of able to patrol the decision of the judges.
We do not know if DAP is also a soul here.
Where will you go?
Because of the lot to be put in a check, the difference is that the only consolation for all is enough.
The bosses are given the citizens to send a little joy, but behind this, they continue to abuse the power and money from the people.
Look at it, instead of losing interest in politicking as well because of the destruction of PDAF and what is being used by the DAP, that means the loss of their money to them, the inhumane who want to get money.
And what you are thinking about, Bro, "that's also the same.
Perhaps, the straight path is going to the ravine.
