
Alum and proud of Chief of BPLO.

Does Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista and Business Permits, Licuan Office chief Garry C. Domingo, what their group is doing to those who are in the city of Quezon?
That is why some of the places in Quezon City are complaining because of the huge amount being asked by the residents of BPLO when they are taking advantage of it, because they thought that the owners are just picking up money.
Last Wednesday evening, October 15, I visited my youngest child's owner.
Even if I have not been in a long time, the two women who were said to have arrived at BPLO and one of them were named Denies Noguera or arrogance.
When he sat as a seat, he immediately told the owner of the house which is said to end our conversation, I am tired of you, in front of me and said, "why are you here?"
I asked him if he is from the office where she is his answer to me.
"That's why I told him that I also know someone there where Sir Julius. Asked me," did she immediately say to me, "why did he really do you here in Quezon City, just before he is here!"
I answered him / her, "I did not because Sir Julius." And it was known that Sir Julius. "And so it was proven that Sir Julius.
While they were talking with Lea Baya, she said to Denies, that I was a member of Remate's and I was the one who went to lily's Calvento File, and said that we will go out and said that nothing will happen when we arrive here. "
It was discovered that on October 9, he went to the said place to recover and beat the owner of P141,000 pesos for bail and additional bills.
Because the owner does not know anything to walk as a license, he had a father to me at the office of BPLO in Quezon City to fix those that need to be fixed and pay whatever it needs to be paid.
When we arrived at the office of BPLO) day, they are good to present to us by the chief, Mr. Garry Domingo and his assistant, Sir Julius Commonwealth Avenue, which is the opposite of the present to face Denies.
It was discovered that "the trip of Denies in the said place was no" head Order. "
It means, he only wants his own travel, that's why he was able to get a hurry to get him "which resulted to P141,000.
For the thing, I have long heard the name Denies where she is blackmailing them, especially in the club, especially at the club, videoke and many more but now I was able to face him and I proved myself how no one does not have and arrogance.
He is a good and very well-talking with BPLO chief Garry Domingo and his assistant, Sir Julius Commonwealth Avenue.
That's why I believe that they will not tolerate the rough attitude of Denies.
