Janella, Mac is listening to me.
Marlo Bautista, fan of Elaella By, Allan Den this November 24, 2016.
The Dumagat-Remontadoses have grown up with Janella Salvador and Marlo Moros in mano Po 7: Campoy, a few pre-Christmas center of Regal Films.
It's a bit long for the two to be together because of Elmo Magalona, who will be called Janella, ABS-CBN.
According to the Kapamilya young actress, there is still no change between them by Marlo, that's why, there's still a scene, they still have no idea that there is no fault and there is no assurance that she has been courting Janella, that is why she is also courting Janella, that is why she has been working together with the Two.
Even if there are a lot of fans of Elaella Ilao, it is still there are loyal supporters of MarNella Ilao, who are also pleased with the two of the adversary.
Seems they are getting along well for Janella and Elmo, how are she and Moe?
"We are more beautiful now, of course, we get along with each other, according to the 18-year-old girl.
"Is she courting her?" Hhmmmp... that it is not right, "he added.
But Moe has made it in case because she is already Break, he will be with Janine Gutierrez.
"That is the proof of the amount of IT SUWERTE: Of course, because, because of this, he is still alive ("
"Quiti Kill is very hard to go to, but I am just here, I am only here to a hidden talent in the one which is being hidden by the one that is being hidden by the one that is being hidden by the one that is being hidden.
How did she help Guidotti in what he went through?
"There's nothing, or it's no longer a joke," of course, when he needs to tell Krema, I could have made something to tell Krema, I was a hidden talent for a friend.
"Because," that's what happened, I am just listening to him, i'll just laugh at the fur. "
The Elaella fans made more hope that they should be given to them by Moe anymore because this is no longer a short and free time in case you will understand it from him.
"That's it, that's why, they say, that's why they say," it is possible that they are against them, right? "We Seal-Hacademia, Fight IT.
"Aziza is beside Janella while we were able to talk to him so we asked him what else will happen in case she is Janella and Elmo.
"I will support her, of course, as long as she is happy, indeed, the answer of Marlo." Fight IT.
It is said that Marlo is really happy for Janella because he is also a fan of Elaella Ilao.
And he said, in the movie he is still together with Janella.
She really misses his co-worker because she was formerly in Be Career with my heart and OMG that they are together everyday.
Now he was left alone but there is a show that Marlo is, so she is also happy.
"There is nothing, I am a single one, I am a single one," according to the singer-actor, "said by the Master-actor, according to twenty 14, in nationwide mano Po 7: Calaguas.
