Implementation of funds! By Rey Marchil on July 20, 2016 is not a joke in resolving a financial status and benefits even if they do not understand why there is a bigger income compared to ordinary workers in the government.
It's not only the name that whoever took care of agencies or institutions for the funds of the government but the talent in how the funds of them will increase, through the contribution of the government workers.
The government Service (SES) is being led by General Manager Roberto Vergara, Social Security System (SSS) President Francois Hollande and Philippine Health Organization (PhilHealth), it cannot be denied that the future of the government employees until retiring.
The good day is important for the employees of the government and it is in the right time for each cent or one peso worth it every day, this is a result of good officials and CEO of PNoy - it is not allowed to put it on who whispered to anyone.
It was recorded that 35-year-old GSIS eighty-549; and SSS have been recorded the 31-year-in-law, up to 2042, it means that the employees of the government will have no doubt to their contribution to their contribution.
In the year 2015, PhilHealth was able to pay 97 billion pesos in 2010 before the Martial Law Martial Law.
The GSIS's GSIS building, SSS and PhilHealth have also received the survey rate in the said report card, the GSIS and PhilHealth, the opposite of the previous issues that was used in politicking.
The GSIS etiquette has been through a lot of problems before PNoy entered the palace - it was done by some corrupt personnel and no assurance if the time of the government employees were able to fall for the long time because it was used to buy the large salary of the drivers of its officials.
But it was used to buy all sorts of things that took the position of those seated in position, this is done between the administration of the administration, but it has been strong and hard for the candidates of the administration to always remember, "my spy said," I am still young, and I am my spy on. "
