Become the protagonist right! In free internet!
By Bam Aquino, September 15, 2016.
In the said hearing, we discussed some proposed laws about putting free wi-fi in public places and in our public schools, including State Colleges and Universities.
I submitted a proposal to put free internet, including wi-fi, in all public schools on the belief that it is needed by students to find out from the officials of the Department of Education (DepEd) that is only a 26 percent of public schools in the entire country.
DepEd explained, the agency has sufficient funds for the said project but the problem is, there is no sufficient infrastructure to answer the needs of the schools.
According to DepEd, there are places that signal number is weak, which is why the internet is slow, something that the agency is avoiding so that their payment will not be wasted.
There are also many places in the country that have no internet because infrastructure is not enough, especially in secluded schools.
On the part of the new version of Department of Information Agreement (DICE), they plan to put free wi-fi for more than 12,000 places in the whole country before November 2017.
The problem is, they have not yet been divided because of the lack of infrastructures in the television.

When asked the fact, they put the lack of infrastructures in the slow and strict exchange of permit to the local government units (LGUs) where they will put the things in order to speed up the service.
Complaint of the fact, their plan to put additional jobs and other infrastructures that makes the public's service can be felt.
But they are not moving forward because of the slow process of taking a permit, not less than 25 percent is needed so that they will just be able to move on a cellphone site.
Just mentioned by a close co who is lined up in putting up more than 1,000 pesos in different parts of the country, but in the slow process, they are the only ones who will make it.
Another problem is the love and different amount of payment for the LGU in every cellphone site that they put in.
To solve the problem, it is a plan to include the outline of law in making the process to take action from LGUs.
In this way, it is easier to mix of cellphone numbers and other issues in order to improve the internet for the country.
The Aquino administration also mentioned the Duterte administration's plan to release Executive Order (ordered by LGUs to rush the process of Persist back to the mass.
We were also ordered by DepEd, social media and other appropriate agencies that will attract the plan to bring the public utility and State Colleges and Universities in pushing free wi-fi project for the next two years.
Stars, I am pushing to give a good internet for our public schools because I am convinced that this will help more the improvement of knowledge of the filipino children.
The internet in their house is a big thing because they are going to get the materials that are full of knowledge and video that can help their studies.
Multivitamins can fill the lack of books and other materials needed in improving their knowledge.
If our students have sufficient knowledge on the public funds, they will not be left behind and they can keep pace with the students of the private school.
This is also what we will give to our students to have enough ability to coordinate with work that will give them a good future.
