
Goodbye, Teng.

The country is considered as the most powerful person on the skin of the land, brother Barack Obama - the president of the United States.
Just like what was expected, they were met by narrow-minded people or militants who were the only reason why he was criticized by the Americans - even it seems that America has been criticizing it.
Maybe you say, that, my being patriotic is gone to this point but what is needed is to live in the reality that the Philippines is needed by the Philippines and allies like America.
We are against any kind of colonization in our country, but in our status now, especially in our status now, it is just right that we depend on the wall.
What is the reality, the reality is that the reality is what is saying in English which is in English, "or no one else can live in this world.
Having an ally, "does not mean that we have a member of Pareng Barack Obama but an agreement where the interest of the two - the Philippines and America will be given.
Not only based on the military is the motive of Pareng Barack Obama to the Philippines but our economy is more than the market to sell the products of the Americans.
For us, it is a big thing to see other countries especially the yogurt with China who are active in our alliance with Pareng, especially on the issue of dispute over the territory in the West Philippine Sea.
What is the other reality, the reality that is saying or showing the Philippines is a weak and difficult country that needs the support of big countries like America to progress.
We need the people like Pareng Barack Obama to ensure that we will have a voice in the called International Space to push for the interest of our country.
Although the militants have a point, but I am sure that their call are all coming from the truth that is happening in the whole world.
The truth is this is like there are huge countries in the world such as Pareng Barack Obama, with alliance with those who are called "powerful countries like the Philippines.
"That is just their own interest," that is the truth!
He / she was wearing.
For comments or suggestions: Consult a 3,6397381.
