
It is happening with the announcement of the palace.

What really happened to the Philippines?
The government said, that there is a big change in the country, the progress of progress is being implemented.
There is already a traffic problem which is a sign of truth, President Noynoy said.
They were amazed that the foreigners are still impressed by our economy and also in politics.
But the foreigners said and the Filipinos themselves, the Philippines has a huge loss to the Philippines.
The grades of President Noynoy went to the brows.
Philippines.
For others, the Philippines will fall and does not improve.
According to the Social Security Agency) which is based in Washington D.C., America, from 133 countries sent to the Philippines on the position of 64 this year from the number 56 last year in the progress or social media.
The civic works are busy with this 52 percent, including having water, home, safety, knowledge, information, education and personal rights and freedom.
They put these to three kinds of need of people, opportunity and foundation of each of their lives.
For the opportunity, the Philippines has a big hope for the Philippines but only up to a score of 83 to 83 to a tall needs and more than 70 kilometers per hour.
However, it is said that there is a bad record for the Philippines in disgusting crimes, violence in politics, violence in politics, the freedom of water, discrimination and violence of the natives, discrimination and violence of the indigenous people and having water.
That is why the grades in the Philippines fell.
SWS, Pulse Asia.
It was initially reported by the Social Weather Station, the Social Weather Station said that the effect of the people with the President to + 11 percent only last month compared to + 39 last December.
The trust on him also fell and the approval of what he was doing, according to Pulse Asia.
From 59 percent of trust on PNoy last November 2014, it became a 38 year last March while from 56 percent of the approval of his actions, have been hit in 36 percent.
It appears that it is not only the Philippines to fall down but PNoy himself.
Or are you against you?
But this is just because of Mamasapano, the action of PNoy that the Board of Inquiry found and the followers of the Palace in Malacanang brought him down.
Imagine what PNoy is blaming, while 20 senators have signed the result of the investigation of the Senate in Mamasapano, that PNoy is responsible for the incident.
Chopper could heal.
It is the child of tofu, what if the citizens will be included in the minds of the citizens in buying a grenade explosion of the Special Action Force, flying a coffin or helicopter from the trash of Uncle Sam and the armored personnel are rotten, according to the funds given by the Americans?
The modernization of the police and the military are driving backwards instead of moving forward.
"Why would it be that the Philippines and PNoy were not able to step down again?
That is why the Philippines and the Filipino were not able to go out of joy but pitiful.
Let us stop the BBL?
How can the news be true that there will be an offer to the congressmen and senators who will offer to the congressmen and senators who are 20 million pesos to PPHP as a reward if they will pass the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the same time?
We do not believe in this news and we consider this just a gossip until there is no truth.
But what if it is true and he was also included in the conflict in Malacanang before, that's why the legislative chamber's investigation in Mamasapano was stopped?
Let's opening our eyes to this because if the BBL will be like the impeachment case, that is a need for ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona?
It is the child of tofu, the congressmen and senators are confident about the lawyer who has given the impeachment.
But in the end, the congressmen and senators were caught in the mouth, including the residents of Malacanang.
113 million pesos has reached 113 million pesos to 113 million pesos for those who survived from Mister Atong.
And Malacanang is already talkative on who wants to stop them to stop them who are talkative and talkative.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
