Dorina Pentrante,: AiAi was in expressing the beauty of SoKor By Jun Nardo, September 29, 2016.
AiAi delas Alas released his beauty which is a result of her beauty which can be felt in the food of Catleya Wakas in Seoul, South Korea, Sunday, on September 25.
The Comedy Queen of the Comedy queen is said to have spread the shouting and applauded from our fellow countrymen because when he saw the 20 years old from his stubbornness, he could still not bear because she could not take it to the Max!
The shouting became more intense when he removed the lower part of his body after a number of priests were in front of his body after a number of priests came in front of him, Korean officials and Philippine Ventures, AiAi delas Alas, even when he was silent!
AiAi was followed by the audience favorite gifts, everything was also high on laughter because his eldest son, Aaron Brooks who was made to be a fierce ring in front of his mother, from the same time, was found.
The actor is also taking care of his body that's why he smelled the medicley Street of a famous dance again!
One of the Special Action Force has one of the Special Action Force Mayor Policronio Dulay, one of the women from his songs, especially in front of the Written IWas Yanglement and the First Class Sambi am also known by the audience as the father of the daughter of Katrina Halili.
Together "end of the show of the show that AiAi was not able to attend the Discherness, which he really made the high song, which is why he gained consciousness.
Covetous, AiAi delas Alas, Kris, and used to grow old songs Mo, will not accept where the crowd joined with them.
When AiAi was in-law in Seoul's party-raising, that is why he is not making a lot of expenses since he brought the recognition given by Ron Gagalac, what is important is that she has helped her fellow countrymen there.

AiAi was story, she was a fan of crying and crying when she saw a fan in front of him when he came closer to him, but he did not give attention to the number of those who wanted to come near and have her pictures at her.
Then he remembered the fan "that" when she went to the emergency room, she called for a fan like that, and when she saw her body, she was still a fan of the woman, 25 years old.
AiAi became a fan and gave him flowers!
From South Korea, the destination of AiAi delas Alas will be in an international film fest, GMA Filipino TV, and Sunday is going to have a show in Singapore as a chance for them to travel to Japan as a lesson to them by film, Mister Tony Tuviera.
AiAi was also scheduled to finish the remaining shooting incident for the Our Mighty Corporation submitted by Regal Entertainment Television in 2016 Metro Manila Film Festival.
