One by one.

By Campos.
There are 8, 2015.

It's a good night when the military was killed by the military as Recana Noelle, last September 2014, when the pictures were taken from him, it was very short, and his picture was coming out, there was a size of the fat or thin clothing, so many of those wrote and read in Facebook.
For the last recognition of Recana in the Church of the Uen Lord, they collected the pictures taken from his close friends and close friends with his co-workers and close friends and close friends and close friends in the struggle.
The boasts that we have launched this now is because of grieving and loneliness, there are friends and those following this point when they noticed that there was different parts of the life and struggle of Recana, and this was rare in the downpour of things related to Recana and his pictures.
It is tainted by books "Recana o'clock in Diliman, in the Cordancas."
Until when there was an idea that the boards and "real book will pass and do it, it should be said that he is also a leader of the New People's Army or NPA, one of those who became president of the New People's Army or the NPA, one of those who loved him."
The leader of the companions and his friend immediately thought to do this book was Edusma's final version which was published in 1989, not the original version which was published in 1989, it was the original version of Edominic Estola, which was used by Edicio dela Cruz, which was the group of Edominic Estilles of the military, which had been killed by the military.
Whatever it is, we are important to our generation of young activists for the second anniversary of the decade of the year 2000, which is the part of the books, which is one of the implementation of the laws, and after that he arrived in the book, but after he arrived, he became a formal meeting with the secretary.
Now, we are very happy that our book is here, we throw at the beautiful scenery and editor-in line of the book, Production. Judy Taguiwalo, for their great contribution, we applaud his great contribution, we applaud the numerous mishaps in this book!
That is why we are busy in the launch of the book, and we are always charged with the call of this books, Abra, our plea to justice for being a hero, Abra, and of course to live the national under democratic revolution!
That is why we are happy this night when the bookkeeper just let books pass, and became a good books, we hope that this book will be shown in many parts of the country, and even a lot of free consciousness, all of free arms, all for a free town!
08 May 2015.
