
It was denied by the KP, Gazmin and the allegations that it is related to the Botchok in trade of drugs.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 14, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NDF) of the NPA) with drug trade.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the allegations yesterday by the Aquino administration who has a relationship with and protecting the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) for the syndicates of drugs in the Philippines.

The statement of Voltaire Gazmin, Defense Secretary of Aquino, insisted that it is involved in the Botchok in Cordillera and it is said that it has been a temporary alliance with marijuana in Cordillera and it is said that it is said to be a temporary alliance in the syndicates of drugs who are saying that it is already desperate to have funds for the buying of people.

"Contrary to this, the corrupt politicians and the police who have seen the regime seems to be the ones involved in the illusion in the straight path of the Marcos regime, the ones who have a connection with the syndicate of drugs, those who have a connection with the drug syndicates, the ones who have a part of income from the operations of disgusting illegal gambling dens and pockets of income from the operations of disgusting crimes."

"Where the indigenous people and their armed forces are taking advantage of the municipal government agencies, they are driven out by the syndicates of drugs, including other criminal groups in places under the proliferation of illegal drugs," said the corresponding punishment for their crimes. "

"It is far from being desperate, it is being prepared for the non-support of the indigenous people who are not just giving material support to their armed forces, but active who are armed with armed forces and understanding to fight the armed forces and police," added the KP.

"The statement of Secretary Gazmin has no other except the revival of those who have no basis and has proven allegation that the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (DMC) of the government budget is also being used by the US in the name of" cooperation "in the local government agencies in the name of" cooperation "in the local government agencies.

"The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) presented the marijuana plantation in Cordillera," said the PKP, "said the PKP," said their plantation of marijuana and selling marijuana. "

"This is also the case in other places being sold by marijuana as well as the advancement of Davao Oriental, through the destruction of marijuana and low price of their petroleum products," said the KP.
