I'll be able to look down; we are taking pictures at the P-P-P / P / P / P / P / P), but for what we have done, we are the ones that we have done to us.
Yes, only four years will happen.
A text message.
The opposite is, even before it comes to the Pope, there will be a meeting on that there is a meeting with another Delgado.
It was said that the former security guards did not go back to it, which also started to be taken from a case.
That is the beauty here.
We are already tired of texting each other, but we have known that we passed by the pier.
The authorities were brought here.
Fresh, what can be done for a virgin.
Applied, especially in April we are still the capital to be a integrity, which is a security guard; we are full of security; that's why there is also beauty.
Their arrival will be finished.
The former have been fervent, we are already pregnant.
So!
Study, when you go home, let us see if our plans are open to all of our plans.
It can only happen to our security passports if it is over.
What?
Incident.
You can face.
Oh yes, you text.
Minute.
There!
Very short; we should realize that the night, you should have went down the night when you went down, Chance, and then, is in the eyes.
That's why we don't need to go to the call station.
Even if.
Okay.
We are still thinking about this, let us continue on top of a little bit or if you need to be the children of the truth, that is where you will get tired.
Covetous, deport; as long as they give them.
But he's the son of barangay captain, is it not that big, he is very big.
I said, it is still far, and then we are just watering the pictures aside from what the Ate Vi needs to do.
Based on the bed that was not able to attend, which is why we are okay that we will be ready to pay, we will be ready to pay; our fellow countrymen will increase and we will force to force the captain of our countrymen.
Are you going to go where we need?
You will really close you, if you are really going home, it is just almost nine o'clock because I should still have bought a video.
To be brought by the number in position, what I am saying now is that, the ability that the incident has been declared is still not yet on Saturday, and somehow, it's too late.
The eight eight people that are happening here on the roof, are empty.
That is when we have to monitor those who monitor this, that is why it is just graduating from the procession for us to be the witness of the case that you came from together with our security in training Dagupan.
I was covered by an Akyat Bahay. "I was the one who killed.
Words, there is a bad thing.
Sampaguita Pictures, I gave an assurance to the public that I was asked by some of our fellow countrymen to step down, which is why he said, that there might be something different here in the office, what might happen to his friend and to the public that we need to pay.
Yes, talk to that here is what we are saying that we will let them sleep and again.
A deep day, that is not too one that might happen to us.
He / she grew up; he / she also misses his sibling who also misses it in the Philippines.
No matter what happened, I can go to each other that is why Tita you are affected, "we have to want to.
"He rode the school, which is also already dead so that you were able to talk to each other so that we have talked to our fellow countrymen who are not doing anything that's why you know how to talk to your siblings, right?" Do you know the weight of our siblings, right?
And our fellowmen in Mindanao.
They are not too much.
!
She was taking the letter because she was not talking about anything.
That is far from those who want and, in front of our siblings who are in front of our siblings in Mindanao, what they are saying is far from that, that is far from those who have been telling us not to give me first, so you should not be given yes to him and not let us not go.
Do not go near the issue that we might not go inside the documents to get a lot.
Pasig's Lydia alite, our lives were piled up.
Keep paper.
Yes, from there.
Ah, this is his new language.
About this also, it's because you decided to go abroad in Facebook.
He said that even if we are driving or like that, when we are not standing by the events, we can't say that it can happen in case I can still end here in our country, right? "I am in my room with the U S.
You are going to know if there are events that are happening now that there is something happening in every day so that we can see what we did.
Earlier, this is weekend when it was finished.
For the meantime, the monitor of our past six-year-old maid is being done by everyone who can see their members.
Hmmmp!
We are very confident; we can also get up with each other so that we will still have a little and no traffic is going to help our Department, so they do not want to see the Philippine Department, because they do not want to see the Philippine people around, because they do not want to see the people around you.
In line, he / she said that the same thing that we need is the reason why the sister and the citizens should understand the yes they are married.
Our fellow countrymen in us, do not think that we are our siblings in Mindanao.
Who continue to feel that they are on a single way.
Our life will continue, we should still continue to get closer to our race even if we have shown that we are affected by the land.
Ah, what is that thing I want to happen to the dentist.
But in our country, it is very thankful that what we saw in going to the church is not too much, they are afraid to understand the beautiful tourist in Mindanao, and hopefully, they are afraid of having a good thing in Mindanao that is why it shows that this week is ongoing.
But it is the cellphone of the people what should be done by a circle of our fellow countrymen here in Manila who want to get a glimpse of you here in different countries so that we can go near here in different countries.
So our fellow citizens here in the end, why do we just think that we're the only ones who can take care of us; we are the ones who will not neglect the security seven in our country?
P-B you are only able to get what we have even if we are just a few older sister.
If we will just find out on the total number of Philippines, we can look down; we have no conversation on just one hundred million?
But there were a lot of voices from Two who were only five in the room and I heard that it was just a big difference if it was not reached by one million worth of Humalig) which was not yet reached by one million pesos in our country, five or-bust operation, and then they also went to our country.
The Philippine Phenomenal Gideon IOS Corporation of the public needs to coordinate with the club if an example will be fulfilled as a member of our cough.
There are five who are out of blood that are taken out, whose legs are possessed; she is going to dress with Latin people and even the losses.
Security help, that is true and that is the time that we will be held at Eve like this next Sunday.
We will notice that our party who are observing the people who are observing the surrounding it is not right now that there are things that are far from there, that is why when there are things that are far from there, we have not left behind each other, that's why there's nothing that you can see, that is why when we don't know that it is far from them, we also know that it is not right to see each other that we have not seen each other, which is why we don't know that we are going to see each other.
Four years, you called up.
And then.
"Your co-workers, who are still strong, are still strong; we are still strong to beat up by our fellow countrymen, it's not right to say that we are in a background that's why we should just call it later tonight that we are just in other countries yes.
Just like you, you are your own community in your place in your office.
There is one year standing there to hell with one another and he can also be treated.
And then.
I don't want to see their faces of those who do not want to face the camera of C-C TT wherein you do not like this yes.
Maybe before he left there, then he / she left something like that, it's a little thing, that's why it's hard to think that we are just in English; however, it's not right that we are saying that it's not a very big effect of a bit of snub on the youth.
The help of others is also big.
Even if they are going to live, isn't it that we will help each other.
Four of us are in our country so that it would be better if there is security, right of course, a lot of course, before we have a number of course of practice each other, especially one.
Yes, my plea to the ears of ear to ear; but to our fellow countrymen, this is the right time for him to be bathing and we have texted us.
We are crazy; we are able to pay attention; this is their chance to take a little vacation for a long time.
That is there.
Is a woman?
Ah, it goes to you relatives in the province to take advantage of the opportunity to transfer to the house so that the traffic would not be affected, and then the traffic would not be affected and that's when you're going to take care of it and then you will get along with it.
According to him, he / she grew up; as long as he / she tells what DepEd said, and he was still one of the interests; we call each other; our call.
Our whole name of the room is that I do not have the weight of my sister.
Police and of your own fate, but every time you are fighting for you, a soldier looked at you, maybe we should do that.
Organization.
