A few more issues he will tell your mother on what they were doing is an inspiration because among those who were able to find out why three hundred pesos troops were not able to find out why there is no one kilo of government troops that have no help in Mindanao who have a resort in Mindanao who has a resort in Mindanao.
It is dangerous if we are in danger of the threat of Jeff, even if they want to go to the guests of five, but because of them going to their visitors, there is a clear question even if they are not in good questions about it.
In the security guard of Tito Ferdie, before he explained that when he arrived at Mindanao, it was possible that there would be a possibility that someone else will pass, and go with them.
People helped to help, to look down; while in a few moments later.
With the security guard's security, we talk about this point of office, Pia Babes.
I will cook a shack here.
Land is the mark of the bridge to Factor.
It is back here.
.
Operation.
Two eggplant that you want to give the light first is why the three companies of the one who will be taught to be able to capture the three company of the one who will be taught to kill.
Some of them walked in the lives of some of us who called for two ways to be able to free my debts.
The opposition of the truck first went to the five roads from the highway to reach the bridge to reach the bridge.
It's been separated for a span of 50 pesos for a billion pesos for a kilo of pesos in one kilo.
But it is only five square meters that is just the distance of two reinforcements that came from the date of almost all of it.
A fine, like that.
That is where I saw how they were pointed at that's why they were not able to give a grandfather.
Because of the garbage that happened, the reinforcements that happened to a big loss of text has not come closer.
M Riyals, in a hurry.
That's why they were able to catch up on the sun that there's nothing more than what they want to do.
They are the only ones who will see the opponent aside from their not familiar of the training, they have already done firecrackers.
It is said that one of these in a blender is also not included in the position that they should lay down to EDSA but they have been caught for a long time because they do not know who are Sherly.
The second, is it possible that they will support the R vaccine in flying in Ammute.
The infection called was Jojo, but where the people were able to find out, the Commander could be taught to have a room.
