
Garin continues and harassment the FOI.

What is happening to those who are expecting from the illness of Ebola?
The Department of Health and Department of National Defense shows the criticisms of protocol or policies against the entry and spread of Ebola in the country.
Hospital, anti-Ebola.
When the remaining Filipinos were able to evacuate, from Liberia which was being attacked by Ebola, not in Caballo Island, which they were brought to the quarantine Area but to the Armed Forces Medical Center, Quezon City.
According to the reports, the DOH is ordered by the DOH to just follow the military.
DOH reasoned that, they were free to burn down when they flew from Liberia and trying hard to bring them to Caballo Island and joining the quarantine on that they are going to finish.
But we also found out that AFPMC in the hospital who are on the list of DOH is not included in the list of DOH who will be able to bring you to those who are patriotic, which should be placed on the quarantine when they arrive in the country.
Noon the Philippines.
When Secretary Janette Garin did that, we let her face the whole country again.
It is also surprising that the management of the military has no word.
For those who are Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Guinea, the most DOH and military are the primary root of the strict obedience to the called protocol or proper policy to prevent or stop the spread of disease.
But here in my beloved Philippines, these two branches of the government are leading the violation of protocol.
PNoy, how.
What should Malacañang need to do with Garin?
Garin prioritized the politicians instead of the doctor's doctor who should lead the acceptance of the safety of the citizens from any illness, especially those who are pests to many people.
As a former congressman and politician, even if there is an illness, he is fed up, he is about to hug and anything else.
But all is to gather votes for the election.
Is this the one behind the disobedience of Garin?
Secretary Garin.
For us, the Ebola virus has a different discussion and no one should not mix in politics.
If Garin cannot see the difference of politics and safety of the citizens from the deadly disease, it is better to resign from his duty.
And this is the AFP Chief of Staff Gregorio Caping, Junior, what is right for him?
Can he not see that something is wrong with what Garin did?
The College of Philippine Ventures is one of the active actions against the possible entry of Ebola in the country.
In fact, they are already preparing all the doctors and other medical services against Ebola.
They are helping the strict campaign in the whole country against Ebola.
But Garin and Catapang here did not stop any violation of protocol.
It is the child of tofu, what if the worry of these doctors should be true that we can be able to enter and spread to the Philippines the Ebola virus that is done by the two stubborn officials?
FOI.
The House of Representatives or Kamara is said to be ready to approved the version of their committee in the version of the proposal for the Bangsamoro Basic Law or FOI.
We found out that the Alyansang Makabayan again withdrew from a Co who led to the proposal.
The cause of Oryong 501, the proposal of the proposal on the expected of the citizens is expected.
Instead of giving birth to the citizens to have a hurry to get a copy of the document of the government or talking to officials of the government about the transactions of the government and officials, the proposed law has been strict.
The foolishness.
Among the restriction of writing to the authorities about the desire to get a copy of or study the documents and take a 15-day answer to it.
When the wish is given, a simple "good intention is enough, which is enough to do not get any information from the government.
And the congressmen are scattered all over different activities, transactions and conditions that will never meddle with the people.
Please give details about this, Bro, next.
Where is the freedom for information there, duh?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
