"SPAUST"

If the survey will be implemented and election will be done today, Vice President Jejomar Binay will win as president.
Those who are believed to be the chicken of the administration, DILG Secretary Mar Roxas, are not far from the recovered 6 percent of those who have been with the survey - like Miriam Santiago, Bongbong Marcos and Alan Peter Cayetano but the survey is normal.
Aside from this personality, there are still no other things that could be considered or made to replace President Aquino in Malacanang.
A resounding call for Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte but Wu-M was taken to the mayor who tried to run as President.
In other presidentiable, aside from Duterte - Binay is the one being revealed as strong as the president.
But with what is happening with him by the foolishness in Makati by the Senate Blue Ribbon sub-committee, Binay has an accident.
Even if Binay says that there is a defamation in the Senate hearing on the Binay, there are those following the investigation in favor.
In the investigation of the investigation, the critics of Binay does not want to stop because the issues against the Vice-President did not want to stop.
If Duterte does not want to be a president and Binay becomes the people because of the issues being thrown at him, this is a big problem.
Because of the mentioned presidentiable, even if they do not insist to run, they will not vote for the public.
Because of the surveys, it is clear that the people do not want them so who will run in the coming 2016 national election?
I will not think anything that should run in the coming election, but Panfilo Lacson because compared to the mentioned presidentiable, he is clean. "
Lacson became the public for a few decades that did not get caught in the corruption, one trait that is not for those who want to replace PNoy.
In the country the corruption is the culture that if being treated, he needs a "tanim-" candidate" and "that is Lacson.
Panfilo "Ping" Lacson for 2016 elections, INOSalas.
