Chairman TG International Airport you made in Saudi for a long time.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 10, 2015.
In opinion.

Private First Class Alminda Isnain, one of the OFWs working in a factories in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, was born in Facebook.
According to Alungani, 25 Filipinos who are working in the company of the Nadsaag, Gusen Alban in Dubai asked for five months that they were not able to send their employer for five months that's why they were not able to send their families here in the Philippines.
They have already called their agency here in the Philippines, Onok International, who has an office for French land in Malate, Manila, but they did not help them.
"It is said that our company is in-law that is why even with my colleagues, I hope that no one can help us by our government," PM of Alonte.
We are calling on OTG International to resolve this problem of your countrymen who are able to resolve this problem of our countrymen in Dubai and do not be raised to the problem of our countrymen in Dubai if they will be raised to the problem of our countrymen in Dubai.
Department of Labor, Sec. Rosalinda Balarz or Arellano. Non-America), Ocasio International Airport) are distressed as if this is a good agency!
Parking area (Maker is crying because of Manila.
I once went to my office for the parking part of the toll fee of WA and Parking Bureau (Maker).
They complained about what they said, as if they did not have a heart, which is headed by Michael and Ludivay.
They said they made a letter and was given to Feng Shui, the Finance Minister of Mingo, and Margie Gange, to request their oldest boss, Salas, to request their eight months of cash on October to December 2014 and January to May 2015.
They need said money to be able to enroll for money and money to buy things from their children who are studying.
They also apologized to the management to remove the payment of cash for their salary because they are not fully utilized or not given to them if they are removed from work.
They also request Mayor Erap and Vice Mayor Isko Moreno to meddle with their long-time problem with the bad management of the Stukenbrock.
"Oh, Mayor Erap and Vice Isko, sir, the voters of Manila are the voters of Manila that they voted for you last election and I do not know," it's the voters, and if you voted for you?
It can be seen in parking space in the street when Lito Atienza started the time of Lito Atienza as a woman in Manila "which is headed by Lito's wife.
This is continued by the next administration of Fred Lim that the collection is going to the free service in the six district 8 million pesos and construction of health centers, dyed, etcetera.
In the adversary of Erap and Isko, we do not know where the collection is going through, which might happen in the TV and radio of Isko for Senator).
What's worse here is that when there is a victim's broken car, hit the car or carrying the car, they do not care or without care.
Maybe it would be better for them to stay in barangays in parking so that they will be the traffic in order to sustain or make the road to park in the streets to lessen the roads and ease the traffic in the city.
Do you know, Manila residents?
