
Use the lessons of EDSA Uno in the strengthening of the Marcos US.

Guide de Guia.
Invest in Southern Tagalog.
March 4, 2013.

On the ninth of ten-seven (27) anniversary today by EDSA Uno, give a tribute to the heroism of the Filipino people who took away from the country of the US-Marcos to fight and cut the victory of the filipino people to fight and cut the implementation of the filipino country in order to fight and cut the jurisdiction of the filipino country.
The goal of EDSA Uno is a popular dialogue with the partner of a Catholic military, to oust the Marcos dictatorship, and his co-mindedness of the Catholic Church, but he failed to get to know the true enemies of the Catholic Church, but he failed to get the power of a famous architect of the Catholic Church, but he failed to identify themselves as a new generation that took him from the landlords.

The temporary limitation of EDSA Uno and environment of the popular movement and environment will be set aside from the narrow-mindedness of the Filipino masses, that is why according to the beginning, it will not push through a revolution from the Filipino masses, that is why from the beginning, he is scheduled to finish the formation of anti-laws which will be removed from the narrow-minded change in the filipino masses.

During those times, the Pambansang Kamao has not yet made a huge movement and armed to lead the Liberal Party to lead the intensified campaign of the legislative chamber to lead the proliferation of the airport's lips to lead the inlet canals which is based on the true nation's remains.

The construction of a national awareness against the Marcos dictatorship which was ignored by the non-mindedness of the Liberal Party and national movement of Liberal Party and National Bureau of Liberal Party which is impossible to happen to the popular fight against the Marcos dictatorship, it is impossible that the popular fight will happen in EDSA in 1986.

On the other hand, because of the failure of EDSA Uno to complete different kinds of obstacles from each other, the citizens will return and think about the previous cancer of the society and the citizens further tied the cycle of the civic works.

Even if the real democracy is formal to be returned to the whole country, the huge businesses and institutions in the state of the state where there are no right change due to the interest of the citizens in politics and economists are being swept in power by the people who are taking advantage of the people taking advantage and the Filipino people taking advantage.

At present, although there is no declared Martial Law, the current administration of the Philippines-Aquino administration is still continuing to experience a huge loss of human rights which is currently being experienced by the political leaders of the country, which is why many of them still haven't received any kind of corruption in their ranks, which is why we still don't rely on their rights under the economy of the country.

The privatization of the Honor Code for education and health will continue to improve the status of the citizens in the midst of the worsening economic growth of the citizens in the middle of poverty, which is why there is no clear economic growth of the citizens in the midst of poverty, this will not be hidden by the filipino people in the midst of poverty.

There is no right change in the situation of the Filipino people after more than three years and for more than three years after Noynoy Aquino was appointed by the Filipino people, the Filipino people have proven that it has been proven by the Filipino people, that nobody can stop with the strength of the people.

Despite the limitation and failure of EDSA Uno, meaningful from the success of the filipino people, what is being pointed out is not enough to fight the improvement of the citizens and the real economic growth of the citizens to fight the economic growth of the citizens in order to fight the worsening economic growth of the society.

With the continuous fight in taking advantage of poverty, to know the armed struggle as the primary appearance of the fighting against the government to take the real condition of the people who will reveal the real situation of the Filipino people and only four concrete action based on its concrete condition.

The experiences of the Filipino people in EDSA Uno are serving as a lesson in EDSA, to let the struggle to be united and take the straight path of real freedom and democracy.

Long live the Filipino people who voted and fight back to protest, do not be afraid!
Join the New Hala Bayan!
