
Joint or Hala BE with the downfall of the government.

The lawmakers have no choice but open to the public the list of Janet Lim-Napoles about the thieves in the government.
"Is it that the thieves in the Senate, Congress and the Palace are being blamed.
If they will not do this, it seems that we are going to get their income again when there was an impeachment case a few years ago.
It was not opened to an envelope that contains an important evidence against the former official.
What happened next is that the people rushed to EDSA again and the court has not done anything, even the lawmakers and Malacanang, for change.
Senate.
Senator TG Guingona said that the chairman of the Senate blue ribbon committee will implement the list of Napoles.
"Is it that Justice Secretary Leila de Lima will try to submit his list.
But it seems that this is still being studied if they will call the investigation or not, whether they will call on the committee, especially Napoles, to face the investigation.
If the Senate is saying that, we are worried about the reaction of the citizens, Bro.
They should not belittled the citizens of this issue.
Legislative chamber.
As if the Legislative Chamber seemed to closed his door in an investigation on the same problem.
Asked by some opposition, especially Cong. Toby Tiangco, to investigate the legislative chamber.
But the answer of the cat is more cold on the nose of the cat.
He asked, what is the leadership of the House's leadership and he does not want to investigate the list of Napoles?
KKK by PNoy.
According to ex-Senator Ping Lacson, there is 90 senators who are involved in Napoles scam.
As said by Ma'am Sandali, 80 percent of those corrupt, allies, allies of President Noynoy, especially in the Senate, especially in the Senate.
But is this the truth in the legislative chamber?
Is this the reason why the leadership of the Chamber ignored the request for the resignation of the investigation?
Grace4BE.
If we will be asked, not an investigation is what is needed but a joint investigation.
In the initial investigation, the Senate and the legislative chamber are in a separate investigation in implementing the investigation.
They will destroy what they are saying, "for the sake of the interest of the people who should prevail in all the interest in my beloved Philippines.
In the joint investigation, it will be more easy to judge in order and not complete many times and money from the people.
2 Pad in the list.
Not only is the list of corrupt and plunderer of Napoles to release and investigate.
He should also be included in the list held by idol Ping and Sandali.
This is so we can find out the whole truth.
Together with this will be called for all the information gathered like the rightfulness of Janet, Jimmy and the one who gave the list of Miss Sandali.
This is where it will happen to him if Ma'am, Leila de Lima gave him the list she gave to him by Ma'am Pilar.
Just a few.
There in the Senate, Bro, it is important to count peace from the majority of senators.
"It's a Silent," o'clock in the students. "Yes," is the answer of most senators on the accusations that they are included in the list?
And "what we will hear from them is that they are corrupt or corrupt?
"Is it that in a span of ten o'clock in the o'clock of Ruby Tuason, they will return a little bit of their loot!
According to the reports, around 40 million worth of stolen wealth was what Ruby returned even if it was about P240 million stolen from it.
Who will be Ruby Tuason?
If ever all the names of senators involved in the Senate investigation will be revealed, if there will be, who will be Ruby Tuason?
"Who will do something wrong, then he will return a little bit of the things they had stolen.
And they will be a state witness to be able to choose their fellow thieves.
Who will be received?
If you will know all the involved senators in stealing public funds, including those in the palace and the legislative chamber, even in the Senate investigation, who will receive a state witness of those corrupt?
There are people who are left to ask for forgiveness and will be understanding among corrupt politicians and corrupt?
I was just asking!
A warning.
Idol Ping Lacson warned that the Senate might fall down if all senators who are involved in the leadership of Napoles can be revealed.
We have to add the warning, Bro, not only the Senate will fall.
It might also be at the Palace, especially if it is true that 80 percent of those involved are the KKK of PNoy.
And they are all able to do everything if they are not investigating.
We are just asking about it.
Is it possible that only three senators will remain in case Ma'am Pilar will instruct how to call him in the Senate?
