
Spin the success of Filipino people in the entire country.
It is a message of reading in the gathering.
Watching the alphabet right.
The NDFP members in Metro Manila.
On the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the Bastes.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
March 29, 2014.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) wants to send the revolutionary movement of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in Metro Manila that are preparing now to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the Bagong HE.

The PKP is greeting all those who joined in the past few days to express their support for the Botchok (HB) to give inspiration to the employees of workers, youth, women, poor workers, poor workers.
Everyday, the Filipino towns in the entire country is being pushed through success because in the past few days, there was a successful offensive by the Bables as well, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal, Compostela Valley, Capiz, Quezon, Rizal and Isabela.

Aside from the armed fight, the advancement of the armed forces are going to succeed in the advancement of the constitutional solution because democracy is in the hands of the citizens in front of the brutal slaying of the citizens in front of the brutal conflict and sacrifice.

It is a big role for the masses to be responsible for the advancement of Filipino people in the advancement of Filipino towns in the countryside, particularly in Metro Manila, the role that you should fulfill is a big role that you should fulfill in the total advancement of democratic country.

We glanced on the two on the responsibility of the revolutionary movement in the top.
It is time to push the democratic movement of the masses in Metro Manila.
In relation to this, we should be able to push through the movement to oust Aquino in front of you, and you should plan well on how this will push for the next two years.

It is needed to expose this kind, lying, corruption and the welfare of the Marcos regime, the people should see that it's not possible for them to wait for the next elections which is likely that Aquino will control over the next elections which is likely to give way to the main issues of the country.
Quick to capture the masses, instead of putting up the masses in the middle of the terminal.

Let us improve the research, search and examination of the information and use of all that took a chance to expose and quick propaganda to expose and fight against Aquino.

2) supported the advancement of Filipino people in the countryside.
Propaganda should be a propaganda to the people, especially in Metro Manila, the advancement of Filipino towns in the countryside, you need to be a voice of the Botchok (Central) in order to know the success in different regions, the Philippine Revolution (Central).

The statements and newspapers of the Liberal Party should take care of one of the gathering to watch the video about the tasks in the countryside which made the poster billing, factories, community, street, etcetera.

Let the leader of the Filipino people fight against the people.

Encourage the youth to join the New Hunan Bayan to encourage everyone to serve the land under the land in the countryside to gather and send material and given support for the Pizarro and pickpocket.

This is just a few of the activities that can be done by the Israelites before, if it can be done in the upcoming way, the advancement of these activities especially in Metro Manila will be a meaningful way to raise the total advancement of the whole country.
