113 million pesos for anti-climate change should be guarded.

According to one of the leading countries, the Philippines is one of the leading countries in pushing for the program anti-climate change in fact, Bro, the government will progress next year with P136 billion pesos for this.
The government is serious with the problem of climate change or heat in the world because we are hit by a severe effect.
There is an example, for example, the strong typhoons and rain are severe, and the heat of the sun is being destroyed, not only our surroundings and properties but also the livelihood of many such as farms and services, and many others.
Expenditure.
Around 98 percent of P130,000 pesos will lower down from the weakness or Disaster Risk Reduction, flood control and development in agriculture, energy, environment, infrastructure and technology and technology.
Also included here are the exposed to the public that are spending on funds and clearly identify the projects to protect the destination or use of funds.
There are some questions that can be followed by many questions in starting and progress of programs and projects.
The first question: How much are the corrupt officials, I mean, the commission of the government officials will be the one to teach and the approval of the projects?
Second question: Whose places will be put in programs and projects?
The third question: Will the programs and projects be used in the election 2016 are programs and projects?
The fourth question: If there will be a mandate, Bro, will the Department of Budget and Management Office of the record?
The latter was asked for experience because of the experience that the record of the fund was used by three senators who are detained the release of DBM and this is being complained by the Commission on Audit.
Due to the egg of the COA, why are three eggs in the Senate as well as the three eggs in the Senate, they are saying that there is a bigger change in defending the administration but these are not surprising but these are not horrible because of the COA, hehehe!
Equivalent to the DAP.
Can you remember, Bro, the Disbursement Acceleration Program which is approved by the Supreme Court? It was answered by the corrupt and plunderer because this was related to the toilet of the SC, Priority Development Assistance Fund.
And it is more bigger because the pork barrel scam is only a billion pesos, while it is almost 24 to P1675.B of DAP, now it is more than 113 million pesos worth of climate change "that's why those corrupt in exchange of DAP have been found.
We are not asking because everyone knows that no one is following the Tuwid na Daan "to ask the contractor of the programs and projects.
You are distressed.
It is certain that the corrupt and corrupt officials will say that they will take a clean program and projects and projects, and there will be no non-governmental organization between them but for the agencies of the government.
Question: Do we not pass through the anomaly in the anomaly in MRT?
How about the trees in the flood control project, project and remits, that is why there is no solution for the flood and-mindedness?
So, everyone goes under the Tuwid na Daan "!
Needs to earn.
"The citizens' belief will not be removed from hearing aid of election" in 2016 are the programs and projects of the government, "as if all are" in exchange of fund-raising "and" in hearing aid of the Duterte administration. "
It cannot be blamed for the citizens to think about this and be suspicious of the shouting of the lawmakers and those from Malacanang to push through P10.3 billion funds for the anti-climate change.
Why?
Take it seriously.
Nevertheless, if the program will really push forward, everything should be serious.
Remember that every year, many are dying due to the huge effect of climate change and poverty is coming from here or more poverty.
The millions of citizens are losing hope on the future.
Who will not die, to get on and lose the future for every year and consecutive calamities in the Philippines because of the increasing typhoon surge and storm surge of super El Niño?
But there is a need to take a problem with the people with people and they will not allow them to prevail.
In every exit of corruption and corruption, you should find out the source of fire or lungs.
And do not hide the documents of documents or transactions with smoke of corruption or theft from the public funds!

Ultimatum at him / Benny.
