
Going down the lies of Aquino.

Editorial Department.

The country.
July 21, 2013.

It is certain that the lies in the burial of Benigno Aquino III in the opening of the 16th session in the Congress is the one following this is the following.

"The economists are quick," this is contrary to the fact that the quality of life of the citizens will worsen and the quality of the lives of the people due to the directive of the Aquino administration to implement the negative rules of liberalization, privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the

"Economists are going to progress through programs Public Works and Private Consignation." This is the opposite of the continuous increase in relation to health services, education, public service, transportation and communication due to the important aspects of economists.

"Jobs skills are the problem, but there are many jobs that the workers do not have a lot of work, but there is still no lack of work and the quality of work which can heal the importance of work and causes a bigger form of taking advantage of the workers.

"It's only the remains of old corruption that was left.," it is contrary to the corruption that they are involved in the corruption involving the siblings, relatives and crusade in spite of the contracts on projects which are infrastructure for the public projects in Public Works and Gaming Corporation.

"It is just looking forward that peace in Mindanao will be focused on," this is the opposite of the ongoing armed forces of the AFP and the campaign domination against the farmers and Filipino Moro and continuously attempt by the MILF to give up the bait of the citizens of the Filipino people's goal in making decisions.

"

"The military and the police respects the human rights," this is contrary to the widespread abuse and increasing number of cases of non-arrest, illegal drugs and violation of the rights of children, women and elderly.

"It got peace and prosperity in the countryside due to the program that was being thrown away," this is the opposite of the widespread lack of land, marijuana and other main wealth and destroy the environment.

"Of the declaration of the Marcos regime, sovereignty and sovereignty of the Philippines against China." The truth is, in the name of fighting against the Philippines by implementing the military by the US to have a permanent presence in the Philippines through Visiting Forces Agreement and other order, which is growing and violate the economy of the Philippines.

"The Oplan LS is successful" this is contrary to the quick increase of the Putatan, which reached more than 10,000 or more than 10,000 or more than 10,000 pesos in the coming years.

Through the reconciliation of this, Aquino will start the second share of his six-year-old owner to follow the revelation of the foreign bank and company, the Filipino people will experience more poverty compared to the first three years of his side.

In order to take care of it, Aquino will surely use the extreme deceit associated with the foul and strengthening of the poor masses to prevent the poor fight against the people.

The Filipino people should dismiss the lies of the Marcos regime and reveal the ongoing crisis in the ongoing crisis in the ongoing crisis and the local system being used to be held accountable by a huge US and local government that each have heard in a huge number or big Lord Nazarene.

They should push for the goals for the national democracy and medical services to end the understanding and opportunist system which led the reform the land, the national anue hopes to implement the reform the land, national anue.
