Let us go back to Major-such as something that I have brought to the chief of Western Mindanao in the good night going to there.
Yes, it is a good place for you to go to you, whose credibility is indeed the report of General who is very credibility; this is the answer to what I heard, Aiza said, because there were some of the love of God, Jesus yes.
Yes, he / she got her Marie.
There were these kinds of hornets; they are pointing at each other, they are being showered with a lot of students.
Yes, this is a criminal group, isn't it that way there?
Okay.
Two people.
Let's visit here, we are stupid; we are proud.
That is why people believe it will end up in the fourth time.
!
Tomorrow, you know.
Our troops are going home to the complaints of the people there and then.
Maybe they are talking about this group.
They say that their political is for their political yes, Tyo; and Andang), whom Andang) called Industries which affects your lives there.
Is it the same thing that we can look down; we are the only group of Internal Affairs that we are just groups.
Yes, our fellow countrymen are still eight years old.
Cavite, there was already a video.
We want to know this time.
It is Dante's five who died for eight who have died because of what he / she said, that he / she was able to tell about what he / she was saying; that's why he / she was able to go down; he / she saw that there was a foreigner who was said to have a foreigner.
Keep initial reports.
It was on duty, and we learned of PNoy that there are four who are okay, but they still do not want to buy her clothes there.
Who among these four days?
But this is not new, isn't it that there's a time that there's a time that there are foreigners to be with the enemies of the government in some parts of Mindanao.
Yes, there are even those who say that, what's important is that, what is important to him is that they already have to be with this group that's why they claim that they are not listening to the mass with the mass which can be taken to Juan Luna who's really there.
Is it a high blood pressure because there are those who are pitiful or ill-shaped like seven groups, this is simple in making I am simple in making I like Marian who is like Marian Rivera.
That's why we cannot say what kind of candidate, in Indonesia, in the form of what they are saying that they are saying that it's an allergy attack this day, but you are now.
"We are anxious; we look at each other and see here that one of those who have been killed was suddenly, Caloocan, one of those who have been killed, from the trouble, the price of our Tagalog so that this was finished in the middle of the middle of it.
Ah, it is said that now they are done in the continuing clearing operation.
Fulfill what we want.
Yes, our troop here and five of our colleagues in the P-P) say that we are just going to take care of us.
"Do not make it as a mother, and then I hope for him to die in the room, thank you very much for those who die in the room, so thank you very much; he / she grew up at around Guda. Cruz chief of Western Danao, and also for her lower abdomen, it is also possible that it is also possible.
