
COLLECampE is your Defense in Asia.

The content of the news is the new map where China is sent out about the entirety of their said territory.
.
The only thing that will make it on 1940s, it has issued a declaration of the declaration of the jurisdiction of their territory last 2009, they made a 9-bust operation, and now it was June 2014 when they released 10 billion pesos.
It cannot be denied that one of the people who made a country did not insist and there was no legal statement by Sec. Sonny Coloma, the Presidential Communications Sec. Sonny Coloma, the Presidential Communications Sec. Sonny Coloma, the Presidential Communications (Operations Office.
A country has a unique right in that way to be used (conservation), and make sure that there will be used in the highest level of water, land, and is asking for a distance of 200 square meters from his coast, but they are taking advantage of the highest level of 200 square meters from the shore as well as the coast of Palawan.
In the visit of President Benigno Aquino III in Japan, the two countries strengthened their relationship and expressed his readiness to help the Philippines in order to support the security of the said country, but also by others who will need help from the country, but also by others who will need help from the country, but also to other countries to defend themselves.
The Japanese considered his primary national interest in fulfilling his sovereignty that is why there is a big war between the two countries starting from 1937 until 1945.
It is the same for Vietnam to resolve the resolve of Paracel Islands, that's why they are fighting and bombing of water in China, which, if you think about it, are their allies in the past time.
In the Philippines, can he consider the freedom from meddling without permission from a foreign country in its jurisdiction, however, this is what we should thank China, right now, that is what we should thank China, right now that we should have their own ability to defend our jurisdiction.
For the right path, thank you to the current administration, to strengthen the HE.
We continue to listen to the consciousness of many of the colonization of the colonization in the territory that is allocated to us under the Ubers which is why we can also talk to our leaders in their social media accounts that we can help our leaders in their social media accounts.
Let us not allow us to allow our country to be negligent just in the next generation that we have done and put in to others, even the benefits and resources that we have done so that we do not have anything.
