The new prisoners, it was presented.

The different groups protested in front of Camp Crame in Quezon City to set an condition for the three opposing political leaders who were arrested in Molino, Cavite last June 1.
They insisted that the arrest of Sharon Cabotahe, his wife, Adelinquent Silva, is a National Democratic Front (NDF) arrest PAGCOR) and driver Isidro de Lima who is detained in Crame.
Silva was arrested by the alleged lapses of pickpocket to arrest for murder charges in Aparri, Cagayan, and from Laoang Northern Samar.
Allegedly a case was charged by the fugitives, Cabuslay and de Lima, with a case against the three cases of the illegal drug pusher.
"We are worried about the continuing arrest and endorsement of activists and for an ordinary citizens of the government through the actions of the government through the actions of the government through action," said Ron Villegas of Crispin B. Carmencce Center.
According to Roger Soliba, the provincial secretary of Kilusang Mayo Uno, the weapons not allegedly taken from the three to give reason to the illegal arrest of them is the cause of illegal drugs.
When it was arrested, Silva was arrested by the identity of the hidden mystery that he is protected by Joint Task Agreement (WBC), an agreement with the peace talks by the government and NDF who said that the participants of the peace talks should not be arrested.
The command of the public is being shown by the sincerity of the Aquino administration on the peace talks and hearing for the complaints of the citizens.
"Instead of solve the root of the problem, resolve the cause of the arguments or armed fight, what did the government of Aquino arrested a NDF Normandie and leader of Gabriela and it is clear that this government is numb about the desire of the Filipino people," he said.
In the record of human rights to Karylle, there are 527 prisoners in the country, Cabotahe, who is the former public transport in the International Criminal Court of Gabriela, the fourth of the political prisoners under the Aquino administration.

Gabriela who are increasing number of women with political prisoners and their situation in the country are opposing, "many of them have illnesses, elderly, who are almost in prison but are not moving the case," said Jimboy Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
According to Salvador, it is only one that Sharon Cabotahe, who has a heart disease with political prisoners who needs immediate and special treatment as Wilma Tiamzon, who is suspected to be a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, has a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, there is a high leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
Along with this, Gabriela was launched in the campaign of Sharon Cabotahe, free all political agenda, "and insisted on the suspension of the cases of the prisoners with illness and immediate release of them.
"We are asking for the immediate release of Sharon for based on humanitarian issues, and for sure there is no truth with the cases against him.
Mia de Lima is also included in the protest, the son of Isidro de Lima.
"The government of Aquino, are the criminals, who are still a few people who will experience this kind of human rights?
More than a week was detained by Cabotahe, Silva and de Lima in the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group of the Philippine National Police in Camp Crame.
