RR caccam, Ping Lacson, is not able to take action.

Postanes and his mind.
On patrol, 2014.

Presidential Assistant State University (Izzy Canillo) Chief Panfilo "Ping" Lacson was blamed for him to file a case because it appeared in their last Assure that his job is over.
Until February 10, 2015 was the transition to projects.
In the decision "by Senator Senator Ping Lacson, he proved that he is not taking care of my position (not like others).
This means, from the start, he accepted what his role is going to start the projects for those affected by calamity.
And now that it is already over, it is clear to him that he needs to resign.
On the other hand, it is better that Secretary Ping Lacson will resign because if he will stay for a long time, he will make it look like he will make it look like the flower vase. "
He said that he is a boss, but he has no control of people because they are from different units or agencies of the government based on their experiment or duty.
He has no control of funds because it is direct in the management of the national government.
If it is postured by the local government units, the projects under the rehabilitation center are already normal, it is normal to lessen the purpose of the purpose of ending the said "super body."
What we can do now is to thank Secretary Ping and get to know that he is part of history in order to rise from Tacloban, Leyte and other places in Eastern Visayas and other places in Eastern Visayas and other places in Eastern Visayas.
Thank you, Regulations Secretary Ping Lacson!
Hit or what are you making any political survey?!
We are just wondering why in the number of reports that are coming out about the survey that came out about their respective politicians, we do not even have anything or even one of our acquaintances.
Your service here in Metro Manila is more than half a century but we do not have the actual survey seen on the streets.
That's why we are not wondering why the survey results of news will be taken away or to be given to anyone or to be chosen.
Sonhmmmp!
I am sure, I am impressed by that kind of surveys, "that!
What do we want to insult?!
The survey is a famous conditioning in the mold, "for their targets.
"That is really what is painful here in our country, there are sectors or Saray who have no ability to increase the system of politics in the country.
Most of our voters are thinking or choosing their powers based on how much they see it as the television or how they can read the newspaper.
And because they are lacking in the ability to examine information from the media, those who are pointing out in their minds are the ones who supported them.
This is one of those who are instruments to make a lot of survey which is being spent on by a lot of money on the money of the politicians.
What is their agenda to release a survey?
We have one basis here, that no matter when we are in mind, we have not seen any actual survey.
"That is all.
