According to witnesses: It is really a different kind! By Jimmy Cantos or November 5, 2016, the Philippine Eagle Committee on Oct. 26 is released on the list of voters on October 26, for BOC C election which will be done in Number 25.
They were appointed to vote for the funeral parlor in the Philippines - Peter Cayetano, the vice-President of the group, as a replacement of Joey Romasanta, who took a leave for president in order to beat the UPP).
But Ricky Palusao, the secretary-General of LVPi, and said that Cayetano can't be able to vote for the association because he has no one to vote for the president, who should have nothing else to vote for LVPi.
The problem of this problem is simple because he supports the camp of Ricky Vargas, the president of the boxing Association which is going to run as enemies of Jose Cojuangco Jr., the leader of BOC C that is running for four four-year-year-law.
While writing this, there is still no news on what the decision of BOC C Comelec about the cases filed by Vargas will be surprised but I will not be surprised if the Comelec's decision will still be surprised.
Palapal also questioned the being president of the two Canadians of Romasanta trusts that everyone knows that they are part of Cojuangco.

Romasanta run as the First vice president of Cojuangco, while there was a news that he will be the secretary general of BOC C if Vargas will win.
According to Palusao in his letter to PO2 C: "Ib-Illegal Drugs Act of CPRO, WHO) to be an one person against the top of the 141 members of the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections), the identity of the First C-elections?"
For those who do not know, the Salley's V-Masa, which is one of those who are supporting LVPi. "Romasanta, aside from being president of LVPI, is also one of the officials of the league, the other municipal hall of the country.
Are you confused?

This is really chaotic, and this is due to the desire of an unexpected leader to lead POC even if the change of change is strong.
It's really a different kind!
