Shameless, old; and tomorrow.

You will find out my stomach to think that this will implement an agreement today (from "chopsuey" gambling dens in Manila and CAMANAVA or Caloocan, Malabon, Navotas and Valenzuela City.
I thought that after I put the names of those involved and expose the names of those who are involved and expose the places where illegal gambling are widespread, it is not acceptable for me not to abandoned this truth.
If I will do it, it's as if I was blind at a very painful reality.
That's why it is very careful on how the Manila City Hall and the Manila Police District and the Manila Police District were able to remove their eyes on the widespread video of the sun, Horse-called horseshoe, and the Montenero in the city.
Until when will President-Mayor Joseph Estrada, Chief Superintendent Rolando Asuncion, MPD director; and Chief Inspector Bernabe Arriba, Jr., chief of the Manila City Hall Special Action Force (Special Action Force (masses), are the ones who are blind to him?
But your blind eye is popular in Quiapo, what needs to be done is a simple thing; we have closed his eyes while there is no need for both sides that is right, mayor?

If the officials of the city and the police are only able to open their eyes, they clearly see that the most cherness of the gambling Lord in Manila is "Boy Abunda."
He is holding the horse race of horse race and cellular phones of lotto and jueteng) in Tondo, Manila.
And who are trying hard to take advantage of the police?, my spy told the "Philip," the bagman of Boy Abunda, and is sure that no one will conduct a raid in their businesses.
Like Boy Abunda, "a Filipino operators in the city, seemed to have his own way as they pretended as the authorities and the authorities have not seen his illegal business.
When it comes to a businessman named "Ver Navarro," it looks like cataract is the eyes of the masses.
According to the payment, Ver Navarro has an illegal drug lords in the Manila which he inherited from the retired gambling Lord, "Pasia," Pasia, which his name is equivalent to the Horse-Tropas, Pandacan (his territory).
One of the police who is known as "krrrik," a sergeant of the National Capital Regional Office, is the one who gives a Toyota Innova with the authorities.
"In social interaction with his" co-workers, "added Sergeant Gaspar Jr.
It is likely that the authorities are also removed when the names of OIgnacio, alias "Mamondiong," Enteng Kabisote "and" Enteng. "Are all crammed in the street corner of Vargas, aside from other positions in Manila.
"It seems that the gambling dens of Jeff and Anna in Sampaloc will also be blind to the authorities in Pandacan, of Rowena Guanzon, Pandacan, in Binondo, and in other places in the third district of the city, together with a new district in the city.
I do not know why from the number of engines in video karera to the whole of Manila, nothing is seen, so that the operation of Gina and Romy Gutierrez will not stop.
I do not want to believe that the authorities are blind at the operation of the gambling Lord, and they have not accepted this kind of business in Manila, "that's the only thing, if the complainant met with the firing line, the eyes are open!
