People's cooperation with Uncle Mon has a mutiny?

OMG!
I thought that the news I have read yesterday was old, before that I have been mistaken for an old because what we've read about his self-control "third force" by Uncle Jose, Cojuangco) was always an award.
No offense to NPC President Joel Eguessed, the Senior Police of Manila Times Square inside the story.
"This is the" clapping of the vice President. "
E, we are not doubting the ability of Uncle Mon to launch this kind of action against the national government.
We are doubting his goal of why he suddenly came back to the call of Archbishop Ramon Arguaving, to push the transition government.
The decision of the Supreme Court is a basis of the decision of the Supreme Court to illegal the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), and Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and other kinds of pork barrel scam.
Arguarse, the call of last August is a big rally in Lipa City.
And this is what Tito Sotto wants to buy 10 million signatures of former Chief Justice Reynato Puno, who is said to be the spokesperson of General Malvar was the former general who allegedly surrendered to the Americans.
The transition government will push for to avoid the bloody fight.
Uncle Mon is in the top first so that his nephew / her nephew will allegedly step down from his position.
In order to be peaceful, they will ask for the support of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) because this is allegedly the promised duty in the Constitution of the country.
Cojuangco said that the decision of Cojuangco and Villegas is the stand of their decision and will not withdraw in order to build the transition government.
Just by the National Transformation Council (NTC), those seated in government will gradually change.
Today, December 3, it is said that the decision of the transition government in Angeles City, Pampanga.
We told this news to some friends and acquaintances in LGBT community.
Their answer is one of their answers that is Euphrasia IOS in the same level of their eyebrows.
You know, Uncle Mon!
