Frankly said he is good in choosing FVR, Special Action oy of China.
By Ellen Toribio, July 17, 2016 with our short conversation with former President Fidel V. Ramos from the span of 40-year-headed ations of Vietnam and the Philippines, he said there was no formal talk about the grudge against him as Special Action oy of China.
Ramos said they are still not talking about the President about the details of the position so he is still not sure yet. "He is very noisy with what he said," Singson said.
President Rodrigo Duterte announced he takes care of FVR as the Special Action Force to talk to China after the United Nations Argive in order to cover the ocean of other countries like the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, China, and now has its own government which is also the same in the territory of China.
The announcement of Duterte was about to give an award to San Beda University, where he studied Law, in Club Filipino in San Juan last Thursday.
Ramos said, "if I will visit it because we are already old," he said, that kind of position is, he needs his staff.
It is a good decision in choosing FVR to talk to China in the role of Sprateng, as the former President and military, he knows the complicated issue that he has experience in dealing with China.
The endorsement of the MisChief Reef of China last 1993 when Ramos came to the president but the Chinese did not leave but the Chinese did not leave.

But even like that, China's treatment in the Philippines was not destroyed, not stop talking - not just like what happened to the government of Benigno Aquino III.
That's why last 1996 was Meeting last 1996 was the president of China who is Jumuad.
Anyway, last year, APEC Meeting of APEC was also attended the president of China who was Xi Jinping but the relationship of the Philippines and China is not really good.

It is important that this will be sent by Duterte to China, he has a big trust in his inauguration, Special Forces of Duterte, he thanked FVR, he is in Malacañang now.
For the welfare of the country, the tactic of Duterte is to talk with China because even if the Philippines will win in the United States, the UN has no ability.

The Supreme Court should implement their decision if China does not want to.
What is needed is diplomacy, "the role of FVR.
