
You declare retirement, the heart of poor people who live in the city.

By Iya Espiritu, February 14, 2014.

Ka Percy (right)) - for the poor people who live in the city, it seems that the traffic administration will be saved from their problems in life, it seems that the traffic will be solved if there is a lot of businessmen and foreigners who will get rid of the country if the buildings are clean.

This is not new before this is the program of the past government - Ferdinand Marcos, Cory Aquino, Fidel Ramos, Joseph Estrada and Gloria Arroyo.

It's just different when he is called to be an excuse, but instead of solving the problems of the poor, they are not just their home but also the livelihood and future of their children.

There are a lot of promises made by those assigned in power during the coming election, they are not saying anything but promises to prioritize the interest of the poor, they will give them a job, to support the youth, to support the youth, and will be given a housing program.

After the votes of the votes, they are behind the poor poor people.

A life of Estanyo was made to know, "Ka Inday" Bagasbas, leader, resident of Kalubihan, Damayang Lagi, leader of our fellow countrymen, who are the ones who live in the city, they are continuing to spend their right to live.

From the farmer's family he is humble but he insists that the rights are (picture of Bulos a picture of North Cotabato, Ka Inday, 58, from North Cotabato, Ka Inday, 58, from the farmer's family.

Aside from the driver, the father is the primary livelihood of the family, Ka Inday, 12 siblings.

"We were with our mother on the wide land, and we had learned to have a mark of the bones in planting and we were not able to finish studies because we were able to help in the farm, he said.

In elementary school, Ka Tenny and her four siblings died early because of an illness and there were six more of them remained in North Cotabato that worked in North Cotabato, which is why a lot of them lost their livelihood, which is why a lot of them lost their livelihood in Cotabato City, and two of them took place in Manila.

In the year 2006, Ka Inday decided to go to Manila to fulfill his dream of studying and going to college as a friend when she escaped and left his parents, and he was not able to do anything but to be careful not to be careful.

He is talking, "I worked with me as a house helper in the house of three years but they were receiving P30 one month but they did not fall short in studying because they were having a hard time.

Ka Inday when courted by the first wife of the former husband, a Toyota Innova with Mariano and lived in Marilao, Bulacan, and transferred to Bernardino Hospital but was not enough for Mariano, aside from his vices.

"We did not get along well," Ka Inday, "I also studied to be a canvas to send our two children to school, that is why the thickness of my palm was full of calluses."

In 1980 when they transferred to Barangay Baesa, Novaliches, and after five people ended up in North Triangle, "living was the unique reason why he was staying in Balintawak and Teaching Hospital in 1988 at the time when he was stabbed in Balintawak and Munoz," when he was stabbed in a drink, and Ka Inday where she was able to support her children.

It is contrary to what others say that we are lazy, to call out and have no hard work, the poor, that's why you do not progress in life, Ka Tenny, said to support the children, and dream that the children will not experience the suffering that they are applying at.

Sometimes, Ka Freddie also dreamed of leaving San Roque, North Triangle and build their own house so in 1989, she worked with domestic helper (DH) in Yemen, Middle East for almost two years and he was left behind by two children from relatives.

"But what I am earning is only $100 only in a month, but I was long because my boss was kind and was not hurt when my eldest child got addicted to drugs and was stabbed, according to him.

Upon the return of Ka Inday in the Philippines, she was able to buy his own land but in San Roque, "we cannot handle the land, we are free to live and our community is free," he explained.

He worked for a sack a sack and her second husband was known and they had two sons, and my wife, Ka Inday why she did not get up with the relationship with her husband who has no importance of self and hard work to change their situation.
He, and brought her children through cooking breakfast, lunch and lunch and built a different store in front of their home from 1995 until now, he had two children who are studying in high school.

Against the residents of San Roque Kwento ni Ka Inday, "in 1985, the houses inside North Triangle, but in 1989, our area was identified as San Roque, San Roque, and some of them were looking at the construction, and those who are working in the construction of the firemen, San Roque, and those who are working in the Philippine Science High School and Veterans Memorial Hospital as a janitor.

Year 2001 when there was a huge fire near EDSA that there were 1,000 houses burned and again built houses; because the land of the government in the time of Cory Aquino, Ramos and Estrada was not noticed.

"Since he visited Gloria Arroyo," says Ka Inday, "they already thought that it has been different from the intention of some who are pretending to be living, but only after a week, he had thought that he was busy in raising the children and will be given the payment for their livelihood.

But those who are living there and their own efforts will improve their area, they are having a hard time because there is no water and electricity.

But the former residents are trying to return to San Roque, because they have their own livelihood, because they do not want to take care of our poor people, "they are hoping that we will pay it for 25 years but they cannot do it because we do not have enough income.

There are also many of the poor, who were only taken away from a safer place, "last January 14, there is an ordinance that the Quezon City Hall, which prohibits the construction of any establishment in the city, has not yet needed to get a court order to capture the areas where the house is built.

That's why last January 27, the violent demolition of San Roque has started once again, unlike before, "San Roque said that there were some more than 50 families who built a shack in the central island of Agham Road, and in the right side of Ka Inday," it was found out that we were not included in the list of Berezniki from Quezon City Central Business Center.

He thought that he went there to give his support, and that's where he saw that nobody is dependable for the government, and then he became busy with a rag in order for the two children to spend for the projects in school.

According to Ka Inday: "It is clear in me that the reason why we have a decent job in the country is because we do not have a decent job in the country, but we still do not have a decent livelihood in the country, but we still do not have anything to eat and spend on earth, especially those who have no trust in the government, who lost faith in the government.
As said, as long as the government does not express what will happen in the lives of the poor.

Despite the lack of loss, they are still taking a snake and it is still unclear if you are fighting in the heart of Ka Inday, "why do you need to fight and defend their rights," you believe that he will not be able to fight and defend their rights, "you believe that he will be able to fight and defend their rights," you believe that he will be able to fight and defend their rights, "you believe that he will be able to fight and defend their rights," you believe that he will be able to fight and defend their rights that will give them a livelihood for the majority.

And when this happens, he said, they will not be called poor people who live in the city.
