
In the national group, he was calling for release from the personalities of the NDFP members.

NDFP International Office.
April 19, 2014.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (International Airport is a call for the burial of the NDFP members.

Recently, it was just requested by a national in human rights and movement from the US Benigno Aquino III in the Philippines to release the Philippine Democratic Front of the Philippines to release the Philippine Democratic Front of the Philippines to release their tasks for the implementation of the peace talks between the NDFP members in Manila.

The request for the final declaration of declaration of declaration of Miss International Symposium on Human Trafficking ation was held in Berlin, March 15-17 and was taken out of a crematorium in April.

Various groups from Europe, Middle East, Latin America and Africa, who were able to support the human rights and fight against the political administration, included in the kidnapping, economy of political administration, is part of the kidnapping, the political leaders who are fighting for politicians' political system.

"We insisted for an immediate release and no direct release of Tirso Alcantara, Alan Celino Damian and other Philippine Democratic Front of the Philippines," the declaration of different groups.

The final declaration of declaration of declaration of declaration of declaration of Martial Law is what we insisted for the immediate release of all the political prisoners and not a crime rate in the prison, of a grave of human rights and has a responsibility in sending their rights to the political rights. "

Included in those released on the declaration of the Republican Sinsero (Ireland); Kilusang Severe Acia); The Legal Management Council (Germany); Philippine National Liberation Front (Turkey); and the all Overseas Filipino People's Revolutionary (IED); and the all Overseas Filipino People's Revolutionary (NFL); and the all Overseas Filipino People's Revolutionary (MRI).

The groups taking advantage of the slow action against the political regime like the Philippines, who expressed, "if one of us is attacked by the police or any other candidates to defend or to protect them.

"We will have launched different kinds of protest, an example in front of the embassy of the embassy of the embassy of having a protest, writing a letter on our website in the internet, or similar type of action."

The Resuello was introduced to the desire of the filipino people who are getting addicted to the national freedom and real democracy as the total of 430 prisoners who are suffering from the jail in different parts of the country the total 430 prisoners who are suffering from the prison in different parts of the country.

"The government budget allocated to the country is ridiculous," said the Filipino delegates, "because they are trying to choose the non-mindedness of the real criminal cases, instead of those who are real criminal cases."

The members of the NDFP members who are involved in the current peace talks in the legislative chamber are safe under the provisions of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Higher Education, among the political prisoners are among the Liberal Party and the NDFP members, including Tirso Alcantara, Alan Celino Damian and Renante Diaynar.

The delegates also added from the Philippines, "we coordinated with all the rules for the national release and democracy, we are also expecting the intensity of the worsening economic and democracy, we are expecting to be strict with local government agencies and file charges against criminal cases.

"If they are not fooled by the prison, the armed forces are not interested to kill or kidnap the political activists."
