
The PPET, PET or a puppy.

Don Benigno Aquino III (Salas 3) from his party mates and friends are really good.
He is also the one caretakers of his people who will get tired, to et or a puppy.
The people saw how many of these are the personnel of PNoy.
They are benefiting from all kinds of corruption and extortion, no one gets punished or even removed.
It seems like Don Benigno Aquino is the spokesperson of lawyers of those who are greedy, because he is a good boss of those who will get rid of him, all following him, twin and flattery.
In the end, Cong. Emilio Baryo and Abigail Valte are pointing out against the growing call for PNoy to resign from his position.
What is called is the National Transformation Council (NTC), who was able to support a ecamnesty group and the group, the posture of NTC and Bayambang this is not yet election but change in the total of the rotten system of the country.
Correct the rules to oust the rotten politicians, including the political deport of their every election.
First is the change in the Saligang Batas to create 49 people only.
We have seen the effect of the 1987 Constitution by Cory Aquino, who is the mother of Don Benigno 'narrow-minded, able to be able to have sex and closed the spirit of progress.
Next to that is the change of the political system to stop being in-out and opportunist politicians from the indigenous Congress and will be held accountable.
This is to be easy to oust anyone who does not follow their job, that is just a few of those who are going to reach the NTC and Bayi to reach the two movement in Facebook and Twitter.
Because of the tone of Aquino, "Marilyn Estores," according to the voice of his boss, Baryo and Valte are immediately able to recover.
"They first called" critics from NTC and Bayas "I said that the two groups do not want to talk to PNoy that they can just talk to PNoy.
100 percent, et are going to be a puppy to Barrettos and Valte, naturally because they are full of funds which seem to have a bones of the dog's favorite!
Our question is for the two puppies of Aquino, are you invited even if the NTC and the Bayani'll be put in need?
Your boss's brain is closed, you know that it is for him, the enemy is his enemy forever!
