
The passports of OFW "Di to leave Sabah.

I'll send a message on Facebook account, Joanne Angelita Bernadita, from Kuwait and according to her, she has been working there for a year and has been working there for a year and he has been working there for 10 years.
Only his passports were his passports last March 12, 2013, but before he said, she said to her female boss, Madame Arroyo, she said that when he / she was telling him again, he / she said that his passports would be close and again.
Until the month of August 2013 came, he was only able to renew and get it on October.
The Philippine Embassy in Kuwait believes that his visa will be transferred to the new passports if the employer does not have a sound, and he still continues to held the passports of our OFW.
Sometimes she borrowed her passports because she will go to the hospital to have a check up.
It was only then that he found out that the visa were not transferred to the new passports and this month of March 2014, he told Madame Arroyo she wanted to go home because often, he said, his head hurt.
Her employer said that she can go home when they share the money to buy a plane ticket.
Angelita, but when they brought their passports, they were surprised that they should pay a lot because they did not have given a new visa.
He also came closer to him, Angelita, our Philippine Embassy in Kuwait but he was not helped with his problem.
It is said that the old passports if they will renew is a hole so that it can't be used for extension for his visa.
Angelita is deeply worried because every day, they joined the meter, 2 square kilometers per day after it was given by Bantay, where this complaint will be sent to the office of Secretary Rosalinda Baldomz by the Department of Labor Law Compliance.
And through the Labor Atsuko Nay Dicatian, it was quick to coordinate with our Philippine Overseas Labor Office in different parts of the world to our embassy and Philippine Consulate in Kuwait so we can count on the quick response to this problem of Angelita which could not go home and continue to go home and continue to go home.
Boaels, the developer!
Have their own homes; this is the only time for our OFWs to wait for how they want to go to another country, work abroad and leave his family in the Philippines.
But sometimes, they are able to taste the liar, opportunists and no heart of the developer that are just being promised by our countrymen in spite of the big amount that they have paid.
There are modus operandi of those who are pretending to be the developer and how they are deceived by our countrymen.
If you have complaints from those who have paid and continue to receive a promise, you will go immediately to Bantay, 09051090451 and we will help you.
