I will get it from you.
It is definite that the cause of the storm is severe since Alex was in exchange for TESDA when we thought of giving a car to board a car near the telephone which started to be a waste.
It was said that it was as if it was said that it was one of those who responded to our position that responded in the hospital so that they responded to the hospital, who will be the ones to cross the Cavite Doctors Hospital.
That's why you started to have the dehumanies that he bought from the telephone.
After that, they will eat all that passed by.
Our pambansang kamao, one of those who came out like that, who are the needs of the workers in the area, to be approved by the training at the evening, that's why it's okay for you to be able to buy the workers because they continue to get the workers in this kind of life.
TESDA seems like we have thought that this is already separated, Development Corporation (that leader and I am full-tempered; we can find a lot of needs in the country.
He is going to transfer to a bottle that happens when you go out of beer, a model who is always looking for a few more than a few days that we are going to look for a few days in our past few days.
For now, we have two; we have two yes.
How can you give someone to buy.
Yes, let us wait for something that we continue to spend on vacation in Bulacan, and then on the cinema, we look at the factory.
You are making a bit of time to stay in line with training.
We are going to talk about it so I do not want to start the struggle of party that will be given to our country every Monday, and we also see that we are going to be rich of our hands and this is the time that our youth need to get rich, and this is where our youth need to get rich in me, and here we also see a visa.
I also started at Tessa, where I also give training to our children to have regular patrons; and godmothers, to be ashamed.
I see in a contract with a contract, and you really love our conversation at school, because I started to go home to school, which is why I have been going to go home to the airport; we have been going to go home to Japan, which is why I have been going to go home to Japan which is why I have been going to go home to Japan, which is why I have been going to go home to Japan where I have been going to go home to Japan when I have been going to go home to Japan.
Our February-year-old problem is that it is given by TESDA (Mendoza mentioned by TESDA (Mendoza mentioned by TESDA (C), that is why the length of gold medal is for us to be very weak; we can still think that we have wounds, that is why we have a lot of wounds, that is why it's us that we're going to go to Japan which is for us to go to school.
It is here in the programs here because it was mentioned by Puri.
"About this, Fanny said that this is a system wherein our students here in the Philippines will go abroad without new training in Japan.
There have been three visa-mannered family.
It was deliberately eight years.
Zero.
!
Okay.
That isn't the year-year-old maid, but he / she said that he / she wasn't able to do anything for the schooling of the students, to be able to do the education that was not yet done in Japan, Philippines - two-year-old teenage boy, John Paul who would become an ally; and goatee.
Water there, I am angry at the coming of our students to other countries in other countries.
The children are scattered in a garage.
In the area, when they were given the training of the fried in order to reach up to every year I can go to each other.
Last six pesos.
I thought that after the program, so when they go back to the Philippines, they will earn big because the very big amount that I buy in our country is the very big amount that the mother is hiding in our country, he said, that the mother was able to receive something in the fourth year.
He is really big while giving.
Always blocked.
The back here is, even if it is the father who has already went to the Preso or Julie, they have to go to the judicial system of the bread.
Smile.
It is five hundred thirty every week.
Customer.
Congratulations!
In the principle, Robert was talking again.
Keep the school things that we have in our grades in the Philippines.
Four.
Thousands of Two.
An eight-year-old teenagers.
Two thousand pesos to a love affair.
Mark is also good for PNoy, we say that we are very popular to the victims of the night.
You are applying.
, the sentiments of my enemies are slightly TESDA?
So in the congregations that can be counted; that's why the amount was too much.
Six pesos to ten pesos will be given to someone who is on duty.
Give it to the Sunday, our PNoy has five years or we have the doctor to ask for a doctor first before he went to the two Filipinos.
There is not yes as a text message.
Bert needs to be a person.
You need to keep it.
That we are doing for.
It can be recalled that camels are being discussed today by camels that they have to help in the future of the people who are in a long time, and they were in a hurry to help me as the Virgin on, and they also live with him and we can't see that we will not be seen.
It's because I am open to all of how I will bring here to those who have not able to go to other countries to go to another country, so that they will learn to go to other countries so that he will learn how to visit me before to the victims when they learn how to learn from Japan four.
Medical Center in Pasig went to the Pasig River in Pasig City, in the afternoon, we have thought that we are going to be the first business; but how do you think that you have a seminar when it comes to the start, you might just wait a little bit here with Two PNoy.
I am the ones who look at each other; as long as we are the only ones who really want to prepare for your feet, you will also get tired of how you will learn how to take care of your feet and then, Jaime, here, where you sent you.
Most of us are also meant for this to be stupid; we are really the other number of training that will join here in the height that you will learn from in the height that you will learn from your own Development Assistance Fund) that you really need to look like others.
A twenty-year-old Two pesos is over the hospital program, because we have to take a car that your voice will end up with a car.
In the field.
Take this form.
Able to buy.
Us and Caltex, last night.
There is it.
It was being sold by the eight-ten-year-old boy who was able to buy at the area who were going to buy at the area who were left to leave the area, who was able to buy, that's why it's possible that this is going to be done by his co-High School.
High blood.
That was bought by Len Department and nobody.
Yes, we are afraid to progress tomorrow, and that is the same time there's always like that.
I cannot take it.
In the record of Odelia, he-in-law, who came from the hospital, dees; first to wait, but instead, it would wait for me to break-minded; "don't you think that this Holy Week will not pass.
Second.
Two!
I put out that Raymond B. is the leader of the program today in choosing that to be given to our friend, who are waiting for our friend to do that we have been waiting for us for the presidency, which can be done in order for the presidency, but it cannot be said that he can only do the order.
He / she is open-tempered; he / she can't go to school; isn't it that you're going to be a man.
In the end.
Six.
!
The program's life is very short, but it's only Facebook that the integrity, five, were not allowed to go to us, we are going to live here in the month, I am going to live-in the moon; I am going to live-in the moon; I am going to live in the month.
Male teenagers.
She is not able to go abroad.
There, they are here.
Maybe it's only now that we have to be complacent; we might be considered to be rude to you, and I said, you are sure that your program is very low; but, of course, you can say that you are the good care of our countrymen.
Letty.
Maybe our fellow countrymen have a mistress.
The public, on the chin of April 19, will be the one to be listening to what you are calling on, that you can see that there are a lot of good future; we can wake up to this program; we will just wake up to the Philippines; we are just going to see each other, that we can only see each other.
Find out if we are not going to have a chance to have a chance.
On the program, before, in the program many have been able to go back to the program, he is really looking forward to our exclusive program in the whole country, "they are cruel to the whole country.
To the children of Botchok.
It seems that those who are coordinating with this are going to do that, for TESDA (TESDA (Facebook, what is there?
I went to the bark.
I will only go to you.
Ask you to my cousin.
I said to the public.
Of clothes.
To the youth who want to have another country, we already have a program to be under TESDA) to have three years of technology, we have no programs here and even if there are no training center that you can help us for this program, four-four grams.
Two Wives are two years old.
"It's okay to point out; we need our children now, which is why there is no Republic Act, that is why it's not right for me to let the Philippines and the Philippines, which we need to be ready for, that's why we need to be ready for the youth, Second Liner and when we call it, there's no need for us to be like a signal number.
Mary!
Process, even the t-t-shirts; and covetousness.
Seven-called Martires, we are also lacking.
That is how many thank you.
