Strategy for traffic, was surprised! By Eralyn Prudon, October 9, 2016.
If there is only a priority to focus on the problem of traffic in Metro Manila, hopefully the public will not be swayed until now even more.
For Sen. Grace Poe, the strategy of the Duterte government is not enough and weak in one of the biggest problem of Metro Manila, which will have expected to be resolved immediately by the elected President Rodrigo Duterte.
This is as the senator advised them to blame them in Congress in the said slow movement of giving to the President of the emergency powers to solve the nightmare of the Senate committee on the public service to solve the proposal of emergency powers with the President to solve the problem of traffic.
Although the senator admits that the emergency powers is needed to be quick in resolving the problem of traffic but there are supposedly many ways and solution which can be done which does not need an emergency powers even temporarily and while it is still not there.
"There is something that can be done which is not needed in the emergency powers, like that, look into what is really the problem in the road, looks like it's just right now that they need to change," according to the senator.
As well as part of the central traffic enforcers, the coordination of the local government is only needed to clean the streets from the parked cars which is one of the source of traffic.
"Thank you in the emergency powers by Talk n a mayor, at the same age, Taba, the thing that you are going to be a point," hope that they can make a way right now, "according to Poe.
Aside from this, the senator explained that there is no problem with the slow movement and strengthening of the proposal but in the Department of Transportation (DOTr) the problem because it was unlikely that the emergency bill will still need a thorough explanation.
Even them also wants to hasten its reinforcement but there are provisions in the legislative bill that there is a need to clarify the DOTr, not only for them, but also to the public.

Because of this, according to the senator, it is said that it is not the right time to go out because of the lack of emergency powers, it will not be given a temporary solution to the problem of traffic.
"This is the peak of the top of the legislative chamber that was being taken on the House of emergency powers, but, as well as the Can etiquette and Taba," Poe added.
Poe earlier said that they want to strengthen the emergency power bill from December or before the Christmas Break of Congress.
It can be recalled that it was remembered that the solution to the traffic "will be revealed to the traffic" by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), like the departure of the window in EDSA and C-5 Road, that means that it has already been a dry period on October 27 and 28 and an official implemented on October 31.
"
The mall will be transferred to 11: 00 in the morning until 11: 00 in the evening from November 1, 2016 until January 9, 2017.
