Let me listen to the frying pan.

When the teachers reviewed for additional wage and other blessings that should be given to them, not only the teachers but all employees of the government.
Instead of listening to Malaca単ang, there was a disturbance and even if their answer was even an insult, someone said that Salombies was already over and instead of giving to Malaca単ang, Congress was said to be over.
Some also said that the fund is not enough so the current regime of Don Benigno Simeon CoV-Aquino III, alias PNoy, is not able to give the additional wage to the workers of the state.
The fund is not enough, according to Malaca単ang, Sonny Coloma and Edwin Lacierda said that there is too much spend on the approval of the President because there is a huge spend for the illegal Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF (DAP), not to be good to the small employees of the country?
It is not surprising why some of them are doing a way, through asking for a narrowing of the client of the government, they know that it is bad but what can they do?
It is not possible to say that if you depend on salary in the government, you look for someone else, but that's what really happens in our country now.
What's painful is, if those who get caught in corruption are small employees, the faces and guts of those involved in the leaders of our system will be revealed in the media.
Because they will not allow corruption and corruption.
But why is it that when the leaders of the country and accomplices are involved and revealed, because they need to know the truth and thorough investigation?
He opened it!
The bonus of the leaders of the government has multimillion pesos even if he is just seated, giving out of their pockets while the workers in the government are just surprised?
The symbol of Aquino to his dogs is severe!
In the past every year, the employees of the government have additional blessing.
Somehow they get rashes on their family's mouth, but when the regime of Aquino took office, these were confiscated and was stopped by saving.
Since then up to now, Malaca単ang is only fed the frying pan from its employees and the Filipino people!
