A surprise will be wanted by a new dog's story, which is why I am just going crazy over Jinky, Ato just saw that it is far from where we saw Roio which is far from where they saw the young man, but we asked the young man to be a thrifty person but she became a thrifty person.
Caloocan.
Earlier, it's not an artist that I am just like that.
I just asked him to go to showbiz.
I acquired a lot.
Many are sure that one can help even if it is not right.
To his companion in-law.
Asukal will hear that if you have to be strong with my duty, I will send a glimpse of the state now and a little busy on the next day, his relatives also found out what happened to his room.
From his neck, it is said that Ytype of relatives, maybe they should try to put it in the right way to fight against him as long as the child, whom I regret, is having an inspiration to many people.
!
How will you do?
What are you, who will be able to leave and become aware; my friend Jomar, you have been together for a long time.
"We were surprised; we were able to go to each other; and I know that we went to us, and your older brother did not go to six-Zero because it was very impossible that the camera is so irresponsible.
I caught up with him there, I was with Kylie Sy Kylie Kylie might stop what we want.
"You are with you, I will eat at the same age; I am going to eat and drive for a while, I have seen Jaycubes at the truth that I have no signal in the truth to what you are doing here.
Then, I have not seen him buy a T: You are busy with what I said.
Uy, when?
They are asking you right now, and you are still being told as I am not sure that they will not go.
Okay.
He / she said that he / she said that he / she wasn't able to speak; he / she didn't need help and she was okay because she was okay because there was nothing in a shack that he did not have a hard time and Leo was mad at us.
And it's fine there.
The work that we have reached for almost no work is over.
Okay.
"There is no, but I saw how much it is that we are being abused by how much of me, I have to endure that when we have known each other, it is also there that we are also there.
I was there by Jayclubs.
I did not finish one sentences that was only passed on in the interview that we have passed earlier at the interview that we have passed, to the video M; they should not need to be a video of the C-T).
There is a need to go back then, to look at and understand.
Ah, for us to eat what our friend is canceled here in the act like that.
There was a toll fee that has been broken into a while ago, there was a long time for the salary to be given, Darius Valdez; Darius Valdez, age, who also arrived here in NAIA.
