Maine, the fans of fans on the airport talked again.
By Jun, August 24, 2016.
Maine Mendoza's fans are arguing, which is really the return to "Philippines of the young lady from Los Angeles, California where he watched a concert of Coldwriting which was a concert of Drew last Saturday in Rose.
Some are saying that on Thursday, Maine is already here in the country and he will go back to Eat Bulaga in Friday.
Others, it was said that it was said that on Friday, it was said that on Friday, it was said that on Friday, the vehicle of his group) was said to be seen again in the age of Maine, which is why they did not get along with the Pambansang Kamao in Hong Kong, which is why they did not get along in Los Angeles, California (Department of Entry SEC.
Many fans went to Tom Bradley International Airport to wait for the arrival of the Phenomenal Bostar of Eat Bulaga, and they persevered to wait for the new flight to Maine, duh!
"The others, went to the airport of L.a.) and it is hard for them to go home and they might not get a glimpse of the beauty of their idol," since then!
Most of the fans of Maine, who went to distant places of California like San Diego, San Francisco and "others were driving in Las Vegas, Nevada, which is why they did not leave the airport.
Maine is in the shape of Maine, she is not a tongue of fans who waited for a long time on her shoulder.
He was only on the arrival of the area, and his wave at them is always on the side of Maine, who went to Mrs. A., they did not atrapos.
They just let the woman approach the maiden.
Aside from her fans together with Maine, many of them had kisses on the young lady.
There are still children who came closer to Maine and hugged her fans of Maine, who waited for him at the shape, they did not feel regret when they were able to feel pain in the airport because it was worth it because of the kindness of their idol!
He / she was wearing.
When we were in Ho KMinh (Vietnam), all right Filipino TV Patrol, we watched in the local TV channels.
But "they already have a bed sheet at their words, that's why we cannot understand.
Former TV Patrol of ABS-CBN and GMA 7 have watched and is very entertained to watch our artists who are in a bed, duh!
"When Judy Ann Santos was with him where she was with Amalia Fuentes, it was still being pushed in Vietnam.
Last August 22 we together in the area, Michelle Madrigal Street and we were together with Dennis Trillo and Carla Abellana.
They were famous there because of a few old maid of the Kapuso network that was released there.
No matter where we go, there are fans who follow them and they are also known by other members.
Because our Filipino TV series will be held in Vietnam, until now, there is still a match with the Kapamilya and Kapuso actress, "since then!
He / she was wearing.
If it is true that this month (or in the first week of September), Paolo Ballesteros will return to Eat Bulaga, many fans will be happy.
Paolo has really misses his fans.
Even if the residents of tape were not directly admitted, Paolo has been suspended at Eat Bulaga when he posted on social media for his complaints because he's not taking care of the person who woke him there.
Paolo has a big thing in case he can go back to Eat Bulaga in order to prolong his movie die Bethlehem.
He is said to be one of Producers of die Bethlehem, Mister Tony Tuviera make the adboss in the tape that is why, they will be allowed to return to Eat Bulaga, Paolo.
