The coconut farmers, against the Ezers of Aquino about Coco Yy.

Macky Macasaverted!
March 23, 2015.

Against the coconut farmers under Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP) and Coco, a piece of bird bring back to Amin (WHO) for the released two executive order (DND) of President Aquino to undergo an estimated 1.3 billion pesos worth of fund.
According to Rafael Mariano, the chairman of KMP), they plan to challenge the legality of the inventor of 179 and 180, according to him, "he said."
"We will look at the order of Aquino to the Supreme Court because it is against the fiscal court and (one) abuse of land," Mariano said.
On the telethon that was signed by the President, Aquino ordered the Office of the Solicitor General, Presidential Commission on Good Government and Department of Justice to ensure and take care of the rights and interest of the government of the properties that came from Coco Martin.
He also emphasized that the agency launched the agency for Coco to be an asset in the Bureau of treasury.
Meanwhile, the EO is also given attention to riding the agencies that are going to buy, for sure, Doctor Love, and full of funds and properties from Coco Yy, as well as the owner of the property and 60 days so that he will be transferred to the government.
Included in the properties from Coco, the share of the stock in the United Nationalist Peoples Coalition (UCU B), as well as the part of the stock market in Coconut Resort (CIIF), and CIIF-Holchies.
Nestor Villanueva said, the National Security ator of myself, one "the government hopes the two order to lead the coconut farmers and go to the Aquino administration.
"
President Aquino is the uncle of President Aquino to use Coco to take a fund to get my rival in San Miguel to be raised.
It also came from the funds for the construction of the United Nationalist Peoples Coalition, the Jemaah Islamiyah (Actor, which he said, that no one was mentioned in the EO that the funds are owned by the farmers.
In the opinion of the institution research of Ibon Foundation, it is estimated that Coco is estimated to be worth it for the P246.8 pesos.
It is composed of six Coconut Resort (34.8-B); 10 Cambot who was given to the Bureau of treasury (1.3-B); the United Nationalist Alliance (7.5-B); and the United Nationalist Alliance (7.5-B); and the United Nationalist Alliance (7.5-B); and the United Nationalist Alliance (7.5-B).
"It is not just an ordinary public fund which is said to be an ordinary public fund, it means that the public themselves, the farmers in coconut farm,) the government, are not the government in the leadership of Aquino," said Auto, sweat.
In the view of AOIL, response of the white neo-Tropas that the mandate of Aquino to implement the mandate of Aquino to destroy the mandate of Aquino to benefit and the foreign Affairs that would benefit.
"His uncle has already paid money from the farmers, now Aquino is the plunderer of Coco to the fund, we should just fight this," said Hala.
Adik-sweat is being endorsed by the House Bill 1327 or Genuine Economic Cooperation (GSCambot) in the legislative chamber that will be beneficial for the coconut farmers in case it will be passed on HB 1327, "said HE.
