"Nothing else!
By Rey Marchil on August 17, 2016 although the critics of former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino - it cannot be denied what is good and the evidence left by former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino - the number is clear and not lying in which aspect and angle we check it.
In the last survey of the Social Weather Station (SWS), there is no need to take advantage of cataract or to know the rotten rally in Mendiola.
It is very difficult for a former president to get a high pork barrel, especially since the new administration was given to the new administration, even though it is not surprising that the new administration was given by his critics even though it is not surprising that the public's eyes did not change and he does not want to ruin the 6-year-law.
It is very hard to get 50 percent of the rating before it went down to the position but PNoy is different because this kind of grades are normal, from the start until he left, as long as if most of the Filipinos will not doubt his leadership.
Compared to the latest survey, where the presidential election increased, the grades of PNoy increased by 15 percent before it went down from his position last June 30 or far from the earlier 35 percent last April.
In the record of the SWS, the highest rating of PNoy is the highest rating of the Science and technology (54 percent); helping Overseas Filipino Workers (52 percent); helping the poor (51 percent), to coordinate with other countries (48 percent).
Even the defense of our territory, PNoy recorded the 45 percent; the return of peace in Mindanao (43 percent), causing work (40 percent) and fighting against crime (27 percent) and suppressing corruption in the government (27 percent).
The highest score of PNoy in Visayas region, this is recorded by 62 percent; after Mindanao (60 percent) and Metro Manila (32 percent) and Metro Manila (32 percent), and it cannot be denied that the rating of the former President in the places which is stronger is the use of social media against it.
With the number of problems experienced by PNoy, the storm, earthquake and other calamities being made by the people from the social media by the people, the good image of the former president has not yet changed, a good testimony that the truth will not prevail.
