The other actress went ahead in putting tears from the same eye!

All Souls' time for Kim Chiu is for her to be with a film that Kris Aquino, Claudine Barretto, one Calzado and Cheena. First Family, she is also going to fulfill the kind of saint of this movie which is far from his former classmates.
First, he was hesitant to accept the said role as Misalania, which is why she did not accept it for your mind to change because you are not a child, it is not a thing for you to be challenged.

It is just a thing that the villain in Donita Rose is the role as the antagonist in the television series at Let, Dr. Love, that she is no longer a ham, which is just like a decoration on his becoming your partner.
The wedding was effective in the flood and a liar so she is disliked by the followers of the soap, Lets the Love Begging.
Anyway, it can no longer make sure that his partner, Ruru), is soft, when his partner named Gabbi Garcia is soft but he is being oppressed by his partner Gabbi Garcia but he is being oppressed by Donita.
The scene is laughing and that is the scene and so that he / she has an affair with him, he / she has a Pasig River.
It would have been okay for him to act well, Alicia Alonzo is also good that the tears of Ruru is really good, "said by her directly actor," said by her eyes, which is why her tears were quickly opened.
Another thing we admire is this is Rita de Guzman, who is also a good villain and will not be defeated by her intelligence with Gina Seno, AiAi delas Alas, Gladys Reyes and Rita Avila.
We first thought that he / she was being admired by the sexy actress that he is doing as the antagonist, the role she is doing is also a villain, because we remembered Zhy Zabala also in our youth who is also a good actress.

Just one of the shooting is already done by Yolanda (The real Split of Life) which is headed by Miss Nora Aunor, together with the best players of the Crime Operatives), Liz Alonte, and Jerby Visayan Films.
What we heard from the director GM Bodet that this is also the title done by the sexy star, who was as councilor Cristina Gonzalez-Romualdez, the councilor of Tacloban has not seem to be aware of the title of the movie and in Tacloban City he took a shot.
It is impossible that Kring Kring (PET, Cristina) is not able to know that there was a shooting of Tacloban which has been a shooting of Tacloban which is only a small city and there will be a small city and it will start a word from the shooting of Yolanda which is said to start as councilor of Yolanda.
Can't the people get confused with the two movies of Yolanda?
