Jerald Riana, Junjun, together with Piolo By Allan Diones, September 4, 2016.
The toll fee of Jerald Napoles, which is being taken by Piolo Pascual, after one week of their shooting of Regal movie Once in New Zealand.
What they shot was happy, Je said, and for him, Piolo should be one of the most kind of his co-workers.
In their last week, he / she discovered that Papa P / she discovered that it was too late for Papa PNoy and it was too late when she arrived at the set because he / she just goes back to the set time.
They do not have a gimmick since the cold there, so after a shot, they went home.
But sometimes, Papa went to the food.
Jerald Rivo is on alert and with the extreme cold of the airport because he will go straight to the snow farms and other ice on top of the mountain.
According to that, he didn't want to go out of a grin, which was too late, said Junjun.
That's why he let it be hot in drinking coffee and a hot topic when a call is hails.
"That is what they are drinking there.
The Kapuso network is so arrogant, in exchange!
Aside from the movie of Piolo, he is also included in Enteng Kabisote 10 and the Abangers being ignored, the superheroes of Vic Sotto as Enteng.
Ji'll be regular at Sunday to make sure that the start of 2-part 1st Lieutenant.
One of the things that they claim on SPS is Maine Mendoza as DJ Mae, who is in the network of DJ Bae, who is the character of Alden Richards.
One of Jerald Rivo is also one of the superstar, pets that started last night in GMA.
For those who are rivals, Jerald Rivo is impressed by Nar Cabico because she is good to sing.
They have been friends with Nar (because they both have a product of the mausoleum in the theater she is in and she wants him to be known by the people as a singer.
According to him, Nar is possible to be careful in the Asia's gift of gift, that is something that can sing.
So, all of them will be put inside Nar because of its skills.
According to Je, it is not a branch of Joross Gamboa, but it was too late.
Mike "Papal" was slapped hard because his voice is high.
He said, his edge is that he was able to be one of the barism which is still acting cute. "Okay, which is why there are those who are blind and given to him.
She said that he / she didn't have a relationship, Jerald Riana, Jerald Riana, front of the house!
