Arci Muñoz with, raised.
Bela Padilla who is an eleller with Sam By Allan Daguar August 27, 2016.
In the ness, we were so many in the cinema when we watched in Camp Sawi in Triangtze.
They are one of those who are watching over each other and they are very happy with the dates of five female stars of the movie.
It is their sales from us, this is the form of being drunk, Arci Muñoz and Bela Padilla, who had thought of drinking two times a night because both of them had to drink, the conversation between the two, that went to the same age to be held in Camp Master (Sam Milano).
It's as if it is true that the two are going to have an agreement, that is why it is so natural for them to steal a line, and in the middle of the two, it comes to Sam they are studying.
When Sam brought her back to their noodle house, Arci and Bela Padilla seem to have been fighting back that Sam and they both want to be put in a blender!
"The scene" did not win, "Laak," we were amazed!
Belt was already able to fight against the deacadversary, Sam, because he was handsome and unelongated.
Bela Padilla is very famous in the movie since she is also the one who wrote the Split if he was the one who wrote to her boyfriend and one of Productions of the movie Neil Arce.
Dennis Trillo is the man causing the death of Bela Padilla who was left after 10 years because he was not a Chinese.
Arci is the holiness of a comedy.
Bang, step on the drinking school of acting, that she also used to be held in the movie with Gerald Anderson Silva again, My Mayanta.
Even if Arci takes up, the former thing she is carrying is a bad thing for him which is being envious of his character.
He died when a person made to make him / her idol (Rico Blanco).
Often, the beauty is fresh.
Morales is the most young man in the cast of the cunning and flawless, who died when he discovered that the gay is his boofiant (Bira Jackson).
Even if he / she said that he / she is always being entertained, the beauty is always clear, which is the beauty and the sexy star.
That's why it's also okay to have a comedy back, but he / she was gone to the hospital (because he joined PBB).
Andi Eigenmann, the mistress of a doctor (ISS), who has a wife, Andi has a scene with Andi, which is her beauty.
Not along with Andi's contract, but it's better for Kim Molina to take short and wearing a black dog because after her boyfriend (Alex Medina) was able to make her boyfriend (Alex Medina) to be hit.
The beauty of Bantayan Island in Cebu, which is being used by a film, is that if there is really an island for the ill-flawless, it seems that it is like a waste.
The new director, Director Irene Villamor, who was a bit strange, said to be different, and before the former.
It looks like for the First's time, Neil Arce, the opportunistic person, because she said in FB, about the 10,000 HRO and Coming Salas), it was held in Camp Sawi.
This season is going to be set aside until evening when he jumped into the Batiles, Philippines.
Aljur Abrenica is defeated by Aljur Abrenica who is a former Meking, Kris Bernal.
As time goes by, Kris Aquino's side is on the person or Louise delos Reyes and SEF amounting to ona.
Nemesia went through Louise when he fought for two in LSBP, but now they are going to vote for Aljur and Kris.
The hot 1 is expected to be approved of the rip-rap of the movie, while the round 2 can be taken off by two Beata.
The Special rating of the host is anticipated by the host of Michael V. and Co to host the all-star signal number game.
Later tonight, he went through the Batal-Philippines in GMA after getting worse.
