They are hungry.

We continue to discredit the politicians who want to get the high position in the government and they do not care if they will push their services or not to the citizens who continue to evacuate their stomachs.
Debt of gratitude, stop the conflict and instead of giving attention to the people who are paying taxes on their pockets, aside from what you have chosen.
The politicians have no control of mud to take advantage of the time in investigating the faults of each one and answering the accusations of the opponent.
It would be better if they lose time in politicking and continue the service so that people who become victims of their fight will benefit.
It will be good for these politicians to make a way to give a proper way to get a livelihood for the colonizers.
Just like those who are in the Palace, Congress and Senate, they should have made a way to fix the state of small workers in the government that they cannot complain about their small salary like soldiers, police, teachers and employees of the government.
Even the workers in the private sector should be given protection by the government just like the continuous work or not the signature of the contract after four to five months of working or going crazy.
The politicians in position should also fix the peace and order in the country because it is only all killings that are often the content of the news.
It's because it should be, the morale of the police is up through proper order to lead here and this is not contrary to the foolishness of those seated in Malacanang.
While it is still early, the politicians do not do anything if they will not use all the time on the crack of the possible fight against the 2016 Presidential elections because there are many of the voters now who are intelligent because of the technology and it is not believed that these can be investigated by those who tried to connect with it.
So you should act and prioritize the hungry stomachs of the people who will sit in you to the positions you want.
