
There is no fault in the Mamasapano case.

Before you think about anything, it is desired to give emphasis that I am not supporting PNoy, we have already sold it several times because of the failure and unreasonable decision.
But in the encounter that happened in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, which killed the lives of the 44 members of the PNP-Special Action Force, I could not see any strong reason for him to run for the blame because it appears that the operation happened.
When I reported that we have been assigned to Mindanao and, in fact, I have been able to pay attention to the residents of Barangay
If our prayers are the war, it may only have peace in Mindanao if all people in this place, christians or Muslims, it depends on the war being used in Mindanao if a war will be used in Mindanao if the said region should be peaceful.
Do we want this?
Many are criticizing the President because of the bloody encounter in Mamasapano, and it appears that he was the one who ordered the reinforcements to our courageous SAF who were stuck because of the number of their opponents who were members of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF), Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF), Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF).
If I will be asked, that's why he's being asked by the President, to be the name of the President, who was in Mamasapano, that was when they entered the Mamasapano, which was the nest of many armed residents, it can be expected that there were so many cases in the same side.
If the military insisted that they are blind to the important details in the conflict happening (like the number of enemies, positions of the opponent and others), maybe there's not only 44 of SAF who died.
It also appears that the order of PNoy is that Zulkifli Bin Hir alias "Marwan, and his assistant Basit Usman, are only natural," that is only natural that a leader ordered to end the prevalence of these evil.
Aside from that, what is the role of the President in the operation?
But even though it is not possible for the President to blame the President because there are civilians who have no experience in an extensive investigation, this is the work of people who are in public service like this, SAF commander Director Getulio Napenas, Jr. and unfortunately, Purisima.
He / she was very weak.
For your complaints about what is wrong in society and corrupt public service to the country, comments and suggestions are just an email in gum .Preso or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (Priority Development Authority) cases.
