Surely.

By Campos.
February 4, 2015.

Forty-four operatives of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force (PNP-SAF) were arrested and two to six civilians, that's why many of six civilians, which led to the bloody operation of the PNP-SAF in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 18.
But a bigger complaint against President Noynoy Aquino was huge that he denied the direct responsibility for what happened in his speech in the television last January 28, he was caught with an award when the remains of the killed PNP-SAF in Villamor Air Base last January 29.
Many have already said and have been reported about the incident in Mamasapano, you know the public is angry when there is a conflict between the public and image in Facebook and other social media, the anger of the public to the Aquino government and other social media due to the increase in fares in the MRT-LRT and other social media.
Whatever it is, this is the aspect of the issue that is called attention and thanksgiving for me.
(1) role of the US, the US identified the target of the operation by the US for a long time and was responsible for the location of the American soldiers who were helping the evacuation from those who were killed in the fight, and if this was not captured by a photo, it is possible that he will also hit it.
It is more likely that the US is running for the target terrorists, who ordered an operation, and led to its implementation, which is why people know the bloody record of the US in the whole world and the lies of its embassy in different countries.
(2) use of Filipinos, a small fight against the Filipino people, if the American troops are fighting against the Philippines, the American troops are fighting against the Philippines, but the bloody result of the US and Aquino has been belittled by the US and Aquino.
(3) out of the truth, the call for the truth about what happened is getting stronger, but it is good to know the truth that the people are looking for, but the public should also insist on, but the public should also insist on it based on the fact that the truth is.
(4) - in terrorism, the operation was launched in the outline of the called "chambers of terrorism" in the US, and the US's interest and cases of terrorism will be remembered, which is being implemented by the basic commodities in the economy and military.
A picture of "terrorism" in the US is a picture of what happened in Mamasapano, on the time that the US is going to brag about the said terrorists, a lot of people are dying due to the armed groups, which is being used by armed groups, he showed that this will not stop in the launch of the attack and dizziness.
3 February 2015.
