Frankly said that the person who has the fault in the Hitler did was wrong.
By Ellen Torresna), 2016.
In the post of an elephant Reyes Junard, on October 1, he said there was a malice against Duterte about his self from Adolf Hitler and because he did not like the report of Manny and Karen, he said the two needs to be punished.
This is what Junrey said, I did not allow to be late to avoid to be seen "lost in Tagalog, or fate, the meaning of strangulation on the Tagalog.

"These, the name of the Armed Forces of the Philippine Army, was the one to be defeated by the full force of the law of the law."
What is really wrong with Manny and Karen, if there is something wrong?
Here is what Duterte said when he arrived from the state visit in Vietnam last September 30, "Hitler was a million Filipino Jews as Noguna Are-million drug user, which is also being grossed for."
He also added, "At-chan, the Philippines, thank you, thank you, thank you, at the other hand, thank you, I can be able to understand each other at the all of the problem that was given to the United Nationalist Alliance (equivalent to the problem.
How did this report by Rebalde?
Here, Philippines, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte is being endorsed by Brostan en banc due to Adolf Hitler on the "Pogi"
They immediately got the reaction to the officials of different government and groups, especially the Jereally, and they were able to immediately do it because international news they will be the Bureau of different parts of the world.

All of course are worried.
On Facebook post by Engineer Reyes Junard, who is still a picture of Manny and Karen, he said the true motive of the controversy about the statement of Duterte with Hitler, "the real name of President Duterte's Hitler and Hitler."
The two should be punished for being responsible for the one responsible to be responsible for the burial. "
There is a description of this kind of view.
The National Union of Jilian was released by the statement of the Philippines (NUJP) that supports Manny and Karen.
"The crime was not a crime," according to NUJP, the threat to the Joe Burgos because they did not like the report of the crime.
The warning was only reported by what he saw and heard what was not good to the public by the official because of what he said, that was not the fault of the reporters.
Maybe the supporters of Duterte should tell the President to fix his speech if he does not want to be a part of the President and he is the one he is making the whole country.
If her words are fixed and made, the report is also good, that simple. "
