
Binay versus Roxas?

It is said that Mar Roxas cannot make sure that President Noynoy Aquino will bet on the coming 2016 presidential election.
This is the truth that it will not surrender to Malacanang because the heart of PNoy and VP Jojo Binay is the same weight in the heart of PNoy.
It is said that this is one of the reasons why PNoy's decision in 2016 is his ability to win the election and not just his close friend and party mates.
The people knows that since the martial law, it is a friend and die hard for the Aquino administration that is why it is noticeable that PNoy will not stop it, as well as his followers.
Even Binay and his followers did not even appeal to PNoy that's why he / she was being observed at the coming 2016.
The Aquino is known for this kind of style because if we get back to history, former Speaker Ramon Mitra Junior who is close to Tita Cory, but instead of the child of Palawan was the one who made a rock on 1992 presidential election, Fidel Ramos is his endorsement.
Even the allies of PNoy in pushing the government in the present are the LP and the group Noguera or Binay group, which is why the only way he looks at the palace is almost the same.
Binay and press Sec. Herminio Coloma and Finance Sec. Cezar Purisima, who was reported to resign from the cabinet of PNoy, will focus on the campaign of Binay and the right hand of the President, Executive Secretary Jojo Ochoa.
In other words, what we need to wait for is severe, and that is what we should wait for because everyone knows that others can do something else by the elected President because he is the entire machinery of the government.
This is anticipated because if Binay is really left behind in 2016, it will be better to run politics in the country because it is possible that the LP in the administration will possibly be the opposition or from the opposition.
Even those who are fond of becoming president as Allan Cayetano, Antonio Trillanes, Manny Pacquiao, Bongbong Marcos, Grace Poe, Grace Poe and Chiz Escudero will surely change their status because 360 pesos will change in politics in the country.
It is certain that this will not happen now but for sure there will be changes because the Aquino administration is closer to Binay than Roxas.
