
Number of Number 12,884); Lalaurie of discipline, are registered in EDCA, low wages.

By Filipino Weeker of May 3, 2014.

Caught by Boy Bagatas, the roads of the Manila last May 1, the Independence Day of work has become Filipino.

Carrying the red flag, the red clothes, and with the leadership of Kilusang Mayo Uno (GAS), more or less than 18,000 workers, poor, youth, women, muslims, and others, from Liwasang Bonifacio towards Mendiola.

The protest of the protest is about to reach the new Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) between the government of US and the Philippines, they are just fighting the garbage in the height of electricity that is allegedly used to the workers.

Just like the past years, the workers are also insisted on the meaningful wage increase in the country, and that is another part of the US in the Philippines, and other parts of the US in the Philippines, and that is one of the non-stop price hike for the workers in front of the non-stop price increase in the price of oil (like electricity) and goods.

"What is cruel, he attacked IWage, first, through the implementation of Two-Tivoli Wage System, which is also based on the level of Tau Wage but for an estimated Poverty.

When the workers entered the foot of Mendiola Bridge near Malacanang, they immediately burned the funeral of Aquino as a few soldiers of the US to attack the rights of the US in the country, and under the Saligang Batas to make a business in the Saligang Batas to make a business with foreign contacts.

Here are some of the pictures of the protest at KR Guda '"towards Mendiola Bridge when it was declared that the workers and farmers who were taking advantage of the new freedom and democracy were confiscated by the Filipinos and farmers who were taking advantage of the New People Power Plant (Izzy Canillo) for those who were taking advantage of the New People Power Plant (Izzy Canillo) for those who are taking advantage of the New People Power Plant (Izzy Canillo) for those who are being raped by the Filipino Workers who were being raped by the filipino masses.

Here are some photos of protests in different provinces and countries.

The gathering will be held on May Uno in Calamba, Laguna for the leadership of PAMANTIK-KMU).

Southern Tagalog - the victims of typhoon Yolanda in Tacloban City, on May 1: "True rehabilitation that cannot be held in May 1 in Davao City.

Contribution (Commission on Human Rights, together with illegal Filipinos in the celebration and protest on May 1 in Hong Kong, Aaron Ceradoy / Consignation.

Contribution!
