Duterte, he / she is a man and in his position, he is calling the USONAs.
By Bernard Taguba, Tina Mendoza July 26, 2016, President Rodrigo Duterte is in his position even if there is still another left for two or three years just to pass the federal form of government.
In his State of the Nation Address (SONA) yesterday, President Duterte said he wants to make the passing of the federalism summit through the Saligang Batas, according to him, it should be said that this should be given to the Saligang Batas of the Constitution.
"According to the Republic of the Philippines - thank you to the Republic of the Philippines, thank you to the federal system of government, thank you as a call for a call for a presidential election," President Duterte said that he wants to imitate the system implemented in the country France.

"Thank you, vice president thank you, the France system," do not let it be, "it is dangerous to be," Taba, no one who was released by the commander-in-chief down, "he added.
One day or after 1 week, after the Constitution, he will immediately call the election.
"I said, if thank you, if thank you, I have a call for a call for a call for an election for a call for a call for a call for election in the country,"
Free wifi.
Aside from the promise to lower the tax, particularly the personal tax and barbells, the announcement of President Duterte to give free wifi in some places in the country can be given free wifi.
In his SONA, President Duterte stated that he was ordered by the Department of Information Technology and Communications Sec.
"
The Philippines considered the second on the slow internet case in Asia that's why the President is set aside from the religious bishops, Leaders' 70s, and whom he stood on the campaign of the church and state where he stood on the campaign of his administration against illegal drugs and corruption.
It is said that he will form the Anti-Illegal Drugs Committee on Human Rights which will be the ones involved in the campaign against illegal drugs including the execution of their campaign against illegal drugs and strengthening the country and being good citizen.
President Duterte wants to raise the rehabilitation of drug pushers and the AFP who are the ones who opposed the use of military forces and military for drug rehabilitation.
"Thy Can ally being said, the development of the Priority Development Assistance Fund) is terrible, the Fight IT led by the State's Office (Tibagan, the Philippine administration, which is being treated as the Social Welfare of Our Lady," the marginalized.
President Duterte stressed that they will review the human rights so that human rights should not be used as defense for the destroying of the country.
"
Hope rose.
After the SONA, almost all lawmakers are full of hope in going out of the session hall.
"Our fellow countrymen have a reason to dream again because there is hope, Bayan Muna Party-list Rep. Carlos Zarate insisted that his colleagues of the militant group are taking it.
"In total, we are contented with what we heard from him, all the wishes of the common people that we are being used to," according to ACT party-list Rep. Antonio Tinio.
"The President showed how much his experience with the local government that he will use to the leadership of us to be used by Cibac partylist-list Rep. Sherwin Tugna, are able to comment.
