Frankly said that de Lima is not the only target of Duterte.
By Ellen is a description of August 21, 2016 when President Duterte has the evidence to be involved with Senator Leila de Lima and his driver involved in illegal drugs, why did he not file a case?
Why is she suffering from gossip and scandal?
It seems that it is not good for a president to spread rumors about his promised statement as President of the Philippines, to take care of and defending the Constitution, its laws will be implemented and just for every person. "
It is not just what he is doing to de Lima that he is not holding on the case related to his allegations that he benefited from the money coming from illegal drugs through his driver that had a connection to drug lords.
It is said that this is all of the evidences that they showed.
Duterte said in his speech at the anniversary of the Philippine National Police (PNP), "de Lima, her driver, she called" molmol, "the senator, where he built a house in Urbiztondo, Pangasinan, and he went out of the newspapers.
De Lima said, that house is not her own house. "
Let us just think that the senator's relationship with his driver is true, or not his fault is for adultery that de Lima is already separated from her husband and to be acquitted, the married driver has a family.
De Lima can file a case against the driver of the driver that Duterte can help with the wife of the driver so we can file a case against de Lima as adultery.

What is related to the campaign against illegal drugs that de Lima also did when he was Secretary of Justice?
Duterte said that it is the driver of De Lima that will take a fight against him, where is the driver now?
Duterte said he is mad at De Lima because even before he was a mayor in Davao, he was accused of involved in the murder of the Davao Death Squad.
Tomorrow, the investigation of the Senate will start on the extrajudicial killings (EJK) - the widespread killings that are being said are part of the fight against illegal drugs.
What is done to de Lima is that he can do with other senators who want to be criticized in what he is doing, it seems that this is a warning to everyone not only to de Lima or to all senators, including the media.
Will Duterte get all of threats?
