Humanitarian mission in Palawan, attended by Israel.

SSeptember 08, 2016 Leila B. Dom.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, September 8 (Pia) --- a group of soldiers who consists of 44 students in college from the country Israel together with the last day of regret was made by them in Barangay Tigatand Plaridel, Abille.

At the end of the two weeks of work, the delegates of Ambassador Matos, who was a big sister-in-law in Plaridel Elementary School, who was with other books for the students of the school, showed them.

These youth also built their community for the communities in Barangay Tigum that will benefit from the students and youth in the area.

Israel's representative to the Philippines voluntarily surrendered to the Philippines and all of them came from the fare until all of the needs of their mission came from their own pocket.

"We Are, to the nosy spirit of the Israeli students, to a year-year-law, he was able to go to a billionaire spirit of the students to kill each year, they will leave the expenses for books, materials," according to Ambassador.

According to Shama band, students of the College of Management Council, university to Israel, and he is also a leader of Foreign Affairs Department of Israel, he was not able to do anything or send an additional points for their grades in school), "said band.

The management of Plaridel Elementary School also believes that aside from the line that he built, there are a lot of books that their students learned from the activities of the delegates.

According to the principal Teresita Jovelle, "Mamondiong, their mingling with the foreigners, there are other suggestions of development and political center who are also included in the materials, it is gladdening because we are one of them chosen to be the beneficiary of humanitarian project."

Meanwhile, Ambassador Matos, who is also reported in front of the officials of Western Philippines University (WPU), is the program of their country in the Philippines, which is focused on Asian security, deport and agriculture, wherein one of its priorities will be the students from Palawan.

According to Matos, 15 - 20 students from WPU are chosen to be chosen by the program.

According to him, they will bring to Israel to be under the training.

(LBD / Police District - Palawan).
