I know Madam Auring and Luis, flirting again with him again!
Lolita who would get married, will get married, "-- this?
By Jun Nardo, July 31, 2016 Nawford (December 31, 2016) it is not easy to accept the gay person in Regal movie although he was the first gay man in the movie Moron 5, which is his only gay.
It is also a big Factor who is Joel Lamangan, director because of the First's time to release the prime director, how are his treatment to Lamangan?
"I am afraid!
Please, thank you, to be given to the vice director, "I could not avoid being taken by Director Joel for a so that she is very good and he even helped me all.
"I told her," Direk, if you need to tell me first, just tell me not shouting. I am also stupid!
"Sometimes, he still looked at it like that but I know he / she's so tender," he wants to see the movie, "he explained.
Even if he is gay, it would be gay for his manhood despite the suspicion that the brooks of Luis Manzano and gossips that are true will have a relationship.
"We just talked to Luis" that even if we look at each other, we seem to understand each other.
So he does not believe in doubt that Luis is gay?

"It is no! I know Luis.
He is not affected with such gossip?
"Nony and all of it!
"If you think about it, you are weak, right?" He even said.
It's because the actor whose girlfriend Coleen Garcia has also ran for his girlfriend, he reviewed for the helicopter to go around Metro Manila going to Tagaytay City.
"We were already thirteen years since his 23rd birthday last July, we was deceived.
"Well, Coleen's difficulties is very difficult, he really wants to know before you call him / her to be an official Year.
"I got sick and I did not know if he started having a movie, so I did not know what he postponed.
"So what I did, it is as if I can see this MMK this," First Break, we are going to go to our relationship, we will go home to the MMK to see what your family is going to see. "
"So that's what I did, I borrowed my friend's chopper to stroll in Tagaytay.
Aside from that, the actor also gave the girlfriend of the two Alviar whom he wanted.
"He has already given a lot of Giuliani in me.
Are they going to talk about their marriage?
"I am extremely saddened by her family and she is also going to the house which is also going on to it," according to him, "Tell, Her, to be an actress to be an actress in the meantime.
"If I will be married now, I want to pour my husband for him, so that she was also seen to pour my wife to her.
