TV Patrol, Lot 6, 2014.

Three basis.

Teresa has made it a habit of taking care, like this morning that he has no interest in entering his job, he is having a hard time to enter his work, he does not want to face the reason when he finished a problem in his work, there is another new next day.

"How will this be, father?

"Come to me, and I showed you something," his response to the child was his father, who will be fetched by Teresa in the kitchen, and let the fire fall into half a water when it started to be strong.

At the first cauldron, he put a fresh bed sheet, on second is a fresh egg, and the third, it was crushed by the third.

The father just let them continue in the head, when she was not able to finish any word because her child was not able to stop it, and puzzled with what his father did, "what was done to his child and asked," what was done to his child and asked, "what was done with Teresa."

"Come to him, you came closer and put his / her father's command to her child when Teresa picked up his breath, he noticed he is soft.

"You can take the egg and hatch the new order of his father and it was also done by Teresa, but it was hard that the skin was broken and the skin was cut off again and placed it again on the floor.

The father ordered him to use the coffee in a cup, Teresa smiled when putting the coffee's fragrance and get a taste of it, and he quickly asked, "to where the presentation of this is, Father?"

"This is the answer to the complaints and doubt, each of them had a clear challenge to know their real traits.

Both of them are similar in the water but their results are different, "the father explained.

"The dote will be strong and hard, but after falling in the water, its skin was weak and soft, but when it fell down to the coffee, it seems that the skin fell down and is extraordinary because it has become weak and taste of the water.

Even though they are similar in the water, they would be recognized in the water, they know what their traits would be known if they are facing severe heat, danger or problem now, to whom among these three are like you? "The father of the father to Teresa.

"When your problems come in your life, how can you face this future?

I am happy and understanding to the coffee, "I was crushed, even if he was crushed, instead of putting up the water, rather, he became soft, and even for the egg that has not done anything wrong to the water."

Lawyer!

The obstacles or problems that we are facing are just like the challenge to our struggle in life and how we can give a remedy immediately and this will give us experience, strength, and strength to succeed in life.

If these from these children are not like that, we are similar to the extent of being carried by speeding water together with the chance that they will not be put in danger.

But this is not the trend of life, everyone who go through severe challenges and further strength of what you do not know!

Any of us is not the responsibility to blame or change all the things that are happening to us, but we have a duty to make it if this is happening to us and this is where you're really being identified as a type of view that you are following.
