Bato-Bato in heaven, "I am getting angry!

Let us change the tone of the difference now.
About our life the issue, "our poverty is really true, and now, politicians do not care in our lives as long as their minds, how to steal the funds of the country for their own riches.
That is why, there are consecutive issues of poverty, no work, no food at the dining table, so many make food in the dining table, so many make food to school, the money to pay for school is true?
It is true that our country is difficult now, which is why our countrymen are flying in other countries, technical or professionals to earn a decent salary and eventually progress is our life.
But wait, is it right for the government to depend on prosperity of life that we want to reach? If it is up to your answer, we are against it, it is wrong for me to just be true in our opinion, Kabayan.
It is hard to live in life, many of our countrymen are still the priority of many of our countrymen who have a cellphone, tablet, computer and the similar gadgets were said to be happy because it is true that the four-year-old child is true.
We do not take care of those kinds of gadgets, they say, right! It's only right, it is more expensive than those who are poor, they are more aggressive in everything that they have done, and the rich, is only a gadgets for all of them.
It is sad to see the families being looked at, they are the ones who are holding the gadgets of many children, and as well as their mother and father, there are also five-peso load for the house, P35 every month or a big amount of 1,000 pesos per month or a big amount, isn't it?
As they say, who else will be poor, they are the ones who spent the clothes, things, food and hobby, that's why there is no problem there.
"My acquaintance who is a few family, is the one who will fight about it," the money to buy treatment!
Hopefully, we prioritize the important expenses in our house and hopefully we should learn how to be frugal and do not do anything that you do not have a sin that you do not have faults with the modern times now than we die from hunger.
Live practical and do not go with vices or load?
