True freedom, according to Eve Mixers!

In the middle of the speech of President Benigno Aquino III for the Independence Day held in Naga in Camarines Sur, he stopped his speech because of the shouting of some youth.
One of them was arrested by the members of Aquino to the Presidential Security Group (PSG) and currently face the cases filed by the public order and upon arriving at Ateneo de Naga City and a member of PRISAA party-list.
"We were there to celebrate Independence Day, but we were not there to just nodded and yes to what he said (Aquino), that because the lives of the Filipinos have changed and good," says Miangas, "said Miangas.
They saw a perfect opportunity for the arrival of Aquino to close his complaint to the President.
"One more thing that pushed us to do that is what we see that there are many mistakes in the sector of education, that is why you can't say that what we want to registered in that day is not enough," said Mijares.
Mixers was temporarily freed after he was set to set bail.
No plans to shout.
Together with other youth, it is estimated that around 40 to 50 meters is a distance from 40 to 50 meters away when Aquino said that he was raised by the plaza, "education for all" and has no intention of screaming.
"The shouting, he was shocked with what happened that happened, he did not have any intention to shoot me, but when he tried to raise him, he was caught by the police and forcibly stabbed him again, he was asked by the personnel of PSG.
"I felt pity and scratches, but I did not feel that it was painful before, I told you that we were only able to go there and we have no plans of screaming, I hope that we were able to go away from being able to go away," said Mijares.
He was also not the one screaming of "pork barrel scam, oust him, but probably one of his companions who shouted, but he was the only one picked by the police.
Also in line with that day is the widespread movement of different sectors of the country to express the fight against pork barrel as well as the Presidential pork barrel.
Daylusan also said that he did not fight back when he fought back, but he was punched by the back of those who caught him even if he was already a peaceful relationship with them.

"When the person was over, I already shouted at me)," there was no change under Aquino's side, "in the middle that I would cry that, the two in partner, the river and one thing that comes to my mouth," according to Mixers!
According to the reports of the took place, after the PSG was caught by the PSG, they passed away from the police to imprison and file a case.
He was brought by the police to the precinct where he was not allowed by all the police to defend him and he was not permitted by the police to defend him.
Mixers asked to remove his handcuffs because she was not allowed to run because she was not allowed to go to the CR because she felt the urge to urinate.
Mixers was imprisoned for 32 hours before he was temporarily freed after being able to post bail.
They will file a case against charges.
Despite the case he is facing, the counter charges against their camp is set to be charged.
According to Vince Casoon in Bicol, they have three cases to be filed against the police and those who were arresting him, one of these were not given to 12 hours imprisonment, second, and will file a motion to protect him, because it cannot be lost if the accused has already launched their rights.
Karl and National Union of People's lawyers will file charges against the Ombudsman and Commission on Human Rights to have an investigation.
"It was the eight Times Square before he was able to reach and go to fact that we were not able to reach and go to fact that we were not able to go out of the PSG (Presidential Security Group) that I cannot go to," according to Casanas.
Casallo believes that the case filed against Mixers was made of action.
"In our opinion, Malacanang has a fight, and this President is really meddling with this case," according to Casanas.
The supporters of Mianay conducted a online campaign to ask for help from his immediate garbage in his cases.
But more than this, their campaign is on the contents of the precincts and shout of Miangas: 00 in the said characteristics of the current president and the system and the lack of real freedom in the country.
