Everybody must leave.

It is time for Vice President Jojo Binay to leave his alliance with the government of President Noynoy Aquino.
It's because it is obvious that all the violation of the violation and destruction of the allies of PNoy is in 2016.
It is obvious that even the hands of the government are also used to Binay so if Binay really has its own courage, he should have done the separation.
It is clear that those from the Liberal Party and some members of the Nacionalista Party is clear so Binay should expect the influx of consecutive cases so that he will be drowned in his dreams.
We can say that the destruction of Binay and former senator Manny Villar last 2010 election is almost the same time because the pension that was used to overthrow the forehead of Aling Cecilia, who is a strong candidate for the wife of Aling Cecilia, is also being considered.
We know that Binay's separation from PNoy is a bit serious, but it is also possible that he received support to the public that it is possible that he will come back to the fight.
Binay should have a different tactic on this issue after a few weeks of destroying him by PNoy.
It is just right for him to waste the tree because their hands do not take action if there is no one who is the highest.
That's the time for those to be released and for example, Binay needs to show off the public because he is a symbol of Filipino people who are ready to fight even if the enemies are ready to fight.

Congress should act on the issue of the Sangguniang Kabataan that is scheduled on February 2015.
Many are asking if this is going to continue because the reason for their bait last year is the age of SK Pendatun.
If the election of SK Pendatun continues, the age of the youth who will join here is still like that because this is still nothing happening in the proposed law in SK Pendatun.
Caloocan Representative Egay Erice is one of the authors of a few proposals to reform the SK Pendatun but it seems that he is not a priority for now because it is not his priority for the destruction of VP Binay (ALNAs Womb of Alvin Feliciano.
