Devotees of VP Noli, Erap is de Lima.

Postanes and his mind.
On January 12, 2015.
In opinion.

You thought, who was able to do something good to Vice President Joseph "Erap" Estrada who filed a sermon to former VP Noli de Castro in relation to the complaint about different rice cakes in Quiapo that was being sold by vendors during the feast of the black Nazarene.
Perhaps there's nothing to think about Erap to answer why is the very simple problem that was initially sent to him by de Castro last year but he was not able to act on where he brought the issue, instead of explain.
Erap just does not want to admit that he is being guarded and even if it is a shallow problem, but it is a big burden to the public, he cannot solve it.
It seems that Erap needs to answer that's why they are allowed to increase the vendors in Manila because they are the ones who will milk us in order to maintain the extravagant life of his followers.
It is because hundreds of pesos is being piled up "by his followers from vendors every month not entering the treasury of the city that's why he got annoyed with De Castro.
Erap did not waste time in the interview for him to be able to ask him with an uncertain situation, even if the truth is, the poor need to look for the poor, because they are the ones who bought from the bandits now in the city hall.
Hundreds of millions of pesos is being piled up by his followers from vendors every month not entering the treasury of the city so why would he not be irritated with De Castro?
Erap is probably drunk and holding the bottle of alcohol that is why he has been telling all sorts of things against de Castro, which is even before the avid devotees of the Nazarene.
Love with Emar Sue. should be examined by the Senate.
There was no consideration for Erap to tell de Castro that he did not have anything to do as vice president and chief of Pag-IBIG Fund.
Isn't it that Erap and Vice President Jejomar Binay himself should probably confiscate all of their "debts due to the transfer of the office of Pag-Khobar, Mandaluyong City which is owned by the clan of Estrada, from his former office in Makati?
How can the public forget that when Erap is still the president of the country, he appointed himself as the president of the country, so the real Estate business of his family was executed.
Hoping that this will also be brought in the scheduled hearing of the Senate on January 22 that makes the conflict between Pag-asa and Emar, whether it is legal to enter a contract with a government agency and building owned by the officials of the government.
Last year, the Ombudsman charged a few high-ranking officials of the Commission on Regulation Commission (PRC) in the Sandiganbayan in relation to the transfer of their office in a building owned by the influential to cadmium, brother-in-law of Exercion. Secretary Paquito Ochoa, Jr.
Now it is irritating now but in the casino.
Please advise "Ghost Shadows and" Rappler ", Vice Mayor Isko Moreno, to the public that he should be good, while he is talking in a radio station.
He also warned snatchers, who should be annoyed just like being rude on the very day of the feast of the black Nazarene, he wants to say that it is only for another day that they can handle it in other day.
But Isko advised himself to advise himself and his pet councilor who are often seen staying in casino, that is why we know that it is prohibited for officials and employees of the government.
Isko has also forgotten that the plunder case against him is still the mastermind of the Ombudsman as the brain of the Ghost of the city and the ones leading the Rappler scam.
In the feast of the feast, two Kotong policemen were spotted in a separate casino in Paranaque.
In the casino of Solaire Casino's casino is a hypocrite because it is just enough for the table of the said gambling place to sleep, there are times that he takes a few days for the gambling activity.
There are also many people who have seen Alyas Alviar whom they are gambling, which is why the plundered money is coming from their posts, but they are not holding the money from their backyard and they do not have a hidden well of wealth in their backyard?
Let us just wait for who will be the first karma of Isko, if it's him and his pet dog, I mean, Councilor Ali, or the snatchers in Quiapo.
