If you are just giddy.
By Manoli Films.
September 24, 2015.

Veteran comedian AiAi delas Alas and Vic Sotto are being carried away from the movie, and AlDub?

Glamorous, good thing, the movie My Mama Love, number Kathleen, of Premiere Medical Center in SM Megamall.
But the true person who brought a movie is the tandem Vic Sotto and AiAi delas Alas, and for the first time, even during the first time, it is natural and you know that it is natural and you know that it is natural and you know that it is natural and you know that it is natural and you know that it is natural and you know that they are the actress in this film, but the crown in this film is that they will be defeated.
Of course, this is the story of Rich Asuncion and Alden, as the father of Maine and Alden Richards is the nephew of Vic and Alden Richards's nephew in the middle of the prohibition and negligence of their separation with Vic and Maine and Claudine's separation.
But in the end, in the end, the conflict between Vic and Aiai will be solved which led to the progress of unexpected feelings, and who else will be surprised and in the end, the child and his nephew are happy.
Jose Calida said, director of the movie, he has no other goal of carried an award in Metro Manila film fest season where "My Mama Love," do not pay too much because there are parts that are lacking in the smooth and development of the characters.
INTRIGAPAMORE by AiAi delas Alas, Alden Richards, Maine Mendoza and Vic Sotto.
And they are aware of Alonte, even if they are taken to TV, they were brought to a big chunk of their "chemicals in every scene of a truck that can be seen in Eat Bulaga, but Yaya Dub has made a plate number in every scene of a truck in his acting.
Meanwhile, the acting of Alden as a famous and conservative RTEGuy, who floated in the role of Maine, however, I could not be noticed that it is possible that there will be a price hike which might be the price of success if he is sick and lost a time to rest.
Whatever it is, of course, fans who are at the crib of Allyxon.
