Almost 4: 00 in the SONA!

The fourth year of the Aquino administration will be finished and there will be a State of the Nation Address or SONA but there is still no law for the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
"Others, what is being called Budget Iris and anti control of the CA.
Through the FOI, it is expected that the people in the government will be open to the eyes of the people.
The National CA will stop Malacanang to make it erness to the public funds that are not in the appointed office of the Congress, just like what he did to P160 billion Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Corrupt cops!
Despite the lack of actions by lawmakers, and Malacanang also said, about the said proposed law, the crooks in the end of the session in Congress last June 14, 2014 and they will just go back to making the law on July 21, 2014.
"July 21 is the day of the State of the Nation Address.
The number of men celebrated the Women, especially the 22 senators and about 300 congressmen who were not able to investigate in front of the public about their involvement in various anomalies in the Priority Development Assistance Fund and other money that was declared by the Supreme Court.
The residents of Malacanang celebrated, who are also implicated in the PDAF scam.
Remember that there are 80 non-government organization, including 10 sachets of Janet Lim-Napoles, who are involved in the very big amount of PDAF scam, and this is where more than 300 congressmen are involved and of 25 senators.
There are more senators and congressmen who are involved in this.
It was opened to the public.
If there are even if there is no anomaly in the Senate, even if it is tainted with anomalies, this is the opening of the public of Senator TG Guingona by all the documents that they would be given to him by Napoles list and Benhur Luy-list of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima.
Press cuse, if I am a doctor, but the list of ex-Senator Ping Lacson, which contains the name of Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, Francis Escudero, Peter Cayetano, Gregorio Honasan and Budget Secretary Florencio Abad, is Gregorio Honasan and Budget Secretary Florencio Abad.
But even if the list of suspects in the Congress was opened to the public, the lawmakers in the Senate and Legislative Chamber are still looking into the public because the elected senators and congressmen were able to open the investigation on the PDAF scam.
Reason for those in the Senate, the basis for the basis of the new laws or amendment of laws against corruption and corruption is done.
But here is the tickle, how can they investigate their own inmates and friends or siblings?
One more thing, a room in the Senate will be filled with all the contents of the list, especially Luy-list.
Thrown into an iguana.
These congressmen are even worse than the iguana, even if you were pulled out, you will not be able to investigate their dens to investigate.
Because, if they are investigating, they will investigate themselves.
Coming from, since then!
But what is also intense, it is certain that the Commission on Audit) will surely call on the Commission on Audit, which has been said to be at 80 billion pesos and more than 300 congressmen were involved in congress.
If there is a FOI.
When President Aquino was only senator and senator, he is attracted to the proposals for the FOI or other form of it.
This is against the movements of all of the government who also take a secret to the transaction of the government.
We already know that we just know the usual fruits of spiritual activities - with the repeated anomalies.
But when he became president, he already looked for the proposed FOI.
This is what the proposal is doing now, it is clearly seen in the release of the anomaly in all his opponents in politics and all of his allies are in the Tuwid na Daan.
If there is a CA.
The COMELEC is also not in the boils of Malacanang.
PCA, WHO) or not?
It will not work in Malacanang what the Constitution is saying that only the Congress is the one to decide on how to spend money from the people.
Malacanang believes that the Congress has a lot of failure even in the gathering of rules or laws on the public funds that's why it needs to act on the sake of the country.
There, there are those who are from P160 pesos "he does not want to make up to the agencies of the government and are being spent on what they want to use for without permission from the Congress - and in the Constitution.
There, it has been a case for P160 billion worth of Malacanang under the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
The center of DAP was the center of DAP, and even more than 20 senators are involved in the progress after they will be impeached, ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona.
Every senator is going to give P5 million pesos to 100 million pesos or bribe from DAP, and the congressmen 'commissioners of 113 million pesos each other.
If there is a CA, it can't be done so that this will be so happy in the funds of the country, according to the critics of DAP.
