!
"That's why they were sad when they arrived at the side of each other, and what we are saying is that we are just at the same age, I still need to go with him, because we also want to be with the fight that is why we really want to be with my friend what I want to share.
Pauleen is just the only model in our place.
You have been very weak in the signal of some policemen.
I am also bad for a bank because my cousin said that I will learn from the boat that I will learn from so that I will learn how to take care of me.
So that you won't have a size, that is for you not to assist you and they say you don't know how to take care of you so you don't know how to take care of it.
"When I left that I did not go to those who are in the country, they separated for five years and they are separated, right?
"Is it okay that I will start all the things that I have with Kuya Fred.
You know, it became PNoy.
Then, there is what he has made, all of us have heroism because we are waiting for our youngest to just wait for us and wake him up on what we did to the heart.
Yes, it is up to you, then I will go back here.
"There is still a small thing that you really love how to teach to his cousins who are like that, but you really want to get what he wants to get to the room," I said, "we said," we said, "we said.
So I told you to just buy you.
"At that moment, he / she said that he / she was chosen as a good teacher in front; he / she said that he / she might have been talking about it.
Maybe you are going to think that maybe she already wants something like that.
It is because if you study, you will not remember that your government is not able to study you even if you can help you even in the government, the one who has a lot of education is also being used in the right way.
Two.
Okay.
When Two people, at first, I clearly see the children that I've seen on the children like that, "like the things you can see in the receipt, the man will see the receipt.
There are skin who are like that, they are just shy.
You are your parents who are living here just all afternoon, but I am just talking about all of the primary needs for me to have a support to the church of the children because they need to take care of their health, that's why they are just taking care of their health.
Missing.
Sometimes, his father is father, because he said that he is very tired; he / she is tired, even though she is very tired, he / she also doesn't have a mistress; we also do not have a mistress, but we also do not have a mistress.
Hmmmp!
I cannot continue.
My dreams here with the children here.
Taking a lot of land in Subic.
Of course, you will finish studies.
All of them understand and their hearts are the importance of location.
That is one of those.
They saw two days from each day that I can hear as a teacher in a doctor to be a teacher in a long journey for a long journey for a long journey for a long journey for a long journey for a long journey for a long journey; so that we are going to go to school; so we can go to school;
They can achieve that.
I wanted to explain to them about reading the hope in reading.
There are those who eat and are still cooking.
