What?
Last night.
Well.
Yes.
Two reports.
I am the only one five-four children who have been separated from the father of Riza.
It's like that, my work, the job of my job, whose job, was taking advantage of the person delivering my Iloilo in front of my Iloilo in front of a fifteen-years old when I started two thousand.
"We were able to talk to each other; we were going to our house here in Bacolod City; she was called by his friend, she said that I was born in the land in Antipolo when she was born when I was asked to be asked by my family and I was really being asked by my family.
I could not do anything about him, I gave me a lot and I told me that we have no one to go to the barangay but only me and my two are over by me before you did it.
I wonder that even if he likes it to pay, I don't like it, I don't want to live here, I still don't want to live there, I will still not live there, I will still not live-up until the Model Shop needs you to live there.
Yes.
I am almost four o'clock in the evening.
Yes, Cesar, my father is still too young, my father said, to study just to write to my name.
You will not be led astray, do you even have siblings to study and we do not complain.
The blood pressure will live here in what we have been selling, here in spite of that, there are those who say that there's a few thousand, whose life can sell vegetables and vegetables.
Yes, I am in a deep sleep; we are going to have a wife and a couple, which is just going to be my husband and wife, who are very much alive; he / she doesn't have a joke; he / she doesn't have a hobby to live by us.
It's because I really have to know that there are people who are at fault; as long as you do not know what kind of life is, that's why it's okay for you to have a debt that is not good even if it is not good for me even if I am eating this in the right way.
Work hard if you do not like those who violate work.
Hmmmp!
Stupid.
"You are in my work here with the help that you are cleaning him, we are still angry at that, because there is still no anger towards the cals, that's why I still do not take a bath to the plants like that in the height but you are the only one I will give.
Because of your child, he is nice, but I was not able to judge him again, at the head, she did not complain about it.
But he said, in the evening he will study so that he will not be able to study well with your siblings, we are not going to school that is why I really want me to be able to cook while your father has brought him to cook while doing something.
They are hungry that he wants to be removed.
I will get dizzy, not only a debt of gratitude for him / her second until he / she just wants us to be right, just to face each other, even if you really do not want to say that you do not know that your eldest child is right.
My Philippine country, but he does not want it to be a big problem now, they really do not want to be feeling dizzy because they would like to win so that they will win so that they won't have a lot of education now.
It is just fine if they are going to Shell and will not be able to work anymore why I do not have a study so that your older brother will not be able to study so that it would not be your older brother.
Okay, please do not fool me.
Hmmmp!
Covetous, fur.
"He still doesn't want to study because I am going to study; I told me that I am going to study while there is another chance for you to study first in the end of me to recover in the right way to look at us.
Okay.
You are busy with whom she will be able to study who is just an Only feeling for my opinion.
"I said, what you say, ah, you don't like that he likes the video of what you want.
Really while there is a visitor that you don't want to.
We are very pitiful; but, of course, you are not in our situation when we are the children who do not have a hard work, just because they have a hard time breathing.
You are really going to finish your studies and think that we are complete without living together now.
Work for a job so that he can drink fat; and goatee.
Called!
Ah, nothing.
What if the Lord see me happy?
Covetous, dearse, what if anyway.
Hmmmp!
Okay.
I am cruel to whom I will teach to the next children, whose letter will increase; that's why the letter arrives, that's why they say that this is the next day to make it like that.
Yes, why is I not that much?
With all of them, who is really, of Lady Oton; that's why when you get married, she does not know that she will not stop at the long time when she sees that she would not be able to work, that's why he doesn't know that she will go straight at the long time when he / she doesn't know that she will go straight to his / her own body.
"We are anxious; but, of course, he was able to finish his studies because we saw that our province is going to be our province, of course, we'll be able to go to school, that is why we've been together for six-years.
He is really brave to make a way for a long time but you are saying that you are going to talk to you even if you are talking to you.
Because it's five days.
There are times when I am standing up until the roof of what I am going to do as long as there is one another, this is just one of them.
Two.
Two.
Do five to take care of us; I am still at work; I am still work.
Very small; we will teach them like Paulo because they are having a hard time to give a good life in Manila yes to just wash your beautiful lives.
Hahaha, nobody else.
What will I continue whatever it is, there's nothing wrong if I tell me that the studies are going to continue to help the parents.
Yes, even though it's okay, he / she's okay to look at the age; he / she can go ahead, even if he talks about it, I hope that you have a lesson. "
