The price and tax of the 2015 will serve as price and tax.

Postanes and his mind.
On January 10, 2015.
In opinion.

After the fare increase in the MRT and LRT, the Filipino people are really dependent to the Filipino people from 15 to 15), here is the high level of water service.
We still don't feel anything that they are going to take advantage of the service of the two Hipolitos of Manila, they have a strong confidence to add up in their services that can be cut off if it is not enough that it can be used by the people's tax.
Okay, let us say that they are asking for forgiveness for the proper flow of service.
But it turns out that the reason is, after they spent the fixing of facilities, then they will take it back to their house.
Only, Philippines - a agency that is owned by the government is being taken off, but the rehabilitation and rehabilitation being sold!
And do not take a report because it is time for you to pay taxes because you will go to a report that almost half of your earnings will go to Rentanglement that you do not feel where it goes.
Even their tax was given to us by the shameless water to be taken away from us!
Maybe the time will come that even the wind is becoming a meter and has a payment for it?
"That is the hour of 2015 - the price of commodities will increase, increase in activities of society and will only be imposed on the tax.
August 2015!
BuCor director Franklin Bucayo, I am impressed by your strength and thickness!
The spirit of the Bureau of Jomalig (BuCor) Director Franklin Bucayo is really serious.
This mother was impressed by the courage.
To whom does Bucayo borrow the thickness of their faces and despite the consecutive wins in the National Bilibid Prison (NBP), he has not yet thought about to resign and go away from there.
Hey, justice Secretary Leila de Lima is what we see in Bilibid and he is not anymore.
Just like the flower vase, and SOJ De Lima who are the ones who are disconcerted in the operation of Bilibid.
The NBP has been suspended for several times but there were too much weapons they obtained but there were still some who managed to file a grenade.
Because of the secret of Guadalupe towards Bilibid, we will be asking about the next events after he is explosion.
And "that is what you should wait for, Ret. Gen. Bucayo!
If you want to remain in your position, you should have a unique intelligence skill for the next events that will happen which will surely build them in embarrassment to Secretary de Lima.
But if you do not have a unique intelligence skills or you really do not have anything, we think, "we should resign from Director Bucayo.
Why is it that SOJ De Lima does not try to lead BuCor / NBP, but we have seen a lot of people who have been seen to have been taken care of there are ex-police / military but their job is not over, right?
This is not a bad bread, only us, "what is right and good in Bilibid.
"What do you feel Director Bucayu!
MPDPS-3 Plaza Miranda, quiet but can still hope the "INTEL"!
After the feast of the Black Nazarene, it was still discussed on the ranks of the police at the Manila Police District (MPD) who was silent but a deep "INTEL" by some operatives of Plaza Miranda PCP commander lieutenant Rommel Anicete.
It is said that it would be good to be deep in the INTEL but it is the one that they are talking about by what they are referring to!
There is still no class (PCP Plaza Miranda, the sale of illegal drug for pills (cylinder c), the "pushing of illegal drugs at the back of the market.
Walis in fact!
The branch of a branch is still scattered in the horseshoe, Carriedo, Hidalgo and Raon.
The sale of sex, gadgets were also exposed in Raon Street Quezon Boulevard, overpass, and on the sidewalks.
The ice game was also scattered in the AOR of Plaza Miranda PCP.
Fight IT led to Shine's Day, a lieutenant!
