Louise and BF, a good relationship.
Anne Santos, Bira will wait for the action of By Jojo Binay in August 7, 2016.
On the two movies, Anne Curaties are doing two movies, how many grandchildren of May Boyfriend and Bubuy bust operation were doing two movies.
Anne is thankful because the shooting of how I started for the shooting of why she and the handsome grandchild of the Boyfriend Kong was first started.
It is lighter than the feeling, unlike the theme and full of action, that's why he's still training at the panel when I am living together, together with the boy scouts. "It is happy because before it is for me," says Anne about the new movie project.
Anne Hidalgo Stars, Dennis Trillo and Paolo Ballesteros and Paolo Ballesteros, those who will be his partner in Buyo-bust.
There will be no feelings which can be seen between the Juancho Trianglement and Louise de los Reyes but their friendship is deeper when they lived together in different souvenirs of GMA 7.
It is unlikely that the two will have a relationship because Louise admitted that his love for his girlfriend is not mentioned that he did not mention the name.
"I was not hiding him but it's okay to be quiet with personal interests so that his eyes are not looking at you.
"It is more important" to know about the two of you.
"For me, until you are not married, it seems that you are okay to be in your personal life, thank you to be a new space of Talk n?
"I am here, I have been there for a hidden but I really want to send myself to the.
"According to the New York of Friends, the number of those who are known to be the one to be known to be the one to be identified.
"Because, when I go to Events which is being known, I learned a lot from different people," Louise's story about his personal life.
According to Juancho Trianglement, his being friends with Louise is getting worse because of their frequent being together in the set of different souvenirs.
"Of course, we are together everyday for every day, all of fun to do, we can do it.
"We come out, it is just the two of us, all of us, are not on a date for us, on a building, so that there is no need in need in set," Duterte said that his girlfriend does not have anything to do with showbiz.
When asked about the issue of the video scandal involving his fellow young actor, the Juancho Alvarez already spoke.
"He said," We all know, "of course, it's only a person and I avoided it.
I am sure, my face has no matter. "
Juancho narrated that he already received a point, but he did not pay attention to it.
"It's because my numbers are, too much, too much, when there are those who are talking to me or if there is an accident, GMA artist Medical Center will really be held.
"Of course, I still have friends who have an old numbers that is why (old numbers) came out.
"There are times when I went to this point when I went to this, I will be given a car but I should not say it to GMA artist Center.
"I said," yes, "I should just say it to an artist Center to fix the consequence, but he does not want to agree.
"I immediately responded."
