Pisces (Hitler was out of Hitler, Duterte and the Jews.
Bty Go of October 3, 2016 - three million Jews were killed by Antartica in 1940 until the first month of 1945, which became the last month of 1945, which became the end of the World War II in Europe.
Part of the "final solution" is the murder of the Jews through gas, and after the burning of their bodies were burning inside a large crematorium in front.
That's why it's the same for the Jews as the members of Kuala Lumpur Party of Hitler who was directly involved in the "mass exported" by the Jews as the killing of three million drug pushers and drug addict who survived the country.
"Taw, 3 million drug pusher (in the Philippines).
And like what is expected, the Jews at the United States condemned the statement of Duterte along with saying that the president of the Philippines has to ask for an apology to the Jews as the victim of Holding.
Included in those pregnant groups who opposed Duterte were Rai CoCooper reported to Duterte who said, "the Hsister project who said," (Mr. Scorpio), the victims who were not able to be able to support for his / her name. "
Even the Anti-Special Action Force has condemned the controversial statement of Duterte's controversial statement by Duterte, "The Legal Management Council, who was not able to be able to be able to be able to catch the Model Shop, which was the Model Shop, which was the Model Shop."
The embassy of Israel has not yet released an official statement on the issue but everyone knows that one of the most strict allies of the United States will be the country of Israel.
The most big banks and institutions in the US are not in a secret which is being controlled by the Jews and this is what they should be afraid because if the Jews used to fund the campaign against the Duterte administration, it will surely happen.

If Duterte will not give a step down and take revenge on his statement about Hitler and the hems, it is not impossible to happen what the government is afraid to overthrow the government of President Rody or "that is why he would be the target of the abulary.
Mosley is known to be a secret service of Israel who is good with the Special operations especially to the personalities who have liability to the country Israel or the Jews as a citizen of Israel.
And what is more scary is that if a alliance between Mosley is going to have an alliance with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to protect their interest in danger under the Duterte administration, what do you think?
