It is back to traffic in Manila.

If before, I would like to avoid Manila when I go to Quezon City or other places in Northern Metro Manila, this is now what I pass through instead of going through Makati to EDSA.
When there is still no truck ban in Manila, the traffic situation in Manila is like to hell with the situation of traffic in Manila, especially in the stretch of Taft Avenue and España, but when Mayor Erap started to implement the truck ban, the flow of vehicles has become spacious.
This is where we proved that it is really a big problem that it is really a big problem that they will almost own the roads when they are in the trip, all the trucks drivers who take advantage of their vehicles in order to protect our streets.
But since the evil truck driver from Manila became comfortable, our trip was comfortable, and our heads is not becoming hot and only the stubborn drivers are all stubborn.
However, it is obvious that the truck operators have not stopped Mayor Erap who is obviously thinking about what they are saying to continue what they encountered on other motorists.
Because of this, they were extremely worried because it seems that Mayor Erap is going to be cooked in order to change the rules of Manila in its implementation of the truck ban.
Since Saturday, the trucks may travel to 24 hours using a lane in Roxas Boulevard.
Even though according to the report, Roxas Boulevard will only be affected in this change, it is certain that the roads outside the Manila which are part of this have become a mess.
Where will the trucks increase to reach Roxas Boulevard but also on the roads connected to the countries there is no truck ban?
It will surely be a problem with traffic not only in Manila but to neighboring cities because until the truck driver has no discipline and continue to do not care about the truck operators, they continue to pay or destroy them.
Hopefully, this decision of Mayor Erap is just temporary so that his very beautiful experience in Manila will not be wasted.
