
Money is the reason for EDCA.

Like what is expected, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement should now be held today, the agreement signed by the Philippines and the United States this April 28.
The fight against EDCA will be more strengthened when former Senator Rene Sarmiento and WILLIE is going to visit the Supreme Court last Monday to contradict said agreement.
According to Saguisag's step, it is clear to support the first 10 cases that filed a complaint in the SC against EDCA.
Saguisag is now asking the legality of the agreement and they say it will be a negative effect on the sovereignty and general interest of the country.
The kidnappers asked for the SC to stop the implementation of EDCA, until the question of its legality would not be resolved, because they think they are violating the provisions of the 1987 Constitution.
Even though it is included in the arguments of the petition, the common reasons like the issue on the sovereignty, I noticed that one of the severe reasons why Saguisag is against EDCA is due to the issue of money.
Because of this, I tried to look for a copy of the EDCA and there, I did not see anything directly stated, on how much was the US will pay in exchange for their construction of the Naval Forces based in the country.
What is clear is that it is only stated that the potential of the country might be filled with and benefit from the country, in case the EDCA will finally implement and build people based on different provinces.
In other words, the commissioners of EDCA is not super against EDCA as long as they just want the issue on the rent so that we would not look into the monkeys well.
It turns out, along with Tana's and Saguisag's 10 senators who voted in order to oust them from the military operations in Subic and Clark.
This is also the time when former President Corazon Aquino tried to give extension of 10 years of contract with said facilities in the Philippines.
What his mother did was not able to do, it seems that the current President Noynoy Aquino wants to continue.
