Back and trust in Manila.

Even before, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada was coordinating with the officials of Hong Kong government to ask for forgiveness in relation to the bloody Luneta siege, the trust of the foreigner was slowly coming back to Manila but also in the whole country.
In celebration last Saturday on the fourth year anniversary of the Manila Bus Station, which happened at the Quirino Grandstand last August 23, 2010, the "Day of Manila did not allow the occasion to ask for forgiveness especially if it is for the welfare of the majority.
According to Mayor Erap, he is asking for forgiveness from the government of Hong Kong, and even the families of the deceased in the tragedy because it was slowly returned to the previous relationship of the two countries, aside from the bad treatment they experienced in Hong Kong.
It is proof that the relationship of Hong Kong and the Philippines is good, especially in Manila, is the commemoration of the fourth year anniversary of the incident wherein the Buddancers that came from Hong Kong, which is the equivalent date of the celebration according to Chinese Lunar Calata.
The former President offered to the officials of Hong Kong and the families of the eight who died in the Manila Bus Station, just to return their trust in our country again.
This is the opposite of President Benigno Aquino III who is trying to stop the incident that his government has no fault.
But if the President or the chief of the Philippine National Police Officer 3 National Police Officer 3 National Police Officer 3 National Police, it is certain that his name does not reach bloody killings after being charged with the Office of the Ombudsman.
It is true, the trust of Hong Kong nationals once again went back to the government but their respect or salute are just for Mayor Estrada because this is the first step to make the crack in their relationship and trust.
But, the policemen who were given death penalty in order to say that there will be proven guilty in the incident that should have been charged and punished, not those who were charged and punished, not the ones who are just beside him what the superior wants to say.
Anyway, the trend is really like that, there is a need to sacrifice for a sacrifice to complete the crack of the organization.
