"Is it difficult to marry" I am sorry? "

If there is a mistake, someone apologized.
Frequently, those who make sure that those that show me "I am sorry."
But there are also those who say that he is telling the said words.
That is happening, Bro, between parents and their children.
Even if the child is wrong, as long as the child sobbed, without any word, father or mother, together, together with their children.
After that, the parents and child were happy and as if nothing happened.
She wished.
As early as now, the government of Hong Kong asked for a "sorry" by our government about the massacre happened by a couple who got married to eight Hong Kong nationals, four years ago, still passed away in Luneta, Manila.
It has been many years for the request for this request for a year but until now, the government has not spoken to him but he has no involvement in the ghastly incident.
He asks for an apology, aside from the damage brought by some Filipino people and Tsinoy businessman.
Visa.
Because of the stubbornness of our government on this issue, the government of Hong Kong was suspended for a visa-free entry to the officials of the government in the said place.
"The effect of the agreement of Hong Kong and the Philippines for the officials of our government is the approval of the government officials.
If our officials want to go or visit to Hong Kong, but going to other places, these need to be a visa to enter the said area.
He ignored it.
It appears that our government just ignored it even though the Palace is saying that the Palace is talking about the government of Hong Kong and us about this.
It seems that the officials did not see any problem.
But do they know that this is an important issue, especially if these are related to Overseas Filipino Workers in Hong Kong?
She said it was an emergency.
For example I have an emergency about our OFW, it is not a hindrance to the quick action of our government to take a visa for our officials who will be able to help the OFWs?
It will be said that even our diplomat and indie films who are assigned in the area are under the jurisdiction of the right suspension of the rights of "supervisor.
How can our diplomat, consolation and other appropriate official if they can't get Hong Kong for the right time?
Look like the government is negligent or useless on this issue if ever.
What is the quick time for the government to waste if in Hong Kong, of intense calamity, thousands of affected OFWs have been affected?
The calamity may cause illnesses, war, fire, earthquake, typhoon and others.
There are others.
According to the officials of Hong Kong, they still have something to do to send the Philippines the Philippines and asked forgiveness or for an apology.
This is what our officials should learn or know.
Will we be able to convince the people of our OFWs?
For example, will Hong Kong choose to renew the people of those who are in the contract of OFWs?
And it is possible to happen.
What will the government do because there are really a lot who will make OFWs like Thai, Indonesian and other coming from other countries in Asia?
Connected to the government.
For us, it is clear that the government is clearly connected to the government, the reasons why the police identified as Captain Rolando Mendoza before.
It is clear that he has a case in the Ombudsman but he allegedly tried to gather those from the Ombudsman to fix the case.
And the police's reason, his case is just made up by others after he will have a difficult time with the government.
And when the grim incident arrived in Luneta, the government showed only a failure to make sure that the lives and properties of the victims are safe.
It can be clearly seen in the media coverage if the government will not wait for this issue and say he does not have any responsibility or negligence so this should not be asked. "
Unable to catch up.
"You are on-headed to the palace because it is not bad to ask for an apology, or to apologize."
Let us remember our OFWs, the duty of our officials on the needs of the government and OFW's needs to be quick to travel to Hong Kong.
For example, everything will lead to the request that there is a need to file a case against those who believe that there are failures and negligence, so Fight IT.
That is really what happened.
It is surprising and the negligent and failure in their handling of the crisis are not yet answered.
In other countries, after that kind of incident, someone is undergoing a case, someone is charged, someone is being fired from work and has detained her.
But with what I love the Philippines, it seems that not only, there is no value in the killed lives, even the broken image of the country with the foreigners.
