
You will be embarrassed to capture the killing and coconut milk in Albay.

Too much, his anger of Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago was intense when former senator Ping Lacson was not able to pay attention to it.
Lacson is "attack dog" of Senator Enrile, that's why it should not be believed that the list he is saying is not right, that's why it should be said that a "list" will just believe that the issue will not become chaotic!
"That is the words of Inday Miriam that before, but when they exchanged a" list "it seems that the lady senator got hit with kisses because his name was not there in the list of Lacson.
What's worse, is the name of Inday Miriam Defensor Santiago who is involved in the list of Benhur Luy with the officials of the government who are involved in scandal or mockery of PDAF! Hk, haunting, haunting and haunt!
It is sacred, Inday Miriam, based on your words not to believe the "Lacson list" you cannot believe that your name is not in the PDAF scam, is it really true that you are one of those who are going to steal from PDAF?
King-mother! Your noise in the hearing of the "Blue Ribbon Committee" is while you encourage Napoles to admit the truth because you said, he will use the statement from the lower abdomen, Benhur Luy.
"It turns out that, Enrile, Revilla and Estrada are the only target!
And and Joseph, as said by Lacson, the mind of Inday Miriam is that he will not give it to it, if said accusations are true, what will happen to us if he will run and win?
Since then, we will transfer to the movement of the movement, god, and Joseph!
Entice the President.
A famous personality served as the bagman of illegal gambling in the province of Albay.
"That is what our" Adona, "who was said to be under the gambling dens, even in the distribution of the police!
Jun Germany is a deloy, alias "what is being referred to Governor Joey Salceda, which is due to the extreme part of Governor Joey Salceda, he will make peace because even PNP Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Marlon Meneses, does not do anything because of fear that he might be attacked by the media!
Langaban, "do not drag the clean name of Madam Deona because he is currently being able to get his second stars on the names implicated, Mister Jun Germany!
