Barangay By Jeanne Calment of October 6, 2016 is active.
Some barangays particularly in Barangay Holy Spirit in Quezon City (Quezon City (QC) are very active in patrolling the evening.
I passed by the group of personnel of a barangay in Quezon City who are diligent in going around the main roads and streets in their jurisdiction and their minors are being monitored.
Even the computer shops who parked some personnel of the barangay who seemed to have been divided to lose the entire barangay and make sure that no violence will happen, we salute the barangay in Quezon City who are really working in order to maintain the order of their community.
It is also gladdening to go through this barangay, which serves as the number of motorists caught by traffic due to the construction of MRT7 in Commonwealth Avenue because the road was clean at night.
Before President Rodrigo Duterte sat down, your servant could already be passed by by your servant to go out in Fairview up to the amount of people on the road, but he was really not able to run around 10 kph because of the volume of people on the road, there was a bit of videoke and young men playing at the late hours of night.
But in the past few months, the direction of the wind is already different, and even small roads have been fair so that the vehicles who choose to pass through a tree will be fair because of the active patrolling of the barangay personnel.
Just one of the many barangays I passed by from Norte going to the southern part of Metro Manila which was traversing the barangay hall in QC.
I am happy that the change happening in the barangay is happy under the government of Duterte so that we will live in a community in the whole country and so that we will live in a community who will be at peace and have no evidence to happen brought by the addicted to illegal drugs.
Your servant salutes your servant and we are hoping that President Duterte will give attention to it, especially when your mayor in the city of Quezon is the change that you have started to give importance to your desire to bring peace to your barangay.
If some barangays in QC, it looks like some are negligent since the Supreme Court stopped the implementation of curfew for minors because the children are everywhere in some places in Quezon City every night.
The reason why it can be seen in some main roads in the city of Quezon are the scattered scattered around every night which only creates noise.
Hopefully these kinds of scenario would be lost even if the implementation of the curfew will disappear because they will be able to discipline the youth lurking around the late hours of the evening if the personnel of the barangay especially on patrolling.
