
Wake up call on truth.

The tragedy that happened between the 44-Special Action Force commandos to be massacred by the rebel Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF) served as a wake up call to the truth.
According to the explanation of Police Director Getulio Napeñas, the SAF commander was fired after the death of the commandos attacking, he was the one who should be blamed for what happened, Director General Alan Purisima, but he thought his mission was not allowed because of the previous agreement.
If the mission was successful he will rise from the names of Purisima who are involved in the irregularities he involved, but because he failed to give up the some failures, including the secrecy that he has been doing to Interior Secretary Mar Roxas and the PNP officer-in-release Leonardo Espina, and not coordination with the military.
Even if Purisima just call him and did not give the order, if it came from the chief of PNP, it is natural for Purisima to follow the meeting with Senator Franklin Drilon that he is just quiet and not speaking.
We already found out that the PNP is conducting a mission when it was not appropriate and if there is still a corresponding case, until now, the public is still having a secret to anyone from it.
It is the right of the citizens, especially those who were orphaned by the SAF, to know who ordered the mission that resulted to the true colors of the MILF, which caused the "Bangsamoro Basic Law" that will give them a bigger power to change the first "AOIL.
We are thankful to Mister Carlos Alonzo on the several comments he sent and shared to our Pambansang Kamao in relation to the BBL and the killing of our policemen.
"As of the BBL agreement, my opinion is the fragrance of Fight IT.
"
Mister Alonzo was compared to the incident that happened to the police who entered a house in order to arrest the suspect in the shooting incident, but the authorities did not kill the police, and the authorities did not blame why they entered their house.
"In the whole house that was held up, ten, I am being grossed for by the police officer, But, PNP)... Tell, Are, Tell, Are," (Are, "(Are," the opinion of Mister Alonzo, and also coordinating with the belief of the people who makes her anger at what happened.
We saw that the citizens should monitor the actions of high officials of the government, and if this is in accordance with the appointed rules, so it will not happen that the lives of the law enforcers would not happen again.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
