Are you okay?

Why did everything end up to the emergency events in the Philippines?
I thought, because it is just four years when the government is walking in the Tuwid na Daan, the government is in order to fix all its bones!
King-mother, what happens, President Noynoy really loves so much.
Because of the emergency, it appears that the problems in the country are very worried and it appears that the Tuwid na Daan "has no use in the past four years.
It was the first emergency, judicial system, the arrival of rainy season for typhoon Yolanda, which was earthquake, especially in Bohol and war in Zamboanga City.
Until now, thousands are living on the set up and evacuation center and a latest news, there is still no release of the government officials who are a big fund for the rehabilitation and livelihood of the victims of the said calamity.
It is a very slow verification of the vendors, those who have helped the sale of the responsibility while they were very fast to assist with big people and companies that are making projects and companies that are given to the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
It was said that an emergency fight was declared against the Land Cruiser, which was discovered by the Department of Agriculture when Noynoy sat as a boss but he was not able to respond.
Now, the government needs to spend up to 350 million to save the 60 pesos in the biggest industry in order to strengthen the country.
It is also an emergency increase in the price of food from rice to garlic, ginger, milk, meat and many others.
What is painful, it appears that the government cannot do anything because this is done by the forces of the market or the free price of businessmen.
It has also creates an emergency that was held yesterday by the drivers and operators of the entire country because of the high level of the government on them.
The drivers and operators are worried that they will lose their livelihood because the Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation and caresses up the Regulatory Commission.
It is also an emergency in the opinion of many people who are going to put all the corruption, but only the pitiful administration of PNoy will look nice and free from its allies, not corrupt and disconcerns.
They are living together!
