
Tolentino, narrow-minded.

What is in the streets in Metro Manila due to the not the first traffic, it is the narrow-mindedness of MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino.
Sorry, indeed a loved Chairman, "because it is what the people are noticing now in your treatment on the issue involving one of the children that was punched by a businessman because of an argument.
First, you should find out why your child was hurt, Lemery of Masisit.
Aside from depression and dragged in the scandal, do you think he had an affair with what he has done?
You should not take advantage of Adriatico right away, because you are in the agency serving the country, serving the country that they have been paying for the tax of our civilians.
For those who ran over the incident, it turns out what is with the character of Adriatico.
It is not being small to him, the complaints against him are also from the small people who experienced his abuse.
Good vendors are happy, tricycle drivers, jeepney driver and some motorists, because it is said that you have found a direct "your child from Adriatico because they might get worse and have no direct attitude.
Instead of taking sides because he was hurt and the nose was destroyed, the people who were hit was one of the people who were hit to condemn and blaming him.
He is blamed why he was only beaten up by him and he said that what he took was not enough.
Second, a loved chairman, there is a formal complaint in your office against Adriatico, do you act on this?
Isn't it that even if it is a proof that he is a member who has long been involved in work for a long time?
It turns out, chairman, your narrow-mindedness of what you're going to pay who is going to pay and speaking against you and your child.
This is not joining you, like what you did, chairman, but this is in a quick chance to find out who is the one who has the one who does not know who is guilty.
The one who got hurt will be in court and will be able to answer to who is right because he is able to attract a fellow.
But the point of the country in this incident, you should not be narrow-minded, just in the middle of you first.
Why is Adriatico's attitude?
It seems that the MMDA has not been able to ask the traffic to give proper treatment and respect to the motorists where the motorists are catching.
The truth is, the man with the head of the children scattered on the streets, usually they are doing money, money and not to help ease the road.
