Mud.

Bad odor, dirty.
For people, it can be considered a mud and there is no end that is wrong against the interest of the people and the people, usually, those who are similar to the mud are politicians, executive and accomplices in making evil.
There is still a few more example of the mud is the PDAF-DAP-MalhFund scam.
Even if we turn around a lot of marriage, there will not be anything wrong with the smell of corruption, not only the pork barrel scam queen Janet Napoles who is involved in private, he is the most serious connection with all.
For what is happening, confusion is happening in the issue of the pork scam of Napoles.
We should not be deceived by the politicians, executive, lawyers and public utility vehicles who have a hole on the crisis brought by Napoles.
These should be forever in prison because it does not have death penalty in it, isn't it?
Queen Janet Lim has no right to ask for a drinking leader of the country with G. Benigno Aquino III, Mar Roxas, Justice Leila de Lima, Franklin Drilon and even the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
Getting into the mud at the rehab czar, Panfilo Lacson, of Major Jimmy Napoles (PMA) in the PMA) that was set to step on the mud at the pork barrel scam, Benhur Luy and his fellow employees of JLalaCorporation before.
Justice, should be blindfolded in the eyes that it means is to cover-up to be equal to acknowledging the law and set the innocent people right now in the hands of De Lima and even in the Supreme Court?
With the strict issue on who are involved, those who are involved should be held accountable and who are innocent, one will look at each other so that there will be no trouble and it will be punished with a case against Napoles and be punished.
Malacañang should stop the mercy of Malacañang if teacher Butch Abad should be held accountable, Proceso Alcala (WHO), he said goodbye to agriculture, and it is possible that the President himself will take responsibility for their sins to the country.
The continuous noise from Malacañang, in the Congress, in the media, and the people in the media and people in that!
