The agencies of the government and private sector who are continuously supporting the programs of the boxer could serve and technology.

July 25, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, July 25, Pia) - the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) Caraga, troops of the government and private sector, who continue to support the programs of the National Bureau of Butuan City in the city of Butuan City from July 25-29, 2016.
The local government of Butuan City, Agusan del Norte; Agusan del Sur; Surigao del Norte; Surigao del Sur; Burgos, Surigao del Norte; Leonida Benedicto, Surigao del Norte; Leonida Benedicto, Agusan del Norte; Leonida Benedicto, Agusan del Norte; Leonida Benedicto, Agusan del Norte; and Dinagat Islands and Dinagat Islands and Dinagat Islands.
The agency of the Department of the Interior and Local Government; Department of Social Welfare and Development; Department of Trade and Industry (National Football Development Authority) Office of Civil Defense; Department of Health; and Philippine Amusement and Caraga, also received an award.
The Caraga Police Community Precinct PCP and Caraga State University; Caraga State University; Philippine Foundation for Science and Technology) United Nationalist Alliance) of the Philippines - Surigao Peninsula, and Winter International Airport) also received said award.
According to DOST regional director Brillante Mendoza, they have an additional order from their Secretary of DOST, these kinds of celebration for the said celebration.
It was also found out that the National Science and technology of Brigada Eskwela is based on the eastern part of the year 1993 until it was announced that the contribution of the country and private institution is given tribute to the public and private institution for a long-term progress of the country.
Meanwhile, director Brillante Mendoza also shared that they have prepared different activities for a week celebration in Caraga Region and included in these are the opening of Travenue (CXL yesterday in Caraga State University in Butuan City.
The Science and Technology is also held at the Agham at Quiz City; Exercion.
