
The Filipinos are not happy with the show of the King of pork barrel scam.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
June 30, 229.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (the Filipino-Filipino, Arinoli, which is a big show of the trial to the politicians accused of corruption, the King of pork barrel, Benigno Aquino III to entertain the people and to make the attention of his responsibilities in the whole world.

In the past ten days, the Aquino administration imprisoned the two puppies so that Ramon Revilla Junior and Jinggoy will be defeated by the filipino people who were accused to arrest by other senators in the following days, but as well as the best-worthy country being given to the old Enrile.
It was held by the Aquino administration to arrest and serve the politicians accused in the filing of pork barrel scam, Budget Secretary Florencio Abad and Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala, and the fact that Aquino himself has a close relationship with the accused queen of pork barrel, Janet Lim-Napoles.
Starting on March, the Marcos regime is allegedly negotiating with Napoles to become a witness against the politicians anti-Aquino who are involved in the involvement of Aquino's involvement in the pork barrel that will be made to make the attention of the Aquino's involvement in the pork barrel that will be given protection to the corrupt politicians.

Last June 12, not less than 10,000 people have marched on the streets of Metro Manila who have insisted that Aquino will be responsible for the corrupt system to ensure the votes of the Supreme Court to ensure the votes of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, Renato Corona.

The people Fuentes was belittled by the Aquino administration but they ignored the fact that many of the basic commodities in the Philippines' suspension have been served in front of the basic commodities in the Philippines' suspension of the filipino masses, which has long been forgotten by the ranks of the filipino masses, which has long been suspecting in the illusion of "straight path," Aquino said.

He owns the yellow party of Aquino to the experts that the anti-Aquino would be considered to be an expert in the middle of corruption in the streets, while they know that the Filipino people in the public funds are not happy, while they know that the government of the pork barrel which is direct to control the Aquino administration is not happy.

There have been a lot of groups who question the Saligang Batas of the pork barrel scam of the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court because it was quick to put out a clear decision against the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) that many months have passed, the Filipino people feel so bad for the failure of the Supreme Court to release a decision regarding DAP.

Because the appointed administration of Aquino is controlled, expect that Aquino will declare the constitutional process of DAP, if not, the people will not accept the decision of the Supreme Court regarding DAP, a political decision which will serve the stability of the Aquino administration.

The Filipino people are sick with the budget of the 2015, the budget of pork barrel, like what is being done under PDAF, the congressmen and senators of the projects that they are applying for every senator, the Malacañang provided P200 million for every senator and 70 million pesos to each congressman.

The Aquino administration will also implement on his budget in 2015 the so-called pork barrel which is allocated by the pork barrel fund which is set to attract the price of pork barrel which is reported to have been allocated by the pork barrel scam in order to ensure the loyalty of the local government budget.

Aquino's stubbornness led to defend DAP, the type of PDAF, which is it shows that he is the King of pork barrel that they should not allow the King of pork barrel that they should not allow the Filipino people to cook a widespread corruption.
