
It is said by typhoon thank you: Criminals who are the negligence of the Aquino administration against the courageous effort of the people for those that are from relief and rehabilitation.

Contribution in the 11th International Symposium on Human Trafficking.
24- 26 January 2014, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Luis Jalandoni.
Chief International.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines is NDFP.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (super dear President Gloria Macapagal-Aquino's Office's Criminal Court's International Airport) that's why we're asking for relief.
The storm typhoon hit the Philippines last November 8, 2013 as hit by the wind with a speed of 300 kilometers per hour and a sudden part of the sea which lost their homes and there are 14 million citizens who lost their homes and there are 14 million citizens who lost their homes and with 14 million people in total.
Millions of Filipinos were accused by President Benigno Aquino to the criminals with no ability of two years before the devastation of the previous calamities, just after the devastation of the previous calamity, he declared that the funds should be used if calamities have hit and not before this.
Last November 7, one day before the onslaught of the storm, the Manila Film Festival was released by a warning that there might be a cause of the typhoon and cities in Southern Luzon, even in some parts of Northern Mindanao, and even in some parts of Northern Mindanao, but also in some parts of Northern Mindanao, and even in some parts of Northern Mindanao, he proposed to evacuate the citizens from the provinces of Southern Luzon, especially in some parts of Northern Mindanao.

Criminals!
In front of this warning, the Aquino's declaration that there will be no other victims, "said to be the victims of the Air Force and ships of the Navy, which was reported to have been hit by the airplane," said that it reached 10,000 pesos, which might have reached 10,000 pesos, which could have been removed from his post.

A month after calamities, many of the affected areas have not received any food, water that can drink or medicines from the national agencies to help each other after two months, many bodies have not yet been buried and many remains have not yet been buried.

Stated by Aquino to the Muslim brothers and Tropas of the US.

Aquino directly ignored the sovereignty of the country when he allowed the troops and warship of the US to enter, in the middle of the supply of the US and the soldiers of the US government and the soldiers of the government budget between the military in different places.

Aquino's military accused that the trucks of Red Cross said that there will be a supply of the Red Cross in exchange of wrong information when the Botchok (HB) was used to be allowed to allow the entry of thousands of US government and the military to allow the military in the said place.

Corruption in the construction of Mount Halcon.
The piles of government budget for six months before the construction of a permanent housing program has been cut off and very expensive but not humane, most of those who do not have the bathroom and the kitchen are not safe, but not humane, most than five times than the actual price.

The campaign was given to Aquino.
The criminals who are negligence and lack of ability of the Marcos regime were followed by the widespread corruption in the so-called pork barrel which reached up to ten billion euros.

Accept the hard work of the filipino people.

The revolutionary force of the whole country, especially those in the affected areas, especially those in the affected areas that are severely affected by the ceasefire, and the New Hagdan in the island of Leyte and Samar, the Liberal Party of the highest priority and concentration of the highest force of the highest priority and concentration for the immediate need of relief and rehabilitation.

The victims themselves, the citizens of the affected areas, are worried that they can do what they can to make their own needs, to build their temporary shelter, and even the medicines given to them by witnesses, earthquake and flood, but the Filipino people will remain. "

It cannot be denied that the masses will suffer in the level of national, region, and local people who work together, together with the affected community and some of the affected community and some of the victims of the past calamity to go to Leyte, Samar and other affected areas to help those that are going to help those that are in danger and rehabilitation.

The funds and those who are going to gather activities to run for the families of Filipinos from the sea of the US, Canada, Ezers, Asia-Pacific, and in the Middle East, and in the Middle East and they directly sent the help to the masses to be distributed in the Philippines.

Is the national cooperation.
It cannot be prevented anymore that the entire world are centered on different parts of the world, they have received information about the local government against the government of the country, they have already received reports regarding the accusations of widespread corruption in the Philippines, including some of those that are from the local corruption in the Philippines, they have already received reports on the accusations of widespread corruption in the Philippines, that they have already received reports on the accusations of widespread corruption in the Philippines.

It is contrary to the criminal negligence, lack of ability and corruption of the citizens and the local effort of the citizens and the highest development of the citizens to raise their lives and protest to raise their lives and to protest against just and free Philippines.
