It is said that it is better to climb the mountain in the morning, not yet, on the sun, you will not find the dark if you don't live in the height of the mountain to let it pass.
Two.
It is still morning when he stayed for the new group he stayed in for the morning.
On the end of the morning today, it is expected that what a few moments later, we are having fun with the Rodel Batocabe together with the destination.
Okay.
Okay.
We wake up in what he was staying and we went straight to four hours after they were taking care of the mountain and also go to church.
Let us go here to Forbes you station, we are looking at our backs to us; we are able to see each other last night to us when it comes to us together with their father.
In the morning of Tuesday, I am also in the right age, I am also the one who asked him / her to go to the mountain so that's why it's good to climb the mountain where we need.
We are just known for whatever it is, but it is okay to be killed.
Just a few hours of our conversation at around four hours, we should have been going to school if we are going to enter.
Yes.
We are the only things of your acquaintance who are over to be alone in our place because there are only four abroad.
After ten years, after a short trip on the cement, we have already totally taken the canal and the path to the house of the mountain one by one, our godchildren, which can also rise up by Martinez.
He is nervous, what kind of view is that he / she can look down; he / she is very weak.
Four.
Up to the lower part of us.
"What we are calling for is already gone, and what we are calling here are the ones who are calling him to go back to the hotel or just go back to the hotel or alright, and then they will stay here in a surprise.
But just like what we are calling here to us this month, when they are calling it in front of what they are calling, I do not want to go to school, that's why I don't want to stay in school anymore.
I am going to go to a salary, what if in case we are respected, right?
Right, isn't it that like the protagonist 'shirt that's why it's just a waste.
He / she was able to point out; the way he comes when I come when I come when I arrived in my age, so when I arrived all, my children, which should have been saying, should not be too much.
This is probably because of your favorite landmark of the province of Pampanga and they said that we are going to look respectable; we need to monitor me.
