Also investigate the Pasay Justice.

After all the senators are pointing at the leadership of Alan Peter Cayetano, he is said to be considered as the Justice Hall in Makati City, why did he not let it look at the Justice Hall building in Pasay City, which is a pillow from the party of President Aquino, Mayor Tony Calixto?
It is also good that the senators are going to conduct a thorough investigation as to what they did so that they can see the tragic condition of the employees and judge who voted in the said building.
Maybe it is also good for our good senators to ask how much is the government of Pasay for fixing the said building, because, it reaches up to P250 million people are being spent for fixing it while one floor is not yet completed.
Let us just laugh at this because the building has long been standing but just like other public building in Pasay, it is not torn into pieces.
Many are very happy when Calixto started to fix the building because they thought that they would become comfortable in their office, but if before, their office are like a garage, now it seems that they have been planted with garbage.
Dust was scattered all over the record that it was presented to the alley, along with the other piled up destroyed by the broken office creatures.
The office is hot, congested and reasonable, and you cannot think that this is the office of our respect judge.
The fiscal was still a bit lucky because they were able to join their offices with the first floor in the first floor of the conducted ovation before this is done by Calixto because of the alleged lack of funds.
Just a few parts of the said building were fixed but the two 50-million have been consumed immediately?
What's worse is that the said standing ovation is not yet finished but the office that they are lucky to be buried are slowly being ruined because before it rains, a heated argument that is why they might have no end to fixing the said building.
Is it the reason why Cayetano asked for an investigation, if Cayetano will do this, it's likely that I was impressed by the welfare of the country his desire for the investigation he is pushing in Makati.
So, my suspicion is right that there is no other reason but politicking.
Agents of Gil TRAOIL.
