I do not see any connection between BOC By between Dacer-October 7, 2016.
Did President Rodrigo Duterte know that instead of collecting the tax on the incoming UV Expresses at the Bureau of Customs (BOC) to increase the collection of one of the considered tax to the government of the government, the funds of the government are spreading of funds?
How can we not say that their pet BOC Commissioner, PDU 30, was done by the pet BOC Commissioner of PDU 30, Nicanor Faura, just a few months from his position, was thought to build a team in the association and joined 13th V-League.
There is nothing wrong with the participation of BOC on sports like V-League, which is why it's the personnel of BOC who are all names in the field of sports like the JMBM Building, Alyssa Valdez, one of the players of the BOC Transmission.
It means that a huge amount was built in exchange of a Alyssa Valdez for the team of BOC.
The question where will they get it away from the players of the team like this star athlete, who know that it is famous in the world of the altar that is why we are surely having a big gift of athletes.
If it will not come from the BOC on this team, it is possible that there would be a chance for us to sponsor seminarians.
What we know is that the budget of government agencies is very limited because it is almost dry by the past administrations that is why it is surprising that it is noticeable in the number of those who should be sent to the leaders of BOC.
Maybe the leader of BOC must forget to collect tax and after being caught by the human rights and they are not joining the funds of the agency that he is going to spend for the needs of the players of BOC.
That is not only because there is also a team formed the BOC on basketball, and just like the altar, there are names of their damaged players, which is why it's certain that there is a huge amount of money from the BOC.
Therefore, it would be said that this commissioner was not able to speak first because I do not see any benefits of the government for the suspension of the Black team of BOC especially as well-known players and not the employees of BOC on the higher expenses of the government like the shortage of rehabilitation center.
Commissioner Faura is hoping that what we are pointing out is clear because it is clear that it is time to show up and who are the intelligent people there in BOC on the idea of this bad thing that we know will never like President Duterte.
