Give students to Tarlac to need a good classroom so that the teachers will be able to send the teachers, where they are.
From their stylish and wrong news.
He is only a year with Dagupan.
Fur.
Macky is almost more than eleven o'clock in the other North Cotabato, in the other North Cotabato, it seems like the province of Humalig), which is the province of Humalig), that is why if they continue their classrooms, which is why the students are affected by more than four of them.
In the space of such a public where we are the only ones who are going to study in the box of Elementary School instead of the classrooms, they don't have to use because it fell down on the ceiling and their parents even if it rains and the students are going to go.
It is saddening here.
It's because we are anxious; that we are going crazy; we can see that even if you want it to your heart at Stage 3, it is good but when it is raining, isn't it?
He is also scary, I don't know if I don't know if there is a lack of course, but sometimes, there is a strong signal that it is not in my situation.
Or what can the children feel?
"Is it only here that I am the only one in the room, he also made a bath in a classroom so that he can take advantage of the sofa; at the sofa; and in the sofa in the end of six computers.
Of course, we worry.
Yes.
You are applying.
What happened?
To the father.
Them.
The principal was taken by Jomel, "under the building in the school.
This situation.
Lima, ten years old, let us pass this Sunday to live with me, but let us see that there is a part of us that we don't want us to see, that we do not want us to see that we do not want us to notice that we have not noticed that we have not noticed that we have not noticed that we are broken.
It is possible that if I will go out of it, he is like a voice that is why I look at that situation, but if it's only on duty, I have to be in duty; we are only on duty.
As said by the victim's head, he / she said that because of that, it's because it's as if it's dangerous, maybe later.
He suddenly went down, so I agreed.
According to DepEd Perla, they are not actions to get rid of the new buildings and are said to be the owner of the church with the land of the government.
As of now, what is only right now is that, what is the government is slow, to show up to the changes of the buildings for the following children the problem of our North Elementary School and first latest from here on the side.
