The Commission on Human Rights is already a plea.
By Arnold Clavio July 31, 2016.
It is now a hot topic related to the change in form of the government, from the controversial terrorism going to a derailing.
Those pushing for Charter Change would be divided on the Constitutional Commission (COP-Ass) or the Constitutional Convention (COP-COP) after President Digong ordered to favor the former.
Under the Con-Ass, the members of the two houses of congress are going to conduct a resolution of the Constitution, but in the resolution of Representative Albee Benico, to the resolution of Representative Albee Benico, to the resolution of Representative Albee Benico, in the resolution of Representative Albee Benico, in the resolution of Representative Albee Benitez of the legislative chamber that will be in the resolution of the legislative chamber to amend the constitutional process.
The reason for the favor of CO@-@ Ass would be faster and expensive.
But, they are facing a big problem - the credibility of the public's eyes are low, which is not the welfare of the country that will not be the welfare of every congressman, many of the members of the Congress have their own business and product of political dynasty.
Second, what about the jobs that they will leave as a lawmaker?
Meanwhile, the expenses for the delegates of the delegates is not less than 5 billion pesos, according to the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) aside from the release of an additional salary for the winning delegates.
It is also not sure that the elected delegates will be said to be said to be said, "the Papal test" because just like the past elections in the Philippines, they continue to win who has the money and influence and who are the members of the family and loved ones who have seen each other?
But while the way the ways of taking on the Saligang Batas is going to be used on the Saligang Batas, there is another problem on the Saligang Batas, there is another problem which is going to push forward.

At present, the form of the derogatory in America, Europe, Africa will be different and even in some countries in Asia, which of the existing system in Asia, which is the implementation of the existing system in Asia, which is why we need to change the system of management?
According to the articles of the Center for People's Office (CENG), the proposal that Senator Aquilino Pimentel's proposition will be removed from the proposal of Jose V. Abueva, and criticizing the power of the oligarchy in the Philippines instead of giving power to the people.
Abueva stated that those who will talk about are disconcerting and included here are the following o'clock, and in the part of the Bangsamoro and indigenous people, especially on the side of the Bangsamoro and indigenous people, especially on the side of the Bangsamoro and indigenous people, instead of the holiness of the citizens, instead of the holiest part of the Philippines, instead of the holiest part of the Philippines, instead of the holiest part of the country.
It also added that the most important aspect done by Abueva, which led to the foul smell of democracy were the gigantic size of democracy while being buried.
In this opinion, it is like a weak "democracy" in the entire Philippines, if democracy is weak in the country, what is needed by the politicians will be held accountable and it will lead to its circle of wealth, power, and connection to remain in power.
The country's problem will not be solved in a simple change in the Constitution, if ever the Constitution has changed and will not be implemented by the citizens of the Philippines, and it should not be implemented by the leaders of the Philippines, and it should not be implemented by the leaders of the Philippines, and they should be placed under the foundation of the Philippines and will be placed under the foundation of the Philippines today and in the future.
