
Who wants to live with someone who wants to live.

Congratulations!

The condition of the soldiers of the Philippines from the territory of the country in the West Philippines Sea is stolen by the country China.
This is the truth: You will be able to know this article "A Game, Shark, Minoras in New York Times Street, with a picture and video gathered by Ashley Palapal son recently, the true situation of Spratamak.
The eight Philippine Navy Men who assigned in Ayungon Panatag Shoal is in the center of articles for those who are not going to start the separate ship whom we were nuns.
The government had already identified the same time ago in 1999, whom we were nuns, who are former UPP-shirt County in America who were used in Vietnam and given to the Philippines last 1976.
The hole in the Panatag Shoal is only on top of the Panatag Shoal who was able to patrol to the Crib of China, ready to attack other moments, that is why it's no longer a regular opportunity to man the man.
Fish, fresh and dried-up, food for the family of the Philippine Navy Men will always be stricter in front of sadness and danger of nature and opponent, which is why they put their "motto": "Of the same Mabuhay po"
There are only a few islands and there are land in Spratings and Ayalin is one of all stones and water.
Pag-asa Island that somehow there is a land airport, there is a lack of 300 residents, fellow civilians and soldiers and the biggest in the leaders of the Philippines.
In 1994, after the Philippines is currently patrolling because there is a typhoon, Chinese in Misalania, 20, received news from Ayalin, and since then there are structures that were built where their soldiers are comfortable.
"This is true: As said by a Chinese, it seems like the" traslacion "of China is like a forest,... there is a forest but when there is already there, they will not leave."
Aside from the rich in the sea, because of the huge oil and gas in the said territory, this might be the way for the Philippines to be on alert.
But what if there's a few who looks like there are only a few who are still alive?
The form of the form is right, to face the problem even if it is true!
