Rain pours: The holy priest of all religions (2).
By Zayes on August 25, 2016 "in the first time, the Lord spoke with our ancestors in different times and in different ways by his nature, and he could do all the things that he has done, he sat on the right way of expensive things, and he can sit on the right way of expensive things." (Hebreo 1: 1-3).
Are you able to know the members of a religions who are forcing you to follow all of what is written on the holy Bible, even now that I know that even the murder of the sheep and even if the murder of the sheep and the extent of its blood in the altar when they are doing is still being done.
I am saddened when there is a scene from my mind that even if we have someone to be obedient to his orders, but what we should understand is the relationship of the old system of the old Tell that we should understand, which is why we should understand the relationship of the ancient system of the old Tell that we should understand in the cross of the calvary in A.D. 33.

In fact, the sock of Hebrethren or 1: 1 to 3) is a core-worth of show-up to the most full of the quality of every chapter with Iglesia ni Cristo himself.
In the whole day, the author shown that the religions, which are considered by the Lord, is considered a perfect perspective of His nature, the Lord Jesus himself and his actions.
The message of Ching: The Juvenile has put their faith in Jesus as their Mesias, which should not go back to Jumarito.

There is a New Year that they should be living in living and Iglesia ni Jesus who is the center of the new life.
One of the primary message of Hebrewed a High School is no longer needed by Juvymax Uy, who has to do it, and continue to build a role in life of his real followers.
"We are ausely, there is a decent and most priest who entered the sky, Jesus, who is the son of God, we can see the son of God, that is why we have no fault." (Hebrewed 4: 14-15).
My friend, you know, that it is really happy, what do you think?

If we are about to get into the letter of the letter to Hebrethren, who are at the end of the old Taba?
You buy a copy of your Bible, okay?, for you to be guided by us, it is just one chapter when we talk about it, the first chapter with Hebreach or our conversation.

You will always go to Jesus because he really loves you and God bless!
