
Details in the case of IOS-13 and R-II.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 17, 2015.
In opinion.

Four years have passed since your servant of the graft case in the Ombudsman is the former officials of IOS-13 and Regular Romero of R-II due to the anomalous agreement that they entered.
Last 2011, your servant and the number of our filed complaint in the Ombudsman regarding the anomalous selling of the former administration of IJ-13 with the anomalous selling of the former administration of IJ-13, the Office of the Commission on Audit (COA), the Office of the Commission on Audit (COA), the Office of the Commission on Audit (COA), and the Office of the Commission on Audit (COA) and the Office of the Commission on Audit (COA).
According to COA, give birth to the Philippine-R-II Builders that has control over the government-Illegal Drugs Land that costs P9,999 per sq, while the price of the land in capitol Hills is worth 35,000 pesos to P65,000 pesos sq.
What's sad, is since Ombudsman Conchita Carpio Morales ordered the former and current officials of IJ-13, including Communications Secretary Sonny Coloma to answer the issue on the JVA last June 2013, we have no news that our complaint will push forward.
There is no new opinion in OSG, OGG, OGinger and COA, what is the state of the JVA but Coloma is the combination that the government does not want to add up to P450 million worth of contract.
The employees of IOS-13 are going to benefit the reason because their benefits will be paid.
The anomaly is already possible for Coloma, as long as there is a small amount of profit from the workers.
Sen. Grace Poe, take care of using the fight.
What is curious about the news that was revealed in the past few weeks, Regis Romero will only be blamed as if he bought the land of IJ-13 in a young amount that no one sold her.
In the suspension of the press release, the former officials of IJ-13, including former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, also has the blessing for the JVA.
Let us not forget that the JVA is completed and implemented due to the position of Romero with Jose Almonte, former IJ-13 chief Executive Director; Josille, 13; and Conversatad or Jr, former Virgin Mary Secretary of IJ 13.
Recently, the father and son Regulations and Michael Romero will fight because of their business, that's why there are people who will pay the issue of IJ-13 to moderate the old Romero.
There is a boils of non-government organization (NGO) that is said to be asked by the Supreme Court to dismiss the JVA and is asking for Sen. Grace Poe to investigate this in the Senate.
It is obvious that the sincerity in their step is obvious and they only want to be very noisy with the welfare of Michael and his father.
Why did they not call the Ombudsman to file the case to the Sandiganbayan if what they really want is justice to the people who was bankrupted against the anomalous JVA?
In this way, the Sandiganbayan allowed the arrest of all those connected to the JVA due to their source of fraud in the country and taking advantage of power.
Manileños, it is very eager to return Mayor Lim.
"It flooded a lot of tears when the Manileños saw Mayor Alfredo Lim during the start of June 12 in their community which brought a wheelchair for those with disabilities and with illness.
He has been doing this for a few decades, even if he is in position or not, the reason why he does not question his advocacy to help those in need.
The people who are asking the people who wish for Lim to return to the City Hall in order to end their suffering from the leadership of the corrupt tandem.
Repentance is really in the end but you always have a way to regret and be disconcerted in the mistake.
Lim won't allow evil things to prevail that's why he will coordinate with the followers of the darkness going to Manila from San Juan.
"It's as they say," he / she was asked to be a model for French Men to do. "
