The criminals are suffering with small and hole.

Many jeepney operators are crying because of the ferocity of the government for stopping them.
Aside from the lack of the government, they do not care and take advantage of the price of oil and the part of the operators, including the drivers, and the drivers will suddenly earn money now.
At present, the operators are looking at them by the government, through the BIR, so that the amount of money is not paying taxes for five years of franchise.
For P10 million pesos is what the BIR will collect for every five years and for sure, the operators are going to file a lot of tax on the income of the jeepneys, Goma, the machine could have lost so much and there are still many others.
There was no notice.
There is no notice, Bro, the government for painting a jeepney and it is said to be a report to the operators.
For those who are veteran in the industry of jeepney, the Land Transportation and chard is not saying anything about the approval of the franchise.
What they know, the tax on the vehicle or Road to tax that they pay for is enough.
But now, operators are becoming ill in paying taxes that they cannot be saved from the tax of petroleum and the part.
It is also a curse on operators and drivers that can be released and illegal drugs and traffic enforcer in all days.
Included in those driven by the operators and drivers who are doing the roads in the streets are the ones who made the act in the end to have money for the government and the commission of the commission.
These cannot be reckless in the construction of plate numbers to the traffic enforcers and order to pay the operators of thousands of thousands of the plates that resulted in the source of comprising police and traffic enforcer.
It is still different on the abuse of the children of crooks on the streets.
Many will stop.
Because of the strength of the government and other vices that almost does not earn or are addicted to operators, many operators are thinking if they will continue or not their small livelihood.
If many operators will stop, hundreds of thousands will lose their livelihood.
The government will also be affected because there will be no money collected from the vehicle, payment for franchise, tax in petroleum, Goma, part and others.
Weakness is a weakness and usual patrons of a jeepney going down and the tax on them will weaken, including the stores and petroleum products.
Remember that majority of the 4-old vehicles are composed of jeepney.
Problem with transportation.
As of now, the LTFRB is suspended for a franchise of buses even if it is one of those involved in the unit.
Also because of the strangling of the BIR, the operation of many jeepney will voluntarily stop.
What do you think, Bro, what will happen?
Crisis in transportation is a crisis, and for having a crisis in transportation, the one to take advantage of other vehicles that will find a loved one will come out.
The transfer of passengers in different vehicles because of the lack of vehicles on the road is different.
What's certain will happen is that the slow movement of the citizens to travel, especially that the class of 13 million students is there, the lack of transportation in the rainy season.
Suggestions.
Small citizens are the operators and drivers of jeepney and this is the hard work hard to live without giving away the government from the form of the 4Ps.
The industry of jeepney is also caused by hundreds of livelihood, aside from its service to millions of people who need cheap transportation.
That's why, it is just right that the government is not having a hard time through the various and very expensive taxes, price of petroleum, part, franchise, no reckless gun and extortion and a lot of votes.
It would also be good to grant the jeepneys that pass, or lower down price of diesel for them, which is a very big curse on the operators and drivers.
If the government will not listen to the crying of jeepney operators and driver because of the difficulty of their living and will continue the loss of the conscience of the government for them, where are we going?
The thieves hideout.
One of those who will make a decent father of jeepney operators and driver, Bro, the excessive robbery in the government of no justice.
Until now, there is still no idea where the billion pesos worth of tax has been squandered.
On the hundreds of thousands of operators to pay a fine tax, the government will surely earn billions.
Shouldn't it be sent to a severe robbery in the government that is revealed now?
The bad thing is, Bro, it appears that the fight is being filed against corruption and corruption.
They are not included in those who need to investigate and file a case against those who are in power even if they are involved in anomalies.
