They broke the center so that I can see what is coming from the hospital, and then I need to know what is coming from the hospital, and then they would just know that we are going to know that we are going to know that we are going to know each other.
This is wrapped here that the symptoms you have mentioned earlier by DDoctor Doc has been the one who lost let go back and out of fever and then there is something coming out from the processing.
Two Wives are very pitiful; we are Charismatic and looked like this, Benjie Abby her to get her own.
Just like what is the only thing that can be seen; as long as they don't have enough; as long as they are lacking; we can go to each other; we are going to bring to him / her to look at him / her.
He / she grew up; he / she felt like that, when she got a little length of yes, he / she felt like a little bit of yes, he / she felt that he / she felt like a little bit; he / she already learned that he / she didn't want me yes.
It is important, Paul, not the one given to him.
Medicines, said by the Doctor earlier.
We recall one six-six-six were wounded.
Yes, it turns out that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she has a pattern in front of you, has a pattern of bananas!
Prisoners don't want to be prompt in yes, on Sunday, if you see that it's still good for us, but when they saw that there are people who die, they think that it's not one of our neighbors who do not want to be fired; that is why they did not want to go to each other, that is why I am not going to go to that.
What are you?
What are the gunshots together?
You are holding everything that we are calling in Marikina the office that the office is selling.
Yes right now.
Covetous, fittest; Joy, just try to be an expert Girl.
On the other hand, what is the Doctor eight four o'clock.
She can also be included in the Thursday that two four are Production because this is the only thing that we can do, right, isn't it, that is why he has a doctor Yungga.
A receipt.
Okay, it will be at night today.
Every time they are taking advantage!
Why?
There is no Friday when the virus is going to be fulfilled today, which is why a doctor, who is a doctor, has a doctor and a doctor who has been a doctor for four years, which is why our children, who are our children in Juan, are now going to fulfill it.
You can see each other; we are around ten o'clock in every ten o'clock and then at the same age, "Chchu, which is now known in the two games.
Very small; we will have something to do, I have something to do, that I have something to do such as Tikbo in two 'educated; we are two games in him and it is still far from him.
Fur.
It is not similar to a clear grandmother that you should just give them a text message to those who are seated but you are not able to ask for help.
But we can cut.
Five.
What are you?
