I am Marivic cancelled that I have been canceled; I am the only daughter of my eldest daughter, who is my eldest daughter, brother, and my youngest child, that he / she is my youngest daughter, he / she is my youngest child in Olongapo.
He said, but Manang.
Still early, he is already in the street so I could not get married with my children, I am not able to escape when I have nothing to escape at the wake of Bulacan, so I asked me to die; that's why I am an avid reader; I am interested to remain clean; I am interested to remain clean the road.
Where?
Didn't I have a book with her Ate Marites who is going to have a book to him, and then we are going to school together now that we are going to separate in the room and we will not all classes.
You can hear me.
I told you a teacher who is not true, I am sorry that I am not yet able to study before, I still do not know that I am not yet done in Quiapo, but I do not know that I am not in my name.
Life was the one who took a card on what was the afternoon.
Miller.
Okay.
He is one of our number who is regular there.
"I will support what is going to be a teacher who can say yes to my school so I can still learn how to leave them, so I didn't know that I could not understand me, I thought I did not understand that, I thought that I am going to school again and I thought I am studying.
Now.
Loved.
Ah, not.
Not anymore.
Because he was not able to get up, I was not able to get up to eat that I have to do even if she still needs to be with him.
There was a rock that he was watching over, but it was on the down.
In Makati Makati Makati.
But it is only here.
He went to Manila.
Yes.
My eldest girl is with my own mouth, but I still have a plan to undergo an operation going to a long time but I still do not have any idea about the operation of tax on the house and I don't want to answer that I am often the one watching the house where I am often watching over our house.
My second, I will immediately answer, and then there is a movement in the house even if I do not ordered, but I know the youngest is annoying, not just like the two of them, I ordered them to be the same in the front.
Yes.
He really is really good to Noguessed that whatever reason he is being fooled by other people so he can already decide to leave his child in school in grade.
For example, there's an example if Nihonggo are able to say that this is a school since it has given a chance to all the rich in the right to have a proper vacation and that is the same time when our country is in the constitution.
Hala.
Voted in.
I will go to my child when I give it to my child.
What are you.
Yes, this is what I gave in to me that I am going to ask for a lifetime.
His work died.
There.
Tired.
This should not be.
Two Wives are innocent.
He / her five-year-old maid, whose sister, sister, went to the evening.
Why is I going to take a tree?
I was disgusted every time I was talking about it.
They were signature in the 's.
Just me.
Because she is not yet known as a child as a child, because you think he / she thought that he / she'll take care of him / her.
I am really not trying to transfer to anything else.
I am still young; I am very young; I am not all of me.
They are alive but not.
I am not the aunt of my aunt.
For a week I am studying, I am the only neighbor I give money because he really does not want to study it.
In my opinion, his mother did not study anything in the mind of her mother if we study it so as not for the education of my mother, that they will just buy all of your children.
Okay, it's okay to show my mother, but even if I show that I can show up, I can show that I am not alone or not.
Because he / she also said that he / she was also saying that he / she showed the white; that's why he showed the white, I said to look for a different mother, because he was also not the one who created his name.
Even if it is his name if your husband is not five to my husband, I understood me yesterday, he understood me because if he was not able to study so that we would not be able to live together.
It is not heavy, I still cannot see it.
There is still no avail.
What?
Okay.
Mariveles, Production of us, Production, this is one of those who are on top of you and I am having a hard time with me, "we really know that I am the only one beside me," we really know that I am the only one who knows me and I know that I am the only one who knows me. "
