It is not possible that Ely honor will rot today because of cancer.
At first, it was by little by little that his voice was gone.
.
In that night, you will leave you even just yes.
Most of them is Roselle, going to drinking alcohol and with cigarettes but Ely is not there one peso, that is why it has been taken out of the cigarette he is carrying in the afternoon.
There was a store in Cabanatuan City in Nueva Ecija in Nueva Ecija.
It is said that the number of goods that they sell is smoking and he can only talk with cigarettes from his customers.
Two fourth of the bet in the store.
It is a place of role that a person can count to the people here, so we don't want to wait for it, but it does not want to wait for it, it is still smoking.
Who is very weak, right?
Hmmmp!
It's like what he knows is that we go back to him to fight and fight.
He spent almost half kilos in treatment.
He sighed with a tree.
Covetous, deport; now cancer, Etau.
Voted in.
Even those who are not smoking in Filipino is the health when the smoke inhaled last four more than half a million in the mountain died due to pray that Pandi has one hand.
According to Philippines, we have three thousand, those who are not smoking are dead because of the incessant smoke of cigarettes from other people.
No matter how much you can get the success yes, it is possible that the death of one who has smoke is the same, this is one year in A hand, which is also what you talked to.
And then.
It was sleepy.
Because I said, a speaker of alcohol has more than seven thousand pesos in these kinds of poison, which is why the Formosa do not just use it, which is why it is already dead, and it is also a strong and when I bring it to it.
It is not obvious but the body of the man is using cigarettes.
Aside from the medical farm, there is also a witness who is calling on the third hand farm but it's only now that the smoke that was left by the smoke in the cigarette even if the Manila watch is done by the Manila watch.
It is said that the children can remove it when the children can put it from them, they will be able to put an arteries of them, which are only ten years old; we are only in number of tomatoes, not only four of tomatoes, not only four of Traels.
Almost two of my thousand pesos are missing in the economy of the country that is going to the treatment of the illnesses just to sleep.
The process is long and will not stop smoking, but its benefits will be fast when started.
A twenty minutes have passed since the beat of the heart and blood pressure will only go back to normal, that is why many of those who stopped the lungs were reduced to normal, which is why many of those who stopped going back to normal, that is why many of those who stopped going back to normal, are being assigned to me and usually have a lot of phlegm in it, and most of them are assigned to Christmas.
A year has been good for two years, and then he will take a chance to have a heart disease.
And it's just cancer.
It is hard to stop Mary, so the best that should not be ignored.
