Bong Revilla is innocent.

The parties are going to fight for the coming presidential candidate in 2016.
Politicians are really like that, they do not think anything but yourself.
The election has been two years before the election, regular patrons, but it seems like they don't seem to have any position again.
Vice President Jejomar Binay is looking for a business partners, he wants to not like Batangas governor Vilma Santos, of course, Senator Ralph Recto believes that he is not willing to reap Binay.
A little bit that it's embarrassing to President Noynoy that it's embarrassing to President Noynoy, his allies, and after that, he will be his ally with Binay?
And of course, Recto is silent for sure if Binay was able to assure that Binay is already difficult to open because the long time that Vilma Santos has been saved up to be firm in politics is a waste of bad clan.

With the thickness of his face, no one will be defeated by Senator Bong Revilla and it is okay with Senator Bong Revilla to become the president of the country, but he should not be with the thickness of his face.
Isn't it that a person is dreaming of becoming the president of the country to serve as the whole loyalty to our countrymen.
So, what kind of loyalty is what Bong Revilla wants to show if he is involved in corruption of the public.
He will still cheat on him that his signatures are simply faked so you can go out of pork barrel scam to tell the turtle!
I also remember when President Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada moved out from Malacanang the one called "EDSA 2." Asked Revilla to climb on stage in order to call for his godfather to step down from his post.
Erap is accused of plunder before, but the "EDSA Revolution" revealed that the grand reception was revealed by the group of Gloria Arroyo for him to be the son of the palace.
One of the former President Cory, who asked to run away from Malacanang, was sorry for Cory before he died.
The question: Is Bong Revilla remorseful for the traitor of his godfather to Erap? We know Erap is too much for the people who love him, but the people who love him are still not expecting.
Now that Revilla was hit by the plunder and it seems that there is a strong evidence for him to rot in jail, why did he not go down from position?
The thickness of the face, is it not?
