VOM to make it a priority.

The wish of Valenzuela City 1st District Councilor Rodolf Biazon will be timely to President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III through the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) that can give funds to the continuation of the construction of the Valenzuela-Illegal ando in Meycauayan (VOM (VOM) Metias.
The request for this request is based on the signed state of guide as 2014-279 of the members of the city council of Valenzuela that will be given attention to the flooding in some barangays in Valenzuela City, Nando and Meycauayan City.
It is also stated in the fares that, the fund allocated to the end of VOM Meeting last 1988 at the conclusion of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) that is prohibited by the Supreme Court (SC) that is against the law.
Because of this, the councilor is worried that it will take a long time before we chose to end this project that will give a solution to the flooding they experienced in the said place.
Feliciano's step is to be a part of VOM Megamall for the funds of the Congress of the Philippines in 2015, which is going to be discussed by the House of Representatives and Senate.
Valenzuela City Mayor Rex Gatchalian also supports the steps of Feliciano because through this, the authorities will give attention to the problem in the flood of their city and nearby places.
Among those who will be sent by the city council of the copy of the fares, it was Malacañang, Secretary Rogelio Singson of DPWH, local government of Nando and Meycauayan, and the City Engineering Office of Valenzuela.
In case VOM Mejares, Project 8, the residents of Valenzuela, Nando and Meycauayan, said that the problem in the flood in their area which they have experienced will be finished for a few decades.
That is why even these are also asking President Aquino and the Congress to focus on making funds in order to continue the end of this project.
Hopefully the authorities will give attention on this request of the city council of Valenzuela because aside from our city, it will also benefit from the nearby areas that are also experienced the flooding of ALNAs Windyhill, Alvin Feliciano.
