EDCA is the direct violation of sovereignty and sovereignty in the Philippines.

It is an important mark in the history of the country, September 16, 1991.
Even though it is just for a distance of victory for the sovereignty of the country, they are worried that this success is not only in the signing of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), which would lead to the return of broken military in the US, but also other threats to sovereignty and sovereignty in the country.
On the fifth anniversary of the garbage in the RP) of the US Military Bases Agreement, the critics of the EDCA, as well as those who were strolling in a close military forces of the US last 1991, like former senator Leticia Ramos-Salas.
The actor Robin Padilla also joined the fight in EDCA.
The threats of EDCA.

According to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), the EDCA is fulfilling the return of military from America in the Philippines, which was passed in 1998, that the American troops were able to return from the form of the military troop in America like the ship, which was given to the country, which was allocated by the country, which was built in the country, which was served in the country, which was served in the country, which was built in the country, which was built in the country, which was built in the country, which was built in the country, which was built in the country, which was built in the country.
"Where do you see a visitor that has been in our country for more than a decades?" According to Renato Reyes, general secretary of the Bayan.
Critics insisted that it was obviously rushed here and they've aligned the arrival of US President Barack Obama in the Philippines last April when the public did not see its content, before the agreement of the two government.
The content of the EDCA is accepting the US to build a permanent camp and facilities, or all military operations in the country that they can store and launch a different activities in any number of armed forces of the US and what they are calling for different activities to the Philippines.
EDCA will also be allowed to store the newspaper or its nuclear program that is prohibited under the Constitution in the Philippines.
"Under the EDCA, the transfer of the church is to make it mean that there is no obstacle, it is not possible to put an obstacle, the Philippines can no longer get involved in what the United States will do, who was raped before in Subic was an American soldier.
It is also not limited to the camp of the military like Camp Crame or Camp Aguinaldo.

"The use of the state of the country, they can no pay for rent to the Philippines, they can also use their telecommunication technologies, use radio and tax-free.
The military will also be the one to decide on details when there is still no clear, in EDCA, according to Urkupina, the Congress of the Philippines has lost its construction in an important agreement.
"EDCA is saying that the details of the Implementing Rules of the Philippines (Armed Forces of the Philippines) and US military will release an important details to our military and not to our Muslim brothers," according to Urkupina.
There was no effect of the court.
The court of the Philippines has no power in any case under this agreement which could not file a case against the American troops (like what happened in the government of the United States against the international tribunal, according to Urkupina.
Under the EDCA, the United States does not have a responsibility for any damage in the environment like what happened to the Tubbataha Reef in Palawan.
"Because our court has no idea, we can say that you can't be brought to the court whatever can be done or done by the US military in our ocean or land," according to Urkupina.
"What only means is that our government is just going to serve as his sovereignty and its sovereignty that is under the EDCA," he added.
The EDCA (Commission on Elections) has no appeal or limit even if it is only 10 years, it is also said in the agreement that a party will automatically defend this, aside from the date of the EDCA.
It is not an obstacle.

According to former senator Leticia Ramos-SIA, the EDCA should have made an existing treaty, and it is not just an agreement that it is just an agreement that it is needed by the Senate of the same country, different from an executive agreement that only needs the signature of the President.
"Because we already have history." The 1991-Illegal Drugs Act of the supreme court, "said that it seems that the EDCA is about to be hit in the mandate of the Senate in the Philippines to take a look at that kind of agreement.
For the Bayan, the goal of the United States is clear, to protect his businesses in Asia to protect its businesses, and interfere in other countries to benefit from their natural resources and cheap products including the weapons and equipment of the warship.
The presence of the American troops will not help in the conflict in the West Philippine Sea.
"There is nothing in any agreement that they chose to protect the US to assist the Philippines when China grabbed the concrete areas of the West Philippine Sea," according to Teddy Casiño of the Bayan.
Reyes added, "is it right for us to depend on the defense of our country with foreign forces?
His posture is his posture.
In general, according to critics, the Philippines is at a disadvantage under the EDCA.
"Our question, what can the Philippines get under the EDCA? Even if we have already made it again, we will see that the Philippines has no benefits that the Philippines will get any benefits under the EDCA," according to Urkupina.
The actor Robin Padilla also expressed cooperation with the EDCA, "if you have listened to the news, you are still not happy, even if the Americans came out, they still lost his back, and even if you still have not been happy, he still called back to him," said Padilla.
Once the Filipinos get out for unknown Americans in the country, promises of different individuals and groups, they will bring everything to fight any form of threats to the freedom of the country.
