Why do we last four-month-old child after six o'clock in the morning, that Judy Taguiwalo was seen to be imprisoned and swollen.
Let us be with those who are looking at the part of those who are looking at the leadership and them again, sir, to the illness of different sectors.
Zero.
I have been four years old and I can help me for a lot of people, I can help to clarify the details that I don't want here in a good HRO that we have a visitor here in the store.
It is at my back then you can convince you.
For me, we also have a signal to our Filipino people with us who are with them to live-in-four; we are also known to live-in our hearts, rather, Jerome, i'll be the one who really know, sir, I am here, sir?
It is lucky that she is able to talk to some of those who are able to talk to each other, of course, we have been able to look into a little bit more than eleven o'clock; and to the same age, I did not look at Dodo, "isn't it right for us to call Dodo," I am calling on what we are saying.
Sony Pictures, all of her pictures on the T-V groups, are the ones who took place for the vegetables.
Covetous, fog; and not the Philippines school Actor.
"We are anxious; we are proud of the pakbet; I wonder why I am being supported by Tramo, so I cannot help him because you really have two persons in the mung beans, and they are not here in a text.
They are Vic, who are really the only organization of our children.
That he made his pants out, but what will I wear so that I will be able to lie down; we will just go to Manila together to go straight to the Philippines together to go straight to the Philippines.
Service Visayas to Mindanao, it is okay that we are not giving more pictures to buy the couple that are impossible.
Ease that you call.
These are the attention of five who are poor, so that you can give importance to those with a pattern.
Here in lotto, we will be brought to lotto; we have something to be one of the employees of the toy here in Metro Manila to do that, but here in Metro Manila to do that, I am going to answer to the details that there are other people who are in favor of being able to answer now for the end of these.
Yes, it is a good morning if we are going to have a relationship today, but it is too late.
Yes, you are very pitiful; we are only five years old; we are just five years old; we are just five years old; we are only five; and Contact Policy "of my beauty that we talk about this year.
In the four to burn, I said that we have reached Baguio regarding Iloilo in Davao City and we still have one of the viewers and listening to the shore of this October, which is the start of this since the start, we started the Zailon and five-four-million.
Yes, I think I don't know.
"Do you release a mission, as I have said, it is really true that my faucet is true and the faucet, for five years old, so that we have to reach four pesos for five pesos, to send one million pesos, which can be for six pesos" that's why it's the 'game.
For the other people you will give in, it is really severe.
That is when we together with Registration Authority we can go to.
It is really big here.
It will be beneficial.
A few months that we are really focused on and then helped by the organization, isn't it so that I am okay with that scandal.
I went here to those who are going to be.
Are you together?
Yes, this is in order for us to be a bit of us here, Zailon and Two Wives.
Zailon.
Yes, Jerome Lantin is early.
Aunt, your voice is the old dog.
Yes, ah, yes.
You are not hunchbacked anymore that's why you have been noticing it.
"If yes, he has a moderate amount that I bought here in the province if we have been together here in the province if we are also together in the province, because we are also happy, we will be happy because it can be visited by our soldiers who can be visited by our soldiers.
Well.
What happened to the other yes, we should not give it to their children, they will not give it to their children that they are together with our children, who are living together with our children, who are living together in the JMBM Building that I am together in Sunday, which is why I am going to be happy.
It's been ten o'clock when we were not a Benson-og; and was headed for Alan Peter Cayetano, who is headed by Alan Peter Palapal; your EDSA.
It's because the highest number of those who have the highest position is the highest number of people whose voices can be impeached, it's because it's the same office of his voice.
"What is that, maybe, especially those who are leading the number of people to kill their family, they are asking me to go back to school, are you only fooling me," will you just laugh at me, are you only fooling me, "are you only fooling me, right?
He / she was able to look down; he / she was distressed as well.
That was the first time that the father was able to send only one day after the jeep started to support him by the President, he was going to support his studies in the College of martial law, which is why he / she was not able to support.
Are you all?
Can it be?
Do you have a child to benefit in EDSA in EDSA?
"It is only a woman who is right with the size of the two children, do you not have a date for me so that I can still sign me.
Very small; so-fittest; Germaine is in the same age; we still have no funds for a scholarship for our soldiers, but of course, he is being asked by our soldiers because he might just think of going to the church.
It would be a disaster that might be cut down as if in a private sector, they can also join each other.
Yes, even if we go here, we will be able to go here, we will be able to see each other in the door, so I can see all of my doors in front of the door, we were able to convince all of whom I met with the disease. "
When he arrived at the candidacy of P / C: I am the only one who will just leave the ten thousand of our Pauleen.
They also help everyone who were taken to all the dependent on our soldiers in the '70s so that I will go on to go to the streets; we will just go to school; we can help in the right.
In your physical injury after that, it can still help our fellow countrymen who are in need of a call that are just like a call for a number of people who are in a call of Sayes; and the theme of Scuion.
If you have a strong one, you have a strong feeling that you are the only one who became strong.
To Ate Joy, we are going to ask anyone of us several hours to reprimand us like we are heroes.
"It's okay that we talk about this in Metro Manila double, Taguig, different points that have been in Mindanao in Visayas, okay, we still have a petition, may we be able to file a petition; that is better.
I am simple, very simple, whose side are very small; that's why I am in the same place, that's why he / she grew up.
I know.
According to him, it is a word that I laughed and laughed there last night in Mindanao in Davao, and the two are doing that we will support us in the province of Davao, that's why we are saying that the traffic here in Davao is not the traffic here in Visayas and in Iloilo.
It's because in Iloilo, we have seen the Philippines for a few minutes so that it's not only the military, there's a lot of military coming from service, which is why many more yes.
But there is a new time before they ran together in the morning today in Baguio.
Ah, in Baguio, we got support to the Filipino military as well-raising; all you miss, sir, all of us, sir, but instead, they say that it has also been.
Ballpen, who will be seen to be seen in the streets, will be seen pitiful, busy with good luck, program who doesn't want to be happy.
I'll be able to look down; he / her family, is the one in the family, so that the other hand, which is why for the poor, is also having a hard time for the poor, which is why there are children who are already having difficulty in order to order the truth.
Based on the operation conducted by the public, we are really poor; it is really difficult to do everything that we can do just to help each other in the promotion that we have not really used in a promotion that I am not really in a promotion that I do not really like that.
In number with other people with other soldiers, we are also soldiers, who are degrading.
My soldier is my service.
That's more when I increase the number of people who will run for in going to live-in.
We are in the province here in the radio, payment for thousands in the beach head when we need to earn a lot again.
It has been a few million ransom that was killed when one was wounded in a war with a big help for the family of what to do.
He / she was able to look at each other; he / she had a lot of deaths; however, there are many of the deaths that we are being made by, which is why it's not like one Brigada Eskwela that was given to you because there was no one of assistance from you because there was no one of helping those who are going to help.
What the soldiers might have a hard time passes by in the place where we were seventeen years old, and we were able to let the supervisor push through with us, which is why we bought from our family, which is why they bought it with their families.
"Some of the graduating year-old; ah, don't get the strength of EDSA that's why they have a lot to help here or what are they a few who use it or what they are, who are using an excuse that's why there are a few who are using an email; right, right?
The attitude of something, is he still taking care of it.
But what's back here is, we also ask for those who have helped you so that these are not here who have helped you to study, but we are applying for a program in Earnshaw who gave a cellphone!
Ah, it is a big help for me because this is a big help for me.
Ten are still beautiful.
And now that we are hungry; I am still working for a good thing because in a very good situation, he is said to be a huge help to me by the people, the soldier is not with you.
You grabbed me.
Yes, they left me.
For what is the seaman that I want to answer right now, I am the one who won't be a soldier.
Who knows before so that we will get more heroes.
They are Paul soldiers who are talking.
Perhaps.
He / she said that he / she urinated by the Philippines.
Yes, scholarship is a scholarship for four years.
Two Wives are not in your home who are our fellow countrymen for us, who are our fellow countrymen for us.
We are anxious; Agimat, Agimat, and we are listening to our fellowmen while we invite you to the T-C: PNoy here in his / her five thousand pesos.
Covetous, deport, will be held here in Davao in Iloilo.
Here in Metro Manila.
Yes, they have a cheap payment.
Ah,
So you will not tell me, what is the Pambansang Kamao in our website.
Just call Rose.
Yes.
In all those who are listening to all those who are listening to four months, we can go after Ammie before.
Zabala also does not care for a long time again like that, ah, there's a point that you can visit a website last four-six.
Dresses.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she was headed by cadmium; however, it's headed for the Grand Boulevard that's why he / she can also be alone in your McJim wallet in the report of Taguig C-five.
For example I am going to be a study like that of their nephews in Mindanao.
Yes, her husband might also be able to call.
Yes, do you have a high school school.
Yes, there are three cellphones that I admire my voices from Davao Iloilo in Baguio and Tito Sotto's house to be a online and just in the media when I said that you are going to be a tree of price so that you will go to Amin plastic bag.
Is it really like that, who often go out, is it that for an example, that is why when we go to the trip, we can just call or live in there beside you.
Yes, I want to.
We will also give a limit to us to resign from us that he might be listening to us.
Carry a glimpse of the corner.
Yes, let us believe that we will be the one to let us go from there.
Yes, our nosy grandmother came from Cainta, Rizal, who, how can I give me?
In your situation now.
Is it like that?
That is what happened.
I wish it was blind.
I am not able to renew that you are really poor in the room.
He went there for twelve days.
I really have a lot of livelihood, I am low-tempered, "what really is.
"There is no," after him who is really here, I am really here, I am here, the change in yes, I am not my father.
Yes, I am really in number "when he went to, that's why he went to a noodle house.
In line, he / she takes care of myself; that's why you gave me a word to me.
In my life, even if you did not send me, I am not able to go around.
And because of his good heart, I was really given hope.
So I am in a restaurant while my father is not enough.
We are anxious; we are a big help if this is a big help to our soldiers.
I told me that I am the only ones who look down; we are really shameless, Father, Tantos; and goatee.
That's why your family is not able to answer immediately if you wish it.
How can we be able to go to school; we should be able to give way.
We are our children's good life if we are like this.
I have been a thousand for a thousand, so I can't meet? "I did not meet.
You are also with my companions.
He carries my life for the country.
So!
I am going to Pag-asa; we can talk to each other.
Covetous, very busy are busy; we are busy.
That was what I was talking to.
Why didn't I go to school; he / she cannot go ahead, even if we are very pitiful; we will know that I will know about the doctor.
Yes, I will run as to where I will eat while I am going to eat, I will only eat, I will just see me!
A gift.
Here, but you dancing.
"This is to sir, sir, I am going to offer this first; as long as he will run to Hero, he will run for Hero, for what we have heard.
Ah, it is good for me to be PX-March only now.
Thought.
I have all listened to anyone who jumped from the feed Zailon and Natanglement; we can help us at around 12: 00, especially the wounds of the soldiers.
You are those who have died in putting their children to school well.
Lie down or in college.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was very blind; on how he was blind with sir?
I was also having a hard time that they responded in Diliman, 42 years old, I passed away.
It is okay because he is with me who else is the responsibility.
Ah, there is something in jail like colleagues if he died from money.
An illusion.
Thank you, thank you for those who do not know that we also have what is behind our backs, but we won.
That yes, you have been together with the Philipines, Ferayungan, yes, for a few years that's why it's already for a few years.
Ah, it's okay yes, isn't it right for three years that you know you are sleeping for three years.
Let us wait for how many of our fellow countrymen are looking for a lot, not only from the soldiers, who are just a big help to our fellow countrymen who have a big help to our countrymen in the Philippines, we are okay to see each other in the buy-page; we would not be cleaning all in the buy gathering yes.
In order for you to have a pencil and pencil in the Grand Boulevard that's okay, it is okay for us to be involved in our visitors that are not being involved in our visitors.
!
Will I take a simple place with the simple person here in Lotion that I have to do, wait a word that our troop are here now to church 10: 00 in the morning here.
!
