
Lola EH? "?: Dingdong, has proven something in iron.
Marian at the beach lead!
By Rose, August 10, 2016, the request of Kapuso Pramis, the request of Kapuso Pradia, was fulfilled at the first front of 70.3 Iriberri, which was held in Cebu City last weekend.
That's why he / she was able to step down, which he / she was able to do with for the Pambansang Kamao has been impressed by the actor, who looks like Dingdong, was impressed by the actor, she also didn't expect that she can do it.

Because before, he is just thinking about the reason why he can do what the said personality is doing.
Fight of Kim Atienza, that she was being harassed by the sports and Dingdong, she was also being harassed by the victim in her Instagram account for her bike with the actor who was envious of his bike with an actor because it was good.

"We are very entertained by one netizens who said," Kuya Dong, me to have a bike!, duh! "I'm sure that a bike is expensive," no!
Anyway, Dingdong and Dingdong were able to go to the first front of her mother-in-law, the Kapuso Pramis, is the Kapuso Pramis, and their baby Girl, Zia,.
Dingdong and Marian Rivera can also take care of her New Year with his New Year at this sports station, Supamiable and Marian who was asked by her sister Wish to Dingdong, one of the Wish it's safety of his wife because of his chosen sports.
For Marian's candidacy for Dingdong, she has prepared a gift to her husband when she came home from Cebu.
Dingdong fought back to the all-year-old Board of Cobra from 70.3 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (NT 30.3 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation or IOS) and Ige Lopez (BTAC).
Matteo Guidicelli were able to get the Rank Promotions of the Cobra from Coyo, 70.3 Asia-Pacific Ocean.

On Friday, August 12 was the actual birthday of Marian Rivera.
Marian Rivera.
He did not respond to us directly, but we said, we will not be surprised if one of the most powerful in the beach resort in Palawan was their destination.
Zia, who is in Palawan when he was still a baby.
Now, they are with their whole family in the whole family of Dingdong and the entire family of Marian.
When we asked him / her, but according to Marian, "birthday Wish, I believe that when we are together, we know that when we are together, we know that when we are together, our child can see that," we know. "
"That will be his basis on how we will be raised by him.
"So we want us to be the Model Shop.
If she says she likes her birthday now, it is really simple.
"I said," I want, "but I am just simple, as long as this point in my life now, I am very contented with me, Zia, to me."
On the first day of Marian's birthday it can be seen the imepisodes of Yan.
Jennylyn is super lucky in the new show.
For Jennylyn Mercado, his love for cooking - he saw his love for cooking - he was able to build a decision from his family, especially to his son Jazz, using the newly-mindedness he is doing in their home.
Jennylyn Mercado.
"According to Verano, I was able to make a show that I really want to cook if I really want to cook my house because I learned something in love, and when I come home, I learned a new thing that I can do and cook for Jazz."
According to Jen, he is thankful for the trust and support given to him by the CDO last year.
Jennylyn is insisting on how to make a good but for the whole family that started last August 7, his interest in making the nutritious and unique items used by a few of the products of CDO such as Dukhovnaia, CDO, CDO, CDO, CDO) and CDO.
According to him, "I am the one who is happy and the one-time is happy because they are happy with my performance of what they see that I am the one to be my favorite," I said.
The ultimate wish of CDO is under the direction of Noel Ankara.
Discover the latest effect of the Everitt family of CDO from Monday to Friday, 8: 20 at night and 7: 00 in the evening, 3: 00 at night and 4: 00 at night and 5: 00 at night and 5: 00 at night and 5: 40-5: 00 at night and 5: 00 at night in GMA News TV.
