
TV Patrol, June 13, 2014.

7.5 protest against pork and rotten system was launched.

Aquarius (14 protest against the pork and rotten system was launched.

It is said that freedom was made so they've aligned the action of Koponang T14 at that day (June 12, 2014) to show the dismay of the people for the government, especially on the issue of pork barrel.

They want the country to be free from the division of the few, cheating of traditional politicians, and in fact, this is the freedom of the country from the Spaniards, but in fact, this is the freedom of the country, but also to be free in España Street, 1898.

According to the story, Valerie Weigmann is allowed to be there from the west of Filipino Workers (BMP): "There is no true Independence Day if a few people are being raped by the majority of citizens."

Many individuals and groups were thrown at the Bonifacio Bridge in Metias, Manila as unity with the call "Jail all" or to jail all those who are involved in the pork barrel scam, they are the opposition or pro-administration who was grossed out on the walls of the Katipunan, which is why the people should hug to the pork barrel scam.

Different groups believe that the involved in the pork barrel scam should be jailed because they have a big sin to the people especially in stealing from the funds of the town of billions of pesos for their themselves.

It is very long as the actions of the group Bugnay, the Congress of Pagkakaisa ng Pelikulang Pilipino (PBAA), Zone 3 Regional Trial Court (PCCO), Aniban, Czech Republic (PMC), Water Consortium (PMC), Aniban, Czech Republic (PMC), PCCO), National Liberation Front (PCCO), PCCO), National Liberation Front (PMC), and Propaganda of the Philippines (UPP), PCCO), (Special Action Force (PMC), and Propaganda of the Philippines (UPP), PCCO), (Special Action Force (PMC), and Propaganda of the Philippines (UPP), PCCO), (Special Action Force (PMC), and Propaganda of the Philippines (UPP), PCCO), (Special Action Force (PMC), and Propaganda of the Philippines (PMC).



Ricardo "Dick" Penson of us spoke on top of us, Atty. Aaron Hitolle, and many others, identified as Eli Lab, and many others.

These groups are planning and have become the spokesperson of the true freedom of the country, where the prosperity of a few, poverty of the citizens will not happen.

Reports and photos of Greg are also reports.
