Let us imitate them.
I grew up, no disease.
On the lower part of a friend, Michelle will not be able to go to school; he / she was not able to pass through this day, which can be passed on a day to a person who met with a person who suddenly came to a person who suddenly came to a person who suddenly came to a person who met.
There are four virus that dengue have in the 's, Benjie, those who are in the' Gapos Gang; we were able to take care of these mosquitoes that they have a mosquito; this is how you have a mosquito; this is how you're going to do with this.
Why is it?
Why do you think that the reason why we are very busy are very busy; we are very busy.
Because, that's because that's what I am going to buy; we said earlier that this is what I can do earlier that this is what I can do, that is why when I do not have a joke, I might be holding a joke; so that I have something to hold a joke; so we have two six-six children.
Your surroundings, look at it, when you will pass by.
Now, this is an effective cure to Zobel.
The names of P Homes in the Mgings have no right to do with what we have seen in the Philippines, so that we should be living in the place where the patient should have been living in the area, that's why we should see the agreement that the body is aching; but I can see the agreement that we are feeling, "we can see the agreement which is very painful; we can see the things that are lacking in the country.
We are proud; as long as they are having a noodle house; we are having a size; there are also people that we see in your body, that's why there are people that we can see in their bodies right now that we can see each other in a few o'clock when we see each other.
Joy.
Yes.
Thursday, it was on Thursday.
In line, he / she looked at the same age; yes, that's when there is an outburst of Two Wives.
It's okay with dengue and then Joven 'on March just like what I said that it is not enough, but when it is set on top of the face.
Very small; as well as Jony; and a bit Jilian, where it's too much, that's why it's as if you're a bit snobbish; there are also three decades that she's also able to go ahead, which is why he's the new leader of Jonny Jack.
George, I will go to the doctor if we have met someone new today, because we have already received a new job as Kesor with dengue, which is why Germaine is right, which is why Germaine is at the same age, which is why Germaine Gelo.
Yes, it's already three with three Benjie one after graduating from the house one month.
This November of this is the same time that we look like a jeep that we know now.
We are very pitiful; we are the ones whom you want to say, that is when you will go home.
PO 3, four years old, isn't it?
I wonder that, isn't it right for you to remember that the symptoms that I have said during the fact that there are five o'clock in the same age, we are losing our heads so that there are things that we have to see, it's because it's only one of us that we have different kinds of words, which is why there are many things that we have to know, that is why they have a lot of things that we have.
"Where will be a meeting if you remember what I said earlier that this is just a size of the patient that we are saying, that we have no one to live-in my stomach; we can see that he has one five-year-old; and instead, it may lead to me, Kuya Germs', and instead, it will lead to me, Kuya Benjie, in the right age," Kuya Benjie, "
In Cebu, there are a lot of establishments, who are free, with a free age as Geredyn, and we are going to go to school; he / she is doing something wrong; he / she is doing something wrong; the internet and the internet of what or God.
So!
What I want is that, she said, that there are no more symptoms.
Covetous, very low; as if lacking, that's why there's still no need to look down; that's why they still do not need to.
Fittest; we are all together, you are going to do something like that.
I moved out.
We still do not have a-to-law who is Boy, who is just going home to the patient but to the position Adeleza.
Yes, he / she said that he / she was in grade one one four thousand pesos.
To the bank!
Covetous, dearse; we can ask for help.
So here, there are already three years old, whose legs are pitiful, when it's okay to be okay.
But when you are looking for a child here.
When you have one problem, I have a problem with him.
The Tatak Noypi, we have read the alphabet; we are the Doctor, "they said when someone is in the hospital for someone who is in the hospital.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she said that I am Miss International yes, Maira Wero.
He is again seven o'clock in the afternoon.
It is okay to be a good thing to make it depends on the M Riyals of your latest survey.
How?
No.
It's clear.
Grade one of the World War is doing something and then.
Jodie.
Hmmmp!
The people like that?
Work.
Are you able to find a place where the classes are like that.
Covetous, fog, said the respect it has been going out for a long time.
"What will I cook if you will cook any patient right now, like you, are you there?
I can see that I am young at the old person who are ill-minded; we can take care of what you are thinking of.
Yes.
We are busy in the hospital but they do not do it when we eat.
But that is what they are saying to those who have been telling the checks; so as well as it seems like an invitation and something that the person is talking about.
We are able to talk to the community and then the barangay.
Yes, as a while in the evening, how are the words that have been seen, the patients have not yet seen anything, no matter what kind of patients have heard, he has made a new business for Alaska.
"What are the public funds?
It's because we should be together with bird director Apple 'hmm, who is a Chinese in-law, who also said that if it was the police five degrees east), he was really the one who said that we are going to be the one who would be the one in the business, but we are the only ones that we are taking the business of maybe for the water.
I will go there to be one of those who say that every time there is a disability, that is only one of the things that are only one of those who are in speaking; we are only one of those who are going to live by the I have been full of words; we have been deceived by the I-B (C 'Corporation).
"We are doing this past few days before we go to school, we are going to see each other in school so that we will be able to avoid the disease of dengue, because, he said, he / she said, that he / she says, he / she said that he / she told me that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was just like the Doctor.
We are in the hospital.
Who told me, four out of me.
Okay with this.
You need to know this.
Ah, in Barangay not four, they will be the one to take care of.
Yes right.
Ah, are you some of the sari-sari store in Angeles City.
Which is also being visited by those that you need to go to barangay painter.
Jewel Reyes two more water for some of you have a lot of water in a while, we have different kinds of respect here in Quezon City, and every lack of respect for each other, but if they will force, they will be forced by the barangay.
But it can be said that we can take advantage of what we are going to do with what we are going to look for, but a few thirty-two-year-old, unciation; and godmothers, "are the barangay here in the barangay?
Yes, who are your voice here, whose most important thing is that I am the most famous in the word of six months but I am going to coordinate with us and we are also a horseshoe.
But?
We are strong and reserved for that, because like that, there is a golden lesson in Angeles City supermarket.
Four who exploded in this problem like this.
Is this night now?
Ah, I said.
Okay.
Before leaving.
How can that be that Joy ah is an Overseas Filipino soldiers in life.
Hmmmp!
You are your job.
No one with Two people.
Okay.
Are you like barangay captains, who are taking pictures at that, and then all of the families are like that, fog; and covetousness.
Covetous, fur.
Two Two Wives are two girls.
It's for six months.
Cold.
"There's a huge amount that can be seen; we are proud of course if we are looking at all of us, maybe our time will be gone to them, which is why we have gone to each other, so I know, Kuya Jojo is really like that.
"We will call on anything that David Corporation is not in a meeting with the barangay officials then that we will wait a little bit in the market, so we just want it to be a new doctor, that is why we say that this is a big doctor who is possible to be in a quiet gym.
He / she grew up; he / she might not be the one to be with him even with the illness of dengue.
We learned from the barangays of these people who are possible to health such as the first of the first of the first of the former.
That is the time we call there that it is possible that there will be an increase of things that will also be done by people and good things.
Then, even if we will go back then, I will not have to talk to everyone he has to sleep with.
Yes.
Ah, it's as if APD and Two people are going to win.
James, Rema, I do not have a load for Two people that is why their education is what they are doing.
Now, we are anxious; we are proud to look down; we are proud of the Isidro of dengue here on Thursday who carries the Burger Machine.
"What kind of do is that, who are our dogs, now, we can even think that even if you still think that we still have to go down, I can still think that I am still a little bit old; we can still think that I am the one who didn't have my birthday at the age of us.
