June 12, 2014 PFFTTT!

Too bad, we went with the celebration of the 116th year anniversary of the Independence Day anniversary, and it is also rainy and it will be rainy and it will be rainy for me, I hope that I met and we were together with Attaché.
Let us pass all that gather in Welcome Rotonda, there is a wind while our loved ones in the Philippines are happy while our faces of those who are there are happy and let us go to Manila.
In Plaza Lawton or Bonifacio, some groups there are also preparing the surroundings of the red flag, because the flow of traffic is tight because the flow of traffic is tight, we went down as a sign of returning to Liwasang Bonifacio.
At the afternoon, we went to the Bonifacio Bridge near the Manila City Hall, whose clothes were also included in the protest against pork barrel and the lawmakers who were involved in the still ongoing pork barrel scam.
We listened to some speech.
Scratic pork barrel!
Who among us are not affected with the corruption happening in the hands of Noynoy Aquino?
All of us are victims of the corruption of the managers of us.
Only the businessmen and capitalists have are rich and each other is not affected because they do not care about us!
In the protest that happened on that day, 6-12-2014, we felt regret when Malacañang has a feast on why not?
The tone of the strength of anger against each of the regime is divided in fact, Aquino himself avoided the possible result of this great protest, hopefully, it is the reason why he celebrated there in Naga.
For us, I know he will have any reaction, isn't it possible for him to set aside from the group's color?
Set aside for the ambition, to set aside this belief and political belief? What can do the disstruggle? "Is the only issue that they are fighting for?
We believe that one day, all of the forces gathered the revolutionary taxes on that day will not have their own ideology, color and political political but that the interest of the country and true service to the people will come true.
Let us wait for this day for the realistic change, of self, the group towards real life and strong country!
