
The PKP is greeting the Filipino people with the decision of the Supreme Court against DAP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 12, 2014.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-Lakas ng Masang Pilipino (SC) aims to send the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) regarding the decision yesterday by the Supreme Court regarding the declaration of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), a thing that will lead the fight against the Supreme Court's constitution and to let the Aquino administration fight against corruption and corruption.

The Supreme Court gave up yesterday the frequent fighting against DAP, that it was declared as a violation of the constitution of the Philippines in 1987 Constitution, that the Supreme Court stated that his decision is to declare the Supreme Court to declare a criminal responsibility for the use of DAP.
The DAP was a system cooked by the Aquino administration who gave Aquino the privatization of the public funds, according to his own decision, Aquino asked for a few million pesos from his own decision after the election in the Senate in the burial of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, Corona.

"Because of the decision of the Supreme Court against DAP, Aquino's decision is growing to be imposed on the DAP," said PKP, "it is unlikely that the congress and the senate who will benefit from the DAP and PDAF under the Marcos regime," said the KP, said it is unlikely to happen.

However, the case to be filed in a resolution of the legislative chamber to be able to identify and separate from the allies of Aquino in Congress which has been benefited from the DAP and PDAF, which has long been benefited from the DAP and PDAF, which is why the king of pork barrel will be held accountable for his crimes and violation of congress, "said the KP.

The PKP has also stressed that, "in the decision of the SC regarding DAP, Aquino's decision to escape the trial process, just like the two past administrations of the vice president, who was charged and imprisoned in crimes, and corruption."

"He included the removal of the burial, separation and removal of the Aquino administration before the upcoming elections in the community, school, factory, human rights, and good governance," said the KP.

"The Filipino people who liked the Marcos regime should be vigilant and will be held accountable for the widespread lack of jobs, low wages, in the implementation of huge tuition in public and private schools, in the continuing rules of pork barrel, in the continuing rules of pork barrel in order to ensure the loyalty in politics and other similar crimes."

"The Filipino people should launch a widespread political agenda to oust the Aquino administration and end his services, rotten, liar and brutal owner," said the KP.
