I immediately went alone in the entire afternoon there's a payment for you to look straight and to look straight; we were able to look at each other, because there was still a vacation from it.
What happened to each other; he / she cannot sleep well; we are not able to sleep.
!
What is the two in the afternoon?
I have been cut off but I have been cut off.
You should go to Zen Hernandez Concepcion.
Very short; we are very happy; it seems that you are happy with bonsais and well-tempered; we are in line with each other.
"I asked for an advice not to talk with how much I talk to how much, wherein the hardship of Joy were very much; the difficulty of Joy where you met two consecutive days in the afternoon.
Here, we can look at each other; and how are your cousin.
Yes, maybe that's what the troop is, and so that you are the only ones who really are.
You will wait for you to look for an opportunity for a long-year-mannered family; and fur; why are I going to live-load?
Ah, it's because I am the only ones who are at fault; we are our children.
You should keep your mind, it is very clear what sold the honor, who is Dolly, what I need, Edward.
I will go to where I am at the title even if I do not know where you are in him, you are going to do something like that, I went to me.
Just like that, we are just like a debt that you are applying for.
Okay, no matter how a reminder is that the cinemas are not over the cinema, do we really have an outing, they say that they have an outing at each other, they say that they don't have an outing; he / she said that he / she didn't have an outing; he / she said that he / she didn't have an outing; he / she said that he / she didn't have an outing; he / she said that he / she didn't have an outing; he / she said that he / she didn't have an outing.
I don't have a lot to drink, that's why, there's nothing else that you have been cut off or taking care of me for six to soap for the child of PNoy.
"It is just proper that we will go home to Quezon to be able to go home to the clubs; we will be sent to the party.
It is the public that, because I call for an advise, it is then that you give me a joke; and I give you as a civil wedding; Jumarito, you're the one who loves me "the one who loves me."
It turns out that it turns out for Tita I want to look at aunt, so that I have no one to do, I have no one to do with me, but when I saw that I had a cellphone, why did I see that I am married, right? "Why did I see that I am studying here later.
You can also tell me that I am going to be a lot of money; we should just let it go.
You are like robots that are Lubuprofen, ah, going to Palawan bad telephone and continue what I took.
My cut off was cut off.
"You have been cut off tomorrow, please do not play the movie," where are you going to end?
Covetous, dearse;
