Boom: EB "Baes," aggressive, selfish!
Dondon's curious this November 10, 2016, it is not easy to strengthen the millennials and they are often treated as hardworking and daring books, but more are those who say that they are selfish, lazy, aggressive and the most popular generation in history.
The six "Baes" of Eat Bulaga in GMA, the millennials and the millennials, but they are also the ones to prove that they are not selfish, aggressive, and lazy in their generation.
Kenneth Medrano, an gy Tolentino, Joel Palimpinon, John Timosan, "and Kim Lampihan who came from" Thand Bulaga in 2015, was together with "That Bulaga in 2015.

"Hey, behind bars in the Dream Team, but we was impressed by the Our Lady Oger, we was impressed by the 19-year-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-old Filipino-
Kenneth said, the 25-year-old lady Bae in Cebu said, that they are not impatient while they are waiting for their adBreak.
"We did not think about it because we were not able to answer this, but we have a goal in our self to turn our backs to our youth."
Baes are perfect for those youth and their problems as millennials, this is the new boy, but in the time of Twitter, Facebook, and Sevidal.
"In that year, we cannot avoid it," there is a fight.

"It is normal for a group, we are going to be with our self on how to solve the problems," said 22-year-old Joel, who left her job as a call center agent to fulfill his dream of becoming an actress.
Jon said, a 22-year-old Filipino-old Filipino-American "is the only one-year-old man, so as we were let go to the US to be the US Embassy in the Top Rank Promotions.
"We were Baes, we are really too much, we are almost as well, we are almost siblings, we almost have to share your Bible because we are always happy, and will be lively even if you are tired," said Margy, 20.

Before entering showbiz, a "Ipit Gang" said to be able to help the carelia of her mother.
The waiting of Baes will be worth more than 6.2 to 6.4 per cent from its first week, it is enough to tie the mother-in-law.
-minded people can be watched before Eat Bulaga in GMA 7.
