
It is thorough to protest about the bigger contribution of the military by the US for the facilities in the Philippines.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 4, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling the Filipino people who strongly fight the plan of the Marcos regime to give the military's plan to give the military and military facilities in the Philippines that will result to the severity of violation of the territory of the Philippines and a huge amount of violation of the territory of the Philippines.

"Aquino's plan to pull the military from the US will serve as a bigger contribution to the airports, ports, and based on the military's plan to intensify the military's plan to intensify its strength and form the heals of the trade in South China Sea and other route of trade in the region.

"The giving of the US to a bigger military forces is not serving the national interest of the Filipino people and diplomacy of the US and diplomacy of the US and whatever he can bring to the Philippines in a genders but we would not like."

The PKP has criticized the Marcos regime in the distribution of the illusion of a Bagong Alyansang Makabayan between the Philippines and the government budget to give reason to the affected slave to the military of the US. "

"The Filipino people should be firm against the Aquino administration that accepting the soldiers of the US and the allies of the foreign military who have burns.

"A big slap will be considered as a giant military between the Philippines and the US," said PKP, "said PKP," it is said that there will be a alliance between a Catholic country, and it is said that there will be a alliance between the military forces of the US and the legal government budget for the government of the foreign forces. "

"From the beginning of the Marcos regime, the US and military troops of the US and military who often visit the warship of the Philippines have experienced various parts of the US Embassy in Subic, Manila and other parts of the US Embassy in Subic, Manila and other ports of the Philippines in Subic, Manila and other ports of the Philippines.

"It is a big thing that the Aquino administration is pushing in taking care of the said military by the US in the time the Filipino people are preparing to celebrate the 120th birthday of a hero, Andres Bonifacio," said the KP.

"By fulfilling the military by the US, Benigno Aquino did not give a bigger contribution to the Senate President Corazon Aquino when he was still president in 1991," said PKP, "in front of the widespread fraud in Clark, Subic, Subic and other places."

"It is clear that the current Marcos regime seems to be wily, because it is given to the US the right on reconciling with no agreement to ensure order," said the KP.
