Boom: Maine, it is very good to be sexy, like Alden!
By Dondon Servando, November 27, 2016.
In the interview of Alminda Isnani, Timosan, who attended by Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza in Palacio de Manila, Roxas Boulevard, that the white vinegar of Maine is noticeable.
As they say, it seems like the beauty of Maine is like the Hollywood actress and even the clothing, he becomes more handsome, or aggressive, to the point that he is using the bacon.
Maine started to witness Maine, that's why ADilawan, who makes it really love Alden, is that she felt weak, so in the video that she feels like a lot of love with Maine, it seems that she really wants to look into Maine, and there is still a scene where she wanted him to eat a while, okay!
In the Trefaldighets tonight night in GMA, it seems that Nonoy and Eva Cariño is looking into a dog, but it seems that Nonoy was really confused, because it seems that the strategy of Nonoy Peralta and it seems that the strategy of OPega, was completely affected, a former OFW, who is now a former OFW, who is now a former OFW, who is now a former OFW driver now.
Meanwhile, Sergeant Cruz, who was identified as Nonoy and Tapay who is only one, is also the report of Julius regarding the mysterious lightning... that there was an unusual strength to kidnap James!
Will Sergeant Cruz to her godchildren to ask for help? "Nonoy Eva Cariño, identified the young lady with him?
Ivan Drago has been gone in showbiz for almost four years, after she came out of brother's house at the PBB of ABS-CBN, and in his return, the Kapuso actress would be the Kapuso actress.

"Because I also wanted to study in the States, I also want to try the Hollywood actress, so that I will be able to get out of my stay in the US.
So, thank you in deciding to go back to showbiz?
"Because James Reid, Nadine Lustre was in a show in the US for OTWL), when he arrived at the airport of Los Angeles, I was the one she first seen face at the airport of Los Angeles, I was the one she first seen face face.
"
It would be better if you agree?
"Yes, ten o'clock.
But, why are you already in GMA now?
"Well, GMA, because I was able to go back to all the dialing - week, ABS, Regal and the others of But GMA, the most beautiful thing."
So, what are you saying now that you are already in GMA?
"He will work hard to use my skills," I studied in acting, because I am always like the Hollywood actress. "
As of now, the project with Barbie Foracza, Mead or Bira will be busy with Barbie and they have been together with Barbie before, that's why it's easy for them to be together in Social Work and today.
How is Barbie?
"Oh, Wanna Bet by Veronica R. it seems that he is always talking with someone who is always talking to.
Ivan is said to have been worried about the project of Barbie.
"Thanaels, I am very lucky because we all go to the house but we were not simply able to see what we have seen in our skills in our ability.
Is it a way for you to know about the issue?
"Direk Adolf Alix, he / she was really in the same age, GMA," according to Ivan Drago.
