Drugs is not the only problem of the country.
It is September 22, 2016 when the businessmen in the country started to get the comfort of the country, especially those hanged in the foreign Exchange or an x-ray.
It was initially reported that the exuals are released.

He said that there are many market in abroad who failed for supporting our products.
Because there is no explanation for the "customers" before, why did they suddenly buy our products, it is difficult to buy the sharp tongue of our President Rodrigo Duterte against the famous leaders of the international community like US President Barack Obama and UN Secretary.

Ban Ki-Moon, but if it can be remembered, Pope Francis is going to be the first to be closer to President Duterte, now that their investment is increasing, the sales from the local market continues.
The price of petroleum products has increased again, hopefully it will not even add up to!
Aside from the economic problem, it is as if the government of Duterte is not able to focus on anti-illegal drugs, there are still so many problems that are experienced by ordinary citizens.
The nightmare that happened was already past for the public to work, this is not the nightmare that happened because the nightmare, happening in the dream, but the traffic is already awake, which is already awake, and the residents of Metro Manila are already awake and are still awake.
Until now, the problem with license and plate number is still not yet done.

The traveling wagons for the LRT and MRT are still not enough, but the case of libel which is used to erase it is still lacking. "
How is it that Coco, the coconut farmers, is one of the hot issues during the time of the campaign period, but after the election, it seems that they are already gone from the scene.
Many are happy that illegal drugs are being crushed, although it is not acceptable to the killings happening and what seems to be having color in some dragged in the issue, but this is not the only problem of the people.
