
Where are I Ping Lacson, funds of Yolanda?

The weather is unique in Malacañang now.
The title of Czar of salt as the leader, it seems like it is like a wet chore that's why the former who is known to be brave, 3 pillows and a coward with women now?
Why?
We are referring to this is the former PNP Chief and former aggressive senator, Panfilo Lacson "Lacson.
Where are you now, Czar Ping?
It is deafening your peace while your companions are feasting by the blessings received by donations from other countries and the treasury of the town of Maria and Juan dela Cruz?
The fund has reached 37 billion pesos for the victims of the super typhoon Yolanda.
For sure, there are only a few who have been used there, there is a bit big that the corrupt people in Malacañang have a big problem when they built the 838 pesos in the room which made you mad before.
What happened?
It's because the people trust you especially when you get angry.
When you discovered the serious cheating of contractor who goes out, everything was happy because many thought that it can be put in jail by the thieves.
There, even if Ruby hit it, "what happened, you find anything that is just a role?
It is good that Ruby weakened.
What if Yolanda is also as strong as well as the first hour before he arrives, Mister Ping?
The pork barrel and Disbursement Acceleration Program (teacher Butch Abad will ask for an additional P23-billion for those who were not able to join, where are you Ping?
Shouldn't you be there beside Abad's side to defend the needs of funds for calamity?
You did you like Czar! You have accepted it, "that is also useless?
Hopefully, Mister Czar, you give up your position in the hands of Aquino's regime before they destroy your whole personality.
Are you gross about the whispering of the lower part of land?
Those who believe in you before, now have bad feelings - against you!
Here is the last statement of former Boy DAP Boy Butch Abad.
It is only P2.4 billion that he does not want to find the fund for the rehabilitation of Yolanda victims.
Really really? Do you know this, Czar Ping?
If not, well, it is pitiful, that you're really like Czar!
Abad is really intense.
He is not shaken with the anger of senators Miriam Defensor-Santiago and Senate Finance Committee chairman Chiz Escudero to prevent him from the funds of Yolanda.
But nothing happened, the senators also passed the request of Butch.
How much is the commission, Ping Lacson?
