
PNP, it held a drug Symposium on the town of Polong.

September 29, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, September 29 (Pia) - a Symposium on illegal drugs was done by the Philippine National Police (PNP), together with the local government of more than 500 pushers and using illegal drugs in the town of Polilio, recently.

Going to the said Symposium on Pola Mayor Leandro Panganiban, Jr., Vice Mayor Jennifer Cruz, Police Senior Superintendent Gilber Cruz, Police Senior Superintendent.

George Medina, Police Superintendent Joseph Semillano, members of the city council of Polong a and other officials of the local and national government.

The program is according to President Rodrigo Duterte's directive to suppress illegal drugs in the whole country for six months only in the span of six months, it can be recalled that the issue of shabu and illegal drugs is widespread before he became president of the Philippines.

The directive is strictly implemented by the PNP and the agencies of the government like the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA).

Since the operation which was called Oplan Tokhang (knocking on the police) and Double Barrel Alpha of the police, there have been 425 million and 170 died of shabu who voluntarily surrendered to the authorities in the town of Polong.

According to Police Chief Inspector Aldzar Reyes Santos, the reason for the voluntarily surrender to the present is the said operation.

Superintendent Cruz challenged the representative of Police Director General Ronald dela Rosa to the residents of Policy "although guilty in society, they should be given a chance to clean their names and give a chance to clean their names and give a chance to clean their names and to help the programs of the government agencies that are related to it.

In relation to the news, it was initially provided by a wheelchair for those with disabilities in the town of Polilio, the office of Supt. Cruz and the Department of Health (DOH).

Meanwhile, it was also given a gift by Vice Mayor Cruz of the senior citizens who attended the program, together with the members of old age, who were made to take care of their birthday last month (CPRD / LTO), Pia-Bolivia.
