New love and chance.

The New Year is a sign of the new start of the struggle and rise from those who became their country in the past.
It is possible that the year 2013 will become a challenge to us, we have a lot of challenges that will be charged not only in politics, but also for the natural calamity.
Many have fell and got discouraged, but in the change of year, many were given hope for rise.
In life, we have a lot of opportunities to fall but that is not the use but every opportunity to get up.
We, like Dra. Belen Cana, government, a Filipino doctor in Thailand, who would have thought that the one who has the own nearest clinic in selecting a lot of failure before?
MD of Negros Occidental, Dra. Belen, her father is a simple employee in a company of sugar, because of the hard work of her parents, the siblings were able to study in a university in Cebu, Dra. Belen and he / she arrived at a university in Cebu.
That way home from Dumaguete is the way for him to get to know her husband Thai who, in those times, she ended up in a civil wedding, in the Philippines first because the mother of the Doctor is sick when the mother of the Doctor is sick.
In the year 1974, they decided to live in Thailand where she lived in Thailand after she passed away after the mother of Doctora Belen, in Bangkok, they first lived with the parents of her husband.
Dra. Belen admitted that her start of the said country is difficult, because aside from the poor people who are along with the mother-in-law, he still has a different culture, belief and language of this, he also needed to get examination so that they would be able to make sure that they have a good doctor.
He did not pass the said examination operation, and almost surrendered, but one friend ordered him not to surrender and instead send to a known institution there to go back to school.
Within a few months, he review, until he took the exam and for the mercy of God, he got lucky to pass.
After this, he worked in a hospital in Las Piñas, which he has been working there for almost nine years when they had a misunderstanding with his female boss, which is why he chose to resign and build his own clinic, where he chose more and had a lot of patients.
