Nathy and Jomake sure that your lover is attracted with co-NO!
Nathley, no idea of being hardheaded with Jo?
By Jun-October 4, 2016.
Meow, meow, look at the text star, Nathley Hart.
Because he is not the one who can beat the bush.

No matter what you ask for Nathley, she went straight.
Nathley admitted that it was not only his name he was replaced with the name Princess Sais, he was the first known from StarStruck (GMA 7), and even the size of his boards, he was also replaced, but he did not show to his boils.
"So, 732B, he has been 32C now that is why I will not just add too much.
"It is not" that 632B, which is why I pity C.
"So, I have been reminding me for a little and I do not need to deny it," said Nathley.
It is not afraid that Nathley is not afraid of becoming cancer because that is not what he gives as his boils.
In the movie check by Director Joel Lamangan, you can see the "cheek of one of the two" mountains. "
Until yesterday afternoon, he still did not know what was seen on him in the movie "that was just last night from Prezantation of SM Megamall.
"Later tonight I can watch the movie.

They are not allowed to watch me "the movie after the editing.
"So, what can be remembered later by the audience of Premiere night," that is also what I can watch for the First-time.
"My Mommy Lydia also wanted to watch, but I said, just do not look for someone to watch, because she might have seen what she saw in the movie and something might say about Mommy.
"It's because my mom will agree and he might be the one to take care of him.
"Before the shooting of the movie, I did not realize that I cried from love with the love of Jomake sure first.
"I do not want to do because I was surprised when I thought about it, why is it like that?
"I entered a text message to my manager Tito Leo (RES)) and I cried.
"However, though we will follow the movie," Direk Joel did.
"Direk Joel, he / she has a number of director for me to think like that.
"Direk Joel has not scolded me, I am afraid of courting her before because he is chronic.
"When we finished the shooting of the meantime, Direk Joel approached me.

"Thank you very much and said that I am really a good actress, it is really gladdening to say," Direk Joel has a heart disease! "According to Nathley.
He / she said that he / she came in the scene "that was said to have a hole on the front of Joweelyn Jumilla, but he showed it on a bath.
In the opinion of Nathley, he / she didn't really look at it, but he did not just look at it, but he did not look at it.
It is also not sure that Nathley is also not sure, "Jomake sure of their scene" at the meantime, he felt that he was not felt by Joker because he / she was on a noodle house.
Nathley admits that one of the movies he has done, he has a person who felt too much, but he does not want to tell what he felt at the case that he was feeling, "so he could say that he felt guilty" in their scene.
It will be shown to the movie Sipitan (Rated R-16) in the cinemas of SM, that is why Nathley is very happy.
In the cast of movie Luis Alandy, Alan Paulate and Maria Isabel Lopez.
