In a boarding house, bonding with family By who was worth November 21, 2016.
The Filipinos are naturally vain, especially when with the whole family.
Just like the vacation of my family in the province of Ilocos Norte.
Before, we lost our time in going around the so-called tourist spots in the places where my family was living in the latest trip of my family in Ilocos Norte, we put a little ill.
This is because my family tried to send the two foreign tourists who were boarding the local and foreigners.
That is why we really prioritized the famous meat which is famous, Dunleavy and La Paz, Ilocos Norte.
The whole family is encased in using a boarding house.
The shouting and respect of my family especially when it is two o'clock in the fine sand.
Aside from the cold of the fine sand, the family rode the 4-4 jeepney and was able to get to be smart.
The happiness of the family is really good, especially those with our co-workers and youth who are able to get along with fiers and selfie together with our scenes in pretending to be smart.
But for sure, what I want to be in one day is that I will be able to try to have a boarding house because it is certain that I will return here with some of your colleagues like me who are fond of extreme sports.
After our unusual behavior in the boarding house, we still haven't lost control of going around other beautiful scenery in Ilocos Norte and Vigan.
Just like the famous Paoay church that one of our guts to go back, as well as the mill mill in Bangkal, Ilocos Norte.
In our conversation, they also have to go to the beach which is really visited by local tourists even the local tourists who are taking a bath in the sea.
It is also included in our office like Vigan where we are at the Heritage house where we really want to go to tourists.
This is to taste the good Vigan empanada that is so delicious, and according to the description of my colleagues, you will surely forget your name because of delicious.
We also did not get free from the factory of a noodle house and "the called aving.
That's why we can say if our Norte and Vigan cade are worth it.
I also do not forget to visit my friends and relatives so that they will also experience the meddling of one of the other countries in our country.
