Arci Muñoz with the fadstar of Star Ngayon.

Postanes and Bonoan, Bonoan.
On February 16, 2016.
In showbiz.

The dancers of Alyas BE, My Mayanta in the Dolphy theater last Friday night because there is no heavy issue that needs to answer or deny that's why the discussion is not serious, but it is pitiful.
We are laughing upon saying Arci Munoz, she was deceived when Direk Dan Villegas was asked if she wanted to be a part of the movie since he returned to the director.
"When I put me for a movie, I said (director Dan), are you sure?
"That's why my answer to him (director Dan)," you really want to believe me? "I really want to believe it, and then I saw that he was very calm, and that's why I saw that he was very calm, and that's when I saw that he was very angry.
"Aksyon Ngayon" I wrote to me, I, I, I am being surprised, I know that we are about to go to work, thank you, "we'll be able to wait for a job, which is why when we are about to go to work, we'll be able to go to a show thank you, Campbell," so that we can go to a show of thank you.
And because "Mayanta is the title of the movie, is this also the belief of Arci takes a love affair?
"For me, I am not a" f" in my case (because he has a mistress), I am an important thing.
"For me, if you have a love for a job, Fight IT's for a love, Fight of a loved one, thank you, thank you, you should be sure (with Gerald Anderson).
"If you are going to be a relationship, you should be given to you completely," right? "It's not right?" It's a love for you, "so," when you're a love, Tell, Mayanta, "says Arci.

Drink a drink first for a long time.
Arci is certain that Arci takes the style of Director Dan before they start a shooting because she is asking them.
"" I pretend to be at the script, do you think that you will do this in real life? "I answered, ah, why do I do it!"
"So, we did not give it to each other, because what the director wanted was for him to look realistic, that's why when we were talking, that's why we were talking, just for a shot, okay, okay, okay," laughing at the young lady.
Gerald was shocked with what she said "for a while, because the actor doesn't know that Arci is with us.
"That is just one time so that it looks true, because the scene is really a bar," the woman called himself.
"Gerald's joke,"
But Arci takes, "drank with, Ginebra, there, there was a bottle that happened, only a bottle and a simple thing, and it is natural that the director of Director (Dan) is really natural."
Arci is, 2016 Calima, of the said pregnant man.
The stars are also mentioned that their communication should be given to the director and to make a movie so their shooting will run smoothly.
"You should really have good Communications, not only for an artist but also for an artist if you act on it so that the results are being asked but all the people (set), that's why all people (set) are asked by the director, that is why all the people are asking him."
During the six months of Arci takes Alungani, My Mayanta in the protagonist he was immediately arrested.
So to the question, is it not afraid that Arci Muñoz, "GAPARK," I know that I am going to be very hard for Tell that's why I know that it is very hard for Tell, a 24 hours for me, "isn't it?
"He / she went to showbiz) for a 9-CBN, since he / she was with ABS-CBN," Tindan, Tsinelas and, "Chance,"
"It seems that there is also a lot of gratitude that was also done, right?" I know, "what we know," it was our job, "we'll just do it, all our work, so we love him, so we love him, so we love him / her, which is why we love him.
"We are so happy, and the end of the Philippines that I know is that, for the job that we have done to for the audience favorite for so that they will be given to it."
Star Cinema has said it now, "the adstar."
"Wow, I have been paying for the very beautiful thing that's coming to me, and if they can say it to me, I do not know how to thank you," that is what the young woman said.
"They say," it is really in the time. "
What kind of image is Arci takes?
"That's why he / she also wants to be with him, I really want to do anything but to any characters that would be given to me properly and beautiful, I'm also the one who's going to take care of him / her.
"It can be recalled that the" Pasion (de Amor) "on the 26th (February) and it will be shown on the 24th (February)," the actress stated.

Amazing is the body of Gens.
What does Arci feel with Gerald?
"Epal's as if I am super gentlemen, who was really being cheated on, he / she was really wearing a hidden talent, he / she always gets mad when I am courting me when we have a love between us," says Arci takes a story.
And Arci admits that she was surprised by her love with Gerald when the actor took off the cover.
Alungani, My Mayanta showed the February 24 historic meeting with Gerald, Arci, gross, and Jane OPLAN LS, and Jane Oangaron, AOIL, RePersist, and directed by Dan Villegas.
