
PNoy was published in the hole of Purisima.

I asked my friend, Pepito, one day, if I knew PNP Chief Director General Alan Purisima.
When I asked why, his answer was, "I thought that he could ask me to endorse from the people who sold him by his 2013-Model Shop, which was a Toyota Land Cruiser, Pritil, which is only about 1.5-million only.

Even if President Aquino did not admit it, but his immediate friendship with Purisima is that he is slowly pulling the deepest part of a pit - which is possible that he cannot climb up again.
In the opinion of many, the "Tuwid na Daan" that it was approved by PNoy for the government in his campaign against corruption, was covered with no sharp loyalty to his friend who is believed to be safe from the attack of many years ago.
Purisima violated the existing law when they received gifts - like an unexpected belief "by an unexpected belief" in the exchange of his Land Cruiser, which is called "White House" in Camp Crame that became free.
There are many believes that this is a way of bribery while he is facing charges of plunder and corruption, the group Volunteers Organization (VAdona) said that his supporters were bad with the complaint of the donations.
If Purisima is clean like what PNoy is saying, he should name the public for the public.
The Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) should check if they are able to give a huge amount and if they are supported by their businesses, and did not show interest or involved in any former or current transaction in the government.
VAsukal will also like to investigate the 21-year-old son of Purisima, who are Rainaga because of its property in Nueva Ecija, while he believes that he is being used in Nueva Ecija, "they believe that he is using a" hidden wealth "by his father.

What Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago wants should be thrown away by Purisima if PNoy cannot remove his friend from the PNP.
I remember this is "Peter Princesita's" Peter Cayetano and this is a concept of management, which is based on choosing the candidate for the position, based on the ability that the candidate showed to his current job, and not to the ability that will be needed in the role that will be used in his position.
In this way, the employees should just stop to give a promotion if they cannot work properly, and the manager is increasing in the level of their lack of use. "
If Purisima will be dismissed from PNP Chief, he will be a member of the Cabinet or for the ambassador), he will be able to fulfill their job or will increase again on the level of his use, "?
Will this not waste the tax that the people pay for?
