Gloria Arroyo will be removed from running for him? By Aries, Bernard Taguba, July 20, 2016.
The former President and current Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo said that the plunder case filed against him will be removed after the Supreme Court (SC) yesterday.
In the statement of Arroyo yesterday, after the SC released the result of the election of the magistrates where 11 were garbage in the plunder case against him and four were against him, the former president said that he is hoping that his experience will not be seen.
"IT led, the advise that was made to be the sole will of the law to be bought by the law," Arroyo said in his position that was the reason of his office, "said the person who became the reason of his office," said the person who became the reason of his office, "said by Arroyo.
It was November 2011 when Arroyo filed a case for election period, but has exported and temporarily freed.
But on October 2012, the Sandiganbayan released a warrant of arrest due to the plunder case filed by the Office of the Ombudsman in relation to the misuse of the 366 million intelligence fund of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO) from 2008 until 2010.
After almost six-years, the SC decided to dismiss the plunder case filed by the Sandiganbayan First Division and ordered the release of Arroyo.
Politicians are right to be free.
Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson has not contradicted the decision of the SC and said that it is just right to give the freedom of Arroyo because he said he has an age and it cannot be denied that the former President is not yet long.
"Even-chan is based on humanitarian consideration," of the Supreme Court's ruling to the Her Her, Hala of Hala, Hay, Are, Are, Hay-age.
"I'm" I'm "I am," I am going to be the I will serve as Are Are, I was the one to be held at the Her administration, to be declared to be under the Her administration, as well-dead, "Lacson, who is one of the strict critics of the Arroyo administration.
Angry.
But if a group of Gabriela who is being asked is a severe insult to the release of Arroyo. "We Are, the dismissal of plunder charges against the Supreme Court's dismissal of plunder charges against President Arroyo and HE.
Mrs. Arroyo bars, since Her arrest, the Tanim-year-year-old student of the World Health Office (Mrs. Arroyo, of the United Nation's Office (Mrs. Arroyo, and the victim who were not able to attend to Her Street, "according to the released statement of the group," according to the released statement of the group.
The group insisted that the women should continue to catch justice and let Arroyo be held in corruption in the public funds and violation of human rights recorded in its regime.
The Sandiganbayan respects the Sandiganbayan.
The Sandiganbayan respects the decision of the SC. "We Are, to be delivered with the SC decision, no problem," the Sandiganbayan First Division chairman Justice Efren Dela Cruz.
Arroyo was first filed in the Sandiganbayan in the said case but it was dismissed by the said division so he climbed the SC where he was filed against the Supreme Court.
