
Search for justice for the Philippines.

The search for justice in the Philippines is a long time problem, especially if there are rich personalities that can make it through all the problems using the money and will be used by influence even if the involved is in jail.
In 197 original number of accused in the massacre of 58 people, including 32 journalists have passed, 110 have been put in jail by the leadership of the Ampatuan clan.
They were killed and buried in a backhoe of his forehead, Datu Unsay Mayor Andal Ampatuan Junior, to stop the wife of his rival in politics, Esmael Mangudadatu, to submit his certificate of candidacy for the governor of Maguindanao.
Even if the Ampatuans are still able to plant fear to the families and relatives of the victims, that others feel failure and doubt if they will still find justice since the killing happened in Maguindanao last November 23, 2009.
Last week, two possible witness to the Ampatuan massacre was going to a meeting with the prosecution of the government who was ambushed in the town of Shariff Aguak, former driver of Auto, Region and Muslims in the town of Shariff Aguak, Senior, while his companion who was riding a motorcycle, Butch Abad, Senior, was able to escape.
In the eye of the world who always watch the case of the massacre, the ambush showed that the government has no meaning in giving protection to those who can be witness in an important case, who put in the country as one of the most dangerous places for journalists.
The members of the International Federation of JRRMC) that arrived to visit the memorial site of the massacre last Friday, was calling the government to act on the continuous attack of our journalists.
The killing in Maguindanao, which led to politics in the country, happened under the term of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, who allegedly had a close relationship with the powerful clan of Ampatuan to ensure that he will win in their territory during election period.
However, for the National Union of JRRMC, in the Philippines, the murder of journalists remains nonstop even if the administration of President Noynoy Aquino remains under the administration of President Noynoy Aquino due to the lack of appreciation of the government for being attacked.
Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno defended the government's response to the killing of the media, including the Ampatuan massacre, one of the problems of the court is in the arrest of the police, which is why he is working with the Department of Interior and Local Government and Department of Justice.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima remains hoping that a case will be decided in the case of Ampatuan in 2016 but he still did it to admit that a case in the Philippines is usually passing by 10 years to solve it and the legal process of any shortcomings of those who are holding on the case.
If there are problems which do not block the case that our officials know, isn't it right for us to find solutions that are really dependable for the citizens to find justice for the people to search for justice?
