Pinky Webb ran away from ABS-CBN.

Even though it is painful for ABS-CBN to resign from ABS-CBN which caused his career, Pinky Webb decided to just leave instead of being a starlet for forgiveness.
According to him, it's because the beauty queen said that he is not being given enough project for the big network that's for him to run away and transferred to CNN Philippines, and he can go ahead and transferred to CNN Philippines, which is why he was thrown at the PC instead of giving a program on Channel 2.
We do not know if he leaves, this will affect his will, former senator Freddie Webb who has a program in DZMM.
Why is it that the career of fried rice is even worse than him which is the pet gift of him, he has also made an award which was received as a proof of his skill to Roman caskets.
On the other hand, that is why he is not being given a good position on the legislative Channel of the network that is more beautiful for his career instead of news Channel and she is not very famous, she is not being famous, she is said to be a famous friendly. "

Deniece Cornejo, including Cedric Lee.
Deniece Cornejo, Cedric Lee, told him that he has no money to pay for the lawyer, so he needs the help, instead of drinking, she just laughed at his answer to work for money to pay for his lawyer.
What Cedric did not know, all the help given by Atty. Ferdinand Topacio who was given to Deniece as client because he promised this to the grandfather of the young lady, Mister Rodrigo Cornejo, who has been his friend for a long time.
The real goal of Atty. Ferdie is that Deniece were only fooling around the case he is facing, but he noticed that he was a born maiden, and he noticed that he had a deep sigh of acting, even though she has a deep breath, even if there is no diets, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even if there is no diences, even without
For those who do not know, there is one commercial drivers that Deniece were made in Indonesia for a product of the teeth, which is only enough to say that he / she wasn't able to say it is enough for him to say that he is an actor.
Wait for Deniece in a movie for a MMFF and you will judge him in acting.

An actor all gay for the airplane.
An acquaintance was able to get along with the actor while going up to the airplane, he was wondering why the actor and his companion were so tight and did not let go of until the question of the person we talked to, is that gay?
We have a relative playing badminton with a private sports center in Quezon City, the actor was able to enter into a private sports center in Quezon City, but when he saw that the man was able to enter, he kept a little joke, especially the actor's question, the actor was really gay?
There are still many stories and questions that we have received about the real gender of the actor but we are not having a hard time to answer because we just shown the said scandal when the said scandal had been hit, and what's difficult to answer to the questions.

MPDPS-Cul is what's being looked around, we celebrate Christmas evening.
When it started last January, the audience was pointed at GMA that's why she was headed by Jennylyn Mercado, psychologist Pritil, Rafael Rosell, and Raymart Santiago.
Jennylyn, as Lyra Bertiz III, the mountainous part of the story, they distributed his experiences together with Director Laurice Guda, and other people of my co-dugo Gang, Raymart, and other co-workers whom I had learned from him. "
The Second Chambers showed how an opportunity can change the life of a person, the message has been expressed by the program, all people are deserving to have a Second Chance in life and in love.
In the end of the program this Friday, Lyra, Rebecca (Camille), Jerome (Rafael), and Bernard (Raymart) will still be able to move on to his former life and will be happy again, who will be the man who will give in Lyra, Second Chance in life and in love?
"Do not let it pass the last night of Second Chui this Friday, May 8, after Let The Love Begging in GMA Telegant.
