There is a fund for a recall and back to manual.

What is really happening with the Commission on Elections?
Do he really want to clean its frequent politics in the country or are really being used for those who can be used for politicians who are taking advantage of who or their source of living?
There are so many events in order to give reason to the citizens to release their doubts in this agency.
There is no fund for the recall.
One of the latest questions that the Comelec made was the declaration that he has no fund for a recall election.
Because of the lack of funds, as long as this commission is just closed this commission in all a recall election.
He did not make a way to look for funds for example, but he did not even ask for help from the Congress in making the Congress for a mental budget for this.
One more thing, is this the mind of the commission that is why it is not able to ask the Congress of funds for the upcoming elections this past year despite the possibility that there will be a recall of a recall and election?
There is a fund.
Here, Mang Sixto Brillantes, the truth.
The Department of Budget and Management Council said that the COMELEC has a fund which is more than 1.4 billion pesos, including the for a recall elections.
Question: Since the past few days, the COMELEC said that the COMELEC is not lies, is the COMELEC act to know the desire of the people for a recall election?
We do not hear any action, Bro, if the COMELEC will not take action, isn't it that the citizens are dreaming of clean their town in the hands of corrupt, corrupt and abusive in power?
Corruption and corruption, Bro, primary reasons why there are a recall of a recall of this present.
The citizens do not want that in the whole time of service of a corrupt and corrupt, they will experience poverty which is the opposite of their situation.
Old times.
A recall election is prohibited for a year before the next election.
On May 2016, there will be a new election and is called the Presidential election because it will be held in choosing a president and vice president of the country, along with other officials of the national and local.
From these days, it is clear that there is still time for holding a recall election as one of those with a recall of the citizens in Bulacan and Puerto Princesa City, Palawan.
Is the COMELEC in order to confirm the availability of the funds like what the residents of Palawan was done, and if this was done, is it moving to conduct the said election?
If this is not doing anything, what is the reason why Brillantes might be there in COMELEC and whichever COMELEC, who is as useless by their chairman? "Lo is there!
He is more interested in terms.
If the COMELEC is noisy now, it is in the vote of the new Community Precint-scans who is extremely busy with Mister Sixto.
It is the child of tofu, to where it can be done, it is just like the animals want to make money?
On P18 billion, Bro, the COMELEC asks for money to buy a new leader.
So, everybody knows that they get rashes on the contents of the companies, like it, the former COMELEC commissioner, Gus Tambunting, and Yulin Darius Bongc.
If you will wait for a case of cheating, the COMELEC itself is going to be printed by an extra millions of ballots for cheating, like what was revealed by Tanim-Cojuangco.
Back to manual.
There are countries that come back and return to manual.
In America, the state of California and Ohio, for example, is not allowed to be affected by the coming election.
The reason: The number of people are very happy, "hher" which can't breathe during the result of the election.
Aside from the number of those being sold, such as 18,000 billion votes, while the voters are only 400 pesos.
Now, Brillantes is forced to vote a new leader, who among the lawmakers and those from the Palace will take the approval of this?
It is a big sum of it and the COMELEC is insisting that we buy in the middle of the saying, Gus Lagman said that they can do the clean election through an ordinary election through ordinary activities, especially in the country.
Make a manual voting in the barangay and it is only time to use lukewarm water on the results of the results and this is what the government will spend from.
Brillantes for Al-Ghamdi.
Or, Bro, watch Brillantes and his co-inmates who are ready to use and to have a race which will be used in voting in the precinct until the COMELEC and Congress.
We also repeat, there is a fund for a recall election and it should be held by said election.
If the COMELEC will not take action to conduct a recall election, what do you think?
