On the second year of the distribution of Hacienda Luisita, farmers attacked.

Macky Macasaverted!
April 25, 2014.

The farmers of Hacienda Luisita attacked the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) on the second year of the decision of the Supreme Court to share the thousands of hectares of land of the hacienda.
The alliance with Filipino Bukid in the hacienda (Ammunition) stressed that the mandate of the court will not be implemented, instead, the family's mandate did not implement the distribution and order to be taken away by the ground that should be given importance.
The residents of Hacienda Luisita reached almost four hours in the compound of DAR, but they were not faced by the officials of DAR.

"Our situation is very serious now under the President in the landlords," said Florida, the chairman of Ambullets.
Sibayan also said that under the former president Corazon Aquino, fake reforms are being implemented at the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program and the jurisdiction of Pres. Benigno Aquino III, the covetousness and the forces of the state that spread to the hacienda.
"They made to realize the fields and haunt from the fear of Hacienda Luisita," he said.
Alum and sweat was dismayed by not facing the officials of DAR and those from the hacienda.
"The reform in the land of the government is really distressed as Sec. Virgilio de los Reyes to address or implement the decision of the Supreme Court," said Humalig) in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Two years.
Last April 24, 2012, the Supreme Court ordered to send Php335 hectares of land.
But an estimation of 6,453 percent of the scope of the hacienda.
From a pile of hectares, the 500 hectares of the Land use conservation will lessen and the 80.5 hectares of Subic Clark international Expressway.
The court ordered to pay the farmers of Php1.33 billion from the sale of the land of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
"Included in the order of the court to pay the farmers and find a different land that can be shared," said Hala.
But instead of giving up, the corporation will increase this land that should be included in the Land distribution, there is also no actual distribution of land and Cerge of Land OPLAN) which is given.
"The problem is, the decision is already two years old, nothing has happened yet, instead, he has already committed suicide by the Tarlac Development Authority (Tadeco)," said HE.
Hidden title.
It was also added by Ambullets that there was a hidden title for the land title by Tadeco, to avoid being shared to the farmers.
"By Tadeco, this title is being used by Tadeco, that it will not be martial law for the First P, which is almost more than 1,000 hectares of land causing him to be illegal and violate the Land reform program by Tadeco.
The group filed hold of DAR and complaint against Tadeco, together with the companies that they have hidden in the company, this is also the land that the farmers faced now, which has been fenced by Tadeco.
"We already did everything for us to come closer to government agencies such as Department of Justice and even if it is still no response to our call and suggestion of how they will just let the land be distributed," Ada said.
According to Malacanang, the government assures that the decision of the Supreme Court will be implemented which will be implemented by Hacienda Luisita.
