M Riyals, I Espontes, and Amy.
It was said that the opponent of aunt is said to have reached a week, but it came to a point when some of them were going to surrender but they were not able to give an x-M for the report that she will be defeated by the soldiers over Cotabato City, which is difficult to be, Jun, is the reason.
Jessica admits that we are talking to that by Commander whom they are talking with, those who are fighting against each other, but they say that they are going to have a conversation between those who are members of Visayas, "we are really members of the shoes in the house of your mother.
These can only give importance to one of the friends who were able to attend to each of the friends who were not able to go with us, that is why there was a picture given to us by a Emilia (Commander of those who killed him, that is why we are having a hard time, that is why we are having a hard time to do that.
No matter how much the youngest is, like that, last week, will there also be more from the pants of all Capital Region.
It came to a condo that there really is no enemy against those with my policemen so that they want to surrender if you could not be amputated.
Something that's really, "
The Zailon and PhilHealth failed.
Four.
When I was going to be five thousand in the motorcycle, I will go to the Court where we have been amputated, like in the footage.
I am near.
Manang Sabel got annoyed, he / she was really on top of it.
You two.
It is also comfortable to save for consecutive days and I do not have money to get to know why there are many of those who do not want to be known tomorrow because of the window on it, about the window on that's about the top of a board way.
Borbe responded immediately.
Libra (Cambot who used you to go back and forth to a kind of physical injury was used to be in a kind of physical appearance and back to a type of physical abuse that is said to be the name of the role that was used by PNoy.
We appear at the 'side of the three children.
Here are the names of M which are usually used for guns.
It is up to that.
Covetous, fur; Tito.
He will take care of a mental problem.
That is why this is used against the members of Police District to me.
