Defending the filipino language, brought to the Supreme Court.

It was brought to the Supreme Court by lawyers of the filipino masses to fight against the Commission on Higher Education Order Number 20 percent of 2013 (Cutud, 20) that aims to remove the Filipino language in the implementation of the Filipino.
The alliance between Filipino language (Tanggol language) led the said protest against Cutud, 20 when they submitted to the Supreme Court to dismiss the said resolution.
According to the deputy commissioners, Cincinnati, 20, the provisions in the Constitution, in relation to the National language, culture of the country, national education, and 18; Article II, Lot 17, 18; and ArXA, Sambag 2, Sais of the 3.
As well, Cutud, 20 Series of 2013 will conduct the goals of the Saligang Batas of the Constitution, the Constitution by the Constitution, including the teachers and employees of the political sector who are the right to take part in the activity of spreading the policy.
Tanggol insisted, they have never consulted with the said decree of Commission on Higher Education.
"We made the filing of the Supreme Court to meet the steps made by the people for destroying history, which caused the new curriculum and not for the foreigners," said David Michael San Juan, convener, Tanggol said.
The group insisted, that the Republic Act 767 (WBC) chief of the supreme court or KWF, Republic Act Number 232 (Education Act of 1982), and Republic Act Number 2) - Arts (NCCA) is being monitored by said policy.
Commission on Higher Education allegedly violated RA 700,000 pesos when he accepted what should be the duty of KWF to make the policies of language more.
August 2014 when KWF can release a resolution that supports the call of Tanggol to bring the nine units of supporters in the new resolution of the National Committee on Liscano, last June 2014, it is early to KWF.
In relation to this, Cutud, 20 are allegedly being endorsed by Cutud, 20 in relation to the advancement of patriotic and Filipino culture that is stated in the law.
Many groups of teachers are worried about the construction of the Filipino language in college that will give danger to the work of 78,000 teachers in the country.
However, Tanggol said that more than this will be lost from the Filipino people.
For the foreigners.
In San Juan's opinion, they will not serve the system of education in a long-lasting need of the country, just like the content of Cutud, 20, despite this, the purpose of the said memorandum to address the young strength and ability to address the low and ability to fix the company of foreign contacts.

"That's why it came to a point that we'll take it a point, her French, Spanish, and English to the curriculum but we are saying that this is an example in the programs of the government that will be released by many people for exports," said San Juan.
This is also the posture of the League of Filipino Students (LFS), the organization of the Jemaah Islamiyah.
For LFS, it is clear that the program K-12 will be clear in the construction of the filipino masses, it is said to have been subservient by the government of the Philippines with what the foreigners who are planning to control the economy of the powerful country.
"It is not as if they are separated when they are separated, but these policies are being done so that the country's system can be harvested or Labor to exported in the country," according to Banez.
The system of education is said to be raised to serve as the current trait of the economy, who imported and exported while this kind of economy is always in need of their usual strength, according to LFS.
San Juan also said that this kind of action of capitalists have said in a critical condition that the government will follow the minds of the citizens in history, identity or identities of the Filipinos in order to become the interest of the foreigners.

"Their goal is to make the youth do not have love for their own country, even if they are just following the traits that the huge corporation is needed to fight, they have to fight against the continuous decrease in the wage increase, but according to Charismatic," according to Charishment.
For LFS, the system of economy is not separated from the system of education and for a few of the economy, as well as the rules of the government.
The challenge to the citizens to protect the Filipino language in spite of the attacks against it by the government and Commission on Higher Education, which should have been defending the filipino language, according to Tanggol said.
"As long as the government is a puppy of the foreigner, it is really not going to make the steps in order to become patriotic and to have a system of education while serving the country, aside from the petition that we have filed in the Supreme Court," the end of Banez.
