Bianca Dava is dead from the allegation that is flirty, Allan DIJ-September 25, 2016.
Bianca Dava's social media that is why he is experiencing bashing them and to be criticized by the collector of the university that he is renting.
He called him being flirty and worried about this and like that, but it does not care if she does not pay attention to her bashers, but he can read all the things to him.
He knows that these only want to be noticed by them, that's why he did not pay attention to Bianca who wants to be a witness of GMA in the remake of GMA in the remake of GMA.
According to him / her mother an award, that's why he handed it for myself if Miguel would be the Aguiluz.
"His story is very entertained because of the Halloween of their village, he really wants to become a mother.
Unfortunately, his mom is already out of the stock since she became Ravena who became the antagonist.
He was only around 5 or 6 years old, so he laughed when he remembered it.
This afternoon is the start of the intensive talk of real Dr. Love, after GMA BPAT.
Maybe the real love "is not yet true, but the Pretty Boy, Bianca Umali can say that there is a love between them by a Meking in partner, Miguel Potol.
According to Bianca, because of the excessive depth of their relationship with Miguel, she is a love of her as a friend, you will have a love with a friend or a good companion and co-worker.
Miguel and 18 years old, and 18 years old, were not yet arrested because they do not want to rush.
They are monitoring their priorities because they know they will come and it will come to them.
Daylusan also shared to us from the Scud of the new show of Biao Guda, in a new show in real Love, for now he does not want to get married.
Beside Guy, she thinks like Miguel, who has been an acquaintance of Kerry to wait when they will become more.
Just, he has not yet given a suitor since he is still young.
She does not want to tell us about the baptism of the young lady with her gift at the 18th of San Pablo in Wednesday.
It was a secret because he was not able to give the birthday boy to just wait for it in social media when Miguel posted it.
Jose RL is the love of Miguel for you to have not been hit by the actor JawRoberto, as a prudent forehead, Bianca Dava.
The real behavior is that the young lady was not able to go home with a person who has an enemy. Acevade, she has been tainted with his answer to us that he is not showbiz.
