Let's take care of Carla.

I do not want to put the situation of Department of Budget Secretary Butch Abad's situation now.
He was like a child who was caught in the act, "the type who was able to fall in the hand, cookies.
After the Supreme Court (SC) declared that the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) was being pushed by the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), it is trying to believe that the public wants to believe that the program is said to be defeated by President Aquino.
Abad is pointing at the senators who allegedly benefited from P149-billion funds, blaming how much was done by this and like that.
Many senators have said that the amount that they received is just a part of the imagination of the secretary that is part of them, former Senator Joker Arroyo, who has been proud of any other pork barrel in his whole time in the Senate.
The proof that the senators received millions of pesos from DAP was what the senators say depends on the Budget Secretary.
There is always a record for the details of the funds released by the government, and DBM who should be careful with the record.
The orders of the Malacañang was repeating the decision of the SC, who was said to have gave DBM the benefit of the country, he insisted that the department is not bad intentions.
Well said good thing but it is possible that the DBM of Abad has two sides, and it is possible that all he did, in relation to the DAP, is related to a bad plan, including the removal of one Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, which is considered as an enemy of the Aquino administration.
That DAP was created by some senator-judge in the midst of the impeachment trial of before, Chief Justice Renato Corona who is very suspicious.
After the declaration of the SC, the plea to resign from his position or President Aquino will be impeached, but the plea to leave Butch Abad from his position is worse.
Let us admit it or not, it is not enough that the public's opinion is also important to him by the public and believe that many Filipinos, Butch Abad, is also important that he is accused of all the things he is doing.
Aside from what is true, Abad believes that he cannot handle the Aquino administration, only one thing he needs to do is only one thing, and that is what he should stop guiding the blame for who and voluntarily leave his service to the government.
It is more preferable if he will drop the kites in his province in Batanes. "An accident will be led by the wind now there for the west-asa.
There is an old saying about the finger which is perfect in the situation of Butch Abad's situation, but you can ask one of your fingers to one direction, but three of your own fingers are directly called to you.

If in the right way, the hundreds of PNoy are leading is dangerous now that there are many Filipinos who threat to the Supreme Court, with the government, his statement on television last Monday, when he will question the decision of the SC in DAP.
The resignation of threats and acceptance of the Palace to appeal the said decision is clear that it is clear to the SC's bullying of the SC for him to reverse what has been done to the 14 magistrates, including his allies, who are better than the law of the law.

I agree with Parañaque congressman Gus Tambunting also agree to this reaction when PNoy did not accept what Abad made.
"IT's Office (Aquino), to be a member of the funeral parlor," Daang Matuwid "

Firing line / Robert Roque, Junior.
