Order: De Lima and Lacson are out.
By Fortun, August 22, 2016 if Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson is being asked, the Senate cannot investigate the accusations being thrown at Senator Leila de Lima because the Senate has jurisdiction over the cases of conduct of a senator while he is a member of the high assembly.
And because of the said crime "by de Lima, what happened when he was still the secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ), and when he was still running for senator under the Liberal Party (LP), the Senate has no right to investigate de Lima.
"On the side of the Senate, Senator De Lima was a member of the Senate, and not in the jurisdiction of the Ethics Committee" that's what the senator did while he was elected as senator, "Lacson explained.

Lacson also added that the Senate can't do anything when we can advise Senator De Lima to defend himself that is in line with his post. "
The view of Lacson is right in the said issue because of the separation of powers by the three Co-Equal Employment Opportunity of government - the executive leader, Lolo Indo and judiciary.
It is obvious that Lacson's view is only funny and there is no movement of personal attacks especially since it is said that Lacson also hit De Lima when he was dismissed by Court of Appeals (CA), his case in Dacer-Corbito murder case.
Whatever is what de Lima is going through right now, Lacson also went through when she was just as a senator last 2001 where he was trying to be involved in illegal drugs by judge Roseang, and Adamnesty.
The crisis experienced by Lacson was worse in 2001 because the senators of the former President and now Pampanga Rep.

Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo using the Senate Committee on public order the illegal drugs that was headed by former Senator Robert Barbers.
If we will use Lacson's view on the crisis being faced by de Lima, the Senate should not be investigated by Lacson because the allegations on him are still the chief of the Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Task Force (PAOCTF) that should be outside the Senate.
But because it was just finished in EDSA 2, who took away from the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada, GMA did not control the Senate and no matter what he investigated to his senators, he can easily do it.

The only difference in the crisis that Lacson passed by is that GMA did not directly fight him but use a sound in the character of General.

Victor Corpuz, the National Police Office of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (ISAFP), who gave protection to the boasts in the witness, like Roseang, and AdMilan.
That is why de Lima is still lucky because there are still a lot of senators who supported him and even some of the Women's group, and the bishop about the side of the former DOJ Secretary.
Lacson has become more intense because it led to his hiding place in another country in the midst of the warrant of arrest of a Makati Regional Trial Court (RTC) judge for a non-elected case.
But because Lacson is innocent, he has returned to the Senate and became a member of the cabinet of former President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III in spite of having a conflict with de Lima.
The question now is if de Lima doesn't know!
