The family of Laude is a group of Gabriela who came near the UPele.

Women who are women from Gabriela and other sweetened bosity are linked, together with the relatives of Jennifer Laude, to give the subpoena against US Petty Officer Scott Pemberton who was suspected to kill Laude.
But they failed to reach the ship because of the barbells that was placed around him with a barbed which was placed under the personnel of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
"We want to see Pemberton personally in order to prove that he is still there inside the boat, we also want to give him the case in killing her sibling," said Marilou Laude, brother of Jennifer.
The mother of Laude, Jularta, said that it seems that the people from the SBMA seem to be protected from the Americans because of the scratches.
"It turns out that they are hiding and I will not allow him to face what he did here in the Philippines," Jularta, "we are now our rights."

The relatives also asked for President Aquino to take action on the case so that what happened to their relatives will not happen again.
But Deputy Presidential spokesperson Abigail Valte said that it is said that a separate issue will be achieved by justice and the issue of Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), those who are supporting the victim are said to have been sold by those who are going to use the VFA.
This is also the view of the mayor of the Olongapo City Mayor Rolen Unido who said that the VFA should not be guarded because the livelihood of those from Olongapo in the agreement depends on the agreement.
"The VFA should not be dumped twice, then look after being dumped twice in there," Rolen, regarding the protesters.
He said, the agreement is just needed to amend the agreement that the Americans will anchor in the local economy of Olongapo and it is said that prostitution is not widespread in their area.
But Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman said this is the connection of the arrival of the American troops and spread of prostitution and abuse of women.
"There is a big help from them on the day that will be held here (Usahay, Pele), they are able to pay attention to us by the toll fee," Untalan said.
But for the group Gabriela, it is not an equivalent to prostitution in the rest of the American troops that every time they are conducting a training or it cannot anchor in any place in the Philippines, Gabriela Women's Association of the country, which depends on the agreement of the United States and the Philippines, is still different.
"It is sad that they are saying that the livelihood here is the industry of entertainment that will not be productive and it could not take longer," he said, he still serving the rights of women and bring them to violence.

Daylusan also insisted that they are not able to support the sex scene in the place, "it is not true that there is a wife who has sex with it, no matter where there is prostitution, right?," he said.
But it is still the plea by the group Gabriela to dismiss the VFA between the VFA and Enhanced Defense Cooperation (EDCA), the American troops are saying that even if the American troops are involved, they will just release the VFA that is being supported by the EDCA, "he said.
The task to face the court for the custody of Pemberton was on October 21.
