The new law is timely.
By Fortun, August 2, 2016, President Noynoy Aquino has not signed the Republic Act 10883 or more than the call "New Anti-Carnapping Law of the Philippines" before he went down to Malacañang, which is why he became an effective law, according to the appointed Constitution.
Senator Grace Poe is the principal of RA 10883, owned by RA 6539 or the Anti-Kidnapping Group of 1972.
And with the increase of punishment for the carnapping and the non-bailable case, unlike under the old law that vehicles can to kill if the drivers of the vehicle they stole.

"Fight IT led by the Comprehensive anti-carnapping law, which can be held by the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, which can be held by the commission of the Commission on Towerville," Poe explained that the former chairman of the Senate committee on public order is the former chairman of the Senate committee on public order.
The implementation of RA 10883 is timely because there is a heavy punishment for the thieves especially if they use violence and promised to be done to 40 years of imprisonment while the punishment or rape to the passengers will be forever.
Under the former declaration of Martial Law under Martial Law, along with the carnapping and heinous crimes that have a death penalty through the lethal injection.
They are going to be afraid that the accomplices of the syndicates are going to be afraid of the carnapping parts of the vehicle which are being sold in areas like Banawe, Quezon City and in Bangkal in Makati, waiting for them to be a 6-12-year imprisonment and payment of damage to the vehicle, machine or part which can be made into their breaths.
Even the public officials involved in the carnapping were facing the "dismissal of public service" at Perpetual will be a public office, "if proven by the court, they are guilty.
It can be considered that a new provisions in the law of Senator Poe is what the syndicates have been doing for a long time in buying the total number of vehicles and use of stolen vehicles to transfer to the stolen vehicles in order to be legal.
The Land Transportation Office (LTO) is going to have a new law to have a "interruptible load of motorcycle vehicles, motorcycle vehicles, which can be exiled by the top of the two motorcycles as well as the Pad of the pork barrel.
It has been said that the LTO has done this for a long time but it is not unknown to the anti-carnapping incidents of the Philippine National Police (PNP) that the kidnappers are accomplices in the LTO, which is why they can easily deny the stolen vehicles.
It is expected that the PNP-Highway Patrol Group is expected to be defeated by the PNP-Highway Patrol Group against drug syndicates that are usually used in illegal activities like kidnapping, bank robbery and drug lords.
