Fight a video and pro-fi is the Holy Week July 19, 2016.
In the middle of the raging war against illegal drugs, there is a looming propaganda in the form of video and photo against President Rodrigo Duterte and the number one critics of Senator Leila de Lima.
The video karera against de Lima started last weekend when he was released on social media what was said to be his birthday at the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP) for suspected drug lords in the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP) by suspected drug lords in the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP).
The office of Senator De Lima immediately put out the office of Senator De Lima to clarify that the said party of Justice (DOJ) last August 2015 and what was said to be seen in the city of Justice (DOJ) was impossible because he was not able to see that kind of birthday in the NBP, and it was impossible that the NBP is impossible in the NBP.
"In the viral video of Senator De Lima, she could avoid being hit by the PHer, birthday party, and the DOJ-Station. 2015.
The anti-Duterte immediately retaliated back and released on social media the alleged photo of President Rody and said drug lord, Peter Lim, who were both godfather to the wedding of supporters of Duterte in Cebu, Fernando Borja.
Bordado was the owner of the Adosto Group of Cometies in Cebu and the long-time friend of Duterte, and it's likely that he visited the president last Friday at the office of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) in Davao City.
Just this past June 25, Duterte and Peter Lim were together with their godfather and godmothers of the wedding in Sigua, La Mactan, Cavite, and his wife, Senator Cynthia Villar, and his wife, former senator Manny Villar.
The truth is, Duterte should not explain if he became his friend, Peter Lim because he is not the one who chose him to be an expert in the wedding but the father of the married woman named Beatriz Street, who is the only child of Fernando.
This is also the situation of Senator Tito Sotto's situation in 1996 when he became a friend of the drug Lord, Alfredo Tiago, who was also said to be a photo of the senator that published the Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news.
Because of the scandal of Tiempo, Sotto's plan to run as vice president of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was derailed in 1998 elections where Vice President Joseph "Erap" Estrada won.
I just do not know if Peter Lim's friends have an effect with Duterte especially that the President has the campaign to finish the problem of illegal drugs within the first six months of his term.
