
Further widen and strengthen the revolutionary movement of the farmers and youth!

Consult a mother, Ka Iza "Bonifacio.
Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan, Laguna.
October 16, 2014.

The youth Nationalist Alliance (80) is one of the widespread actions of the citizens in the occasion of Sunday at Magbufarm, together with this, we welcome and celebrate the 150-year anniversary of the youth as the real hope of our country.

Aside from the inheritance of the future, the youth cannot continue the revolution. According to a great Mao, the youth cannot go through the huge masses of the farmers and workers and they are being done to that you will borrow. "
From November 30, 1964, the kilometers in the ranks of the farmers, fishermen, workers, jewelry, exit of the United States (US), students who get rid of the United States (US), P222,278 people continue to cross the rehabilitation of the movement of the movement of the masses.

We congratulate the Filipino farmers and youth for the success they are implementing in the advancement of a democratic country.
Noynoy Aquino: Plague to the farmers and youth.
Here in Laguna, almost one million is estimated to be the number of youth at 15 to 34 years.

Their burden is the severe loss of land, work, additional salary, housing, education and health in the middle of the continuous increase in price of goods and services, they are also victims of evil spirits which are patriotic and abused, rape, kidnapping and murder.

There was no more than a number of days for President, Aquino, the farmers who were opposing with the version of 560-hectares of land in Pagulangan in Canlubang, Calamba, with the leadership of Sitio Yhead-Ayala.

Aside from those who are against the citizens of the US, Aquino is in various ways of the US when he signed the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to sign the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to sign the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), plan to make the US's goal for the national freedom and democracy.

While Aquino was not held accountable and his followers in stealing the billions of funds of pork barrel and Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), millions of families have been living in a low price of pesos every day, and more than more than a billion pesos per day.

Lie down.
Instead of cleaning the fear, especially the struggle of the Filipino farmers and youth, in the main country, taunting and mistreatment of the Philippine National Police (BHB), which is the opposite of the successful armed offensive of the Botchok (BHB), which is the opposite of the controversial armed offensive of the BHB) in spite of the onslaught of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (Bastes.

Their desire to serve the citizens, is very healthy in the quality of propaganda, education, culture, widening and protected from the armed fight to continue the torch of the revolution and increase the level of Filipino countries going to success.
Farmers and youth, join the true armed forces of the people, it is the Botchok!
Push the revolutionary solution!
Bring the Marcos dictatorship!
Long live the kilometers and revolution solution!
