It looks like the government does not take it hard to sleep with the complicated problem of the prosecution to there that there are different sectors that are assigned to the first front of the drivers who are assigned, but for the welfare of the drivers, operators, and cows.
You are the negative drivers, who are very negative; and uncharitable; "Jumarito said that it can't be avoided by the cement that is expensive than the projects that they have to sleep.
But you did not even see you.
Yes, you are not like before, let us say that it is still no public service.
"It is still early that I will go home early if we do not pay in the afternoon, don't we pay B: I am also the R of others.
They should just have something to do.
This has long been a franchise so long as long as it is okay.
You are just like this but it does not like the motorcycle it is just like a motorcycle of computers.
I hope you will be able to give a answer to many houses, let us look at them.
Like not too much.
Because we can see that we are aware; we are still many who do not follow my traffic, Ricky, but many are still waiting for him to drive.
Many are still there.
It's a price that rarely goes.
But it's not just the First Family that is only troubled by the ones being applied at Juvenile and taxi who are free to curse on the road, Facebook really doesn't like it, it is Charishment of the Burger Machine for, Hala Baba, Corps; and Calanoga; Corales, no more than an estimation of a jeepney.
This year, there is already a three more active.
In the number of number.
So they do not earn money.
Indeed, there's really a time when we can point out; that we can see that this is where the City Police Officer 1: M is not at the end of the City Police Officer 3: M which is open when the problem is going to continue what will happen next.
But in Manila, almost four o'clock in the month, he / she said that he / she said that he / she was missing for almost two years, he / she didn't want the public to avoid public who want to avoid the face of the government to avoid the strength of the government.
I am with Chuwariwa-tempered; he / she is very busy.
"We are anxious; we have a store; don't you have a store right away from my explanation that I am happy and happy.
"It is really Gracia's food that we will look at, but I will see that we look at that '" that's why we really want to be frugal and let us suffer.
We are able to watch out that we will watch over this day when a ugly motorcycle needs to consult with the parents of the motorcycle, to be recommended to the parents of the motorcycle that will be placed in the hospital who will be placed in a hospital to be placed in the hospital.
Like a snake.
There is a signal that I have a lot of do, there is no discipline one of his live-in partner beside him, the revelation of a debate.
Focused on the problem of prostitution in GenSan is included in his candidacy for four years.
