Editorously!
On September 13, 2016, it is embarrassing to intrude and invent information just because of his personal "loyalty" to a former President.
The generation of Martial Law could not be erased from the Martial Law so that this lies!
In expressing the right details and events that have been done in history, it is not perfect for a dead, but the facilities in the country, even if they understand that what happened and the events in the history of the country is not right to raise the broken image.
Make it a personal defense and it will not be forgiven by anyone but if the education system will be used, and even the official government journal to expose some information regarding the late dictator, it is not acceptable.
It is wrong to say that the late President Marcos voluntarily went down to avoid bloodshed in order to protect the people for the very first EDSA People Power Plant.
The truth is, he knocked by the People Power Line, he voluntarily went down because until the end statement he stated in Malacañang, he has no intention to leave power.
Even though it is true that President Marcos's reason was true when Martial Law was declared, there were data before and there were interviews in the officials of the military who say that it is not true that the situation is out of control. "
It is said that the armed rebels are able to eradicate the left rebels and do not need Martial Law.
Why is there a need to take care of the public?

Morality and integrity, should be act and firm in truth.

You should accept mistakes, even if the support and support for a leader is high.
It's time to stick his eyes to the things you see, hear and made more mistakes just because of the desire and admiration for a person, this is where a lot of problems in a society may cause.
It is time to prove that the filipino people will prove that we are not our race. "

We are not fans who have no own mind and are worshiping all what they are doing, saying and decision of our idol.
We should be blamed for the people who should serve us and not the opposite.
In the issue of articles last September 11, the question: What will be done to those who are behind the strict articles for President Marcos?
