The Binay family should stop!

According to Vladimir Lent, "a lie that's being considered to be the truth to a liar, the thing she knows is true to a liar but she is repeatedly saying anything.
There is no difference from the Binay family, like a broken plate, repeatedly saying that politics is behind the issues of corruption against their clan.
Even if they know that this is lies, the Binay family is using these products in order to cover the minds of the citizens that they are innocent in order to connect their positions like making decisions.
That is the style of the confession of Hitler in Germany that is why the good Filipinos should be afraid of how big danger in the country will be afraid if the Binay loses the Palace.
After all, the Makati City Mayor Junjun Binay will have no space in the imposed decision of the Ombudsman because according to Section 13 (3) and (4) of Republic Act 6770, the suspension of the Ombudsman is "Manduites."
It can't be put off its implementation because the transfer of the Ombudsman is being removed from the power of any agency to violate the implementation of his directive.
It means that, in the moment that the Ombudsman released the dismissal of suspension order, they are going to spend more effective even if it is not to serve the agency that he ordered, like DILG, in the case of Junjun.
In the case of the Office of the Ombudsman vs. Supreme Court of Appeals, the Supreme Court held the power of the anti-graft body to suspend the employees of the government, Santos.
However, it took six-years before the Supreme Court was captured by the Supreme Court of Appeals and Santos.
Binay knows that the cases in the judiciary are like that, therefore, they are brave to go against the laws.
Binay should not be elected for the Palace?
A Catholic priest himself, Father Ed Gariguez, earlier warned that it is scary and dangerous to put Vice President Jejomar Binay in exchange for President Benigno Aquino III.
Gariguez and according to Manila Electric Suppliers (Bishop Broacadillo, Binay was able to step down when the Senate will reveal the corruption that he involved in Makati City.
Gariguez directly said that Binay's explanation is an indication and this is a sign or just think that the president of the Philippines is easier to talk.
If the priest failed to deny the combination of Binay that he only kills politics so he was charged, more strong evidence that he is lying because before he became mayor of Makati City is only renting an apartment, no business and no properties.
Now it reaches up to billion pesos in his wealth if you will release all his properties, where did he get it?
Just in a simple temple, who will believe that they are not stole?
Binay became more opportunities for being human rights to enter politics.
But we do not understand why in spite of defending the human rights during the time of Marcos, one of them was killed by the trusted personnel of Binay.
In 2006, Lito Gudelosao's former chief of Makati City Business Permits, Licensing Office, former security chief and political agenda of Binay, were killed.
Hunters were also killed in Albay on 2012, former Makati City Engineer Nelson Morales said that it was possible for them to be evicted from the "bag" which was assigned to the Binay.
Baltazar was saved last March 2010, Gerry Limlingan, senior adviser, the campaign manager, a bagman of Binay in some businesses, but now he was not found.
Limlingan still has not surfaced until now, despite the information that his company cornered his company, P1.3-B contract, and security Services Program in Makati City Hall from 2010 up to 2014.
