Mother Ignacia were able to give 113 million pesos to Mowelfund.
Due to the happiness of Mother Ignacia were extremely happy, she started to celebrate his 764 birthday last Friday night, he was given a gratitude for the recognition and acquaintance given to her.
One million pesos to Mowelfund after the tear of the Pad of Appointments is for all the help of Mother lily and participation of Regal Films in the progress of the local movie industry.
Tramiable and President of Mowelfund in order to have dialing the movies made by Regal Films.
Aside from the Mowelfund, the Supreme Court also gave an award and SPEED teachers also gave birth and was also given attention by Mother of donned 100,000 pesos.
Mother is offered by Ron Gagalac's celebration and he also mentioned that he will have a new check for the movie press where it is as if she has been treated as a hero.
He / she will take away wifi so that the reporters can also use the place where they are fond of going to fight.
Full of Valencia Events Place in the volume of guests who want to greet Mother lily.
Even if she was about to go to Saint Scholastica's College, the happiness of Mother lily was very happy.
There are some politicians who arrived, but we just noticed that the former Secretary Mar Roxas or even the owner of Mother Sanchez, who supported by Mother Ignacia in the past Presidential elections, is not there.
Senator Grace Poe arrived with her mother Susan Roces.
Santa Camping, aunt lily Montecy, in his 75th party party in Friday at 38 Valencia Events Place.
This is the appearance of Christmas in August because Regal matriarch was given to his birthday.
It is too much love between Regalmonds because of the appreciation of them to the years of the New Year.
With the number of visitors of Mother, the people inside and outside the Valencia.
Senator Grace Poe-LRP) has arrived early with his mother Miss Susan Roces.
The supported Presidential candidate of Mother? "In the past election is Mar Roxas, even his wife Korina Sanchez-Roxas.
Among those who approached and joined in Madamba Dulay, Lorna Tolentino, Christopher de Leon, Eddie Gutierrez, Christopher de Leon, Anabelle Rama, Janella Salvador, Janella Salvador, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio, Derrick Monasterio
Eating and drinks are flooded if you are not able to save money and the amount of thank you.
There are those who sing and worked for my birthday Girl that you are very happy in that night. "
"With the end of the band, it is impossible that the mother-mother Mother lily and Roselle Montecrated to get up in a short floor for a short floor!
In the taste of the conversation, we reached 4: 00 million by Ali Sotto, Tita Malou Fhar, Director Mac Alejandola, Rommel Gonzales and Anna Pingol.
When we left Mother, he was still able to build a cauldron, because he gave a tip that the many waiters have given a tip to be the one who is ordinary with his mission.
