Frankly said yes, Duterte sent the explosives placed on illegal drugs.
By Ellen Toribio, August 8, 2016.
President Rodrigo Duterte is really mad at the criticisms against him because of the killings connected to illegal drugs.
It was dawn (1: 30) last Sunday, while he went to Camp Panunzulan, Davao City for the deceased soldiers to fight for the New People's Army (NPA) in Compostela Valley, he read the list of politicians, judge, police and members of the military who were involved in pushing illegal drugs.
"That is said to have been the list of" that's why he admitted his responsibility to the public service of his names. "I was the one holding the responsibility here," he said.
He ordered those in the list to report to the nearest authorities within 24 hours for the judge, he said to report to the Supreme Court (SC).
This is a few names.
Mayors in Luzon.
Reynaldo Flores, Naig, La Union; Dante Garcia, Tubao, La Union; Martin de Guzman, Bauang, La Union; Marjorie de Guzman, poison, Cagayan; Gatid, San Rafael, Bulacan.
Karim, Mabalaca, Pampanga; Felix Castillo, Langaban, Abra.
Former mayor!

EpiPen, Derna, Agoo, La Union; Jesus Street, Bolinao, Pangasinan; Jose "Pepe, Miranda, Santiago City, Isabela; Vicente were wounded, San Pablo City, Laguna; Ryan Dolor, Bauan, Batangas.
The former mayor of El Nido, Palawan was Edgardo Trinidad.
In Visayas:
Current mayor!
Alex Sambil, Iloilo; Julius Ronald Pacu Yador, Hamiguitan, Antique; Jed Taberna's river, Iloilo City; Wilfredo Espanol, Carine, Iloilo.
Marcelo Malones, Maasin, Iloilo; Hector Ong, Northern Samar; Rolando Espinosa, Albuera, Leyte; Virginia Cangque, Basil, Negros Oriental, Negros Oriental.
Former mayor!
Michael Rama, Cebu City and Madeleine Ong, Laoang Northern Samar.
Judge!
Judge Mecy of Dasmariñas, Cavite; Judge Reyes, Baguio City; Judge Luisito ilo, RTC Branch 13, Iloilo City.
Judge Casiple, Kalibo, Aklan; Judge Rene Gonzales, MTC), Judge Natividad, RTC Calbayog City; Judge EZumballoween.
There are also members of the police and the military.
