Are you stars here: Education and Science.
By Bam Aquino on August 11, 2016 are the protagonist right, in the start of the 17th Congress, the two victims of the Senate - Education and Science and Technology are greatly trust in us.
From the monitoring of the welfare of our pambansang ro or youth on the 16th Congress, issues regarding education, Science and technology is what we will focus on next three years.
Even before the Committee on Education were formally given to us, we have filed four proposed laws related to education because the Senate team Number 177 or the entry of Higher Education for all of free education will be given free education in state Universities and Colleges in the whole country.
This proposal is in accordance with the Saligang Batas of the government to support the rights of the citizens to provide quality education in all levels.
It is alarming news from the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Audit) that two of the five high school students, or 40 percent, are not able to go to college because of the high level of oil and other expenses.
Many of those who were able to finish the High School need to buy if will work hard to help the family or to study other siblings in college.
That is regretful if a student will not be able to go to college because of poverty.
Hopefully this will give them a chance to rise from poverty in poverty of their family.

When the proposal passed, there are more filipino youth, especially the poor, will be able to reach college.
He / she was wearing.
I have filed the free education for the Children of Public School, House Bill or the Senate Bill 7173, aims to give a scholarship for the children of public schools for all of SUCs from the country.
In this proposal, the teachers will give its subsidy or help to answer 100 percent of the toll fee and other bills of chemotherapy.
The children of public school students are just needed to pass the qualifications of the proposition to give free education in SUCs.
This proposal aims to lessen the burden of our public school students, who have great support, like big salary, just to give education to our poor countrymen.
He / she was wearing.
There was also submitted by Sato Bill 32170 or the Trujillo Center (Nuyo Center which will be brought to Senior High School which will be able to work in order to find someone who will want to work.
Under this, the schools will build the schools in order to help Senior High School which is under the K to 12 program that does not want to go to college and want to work in other countries, the Trucking centers.
Focus on the Trujillo Center on the three main things - the career or career is dependent on your main thing in terms of important element they can find work.
Let's remember that the Senior High School will be given a certification from TESDA.
He / she was wearing.
I have also filed Senate Bill 7172 or the best players that will respond to the needs of Filipino youth with age of seven to 24 who are not studying this will create a program that will give education to every Filipino, especially the out of the school Youth (OSalas).
With the help of Delphan, which was implemented by the previous administration, almost half has been reduced to the number of youth who were not studying.
If we bring this to this, I am hoping that the number of Ocud in the country will lessen.
He / she was wearing.
Even if we changed, we still don't forget our other advocacy, just like the advancement of the welfare of MSinai and other problems of the country.
Expect that our diligent work will not change for the common Filipinos.
