
"The business that they are doing is a good business," the lives of the youth again.

By Priscilla Pamintuan and Darius Valdez.
March 5, 2015.

It was found out that according to NUJP after being heard of the fate of one another scholar of the Bayan, Rosanna Roces.
The 16-year-old Rosanna Roces cannot be considered as the last victim for winning to education.
This was said by the different groups of the youth after failing to take his own life last February 25, after he gave a text message to his brother, who was not able to pay the bills from Cagayan State University (Cutud) in Angeles City, Cagayan, which was why he didn't get a nap and examination.
"
Condolences!
Sympathized with the group National Union of Students of the Philippines (EPD), League of Filipino Worker (LFS) and Anakbayan, relatives and loved ones of Rosanna Roces.
"He was killed by the policy of Aquino in education that the youth put in a miserable situation causing many of them to kill many of them to take his own life," it was Charishment, national spokesperson of LFS.
While the administration of Cutud, a state university, said that he is not collecting the tuition in 2009, according to NUJP, it was found out that the P2,000 will give up to P4,000 pesos to P4,000 or medical school (OPLAN).
It has long been denied of the campaign of NUJP, LFS, Anakbayan, and other groups of youth on the Aquino administration and Commission on Higher Education, that the price hike for tuition and OSF should slowly rise in public and even private university and college.
"It is said that the Cousins will show up what the government lacks for the education of the government for education that the employees of the school can make up, aside from having a rotten facilities, and price increase of Sarah Jane El,, chairman of NUJP.
It was also found out by Bombo Radyo that the Cousins will allegedly study the payment for the tuition in its students.
Meanwhile, a resident of Appeals denied to pay attention to the relatives of Rosanna Roces' first news that the administration of Cutud, family members also denied the first news.
"(S) - February 25, 2015, he / she was a single Cahis was a single Cutud,"
The sister of Rosanna Roces also said to him that there was no official or representative of Cimetidine to 10: 04 at night, when Paciano called him.
Blood on the hands of Aquino.
"He added that it takes blood in the hands of Aquino.
Kamias Manangan, spokesperson of Gabriela-Youth, said that Aquino cannot deny that what happened to the people like Rosanna Roces cannot be denied.
"Until Aquino continues to implement the policy such as Roadversary, Public Higher Education (which aims to remove the support of the state of public schools and college), the country will not have no trace of Rosanna Roces (Tetuan).
The students in the university of the Philippines-Manila are narrow-mindedness of their own lives last March 13, 2013 because it is said that they cannot pay the tuition fee.
It has been almost eight years after the committed suicide by Marianita Amper, 12, students in Davao City, due to poverty and depression.
The taking of Rosanna Roces in his own life has happened a few days before the international day of women Alum and sweat on March 8, when Gabriela would lead to the resignation of President Aquino due to different sins.
"The death of Rosanna Roces' death is just showing what is being pushed by the education of education in the country, he is pushing the students to throw their dreams, even their lives," added that Femie Galano, the second chairman of NUJP, Cagayan Valley.
Aside from the participation of the protest on March 8, the group of youth were calling for an investigation in front of the Commission on Higher Education on March 6.
The group of youth will also be remembered on March 13, which is the anniversary of the death of crystal meth, as "National Day of Walker and OPLAN School.
