
It was made up by the Palace for the people.

It is a good thing that the Malacañang gets thrown away because they thought of stopping the possible increase in price of rice in spite of the increase in price of rice and others.
However, the group's group should think that this rice is what Filipinos have been used to because of their hungry stomachs along with the viand of becoming dried or meat.
The Palace said that there will be no change in the price of our mother in the market because of the conversation between the Department of Trade and Industry (WBC) that can't be talked to by the DTI (RES) to lower the price of their products?
The people were amazed by the advisers of President Benigno Aquino III if they can advise their employer to make a step to step down the price of rice and not the remaining rice cakes in a low value.
Probably because they will not just rot on this rice because it will be made an evidence against the owner of the tons of rice which worth millions of pesos.
President Aquino will make it up to the people if he will command the flow of rice cakes in a low amount of price that can be able to buy kilo of kilos for their families.
But when the rice are going to shop in the boasts in order not to open the owners and to lessen, the people have no change in the price of rice although there are many and cannot be said that there is lack of supply.
Anyway, this case is not surprising if the case will be neglected against the syndicate or businessman of rice that kidnapped by NFA rice to commercial drivers because the "Daang Matuwid" is fake.
The businessmen who are not their allies will be charged with a case, but what is on their side is for sure that the case will not go forward, especially if it can be filed against the Department of Justice (DOJ) because it can be filed in the Department of Justice (DOJ) because it can be filed with Secretary Leila de Lima of the palace.
Wait a sec, why is it that Secretary de Lima is silent about the issue of Disbursement Acceleration Program? "In good faith" those involved here, especially PNoy and Budget Sec. Butch Abad?
They should remember that "the end of the end of the burial of the vice-government of the city of the Philippines), because of the stolen income given by Robin Hood for the poor, he is still not safe that the thief would not be punished and punished.
