Youth, join Filipino people!

Editorial Department.
The country.
November 21, 2014.

The whole Filipino people will celebrate the 120th anniversary of the filipino youth, especially the Filipino workers and farmers, the big role of kilometers per year in pushing a democratic revolution.
We welcome all the youth who offered their lives in pushing the national competition in different parts of the struggle, especially in the field of armed fight, especially in the field of the armed fight for the national revolution for the entire country which was headed by Andres Bonifacio.
These past four and a half decades of pushing for a long time country, the youth Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan, who served as an extensive well of the new Pizarro and Commander of Bagong Hala Bayan and members of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.

Because they continue to investigate the Black Nazarene, the Liberal and BHB) always remains healthy and have no fear of hiding heavy duty in pushing the revolution.

The Filipino people have a big gratitude for its big contribution to the past half century in pushing their national issues and training of the youth on the advancement of the masses and training of the filipino masses, to form a democratic fight and advancement of the armed fight.

Liberal and youth Nationalist Alliance are aware of the primary problems and activities that the Filipino youth are facing the worsening crisis which is currently being experienced by the millions of Filipino workers, farmers and abusive.

Just this past decades, the number of youth who were not able to study because of the worsening tuition fee, different bills and expenses in school continued to increase the role of huge tuition, different bills and expenses in school.

Along with what happened to happen to this is the intensity of the domination of the development being implemented by neighboring schools, basic needs of the school, the restriction of the students and other rights which are focused on the implementation of the students on the regulations which are focused in accumulating people.

In fulfilling the program K-12, education in the Philippines will be more focused on the training of the young armed forces of those who have no livelihood, it depends on the local officials who have no livelihood, especially the youth who are applying to "call center and cruel condition in work.

As a partner of the Liberal, it's as a partner of the Liberal, the youth and members of the filipino youth in college and open to their own problems in college and open, they will be given a solution to the Saligang Batas of the filipino people, they are given proper education for the progress of Filipinos.

Through hundreds of kilometers, the pro-workers continue to keep the crack on the ranks of the youth and students to move them in the advancement of our youth and the citizens in the community, factories and offices.

There is an ongoing condition for the pouring movement of the youth and students that do not have a python, not tired and will be able to capture them anymore and join them under democratic welfare and join the democratic country.

A new historical gathering of youth on the streets and the countryside is going to be a connection with the advancement of long-lasting country towards the next chapter of the youth from the funeral parlor in Bagong Hay Bayan, a big contribution of the armed fight for the countryside.

It will be taken away by the successful offensive by the BHB) for the government to give inspiration to the youth and the citizens in the other side, the ordinary masses to give enthusiasm to the constricted streets in the streets.

The continuous progress of the new generation of filipino youth, which is why the Liberal Party of the Philippines is always lively, not only with the new physical abuse, but also the fresh determination and improvement of the actual movement and full of inspiration to the older siblings.
