Wrong solution to the right problem.

On the murder of Jeffrey "Jennifer" Laude, a Filipino transgender, that the crime is being accused of Private First Class Joseph James Yap, one of the leftist groups, the incident that happened in 2005 when the incident happened in 2005 and was implicated in the murder case that happened in 2005 and was implicated in the rape case of "Nicole."
.
For me, in any crisis or problem, we should not be carried away by the sudden outbursts of our feelings, instead, we thoroughly analyze the real problems to be given proper solution.
What are the information that we have, one Filipino is the victim of a crime, there are witnesses and evidences exposed on the scene of the fiscal where it has been filed with a complaint in the fiscal where it is known that the PMC Investigation (ITCZ) did not personally attend the crime but through his lawyer.
Meanwhile, according to our law, it is still being accused for 10 days to answer the accusations that is why it is still early to file a warrant of arrest because it is still early to file a warrant of arrest and asked by the representative of his country, who will attend the set hearing in his case.
If we will just put this incident in good perspective, if it is not only emotion that we don't do, it is possible that the situation of one of his personnel is not right because of the mistakes of one of those who have gone to the Philippines, it is not the fault of one of his personnel.
Not the garbage in Visiting Forces Agreement or any agreement signed by the Philippines is a remedy for the lack of weakness or weakness, instead, we should visit the content of it to meet the current time and opportunity.
Reneighty ation or the sake of the conversation is the outline of the new agreement that this is also the view of one of the most avid fans of the VFA, former Senator Joker Arroyo.
In the current time, the Armed Forces of the Philippines needs to destroy the ability to defend the country against the threats of colonization in our territory, the AFP needs to analyze and ability to protest, together with other allies of the country to maintain the peace of our country.
The country needs your skills and things to respond to the calamities that come to our country.
We will focus on our attention on the real issues in our country, one of these are the happenings in the West Philippine Sea that are being used by the airports in our territory that are being used by the airports in our territory that are being used by the airports in our territory?
