There is a propaganda of Aquino against the explosives that was done by the Botchok, Putatan, which was abandoned by the bombing.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 16, 2013.

Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the excessive criticism by Benigno Aquino III in using the command and brutal campaign implemented by the armed forces in the countryside for the end of the armed forces against the people during the end of the year. "

The KP has released this statement as the reaction to one statement yesterday by Aquino, that the AFP, who was involved in the fight... that it could kill or hurt the people who were involved in the fight, however, they should kill or hurt the people who were involved in the fight, however, they should kill or hurt anyone or not. "
"Benigno Aquino III defeated them by giving attention only through the thorough implementation of small explosives to hide his orders from the AFP from non-governmental organization, especially against civilian community and farms," said the KP.

"He does not want to spread wrong information about the command-out of mine that is said to be being used by the BHB) which is said to have no care," said PKP, "said PKP," said that it is just in Pili, "said PKP," in town of Pili, "said PKP."

"What is contrary to this, is the bombing of the AFP, that is why it is possible that there will be no longer care but cause wide and severe damage," said the KP.

The latest campaign of the bombing is implemented by the AFP from November 18 to December 4 in Davao del Norte and Compostela Valley.

The AFP were also conducting a useless bombing in three weeks of being thrown in Zamboanga City last September, which became the cause of widespread fire, which was destroyed by a huge fire, and was destroyed by more than hundreds of people.

The KP has again put their call again for the intensified campaign of the local and the national in order to expose and insist on ending the ambush done by the AFP.
