
Just call the pro-mindedness of UP, supported by PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 08, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA) for the release of UP Diliman.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) expressed support for the group of human rights, youth, teachers, teachers and the female janitor, who are currently detained in Davao Oriental Provincial Jail in Marawi City.

The professor was arrested last October 1 of the soldiers of the 67th Infantry Battalion in Cateel, Davao Oriental, near the area where they encountered an administrative unit of Bagong Hagdan) a few hours before he was arrested by the military, he was arrested by the military.
The professor of UP denied all the accusations against him by the AFP, in the interview, he asserted that he is in Compostela Valley last December 2012, he asserted that he is coordination with the group of the environment that has destroyed by typhoon Pablo last December 2012.

The professor Gamit Jr, has been observing for a doctor for the doctor in the Philippines and a candidate for the doctor in the University of the Philippines and BS Philipines in Mindanao State University, Iligan City of Technology last 2000.

"It is being supported by the KP, the call for the release of the professor Gamit Jr, and the return of his country's release to the citizens of Compostela Valley and will only serve as an additional pension for the citizens of Compostela Valley, and this will serve as an additional pension for the citizens of Compostela Valley, and this will serve as the resignation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation," said the KP.

"It is considered that Propaganda of the Filipino masses will make the serious justice for the Filipino masses, where big plunderer and wealth of the country are experiencing different lives while those who want to serve the people and defend their land and of course, they just rot in prison."

"The arrest and beheading of the professor Goulburn were reminding the number of cases of wrong arrest and murder of the armed forces being accused by the AFP who are accused by the AFP who are accused by the AFP to be members of the Botchok," said the KP.

Recently, Rolly Panilaga, a guard who is working in Megapriest of the AFP last October 5, 2012 and was accused by the AFP, who is a leader of the PKP, Southern Tagalog, was arrested and jailed last September.

Last 1994, September 2010, the troop of 9th Infantry Battalion were shot by the troops of the 20th Infantry Battalion who killed two residents and one of his companions who were identified as Ronino Gamit Jr.

"In this case and for many other killings and arrest of ordinary deaths, the AFP said that those who were arrested and killed are the leaders of the Bagong Hala Bayan," according to it, it seems that those who were arrested and killed are the leaders of the PKP, "it seems that those who were arrested are the leaders of the PKP," it seems that those who were arrested are the leaders of the PKP, "it seems that these are the leaders of the Poverty."

"The very kind of side which is given by Aquino to the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Oplan LS is to induce disagreement of soldiers who should launch the declaration of human rights and the international law."
