We can talk to the heart of us to talk to the telephone.
"You are not asking Noel this good afternoon, sir?
Those who are tired of us from Parañaque residents are super lucky because we really know that we are really pitiful; we really know why there is something to sleep in C: Or thank you to look at it.
He / she was able to look down; he / she said that he / she wasn't able to go to school; he / she was not able to go to school; he / she could not be able to go to school, which is why he / she could be able to go to school.
Whatever we saw each other again.
We are very noisy; we are able to sleep well; we are already asleep.
"With you accepted, as a mother," with our co-worker, we have a chemical that is a chemical that was able to go to church, at the Chief of C) or TE.
So it was very intense, isn't they said on how they lived.
He was being provoked.
Covetous, fur.
Just the only one with one.
I can only do with the pick up hold-up that we talk to, that we should only talk to that one five-year-old; and coercion.
Store, isn't it that we do not have something to say, that's why I can do it, ah, so?
That is where there will be no reason why there is a fire.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was able to look down; he / she was very good; she was still good that she was still good that's why he said the news brought by the September who will replace him.
But
B virus or you will give us a chance on what really is happening.
The start of the fire in the investigation is, what I said was that, I was not able to look at.
But a two points for 500 pesos for 500 pesos, whose legs were not shouting; it also did not go down if there was been neglected to avoid the store.
I'll be able to let go; that I will let it depends on the Makati because, when he came, he will still do that, when he arrived, he will be the one who teaches his Julie, how can we sell a way of concovetousness of our children.
We have a lot of youth and are always stay here in our youth on how we can reconcile with my grandchildren.
It is okay to have more than ten people but they are on top of them.
He / she was able to look down; he / she had two thousand two hundred twenty four names here in me, whose name is super Maysilo, Jerry, because you know that he / she didn't have any fleader leader.
In front of the state.
"You are a lot of people, whose hold-up; and doors of the pick up-up; that we were riding-up; we think about it, it seems like that, it seems that we have a broken head by the people around us.
There are those who take care of that, in the bed of God for them, I am going to be asleep when I am in a deep sleep; we are only able to go down to each other, the distance is far from all.
I was only five years old when we saw the Black Nazarene that reached up to something like that, so as a man, who looks like a pig that seemed to jump out of going to us.
But most of them were hit.
He laid down the Marlon to lay down; he / she was able to go down to the Provincial Council, Digos City, and even those who were not yet married, they were not yet involved with them.
Don't fool you!
In good thing, it's good that we have an honor, we have been injured; but when I have heard, I can see each other; that is why I seem to have an idea, Claire, who is a friend or, and then.
Yes, it's because we are not stupid; we are the only ones who look down.
Yes, why don't you find a fire yes, as well as the slow movement of water.
Maybe it was the release of the pictures that's why they ran over anything that's why they just went to each other so we still have rice and there, we still don't know what to do with that now.
You are going to answer because lady is a little bit more, at the end of the end, he / she was distressed.
It is okay to have been killed if you have been in a place where you are in a point; he / she can go out to the cousin.
It was Charisine that's why the content of such as Ferdy was on the same building, she will be able to find out what other classmates have been known as well as the other things that they have been known for so long, which is okay to be over; he / she was already okay, that's why he / she was too old, very well-tempered; like a coconut wine.
Ah, that's why, it's still that, when the mother of his / her mother-in-laws were hurt, they have not yet taken off the water, because there was no fire between them, but there was no fire, which was not directly given, especially when they went directly to the hot topic.
They are just taking the cold; we need to chat, but, of course, we need to chat, but if there are those who are left behind, it is as if there is something that will be built.
Yes, that is why they are very cold so that he will leave the area first because you know that there are people who are concerned about the area because he / she knows that he / she might be an ally, "aunt when his five-year-old daughter.
That's why it's the reason that you are very cold so that he will be stay-in-stay before they might be the same with the thick income of what they say, thank you very much to you.
