
It is Christmas to me, politics?

The leaders of our politicians are taking advantage of it, every Christmas, instead of thinking of their barent, they do not want to take a rest with their selling of politics!
They are everywhere with planting the minds of the people like this and that is what should be president, vice president, and there are those who supported the former congressman, they want to be a senator.
There is nothing wrong if that is their dream.
But you are the children of the rotten system, solve the complaint of the people about too much and it seems that the price of basic commodities will increase, especially those who are ready this coming Christmas!
The Department of Trade and Industry, wow, instead of the command, "are requesting the businessmen to increase the price of their products?
If in the thing, those who are in the store now have made it, before the price of oil, gas, gasoline and its types, they should not ask if the price increase in the price increase in the market was cheaper.
There, the businessmen, because they say that they have an excuse that because their reason is, they have the reason not to get down the price of their products.
Also include those who are patriotic, who are patriotic, groups, who do not want to drop fare increase?
In spite of all of these and greed for many sectors of our society themselves, some of those known before are "protector of the masses, but when you speak, they think, they are in favor of the whole country.
And instead of meddling with the politicians on this issue, nothing is nothing to them, the pain for the high expenses of the country.
The content of the news is in every corner and the corner, this is what the President should do, that is how it is his good tandem, they are and they themselves as a proof that our political system is rotten.
Politicians' leaders do not care and also the officials of every agency related to the care for the welfare of the people.
Like that, Christmas is coming, where are they already here in America, in Europe and in the country Asia.
It is said that they will be spending Christmas to New Year? It is shameful in you to be busy, thank you?
Only, in spite of the negligence of the rotten and traditional politicians, our fellowmen sometimes have a mental problem.
The bag that has a few kilos of rice, 5 noodles, 5 and canned goods are becoming blind, and they are deaf and deaf to Amen?
