Mocha, called Customs!
This is not because of the ways to go to the PPETNT Katropa bench, By Noel Ferrer August 5, 2016.
Recently, the news was greeted yesterday in ABS-CBN News, who were appointed by the singer and fur, one of President Rodrigo Duterte's adversary, "social media consultant" at the Bureau of Customs, Commissioner Nicanor Faura.
Faura is a former military official who implement widespread reforms in a agency that President Duterte said is one of the most corrupt in our country.
The Bureau of Customs is responsible for one Ortho-th of our local government Revenue, "Elorde to the social media consultant," by Faura yesterday morning in ABS-CBN.
Mocha also has a controversial Facebook page, which lasted up to four million pesos, and upon arriving at the market was devastated by President's supporters, which will be visited by the DDS "or" Ayoy Duterte. "
The social event exploded when she first went out, an only daughter is an only intention for the sake.
Meanwhile, netizens said, "a little," but some of them have not been used to each other because the people are going to go to each other, so that he will be taken away immediately or not.
"You should just call him after a month-month and you have proven that he has no use, then do you think that he has something to prove before you get a judge or a person."
"Others, who becomes hysterical," Amas, "
"Hopefully, I am going to campaign for a good job in the government."
There is even more, "Manang Sabel approves of it, it is not right to give the position that is" at the yellow party, Mocha also does not make sure with the social media.
"Do you need a job with her bashers to be her bashers in her death because they die of envy."
Well, for me, this is in the time, "hope," should be considered by the Our Lady OPLAN).
Let's, Chance of Chance.
But here is that... that after the news that was shown on ABS-CBN News report, Fewi's news was immediately notified of the news and she said that she was the "Ipit Gang". "
"Mamondiong, for the Help to be the Pad of the Philippines, the amount was behind bars to BOC.
"Mocha a, Perelegant-517," Her X-Her, Hacadversary, Phmm, "said the BOC chief," said the BOC chief.
"Afterwards, on the top of the Our Lady of social media, Barangay But-A official called an appointment.
"We, thank you, thank Can, Help to US if thank you, Fight IT's a voluntary act on Her part," Faura.
The Bureau of Customs have issued an issue immediately.
According to him, the 4-year-old Uson's Instagram account, to Her twitter account, at 96,000 pesos, was around 4 million pesos.
It is said that the news about the position of Mocha is coming out after she called the interview with Fajosa anymore for her Instagram account.
Mocha also said, in the interview with Fausto's interview, after an Overseas Filipino Workers (Her messages were released to the very high tuition fee, balikbayan boxes, which can be seen as a huge sum.
With her blog, Mocha picked up the fight of Fajosa anymore for the reform in a graft case, and the failure and hard to remove the corrupt BOC members because it needs to pass through the pork barrel.
If this is the payment of gratitude for Mocha, who is one of the supporters of President Digong, he said that this is just the continuation of his father, Judge Oscar Uson, who has an anti-crime, but was killed last 2007.
When the camp of Mocha also asked for a few statements, here is the coming from someone close to him who does not want to be named, "No adversary, TIDs, TIDs, TIDs of the social media campaign of the Bureau of the Bureau.
"In fact, the tourism will of the Philippine government that will be a source of Her, the Hala of the government.
"At nightfall, it was found out that there was an allergy attack at the Bureau of Hher for its publicity.
"Hey, the reflection of the branch that is being seen to be able to hold-up, which can be given to our Let's on the all-shirt that is stop smoking."
Can we say that Steve Harvey, who was Miss Colombia, BOC Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, did not mention any issue?
Who could be the culprits for the widespread news?
