Andrea, they are always searching for Dingdong.
Megan Young, known to other women but will not be defeated by Allan Diones, 9, 2016.
Currently, he is called to be referred to by Andrea Torres and Megan Young, in one night with Alyas Robin Hood.
It was the same with the black bikini that the two children of Dingdong Dantes admitted, that their bodies were not hit that was not hit in the scenes on the scene on his post.
Both of Pepe (Dingdong) and Sarri (Andrea) and Sarri (Megan) are disappointed when we met him in the set of ARH Law in San Mateo, Rizal, where we need to get a sexy image, which is why the body needs to be healed.
She is just surprised when she needs to stay in a taping she said, but he did not complain because he knows it is needed in show.
Because of the scenes there is a need to expose the body, Andrea should be careful of what he is eating.
Venus continues to review everything to Pepe, so that they will serve four people.
They do not have a love with Dingdong.
Andrea isn't sure if her or Megan who would have a love gardener, Dong once would have a love affair.
Megan is very surprised when told that she is going to be able to get along with Andrea on the RH Law.
"In terms of time," that's because he sends a lot from New York, and he has eaten a lot of food in his trip. "
So, he was alone for one Brigada Eskwela and in-law, Andrea, and Andrea, were pulled out of their "bikini panty on.
"Mejares, Megan Young, she thought that she was just at the beginning of a series with co-helpers, which is why Andrea, and Andrea, are in the beginning.
But this is okay with him and whatever happens to the script, they will follow as artists.
According to the beauty queen, she and Andrea, both were surprised by what they have, that is why they were not able to marry each other.
Because the two became paralyzed, it cannot be avoided that Team Sarri and Team Venus are uncertain.
In the start, Boss Dong is from her, but she is often named Dong and Andrea, who is together.
Megan Young, as Sarri will fight, and he will not be defeated now that he will be defeated by him.
They can be watched Alyas Robin Hood for GMA Telegant after Encantadia.
