
Remove the pork barrel of the president and congress to expose and fight all kinds of corruption in the Marcos regime.

Reporting, Jose Maria Sison.
He thanked the political opposition.
August 26, 2013.

The pork barrel of the president and congress should be removed from the pork barrel of congress, while the truth is that he is silent in his current name and after the truth, he is silent under a new name and after it is under a new name and is under the higher system of defense, it is under his strict implementation of the rotten system.

The conclusion of the pork barrel for the senators and congressmen, which is called the Priority Development Assistance Fund (Php 15billion) is the Priority Development Assistance Fund) that reaches up to 70 percent of the total national budget that reaches up to 70 percent of the total national budget that reaches up to 70 percent of the whole national budget.

The pork barrel of the president is composed of the annual thing that makes the corruption and politicians who make it in his decision, which is composed of the Special Action fund (funds for a special goal), which can be seen by the Special Action fund (fund) so that there is no direct fund) and continuing to undergo autopsy.

Even before the proposed bill that is involving the wrong projects by the real project, it is Php 15.8 billion; PAGCOR (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Php 15.8 billion; PAGCOR (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Php 15.8 billion; PAGCOR (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Php 153.8 billion; price hike.

There is a huge fund which is in control and decision of Aquino that up to hundreds of billion pesos from those who have been planning to spend on how to spend money from the source of PAGCOR and PCSO for how much was really received from the source of PAGCOR and PCSO for the called Presidential Social Assistance Fund.

With the help of a took and the companies to the Muslim brothers and allies, those who are writing a clean and faithful in the right path in the middle of the improvement of corruption in the government agencies in the middle of the worsening economic crisis in the middle of the worsening economic growth, poverty and public service.

On the part of the citizens, the Marcos regime is bulging in the implementation of corruption of the foreigners and local corporation who are benefiting from the program Public Works and local government which are benefiting from his campaign in the election last 2010; and for technical in the issue of those who are missing in the income of Adwana.

It can be considered that because of all kinds of corruption in the Marcos regime, it is an amount of Php 1.3 CAFGU and will be lost from the pork barrel of the president but it will be a big amount from poverty and improvement of the social service.

So, it is just just for the people to insist and stop the people's pork barrel and the entire system of corruption and the entire system of the Filipino people, and the local government's efforts to expose and fight all the form of the corruption of the Marcos regime.
