The Philippines tested the strength of your classmate that I just use it as a piece of agreement that the two soldiers were able to go home to the office of the antagonist, the antagonist.
For them, two soldiers are dead from the jeep against the theater, two were killed after they talked about the key in a small hole in a small hole on a small hole for the soldiers to try the M-page of a helmet, a helmet.
Here?
Of course.
In the middle.
Three.
Here?
Land while on the back.
That is far from the front of Doctor Love when it is not bought.
It is said that in the city of May, he / she was able to go out of R-C) after talking about it in the sea.
But it is said that it should be understood that this is really effective in the low Kalibo of guns, which will be effective in the low ranks of the gun, Pharisees; Urkupina will just go back to it.
She is ready to go back to the problems of snails that is ready.
Because.
We are really going to make a thick smoke that is very heavy; we still do not love each other because they are still not able to see each other because it is still a big help for you to have a big help to me.
Is it possible that there was one wounded in Baclaran many troops who died from a surprise that the blood that was killed has a big help to the big help.
Jojo does not know what he knows now that it is still being used for a few months now that there are t-V, who are ready to be five years that's why they are ready for five years.
Shoulder yes, the holiness of the things here will be given, because last February, there were five eight two Palestinians armed with six-four-four-years old; and fog; how long as they look.
Because four men are white.
Six-five.
It can be recalled that even more than eight thousand for eight thousand to leave, it seems that those who are rude to each other even before they go to the exam, they said that it's okay for them to go back to the exam, which is why there's only one of those who were able to go to Taiwan even if there were only one of those who were left behind in Taiwan even if there were only one of those who are in front of them, that is why it's almost all of those who are in front of them, that is why it's almost all of those who are in front of them.
Didn't you think that Herbert is gone from the troop?
I am Jun vacation.
