Just an emergency powers are the response to solve a traffic problem? By Adolfo Saure, October 24, 2016.
With the problem with traffic, somehow, the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is in which is being pushed by Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).
Because since the MMDA focus on the issue on the congested flow of traffic, there have been a few solutions that has been presented with the local government units (LGUs).
Somehow, some of them became effective, although we cannot say that there is a big change brought about by the congested flow of traffic in Metro Manila, according to a few steps that the MMDA and LGUs are implementing, almost in general, and even a few steps implemented by the MMDA and LGUs.
If it turns out that somehow the effect of the traffic implemented on traffic should not be given to President Rodrigo Duterte because it might be used by some of his cabinet in their personal interest.
The news are coming out and in the emergency powers, some members of the cabinet of the President are in order to attract the signed contract in favor of their interest and conservation.
What should be done by those assigned to supervise the problem of traffic should be used to use their power and resources to fix the flow of traffic.
If the flow of traffic will be lessened in the constricted flow of traffic, it will surely help a lot if the government will strengthen the broken passenger vehicles who are continuously traveling in some main roads in Metro Manila.
I am also sure that the stubborn drivers of jeepneys, bus, taxi, UV, UV, and various types of public utility vehicles will be focused on by the traffic enforcers.
Most of all, I think that the MMDA will help a lot in the traffic problem if the MMDA will find out their personnel, which up to now they continue to be one of the stubborn drivers in exchange for any amount.
It's because up to now even if the government of the Duterte administration would be remembered.
So what happened to us is that the officials of the government should just do that those stubborn traffic enforcers are assigned to discipline, not need to cover the President on this problem.
But if the officials of our government have the benefits that the traffic enforcers are doing, we can't do anything for it because they are the ones who are taking care of.
