
Governor Luis, PAMANTIK-INTEL.

The insult that the Aquino government is doing is too much to those killed members of the PNP-SAF on why they still need to take a donation?
It seems that this is too good, why is it not good why the government of President Aquino needs to make a donation so that the 2015 budget is very big?
It was said that Marwan was killed, where the reward was gone, why did the money went to those who were left behind by the 44 police commandos who were massacred by the MILF / BIFF in the illegal operation conducted by the government?
Why is it that like that, the MILF gave P5 million pesos, why are those killed policemen need to ask for protection?
It is said that President Aquino gave two million dollars from the dead king of Saudi Arabia, if it is true, well, his President is very pitiful, but why did he not show to his boss his idol?
In my interview, there is no one who said that they will respond to the call of the government to give protection to those killed police and all of them are saying if they will give a donation, they will go directly to the family of the deceased.
They will shoulder the faces of these.
"You can see" what happened to the donation for Yolanda, where "the huge money that was" said, was not seen to have been to the money, because the money has passed through the government.
Why won't it be that Dinky Soliman's official, from the president of the government, from the President to Barangay councilor, even in the cabinet members and Undersecretary.
But if you will say that other filipinos will give protection and give importance to the bank account of the government, I think there will be no next.
If I am also the one who has money, I don't want him to sleep in the bank account of the government because in truth, I have no trust in those.
The best thing to do is, if you really want to give donation to the police, bring it directly to the family, so that you can be sure that those orphaned by the police will benefit.
Our policemen who died are pitiful because of the failure operation that is done, and the government is just going to ask for protection from the government of lily's Day.
