
A call: Action.
By Arnold Clavio August 24, 2016, one of the good in the current Duterte Administration is the quick action in some problems of the country.
Aside from criminality, corruption is also one of the attention of President Rodrigo Duterte.
After I expose this column, the conflict between the Philippine Ports Authority (PSP) and the Manila North Hardatas, Incorporated. MNHi), was released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, which can be released by former Customs Commissioner Bert Lina
The order is included in the two Customs Intelligence Order (Cutud) number 11-2016 and 12-2016.
The two Cambitious would also be the issue of the Bureau of Customs (BOC) of "certificate of Agriculture" in MNHPi last December in 2015, that they can store nearby goods that were immediately brought out from the airplane, vehicle vessel and others.
But the Putatan denied this action of BOC on this act as if he is regular because the order was released by Lina, a few days before he finally leave his position.
According to the former administrator, Raul Santos, the Cahis was also dismayed because of the need for permission from PPA) to receive foreign contacts.
According to Santos, the MNH" I have 25 years of contract in Poverty as a "domestic helper terminal" in Manila North Harbor and not as a "international airport companies."
The owner of the Manila North Harbor, Santos added, the PPA) and MNH" I am just a operators there.

The Putatan should be allowed to allow the arrival of the foreigners and local or domestic vehicles that can anchor in whatever will be the change in the system of North Habana, Poverty.
Commissioner Fausto was made to take action and returned the MNH" I went back to MNL. "
All the authorities are included in the "Midnight Cabinet" Lina, under the two kinds of orders are being suspended.
Lord, I will take care of it.
