Wanted to go on Sct, Supamant, gay!

"We are very entertained from the reaction of Root," he said that her girlfriend, Gretchen Malalad, said that it is not true that even she was surprised when she got pregnant by Gretchen?
"My hands are all grown," he joked when we talked with my birthday party of the friend Rommel Moros.
"I said, you are already pregnant?
There was also his respect for the wedding of marriage and is very conservative, the Chinese is very conservative.
"It's Gretchen because it's too Catholic and it is a Chinese. I know," his dad, "to the point, I felt that, when I go to our house, my child, okay, my child, okay," that is prohibited here, "he said," he asked. "
He said he even joked at Grets to get married but "no" the answer of his girlfriend because they are not yet ready.
"I refused.
Roda added that he will not get married until he has not received 50 centavos in 47 million for him because he has only been able to wait for more than 50 Awards for almost three years, Gretchen has become an old woman.
"He said, to him," that, look for someone else, "he learns a joke and joke.
Roda has a revelation about the gay whom he knew in showbiz when he went to the PBB house even though his family is rich, he was not able to survive in order for a gay.
"There is a project that is going to be discussed but around PM, I said that I have school, I am prohibited to be late.," he added.
Isn't it right that there is a question, that is why even if you are in a replacement, will you have a replacement, right?
"He did not ask me like that," the TV host stated.
In the success of Rom as a TV host, he also believes in perseverance that he came back to the point that he wants to go out of showbiz because there is no project that he is jealous of other products from PBB.
"You really need to start up and be more patient," he said.

Roda also mentioned that it depends on when the Filipino, Brother Toni Gonzaga, as long as it is possible, they do not want to replace Toni Gonzaga, as long as he will be gone, he will be gone.
It is possible it would be possible for him to adjust to him, Toni is now at Amao Road because he is very lucky to rest first in showbiz.
It looks like PBB is going to be gone, and they will be surprised if Toni is not doing anything but she has been used to him even if it can be considered as if it can be nominated in the end!

The country asked if Judy Ann Santos is really pregnant, and there is still no formal hope for us or for the camp of Juvenile's camp and her husband, Ryan Agbayani.
But if it is true that Ryan will not be with "Eat Bulaga, this June 4 because of the situation of Juvenile's situation, he said this is the day of a check-up by Jumarito to confirm if he is pregnant.

The worst night is about to start to be held at the length of Tanim-asa Parish which "Pasion de Amor" starting this Monday (June 1) in Pramis, the star of ABS-CBN.
Jake Cuenca, Ejay Falcon, Joseph Marco, Ellen Adarna, Coleen Garcia, and a new Kapamilya, Arci Muñoz.
Witness the story of love and revenge is revenge between the family Samonte.
"Pasion de Amor" went with her return to the transfer of the television series of Eric Quizon, Atulayan Norte, Michelle Madrigal Street, Ron Panes, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, Emeng Macasaet, EpiPen.
Boom!
