They are just sleeping for a long time for those not able to pay for their room in college, they released a statement of a sermon whether a voice is not a voice until a year-old teenagers came from Quezon City.
Alaska has passed this day that's why she is not Nursing and a t-M right now, about the new list of Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, two here.
Students are not able to take care of what?
Leo and we are together together with different priority school students in the area of Agriculture Information Technology, Ivy teacher, don't be able to pay attention except for the Nursing although she is Nuralibis as if she is an enemy Larry us.
He will work harder in work immediately even until.
There are also more opportunities to get a scholarship, the prosecution to do.
Even our hearts, elementary students, were dismayed in their lives.
The students, especially those of our practice.
As long.
To help our country, this will help our country in the Middle East next to our country.
If you really want to make a big help, he would make a big help in a huge help; however, Jeff doesn't want it to run for a position in the company that the woman wants to take interest on that kind of personality will be chosen by Tess.
You can see a signal that is why there are many kinds of classes.
Using his office in computers, that's why they are doing many muscular body.
Thank you very much.
Not a hole.
Okay.
The debut of the market where these are.
But if there are a few who are hungry; they are the chance to buy their youngest who are stopping in their studies because they are not strong and hidden in school.
Anyway, my voice is from more than four million of Auto, "in the Philippines.
Which is why with the cooperation of the government, five four hundred pesos were Zig, Captain's program.
You will get a few out of school from you.
You will be given the right time for the twelve o'clock to go back to school even if an orange must be given training to work to each youth and to look for all the youth on a tough school; we will look for all the youth on the tough, we will finish this.
When giving rights to them, we believe that we are going crazy.
That is why you are here with a scholarship, about the priority.
