
Camping first before eating.

The McJim Seafloat, a Chinese restaurant, which is why the price hike, which is why every customer gave them a gold, which is why the advise of everyone is for you to ask for your chs before you eat.
Just like a woman who ate in Jim Railbo, which is in 2nd floor of Cruz Square Mall at Banawe Street, cor. Del Monte Street, Quezon City, together with five other people who were surprised with the size of their chs.
Based on the receipt given to them by McJim Seafloat, the price of fried rice here for three people are about 300, and the surprising is the price of a simple and lapu-lapu that is worth P7,000.
The woman wanted to complain but where will they go with this restaurant so the woman decided to go near the media to give a warning to the public, especially our fellowmen whose money is just right.
Yes right, it is better to have a warning.
What if you are going to enter and eat at this restaurant, all the money that you have brought is up to 10,000 pesos, it is only right for you to order and because you have no money, you are already being reported to the police and will be charged with a case.
Even if it is not clear, those who are eating this should be the ones who are eating this, a lot of money is too much like those who take advantage, the cabinet secretary, mayor, councilor, and others in the government which are being spent.
The owner of this restaurant is lucky, can you think, the price of a kilo of lapu-lapu that is at P4,6638767 while a kilo of lapu-lapu that is at P400 or more low.
Your servant is just wondering why it is like that that it is how I love the hair-lapu-jack in this restaurant.
Where do these fishes have grown up at the gold medal, is it or in a vacant room?!
"Is it possible that the owner of Jim Seafloat, wow, isn't it slow, not all people here in the Philippines are receiving PDAF.
If you want to try to eat at this restaurant, your pocket or wallet are full of money so you will not be imprisoned or not a deep salt of a plate.
I am not meddling with your business, "the right price that can reach everything.
