
There is no Christmas party and stubborn ones.

In every corner of the Philippines, the news are known about the suspension of the Chambers (time party, especially in the ranks of the companies and association.
Instead of taking advantage of these, the expenses they are expecting will just be paid to give to all the victims of calamity that caused the typhoon, earthquake, war and others.
The country's conscience is existing for those who are drowned in life of calamities that are made of nature and people.
But with the ranks of high officials of the government, the lack of lack of interest is ongoing, the citizens who die are hungry, hungry, lost their homes and lost their future.
They are the only ones they are thinking about to worry because these bastard criminals are still having fun on the last events about what they want to lead the funds of the country.
Media.
There are many companies or groups of journalists who brought us news that they will not be able to pay their own party with a higher party.
If there is something, it will only be a simple gathering.
Nobody is Garbo, not all night with drinking and dancing.
"The others, their contribution or funds to the Christmas party as their donations for those affected by the calamity.
We are taking advantage of the media groups that show unity with their respective siblings who are visited by calamities.
Reporting and Mony.
There are companies and association who can still take advantage of their Christmas party, and they have the right to do, especially when their relief is from the surrounding calamity.
That is why there is still there, the appearance of different kinds of giving and receiving the Montenero and Montenero.
"What is the gift for each other.
They say, the Lord Almighty is also thankful to the Lord Almighty who are not able to get off the challenges even though they are also affected by accidents.
To the company and the association who cannot be thought of how to take a number of money from Christmas, it is enough for them to feel all the arrival of Lord Jesus.
Good luck to you and hopefully you will not make sure of the true spirit of Christmas that needs to be given to show or be given to this time.
Stealing a lawmaker.
What is happening with the ranks of high positions in the government is different.
They have been feeling hard to work, because pat them to cut off the Supreme Court of the dirty hands used in stealing and hold-up to the citizens.
They prohibited and hang on the Priority Development Assistance Fund, Jeadversary, Development Assistance Fund and Kaklase).
"Is it that they are prohibited to decide on anyone and where they will spend the huge money that they will spend.
It will be more prohibited for them to be removed after stealing or stealing a public funds.
The congressmen and senators seem to have not want to attend the session so that they would have electricity and make them pass the laws for these days, especially for the emergency needs of those who have built.
Really hungry.
Not worried about the hunger and hardship being experienced by those whose legs are experiencing.
If they have a plan to allocate funds for the victims of calamities, it seems that it would be for the next year.
Just like what they show to the suspension of the national budget for the next year.
They do not feel the daily pain in the stomach and too much lack of distress.
Because they already saved a huge amount for themselves from those who have removed their pork barrel.
However, even if war will be implemented or hit, there is enough or a content on the chest and pocket so they can cross other long term hunger and suffering.
The straight path is P900-M.
On the part of the authorities in Malacanang, the heads were suddenly appeared and the thieves turned out at the exposed P900 million Special Allowance (Commission on Elections).
The people from Malacanang kept on their hands when there were local officials who complained.
The said officials said, they have not received any fund, someone from Malacanang asked them to ask for the commission or different kinds of damages.
The signatures are fake, those from Malacanang said, especially those from the Department of Budget and Management Council.
But what can be done here, now is now centered on the hands of Malacañang for the money that the country or tax will be centered on the hands of Malacanang, and not to the lawmakers, it's as early as now, it is only now that the public funds will be exported.
It is really the child of tofu!
Watch them.
The thick smoke is really thick smoke and with a strong fire that is where it is a source of fire.
The fire is from the decision of the Supreme Court that in the hands of Malacanang, the money that the country will turn around will go around, and not to the lawmakers.
Let us watch, Bro, to this event that the abusive pigs in Malacanang will be found.
Let us imitate them.
