Christopher, wants to socialize with Angelica.
"Angelica is on the Top of Her game.
Wanna Bet by a good actor, "By Alwin, November 20, 2016.
In the young lady, now, she wants to get a drama that is also the The Legal Wife lead actress Angelica Panganiban.
He explained, "I worked with him in a television series, but we was we only one who was held in Together.
"I want to be with him in a movie or TV Patrol that we would have a lot of scenes," Angelica Panganiban on the Top of Her game, Aurora, a good actress, "added Christopher.
If you are talking to the original drama actress, Christopher de Leon, you should be ready.
While you are talking to him, he will directly look at your eyes.
It's as if she wants to convince voters, examine the person in an interview that he will not be disturbed.
Coyo, who is always with and always with the words he is talking about.
I was able to send her to the press then make a lie down on the The Job Fair they were taking a t-shirts and Hangaron, ReEntertainment Television and Humalig).
Christopher's role was called by a newspaper where Bela Padilla is a delegate journalist.
Wanna Bet by Boyet, "My Mama, as if thank you as if you are pro-Browed marriage, journalists also do that," like me.
"It seems like that, Nihonggo are just like that," the characters.
"To all the people around him, there is an exchange of interest in the person who could avoid being thrown or for someone.
"I am not alone.
"It is a good part of Boyet, the truth that she will be with the last four queen Nora Aunor, Sharon Cuneta, Vilma Santos and Maricel Soriano.
Though it is not back to Brother Bo, "Si Hilda Batungbakal Catiis, he / she always teases me to me, she always teases me to the person, especially when he / she has been the script of the script.
"At nightfall, he / she said," he / she will say it, "I said yes to me," then, at the length of the giddy.
"Wanna Bet and Her in the chest, Anna, in dream of Ka-wake up," Boyet de Lima stated.
His dyed, the partner, Vilma Santos, and two of them were able to enter their relationship and Broch marriage.
Why is the chemicals released by Ate Vi?
"Her answer," Vilma will have a lot of people, we are we we, we're really we, we really need to be dried-up.
"There was someone who owns that's why he was able to take a shot at though he was able to take a shot.
"In relation to the relationship, it really happened to him / her to inherit the Scene of the i sa Her, but my favorite scene," that was our Scene.
"What he doesn't want to ask me to leave, because I was we, we was impressed by so I wanted Vi to like that, she came from that.
"He / she said, I was the one to be seen in the bamboo-Her face in the scene."
"In the only superstar, Nora Aunor," Ah, "Guy, at this age, Nora Aunor, a small woman, and here she is standing in front of you, and here she is owned by our See all, thank you.
"Epal!
"That is it, I have no idea, I will take revenge on me, hahaha!"
There will be a happy news about the relationship of Nora and Vilma in me.
The actor said, "hey, I am having a hard time in the movie" that's because in-time, we are just separated with Nora, and we are close with Vilma.
"So," that's the First Lieutenant.
"It was then, Sandy was also in movie since he was in a movie when he was held in New York, in New York, which is time for me to be with him.
"I said to Director IOS (the late Joe Burgos Bernal)," Bernie, "thank you," thank you, Are thank you, "hahaha!
"Oh, Women, blender, hahaha!
"Her co-worker, Maricel Soriano and Sharon Cuneta said," de Leon said, "the four, with similarity," the person who was hammering and a good timing, went to their four.
"Guy and Sharon, both bakers for Maricel, both are good with his classmates.
"If you are an actor, when they are with four people in a scene, thank you, thank you, i'll be the one to be able to make sure that they are going to make sure that they give more than 100 percent what they give.
"According to him," Sharon and Maricel, there was another person who was able to step down, in the field, "Are Are.
"They had no idea about the conversation, but when they were already separated, they immediately went to the mall.
"There is no actor's adversary, actor's horny, immediately arrested, at the corner of the characters.
"I am, when he was in a shot, you did not talk to me, there was no joke in the set."
