The true character of Serdan.

I hope I am really impressed by Senator Serge Osmeña because it really is really wrong for PNoy to get mad at the President and really believe that he is just taking care of PNoy to show his being a friend of PNoy in order to show her being a good leader of the country.
"If you do not know it is Senator Serge and what is the hidden agenda of this, he will surely applaud him and maybe you will surely run as president of the country in 2016.
Ah, where do you think?
The only problem is that it has a hidden agenda like a senator and does not have anything to do with the welfare of the country.
During the peak of the popularity of PNoy, it is one of Senator Serge with the politicians who are coordinating with him before, you have not heard anything about PNoy from Senator Serge and what we hear from Senator Serge.
We really feel bad for the present, it seems that the direction of the wind suddenly changed and now the criticisms thrown by Senator Serge with his former idol PNoy, why is it like that?
What kind of wind is that's why it suddenly came to the stomach of Senator Serge and it looks like he is just suddenly driving backwards?
Well, it looks like Senator Serge with PNoy has just started to control over PNoy when he refused to remove the position of energy Secretary Jericho Petilla.
We are not defending Petilla because it is true that the attitude he has shown to work is true, but even if it is true that Petilla has a shortcoming, he is the companion of PNoy in the abuse of Meralco.
As long as it can be stopped, nonstop is the meaning of Meralco by the Lopez family's owned by the Lopez family, isn't it that it has been recorded several times by Meralco to their customers?
You are looking, however, isn't it that the former lover of Senator Serge is Bettina Lopez, isn't it that Lopez is included in the primary athlete in the power industry and this is Senator Serge and this is the leader of the Senate Committee on energy?
In other words, Senator Serge with Petilla and even PNoy were furious at PNoy because it seems that the strength of the adversary of the Lopez was being lessened while in the previous administration, almost all of the favor is given to them?
"They are taking care of why the blood of Senator Serge with his ex-idol, PNoy, is not only granted, it is like she is going through menopause?
