
Termites in the city of Manila.

Manila City Administrator Fr. Simeon Garcia has a big role because the campaign for the candidacy of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada is very hard to win his employer's candidacy.
When Mayor Estrada was seated on the highest position in the local government of Manila, Atty. Garcia is the one he is with in fixing and running the government that he was leaving until now that he was left to return to his position.
City Hall are managing peace and order of the city and even to those who are going to travel in Divisoria, Avenida, Blumentritt, Quiapo, and other markets, aside from work in Manila City Hall as manager of the mayor, Atty. Garcia personally goes to the places where it needs to be fixed.
This was taken advantage by the others who ordered some of their personnel to collect and even the "gambling Lord, using the name of City Doctors Hospital but the official got angry when he reached his name because he did not have anything to do with the said collection.
There are some who are in Manila City Hall and now what the name of Atty. Garcia is what they want to destroy their ability to be exported or their names will be more than to be closer to Mayor Estrada.
Wait, are they going to know when Mayor Erap is just starting to fix and supporting Manila which is his money in debt?
Isn't it that they have not surfaced on a "unexpected reason or they do not want their name to Erap?
Mayor Estrada is slowly able to fix the management of Manila because of the hard work and dedication of the former tree of the country and of course, the City Hall were given the role of Erap to take care of the welfare of his government and jurisdiction.
Because it is good that what they will do is small, some officials of Manila are destroying the role and names of the City Hall.
They will help them to get angry Mayor Erap to Atty. Garcia so that they can be the protagonist.
One of those who destroy the City Hall were the consultant only led the paper, but the strength is the strength to make the weekly payola from gambling and vendors.
As early as now, Mayor Estrada should have an advice for Mayor Estrada not to go to the City Hall because this is the leaders who will destroy the good deeds of the mayor in Manila!
