
Christians who are free!

There is something coming out in social media, parts of the history of the Philippines, who are Filipinos.
On Facebook, a FB account surfaced.
We do not know if this is the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) which was built by the Philippine National Chairman Nur Misuari.
Their destination is to clarify the muslims in the Philippines compared to Christianity.
That is also the clarification of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), group of Hasmin thanks to separate from the MNLF.
They have one view in history, there are Bangsamoro will be Bangsamoro.
As said by their writers, this is the first time that it is much cheaper than christians.
They said that they were blessed last 1300 and the christians by 1500 pesos are the most foreigners.
The sky is coming from the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Spaniards to christians.
Before that years, who are we?
It is free that our identity is free.
Sultan in Mindanao, Rajah Buayan and Datu Piang, Sir Lamasan, Kailagutan and native Ita, Agta and many more.
Since then, they are still there in the entire Philippines and now, they admit that they are Filipinos!
Recently, some leaders in Mindanao said that they are Bangsamoro from then until now.
The sanctity of our Muslim brothers have said, as Bangsamoro will never be Filipino.
We respect their character as Bangsamoro but it would be better for them to read the true history of the Philippines even before the Arab who was able to support the sky and Spaniards considered as a blessing in the Spaniards.
It is wrapped with blue waters before, that is written in the history of the world, we have been identified by a Dutch, English, human or, Chinese, Palestina, Arab and many more than America since then, there is still no American!
Like Malaysia and Indonesia, there is still no Chinese back in the Philippines, just because of the free trade, there are rich businessmen and even having sex in the region of Malaya or Asia.
That is to ensure that the business of those who will be placed in Malaya or Asia will be taken care of their capital for business.
Since then, the blood of the foreigner is filled up in Malaya Extension by the foreigners, the race like the skin is tainted by the skin.
Similar to India who are now broken into Pakistan, Sevidal and others.
In the Philippines, christians are Filipino.
What does not want to know as a Filipino?
