Is the anger of Duterte in the United States?
By Ellen Toribio, September 14, 2016.
President Rodrigo Duterte is proud of what he did in the meeting of the leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations or ASEAN in Laos last week but, why is it that until now, it is as if he is called more.
In the United States, especially President Barack Obama, the target of his anger.
Duterte said last Monday that it was not true that he felt bad when the ASEAN-US Summit was about to attend to Laos, Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, Jr. who attended to him, "I intended that it would not attend the federal meeting of the ASEAN and the US so that I could not attend that.

Principle, "he said.
He also did not attend the ASEAN-India meeting with nothing about this.
Before the ASEAN and the US meeting, Duterte and US President Barack Obama should have a meeting with the White House. "That is the first meeting of Duterte for the very first meeting with President in the International Abilympics.
But the White House was cancelled for a meeting because before Duterte went to Laos, he had a press conference at the Davao airport and asked him if he was ready for the extrajudicial killings or violation of human rights that he even said, "P / she said," P / her. "
He even said that he will kick out Obama and he blames the reporters around Laos to see him.
When Obama saw each other before the start of dinner with the leaders last Wednesday, he approached Obama and said that the reports of Obama's answer to him was not true to him by his personnel.
What happened to you are the same answer?

In the East Asia summit in the meeting of the ASEAN and the married countries together with the United States), Duterte spoke that he was thrown away by the Americans in the Philippine-American war which has been a hundred years ago.
When the number of cases are lacking, and Obama loses all the leaders aside from Duterte.
That is probably the effect of the mystery that was made to Duterte.
Duterte also said that he is not a fan of America and it is not bad for us to have a lot from us in the Philippines because we thought our Americans are safe and commit suicide for us.
The American and for America are right, "that's why the Filipino is for the Philippines.
Now, Duterte said that the American soldiers need to leave in Mindanao because that is still a problem if kidnapping and bandits were decapitated by Abu Sayyaf.
Anyway, what is really the help of Americans in Mindanao?
Will this lead to the killing of Americans in the Philippines?
All this should be done by the Duterte administration because it is good for the country and not because he gets mad at Obama.
