
The Philippine Army are trying to sabotage the peace talks.

Editing.
The country.
March 21, 2013.

With the will of the Marcos regime, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) should show up based on the general declaration of the national unity and proper peace that would be held by the government budget of the Philippines (GST) and NDFP).

Duterte has been offering the "Special Action Force as a response to the repeated abuse of the Marcos regime, democracy and human rights; and the Philippine National Police (PNP), and the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the forces of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), and the Philippine National Police (PNP).

It was a part of improvement in Malacañang to send his "special followers" to the leadership of Ronald Liscano, Presidential Adviser on political Affairs, and the offer to meet in Hanoi, Vietnam through the second part of 2013 President Benigno Aquino III and Jose Maria Sison to create a favorable condition for the "Special Action Force to create a favorable situation on December 20 to January 15.

However, nothing happened to the conversation about "Special Action" which was held last December and February because he was not shy in entering the agreement or on the document which was said to have been the first offer of Gatid, Aquino and Sison.

The United States just wants to make the NDFP members use unity with the declaration of unity with no trace of content and entered the incessant ceasefire.

Now that there is nothing happened to "Special Action Force, and there is still no clarity on the return of regular peace talks with Aquino to make it look that the regime seems to be blamed on the continuation of the peace talks and what he should be blamed should be the one who deserves to be blamed.

In spite of whatever it is, Aquino and his supporters were not able to cover the fact that they are going to cover the peace talks as a witness to the fifth Party Facosta while there is a serious negotiation between the fifth Party Facademics because of its stubbornness and Priority Development Assistance Fund) to sabotage it.

It is not surprising that the conduct of the Philippine Special Action Force "on the eve of the reopening of the formal peace talks on February 2011 was mocked by Aquino and those who were criticized by Aquino and those who will be discussed by Aquino and those who will be discussed by Aquino.

Aquino also declared that the Joint Task Agreement on Human Rights) has no meaning to give straight and to his refusal to free the Legislative Chamber to free the legislative chamber, instead of the political leaders who are protected by the Philippine Consulate they are protected by the Liberal Party in accordance to the political administration of the legislative chamber.

Since the end, Aquino and Aquino are avoiding any abuse related to the suspension of the armed arguments between the armed conflict between the armed conflict between the armed conflicts of the citizens every time they insist the surrender of the indigenous people every time they are pointing a panel or "special delegation."

It is clear that the Marcos regime is not interested in the peace talks to solve the root of the armed conflict and will complete an agreement based on the Saligang Batas of the implementation of the Oplan Galugad conducted in the implementation of the Oplan Galugad conducted in the implementation of the Oplan Galugad conducted.

In spite of the use of Aquino in the use of Aquino, the revolutionary movement that their path to be removed is still determined, to insist on resolving the root of Filipino civilians through a program to push through the national budget for a democratic change.
Because of this, it will continue for the PKP, it will push through with the armed fight and its program to push the Filipino people from the suspension of the filipino nation from the formation of democratic governance.

It is only this what the people want to spread and be able to spread the strong winds of economists, politics and society for just a long and long-lasting peace talks or not, we remain with the revolutionary movement.
