To whom the ball? By Rey Marchil on August 19, 2016, while the scheduled date of the Marcos family in the burial of the former dictator at the Libingan ng mga Bayani, a good sign is the readiness of President Rodrigo Duterte next, whatever the decision of the Supreme Court will follow.
From being aggressive in the leadership of the Supreme Court, the President became calm - he asked for apology to Chief Justice Lourdes Sereno, a show of respect in the judiciary, even though their belief is different in the way to suppress illegal drugs.
Through his "moderate" - Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella, it's possible that the Supreme Court won the petition to stop the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos Sr. at the Libingan ng mga Bayani, so it is very impossible for the burial of President Ferdinand Marcos Sr. at the Libingan ng mga Bayani, it is very impossible that he did not keep on just a Temporary ResOrder (TRO).
Duterte himself, admitted that Marcos is not a hero, according to the last interview and only recognize the rights of the former dictator as a soldier and the President why he is allowed to be buried in the Libingan ng mga Bayani - not for whatever he has done in his town.
If you think about it, the Marcos family should be allowed to refuse the offer of Duterte if his image is in danger and they are still the reason why the Marcos family does not know that the popularity of the President might be affected.
"That's not only" that, the family of Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos Junior should be ashamed of the mouth of Duterte from the very good leadership of his father, Imelda was said to have been mentioned by Duterte about the allegation that Imelda was made in Macoy but was there someone spoke with them?
Duterte won and voted for more Filipinos because of the number of Filipinos for a mayor; he does not have a high score to the public service and intelligent lawyer; he knows where the strategy should place himself since he sat on the palace, put in the right, and defense to the right.
That is why it is hard to judge the strategy of Duterte for Marcos, and after Marcos will be recognized as the best president, it is like the mother of Bongbong did not want to accept his father's allegation, that is why it would be better if you want to accept the offer of the President?
"Bongbong did not notice, why Vice President Leni Robredo was given a Cabinet post especially since Duterte did not get any position; why did the President allow the planned burial of Marcos, even Senate President Koko Pimentel, who are both allies?
With the skill and intelligence of Duterte, I do not want to think of this strategy to accommodate the Marcos family, whatever the last campaign of its government is because the end of the Supreme Court could answer.
In this scenario, all the camp won't take revenge on the popularity of the President, dragged the tension because it might be first as a hero "Bongbong in the current generation that is why his father is buried in Batac.
