"Do not be complacent about the threat of MERS-CoV.

The Supreme Court-Tropas that has not brought the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome or the three Koreans who came to the Philippines this past June 22, was announced.
Prior to this, the Koreans have not seen any signs of MERS-CoV, like high fever and vomiting.
Although we are happy with the statement of shingles, it is not bad to talk about the disease because it is just beside him and you will be able to enter other day in the Philippines.
Hundreds of roads.
MERS-CoV will immediately cause death.
In Saudi Arabia, more than 400 were killed in this illness without a certain vaccine and medicine.
And when he entered South Korea this past two months, there were recorded more than 30 people who died and these are increasing in spite of the very beautiful hospital where they were treated.
There are two hospitals that can be said World First Class, including Samsuraji Hospital, closed after some doctors and nurses who took care of the patients have died.
They closed the pain so that the disease will not spread but it was found out where MERS-CoV will appear now.
What should I do?
What will be done in case it is proven that the Koreans have MERS-CoV.
What will be done in the hospital where these were first taken by them before they were rushed to the Institute of-Tropas in Alabang, Muntinlupa?
How about the other passengers of the airplane that are riding the Koreans, where are they?
Is there a record where they will get to contact them so they will be examined and given appropriate action?
How about the coming from South Korea, Saudi Arabia and other countries that have MERS-CoV?
Aside from RITM, is there other hospitals that will be allowed to bring you his illnesses like those in provinces and far from Metro Manila?
Are there funds and other help that the government can give to the victims and will be given to a family by them?
Symptoms.
If you have a fever at 100 percent or 38 degrees Celsius, you might think that if you have MERS-CoV, you or not.
It is about 37 degrees Celsius or 98.6 degrees east) is the normal heat in the body of the people and if it is free, it can be said that the person has a fever.
If accompanied by a fever that has a severe headache, vomiting, loose bowel movement, difficulty in urinating, just run to the hospital and consult a doctor.
A funeral home might be brought to you, if you do not act and also get involved with your loved ones, neighbors, and neighbors of the whole country.
The study usually goes up to 14 days if you have MERS-CoV, you are not careful, and if the doctors will not be careful, each day will be counted before the doctor will be infected easily.
It can be said that around 20 to 30 people have MERS-CoV, who are calling the Lord, especially since there is no medicine and vaccine against this disease which is allegedly from a bat and camels.
Correct!
If MERS-CoV will hit us and there are people to be hospitals, hopefully the funeral parlor, hospital, doctors and nurse will not be cut off.
We are telling this, Bro, because while there is a calamity to health and life, children of tofu, their children's children becomes the same for them.
If payment for those who get sick and those who die, the price is affordable.
The victims stay in the heart, hunger and other bad luck that should have been given pity, fair and inhumane treatment.
The problem is, the government does not meddle even if they will report to them.
The government in taking advantage like having the commission and tax to those who are dead, tax from expensive medicine and hospitalization were even accomplices and even the doctor's toll fee and many others.
Those are the only ones who are the only ones.
What if the politicians now have MERS-CoV, in case the Koreans will become positive?
They are the ones who take care of those who get sick with the Koreans and other pity for the disease.
The strong shall remain in all those who are fighting and fighting in position, "those who save their position, are the ones we vote, that is why they are not corrupt.
And if these are not a puppy of the big businesses in electricity, oil, water, food, medicine, Preso, Pad, impeachment, anti-prone towns, going crazy and other parts of the Filipinos.
To MERS-CoV, we will be grateful if they are going to be united for us to be free from power and become addicted to power and accomplice of the abusive businessmen.
