Well.
What?
Hopefully.
Ran to East Avenue where you are the center of the child.
I have a high level.
According to the doctor of Pag-asa, the poor child is spared from this.
It is not a car.
We do not have anything to do and for so-time, if you will open it, my mind suddenly disappeared.
In school, where is the body courted not to take care of the New Year.
More than 100 are still far; we can see each other than two pesos.
But the authorities call to stop the father of a gun so that others can't do anything.
Israel is very strong for other news.
The number of those who have cut off the number of blood that has been cut in the East Avenue for us will have a sigh.
This is why my name is currently being treated there, it is up to you, it is up to you.
This economic Planning?
That is my passengers, Jackie's, who is very fond of talking, Ate Mariz.
Let us talk to them of his parents and sister, and then, according to them, they say at the same day.
He / she was able to leave because there were no classes now that he is already at Kaingin 1.
Which now he is with in the floor of the room here in front of the room where his parents do not like her mother, she does not want her mother to fight.
They still suspects that the victim, who is the police, who could have a gun, was said to have been the owner of a gun in Barangay Commonwealth, while the victim was almost six-year-old boy who was looking into a stray skin on the last night, most of the victims, who have already been together in Barangay Commonwealth, Medical Center, and Medical Center.
You are very quiet here in the emergency move on to Bicol Medical Center at dawn and you have not brought any victim.
Blood was broken and not here in Isabela six-six.
Fur.
Just four hospitals here in pre-order to choose yesterday that you'll be able to call it, but according to him, he should be able to call out if there is a Moro family member that you should just call on to the parents of Stephanie that's why I am worried that you have no idea of those who have been hurt.
Now, they have not yet recovered and fired a gun when they are just very weak at their neighbors because that is really a lot of policemen who are riding a gunshot, that's why he still doesn't want her parents to go straight to her parents, who, according to her parents, directly went to his parents.
Nicole happened just near their house the owner of the gun that resulted to their house.
Yes, he owns a gun that became deep in his mouth with his mouth, that's why he / she could not be able to leave the head of Nicole, that's why he / she cannot say that he / she wasn't able to know that he / she didn't have to know that he / she has two hands with people in church.
It's true that it's true that it's true that to be under the movies in Corporation of Thursday to be under the implementation of his debt, but now, it is still needed to work before he has been used to work, but now that he is a big effect of his debt, but now it's just a bad effect for him to be in an operation at around 5: 00 in the evening.
Up to thirteen years, you will be able to take care of different countries there, with the news of the janitor.
The four were sleeping on what they said that there was something they had with the roof of the house.
The roof of the house is dried under the roof of the house and with bullets.
I even asked.
Guns.
I am not but what do you like a stray person who joined them.
He / she wasn't able to lock the lock just to wait for the fall of their house.
For what is the celebration of the New Year.
Your mother.
But he said he was shocked to see the hole on the roof of the house.
He is thankful that you are not hit by your three children while you are sleeping in the room going down because of the entirety of the incident, it is up to you.
The recorded cases is being cooked in our troop.
This is Edward's debt.
In his hand, you know it is up to you.
He also got pregnant with what happened when I was able to carry out everything that I was carrying while lying down on the stairs of Dagupan C TT) who was going to file a case against it, which will be filed a case against that.
It was rushed to the hospital of clothes.
The twenty-year-old Robert was in jail.
Meanwhile, you are the one who is up to Brando while drinking with two others even though they are still different; we have not courted anyone who does not marry.
