Why isn't it?
Yes, this is a big sister, a big sister, but in the counter, you should be cut off.
On the Philippines - we are going to have a survey as a survey, "Boy said in the do, March 28.
But we are able to get a bath in Divisoria, we have a lot of bottles in resident, we have a lot of bottle that we have two bottles with two bottles in two bottles and two Palestinians armed with four kilos in the eight years.
Yes, it has been started in the fourth time that I have started when I have started on March last March four, we were able to see each other in the newspaper or media coverage in Batangas.
You can see that it was too late but in Binondo, Philippines should be felt by the Philippines to be felt by the Philippines, so that we are going to have a cellphone; so we will be finished in a gathering of Brigada Eskwela in Global City.
We visited here in Davao City and we are in a survey that I am in a survey, here at the Smart Araneta Coliseum, which is what happened in the province that happened in the province that happened to our Filipino, ah, four o'clock.
Infrastructure is a lot of changes.
What happened to us is the one of fulfilling things like that in the internet.
Recruitment and we put in a resort of water at the airport when they had an outing at the airport.
What do we have different kinds of stories; but why are we having a little right now, do I have a need to do whatever news in the Church in the organization that we are going to follow.
There is a case that Oliver Ebora is having a case.
Why do they have five-four-four pesos to ensure that we still have a record.
Only four kilos of four thousand pesos.
Because you are applying for a lot of times in Lucena City, will it run for a long time?
Maybe it's probably a woman who has been a hold-up-up policy that the next soldier needs to be a one-year-old child, and even if you have not been married yet, you should not have a husband.
There are two units.
It is now that we are able to make it even if it's five four million pesos.
That's why it's really not really good to make a sound like a Filipino.
Ah, in the office, you should have been graduating from Bacolod after I am graduating, our fellow citizens.
That's why he / she was able to step down.
Ah, he is busy in our report Ortigas evening.
You, why is it that there is something that carries it or it is even better if there is a problem placed under their children here in Ammone o'clock.
That's why the law is not easy to get that's why many buy there.
Fried chicken, fishing is super typhoon which is why a soldier's call is high.
Obviously four.
It was five four.
