Yes, that is not what I said, who will you call Boy?
Why don't I ask anything if I am in my life with this.
Very short; he / she didn't go to your birthday yesterday, right, with my birthday yesterday, she has no one to go to, at the television; we have nothing to go to, like a dish, which is why she has not been doing something like that.
You've told me many things.
Yes right.
Yes right.
Yes, after the call you call me yes.
Just me, you are just like that.
Yes, we are very pitiful; I admire you so I can understand what is the x-ray of the "yes, so that we are stupid.
"What do you have a Visita Iglesia Francis" is to be a Visita Iglesia Francis "to Tanim-Kalawit Gang; and RL.
Ah, you didn't tell me that I miss me.
"We did not come from each other, he said," when I went to school, I forgot so you will be happy here but I am here.
I am confused; he / she really wants to go with him even if I have something to do with me.
"Do you know how will we go home to Quezon title, where are we going to meet with, we will see each other on the band that's why we will see each other on the band that's why I am going to meet, we can still see me," we still ask him / her, that's why I still ask him that you will not meet me.
Whatever matter how much we have, it is probably not a man.
You do not have any eighty pesos only why do we have to accept that we have a lot of drinking; we probably don't know if I will drink it, and I don't know if I will drink it without me drinking.
Yes, it's as if I will not drink me.
Because I said that I have an allergy; we are very stupid; that's why I am an allergy, because you will not be listening to you more.
Is there a need for a grandfather to get married when you drink alcohol?
It was when of course, of course, Cavite.
Why is it that M J J in Bulacan has a lot of things that we have in that kind of age, and fur.
"That isn't it right, isn't it right now that he is in the province now in Bulacan.
You are in Bulacan today.
Then, he goes to Manila yes, i-ing.
Yes.
