Why is there a need to forgive? By Kuya Rom this November 23, 2016.
Dear Kuya Rom.
Last year, I had a relationship with him when she is super kind, but the super boy is always talking with another woman in her cellphone.
Then, he became a problem about my travel, where I am going to, and who were my companions, I asked him to be sure that I am not in the place where I was going to, I found out that I was seen with another companion.
I have an enemy, because this is not just a different woman, I am a close friend, I am different when I get angry, I will throw those around me but I stop himself.
If we see each other, it's as if I don't know anything about me, I just say that I have an unexpected visit or my mom is going to leave me, and we're going to turn our backs on him.
So that I will not be ill-tempered, I separated with her in text that I did not meet with him and I heard that I have no communication with him and to my friend, I heard that I have separated from him, especially my friend.
Brother, why did this happen?
Dear Sheryll Mundo.
There are reasons why this happens when he is a boy, and loved him even if you were not trusted and put an end to the foolishness.
You have learned to stop yourself (self-control) and mix anger (anger (anger)) because you have learned a blessing from you with a bad experience.
You thank God, because he is moving your life in a different way.
He is requesting you in a way that you are hurt, the events that you do not want to experience, but you need to pass, for your character to prosper.
There are times that God does that you will suffer in order to strengthen your character and your personality is easier to forgive if you look at the events through a pro-God.
It is important to forgive that this is good for your health and dealing with your fellowmen, forgiveness will give you freedom if you leave the prison of mind that you can escape from the cage of resentment and weight.
Most of all, with the blessing of God, you are free to your good future where there is loyalty and real love.
