
Join Ka Roger-in-law -- the KP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 19, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration ation: Some of Ka Roger and in terms of CPP-CPP.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines asked the Filipino youth to join the Bagong Hunan Bayan, from the revolutionary movement of the farmers by the farmers in the countryside with the middle of the participation of Ka Roger and in the right campaign started by Kabanbantayan.

The KP has released this call on the occasion of the fourth speaker of the PKP, Ka Roger "Rosal's birthday last year, the PKP has declared the birthday of Ka Roger" this last year, Ka Roger's birthday last June 22, 2011.

"The constricted streets of the main country in the countryside will continue to gain more needs for the suspension of the roads of education and culture to help the vote of the farmers, in supporting the vote of the farmers and those who have connections with the land of farmers and those who intend to arrest the farmers and Commander," said the KP.

"As the Handog Pasasalamat of the youth, join Ka Roger in Bagong Hala Bayan, which is one of the ones responsible for the armed movement of farmers in Southern Tagalog and Bicol last 1970, and their skills in education and propaganda to protect the Filipino farmers in the fighting against the foolishness and abuse," said the KP.

"Let us allow the story of Ka Roger's life to the current generation of Filipino youth who are experiencing the same problems that pushed the Filipino workers and the farmers to launch a new masses and armed fight," added the KP.

"In the past few years, the Marcos regime was able to see the disconcerns of the filipino people and the local government of the filipino people and the local government officials and the local government," said the KP.

"Like Ka Roger, let us expose the problems of chemicals released by the filipino people," said the PKP, "added the PKP," added the PKP, "added the PKP," according to the revolutionary movement of the Filipino people. "
