There is a need to be a former service, it's okay, last Saturday, we have no idea that in the end of April, you can't see that we are the only interest in the Park for the high blood that we have paid, who are the only ones who have paid interest, which is the only ones who have paid interest in the same age.
"It's the form of yes, they are going to dry yes, but because we can't have any idea, we can't take care; that is our guest.
Which came from the Philippine Airlines Flight MH370, who is similar to the amount of benefits that can be achieved by our farmers but what is needed is that the first priority to achieve our farmers, which is the first priority of our farmers, that's why our farmers, who are in front of our farmers, are our farmers, who are in different sectors of the agricultural sector.
A first before, he / she was able to go to school; he / she was distressed.
Very small; we should really need a little bit in Agriculture and then because of the farmers, it is still smaller.
I just heard him Mor news only and then.
Now, if they are sick.
It will lead to ten-year-old people, who are just looking, on the other hand, is too young, but they still do not have a good statement because they do not have a good statement because they do not have any reaction to you.
The way they are going to make is that the two-year-old sibling will continue to be together, that is why there will be a lot of peso tomorrow, which is why there's no one who can go to school; and fur.
Our government might be prepared in giving help.
So that I have a fire so right?
"That is maybe you don't have a signal from aside from the principle that we are going to reach; we might have no actions and will only be able to do anything else, that is why we do not have anything else for a few of Quezon program in the '.
We are far away; we are really needed now that we are going to be in a different kind of class; so we will be the first one to live when you are.
It's like that, it's because they were able to endure it, that is why it's good that you are very beautiful because it's because that's because it's because that's because it's because he's very beautiful.
"We might have been paying for a long distance from those who do not want to get the Access Road, why are they not able to understand why it is very good for us to get a form of his knowledge; however, because they say that it's not true that we get a form of his knowledge; we are not able to understand each other, that is why they don't understand even if it is widespread; we still don't understand each other, that is why he does not understand even if it is widespread.
Yes, i'll go to school; we can go to Arvin Anito.
I was given to annoyed me, my personal friend, that's why it's like you really have many people.
My colleagues with Jay might be impressed by us because this might lead the program today, rather we should wait for the program for the small villain first of Agriculture and insist on it.
This is the message that was about to be at the funeral parlor that's why he / she was about to go to school, I was able to drive, and then he / she was also sitting on, and then he / she was also able to donate to them.
That's why he / she was feasted in.
The owner of the BI-fi was able to bring back to a room that's why I can only do what the former farmers should do, but we also have companions but, and we have a big problem, there is a big problem that has a good problem.
I have been to what I have been going to have been going to, that's why Pia said that Pia still hasn't resigned from his duty in the Subic siblings.
About it.
You are sleeping for small, isn't it that last four, there is the most high order given by Star?
President.
But is it right that our form of hammer, hammer, shrimp; and drils are written, instead of going home to Tagalog, instead of going home to Tagalog.
To you, he is now the one to do with what he will do, so that the president can really understand you, the President understood that the president is my second moms, whose name is at the same place, whose name is at the same place, "
To what we do, it's simple and maybe.
Is there a kind of sibling, right?
If there is a recall, there are also four who will cover-up, so that they will be cut off.
Camply, where are we there?
In the water in Agriculture, which is why.
I can easily understand me about the edge of the alphabet; that's why when you go home, we were able to go home to each other; we immediately go home to each other, they immediately understand the lines at him.
Yes, and then I found out.
We are proud; that they are the first people who are at the first people, who are at the first people, are the ones who will go to B; they are the problem to come.
Let us just wait for it again in the Chief Inspector.
In extension, they are near EDSA where I told him.
At yes, we said that our friend is going to share, share to where the students, Robert, are always not you, right?
That's why our father is full-tempered; and his daddy is different from others that's why we're sure that we would be sure.
For them, it is right to do that, it is time to start a bath.
It is okay no matter how long the process is to pick up; as long as the process is to be exported; so it can be done by Agriculture tomorrow.
He / she grew up; he / she said that he / she didn't take care; as well, he / she didn't need to wait for a long time for me to just call me a day after a day.
Today, if not?
That is all of C!
Covetous, deport; maybe the people might take advantage.
Alright, give help if they have something.
If ever?
