Change everything!
Bad of Oro July 30, 2016, in spite of the frequent violence of illegal drugs and those discovered by shabu laboratory, it seems that the sale is stronger.
We are not wondering why the drug pusher is widespread, this is because there are people who are still policemen who gave the strong inside of drug suspects.
If there are no drug pushers or they are protectors, they are the ones who did nothing to suppress illegal drugs in their jurisdiction because they are negligent, lazy, or are afraid to anti-drug pushers and suspects in their jurisdiction.
They might not be involved in drugs, but they are useless in fighting here despite the power sent to them.
For Quezon City Police District Director Senior Superintendent Guillermo Lorenzo Eleazar, the problem of drugs in the country can be compared to cancer.
Like cancer who has a serious illness, the problem of drugs is already severe in the country.
Because of this, Eleazar believes that they will need action that will be more than the operation, for cancer to be treated.
With this belief, Eleazar decided to conduct the Internal Revenue, in simpler terms, exchange of policemen who are in position especially those who can be considered to be in the "prepaid line" of the fight against drugs.
This way, in treatment to the illness, is considered as the transplant in addition, Director Eleazar, "the asset of the PNP, we and our people are in critical condition and infect other people."
It's because they need to remove those who failed to fulfill their duties in order to change more active personnel and officials who are really serious about the fight against drugs.
In fact, this Wednesday, July 27, Eleazar fired the 88 personnel of Anti-Illegal Drug Group of QCPD, according to the approval of the station commanders.
Eleazar also removed the 53 personnel who are destroying the Anti-Illegal Drugs of QCPD Station 6.
Sanga-July 1, thirty-five were removed and transferred to Mindanao because he is just fulfilling the pickpocket on him, and this is what he will fulfill if in their ranks, there will also be changes especially that the current administration's principle is in pushing the real change.
Even though it is painful for him, the firing of his own personnel is painful, he can't be felt guilty for him, especially that the ranks of the police are using drugs.
In treatment to cancer, the treatment of chemotherapy is a painful process, it needs to be done to save the country from serious problems of drugs.
Eleazar also knows that through this process, the trust and respect of the public to the police will be restored.
He made sure that in every part of the QCPD, the operation of the QCPD against suspected drug pushers and members of the syndicate are being followed.
They should also watch those who are pretending to watch vigilantes because they are included in the police who are called by him and transferred to a different place, and so they were transferred to a different place, and so they would not allow a song.
At present, the drug pushers who have surrendered are up to five thousand, while they were arrested and those killed in the encounter are 31.
Eleazar also believes that the suspension of the suspects should be followed and to take care of the rights of the suspects, but at that point, the suspect will fight, and then the police are forced to use guns.
