
Programs implemented by the DOST, BFAR and Coast Guard, stated.

October 29, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, October 29 (Pia) - It was announced by capitol Press Corps recently, the services implemented by the national agencies in the province.

In the report of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), DOST Provincial Science and Technology Director Jesse M. Pine said that even if the management of the national government has changed, he did not affected their office because they continue to build programs in the whole country.

"The DOST so it is not true that the new administration is not true that it is one of the meaningful agencies of the government and what they can do is a big help to the citizens," according to Pine.

Pine added that at present, their agency is being implemented by the Disbursement Acceleration Program or SET-UP so that they will be able to help the alro, small and medium built, which can be more effective in their skills and improve their products.

As said, they have received a lot of financial help from Calapan up to the town of Bulos).

Bureau of Flintshire was also guest of the said press conference between Bureau of Fisheries Code (BFAR) Letriro and Oriental Mindoro Coast Guard Station Commander Isnilon Hapilon.

They are dereta.

Asis shared the new chapter in RA 1065 of Fisheries Code for the campaign to build the campaign against illegal fishing.

The goal is, he said, to intensify the implementation of regulations on duty especially for the commercial fishing in order to protect the small fishermen that are used in fishing in fishing, according to the local government, BFAR was presented to the online Regulations (PCG) that is coming from Semirara Island (Marwan).

The duty, according to him, the coast guard will be the protection of the celebration when they see a lack of lack and violation of the rules of the said vessel on the said vessel.

Yangico, that if there is a typhoon and many stranded passengers, their agency is coordinating with the local government and the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) for the immediate need of the filipino masses.

He also shared their experience in the last time he worked hard for putting into a cauldron which became effective in order to avoid the disturbance, especially in small vehicles.

Mella ico promised to the journalists that they can hope for the information to be able to get information in their office because transparency should be given to the members of the CST, BFAR and Coast Guard during the opportunity given to them to explain to the citizens what their office is doing in the province of Oriental Mindoro.

(CPRD / LTO), Pia-Mimaropa, Calapan).
