The lawmakers were super affected by the lawmakers.

OPAMORE by Butch M. Calaor (Filipino Star Ngayon), PO 2 44; UPP-November 20, 2014 - 12: 00am editing.

The kidnappers are asking the officials of ORA 9208 Sawata, if there were no problems with the armed forces that were hidden in Caballo Island after it arrived in the Philippines, my Philippines and Liberia to ensure that they will be charged by the government as well so that they will be imprisoned, I mean that they will be imprisoned in Caballo Island.
According to the asset of the elements of ORA 9208 SMO, if DOH acting Secretary Janette Garin believes that those who will approach the soldiers should not believe in case they will not be able to get tired of if ever there is a virus, at 133 kilometers per hour.
"They should keep the quarantine on."
The barangay officials said that, Senator Tito Sotto said that the zika virus might spread on the visit of Garin Et al in Caballo Island.
According to the asset of the owner of ORA 9208 SMO, if it is true what Garin says that the PR is not necessary if there are no symptoms of the virus on the soldiers who visited them.
Question - why did they even put them on the quarantine?

"What now, if there is an estimate that there will be a symptoms of the pockets, I mean it is wrong that Ebola is wrong?" Asked the call that he is brave.
My answer - the DOH officials should also keep the quarantine on the leadership of Garin Fariñas, who went to Caballo Island and brought them to the island going to the areas where they went there, "said the fool SPO-10 in Crame.
As they say, even if it is just the cause of their damn?
This is if ever there is an estimate that there will be some symptoms of Ebola?
Senator JV Ejercito denied Garin because he violated the mandate of the king, I mean it is wrong that everyone should take care of the said disease that is why they are strict in monitoring the said disease.
"
"Maybe it would be better to talk to Dr. Lynn Lee Suy to explain it to an excuse that it is right or wrong what Garin did to what we are talking about right now," said the fool who takes revenge.
The kidnappers said that this was an official of ORA 9208 SMO, that Garin denied that he did nothing to the quarantine period which is implemented by the victims.
"As they say, the" super-bala "really trusted?"
Oh my!
Is this true?
Ejercito said, "at the other hand, he / she was going to be held at the Libingan ng mga Are Ebola virus, which was a 21-year-old Charlesetta Williams, a 21-year-old matriarch at the High School which was held at High School."
According to the asset of the owner of ORA 9208 Sawata, two congressmen are asking that they will have the quarantine on that they are going on.
Wait for it.
