In the name of election.

There is a big meaning there is a witness of the state that is said to be the brain of violence which is said to be the mastermind of violence in the country, instead of the primary accused of the said scandal.
It is obvious that this movement is an operation which is responsible for the Palace.
Of course, to strengthen or strengthen the accusation against the opposing senators of the administration, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla.
The attempt by the government to find a "alle" state witness in relation to the P10 billion pork barrel scam, the end of the ashes, the end is a simple dog to be cooked as Gigi Reyes, former chief of Staff of Enrile.
For the extent of the script of Malacanang, Reyes wants to use his former boss.
This scenario was identified as former Technology Development Assistance Center Director General Dennis Alcoreza during the release of the witness against Revilla while Rubie Tuason, against Estrada.
And it is even Gigi Reyes's fight against Enrile but it looks like Malacanang failed.
There was a report that after Reyes became cold, the reason why he is unlikely to be a state witness to speed up JPE.
As to why the "agreement did not suddenly happen, and after the singing of Janet Lim-Napoles, it is too suspicious.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima admitted his meeting with Napoles after the Palace junked the possibility to make Reyes as a witness.
Didn't Reyes be able to cook if Napoles wants to make the last card?, Napoles is convinced to tell all his knowledge on the pork barrel scam.
Everyone knows that Napoles is the winner of the scam, and all his accomplices in corruption or the syndicate are the ones who survived the lower part and is under the custody of the Department of Justice.
So in order to be a state witness, Napoles only needs to follow the script of Malacanang to go directly to his enemies.
All this drama that is being done is not because of the government's campaign to chase the plunderer of the country but to sweep the enemies in politics for the coming 2016 elections.
