BI Chief Fred Mison, a patron of the Ombudsman.

The complaint against Immigration Commissioner Sumang Mison's request to the Ombudsman is a blessing.
Before the past week, Mison filed a case to the Ombudsman of Immigration Intelligence chief, Atty. Fault.
Intel chief Atty. Justice has complained about the violation of Mison's violation of Section 3 (a) and ()) of Republic Act (19) by Republic Act 819) through Section 284 of government Actor) which is only meant for the employees of the said agency.
Based on the said law, Mison said, as the chief executive officer of the Bureau, the price that is set under the Sec. 284 of Humalig), which is saying to resolve the position that is connected by the department secretary, undersecretary, assistant secretary, Bureau and regional director, Bureau and regional director, and another.
Atty. Fault, Mison said that it is a lawyer, who as the commissioners of the Bureau, is not lesser than P75,000, but aside from the bonus and other than 2,000 pesos, it will not be less than P75,000, "it will not be less than P75,000," justice has been paid for by the Liberal Party.
Tsk, tsk!
It is said that Mison is doing to give himself the looming time that is because of the influence of an official (chief of the BI financial management and others).
It is clear that he violated the rules and regulations which led to undergo rehab.
Do you imagine that Mison is receiving any kind of time that will file a benefits of Top Rank Promotions to be filed against their UV Expresses?!
What kind of Bureau chief Mison believes that the benefits of his own pocket even if it is against the law!
That's why we are not wondering why the employees wish for the immediate resignation of Mison because of the involvement of the bribery for the Liberal Party (LP) and other controversies that has been destroyed in the credibility of the BI as an agency of the government.
According to the employees, it was the first time that Mison has been in the back of the Ombudsman because it is also in the release of a diesel by some vehicles, he lost its morale in order to lead the BI.
But it seems that Mison is naturally shameless so he just laughed on the imposed punishment to him by the Ombudsman.
Aside from the complaint of PNoy, Mison and five more officials of the Bureau, including five other officials of the Bureau, including the warden of the BI detention case, in Bicutan, in violation of Republic Act 6713, or better known as the Code of conduct of the Eiffel Tower.
It is stated in the complaint of Cabanchan, Mison's complaint, Mison and his Co who went to RA to 19), particularly around 3 (a), (2), 224) in relation to the custody of Southeast Asian Games.
Cabanchan complained because of the irregularities that Mison wants to fill in the sudden release of the Chinese national which was arrested because it was reported that he has been working in the Philippines without appropriate working visa or permit.
Walis in fact!
You are a patron of the Ombudsman, Boy!
Does PNoy still have any plans to run again in the BI there?
"Good upbringing.
