Dry by the ice.

The imprisonment of Senators Bong Revilla and Jinggoy Estrada is due to their involvement on the PDAF scam, the various reactions from some sectors, but they will agree with everything that happened, which is an ally of an actor, which is an ally of an actor, which is an ally of one of all.
This is of one of the Aquino administration for one of the Aquino administration because, according to the Department of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima, they have been able to do the "epal." Which is an important part of the government's campaign against the graft case.
This is also one of those who are pointing of one to the public to be fed up and fed up in corruption and the opinion is influenced by the media, he is innocent or guilty in the cases they are facing for Revilla and Estrada, he is still innocent or guilty in their lives (even in an ID, movie and politics).
Because of the declaration of the imprisonment of imprisonment, they can point out and go back to memory their usual situation and planning for the future of their career as action star, and as a politician.
For now, they pray for them to be strong in front of the severe challenges that they are expecting to finish.
For the opposition in politics, this is another new chapter with strategy for the 2016 elections, it can be prevented that the critics of the opposition will not be prevented, which is the only big personality of the opposition and they have something to do with the previous administration who are charged and put in jail.
Now that former President Gloria Arroyo is in the hospital arrest and is expected to be my co-workers and Estrada, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, along with the Philippine National Police Custodial Center in Camp Crame, it seems that the members of the opposition and officials of the previous administration have become corrupt and he is faultless.
The official suspected that this is more than a different kind of corruption in the Aquino administration; and the government of PNoy is also using the pork barrel scam to launch the political barrel scam, the aim are the leaders of the opposition who have a big chance to win in the 2016 elections.
If he wants to maintain his image to the Filipinos as a loyal president, he should not have to go far away, and imprison the big names from his party and cabinet who are also involved in scandal.
If this idea will be fired for his administration, what PNoy can only do is his "request" to his government officials who are involved in the pork barrel scam, that they have to resign.

Critics said that the Palace cannot use the case of former Customs Commissioner Rufino "Ruffy" Biazon, famous allies of the president, as an example of the campaign against corruption with no movement in politics.
Talk about it even before he can be included in the second floor of the complaint filed by Justice Department of Ombudsman, Biazon will just leave the Bureau, which can be due to his an effective leadership or result of politicking by some officials of Aquino, just like the issue on pork barrel in order to resign from his position.
