
There is a big difference in the treatment of the Tubbataha Management and Chinese vehicles, identified by PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 11, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-CPP-NDF), the Chinese national, gave birth to the Chinese.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines insisted that the difference in the treatment of the Marcos dictatorship from the consecutive entry of the military from the US and the Chinese fishermen from January to the Philippines is strict, which is currently detained and waited for the investigation.

Last Monday, a vehicle that was attacked by the Chinese in the Tubbataha is said to have been used in the Tubbataha Management Office of the United Nations, one declared two weeks ago and the last piece of the US Naval Site in the United Nations, is prohibited to have been found in the southern part of the flood and almost 3,000 meters in the right direction of the flood.

"The authorities of the Philippines with the 12-year crew members of the Chinese fishes were the ones that they did not do with the crew members of the USS Guardian of the same place."

"The quick action against the crew members, the authorities of the US while the authorities of the US riding the USS Guardian did not agree to stop the approaching authorities and stop them in front of the direct force of the military forces against the abomination.

"Added, Aquino did not even do anything when the military defeated the crew members of the USS Guardian.

"In front of the flood of the Chinese fish, the government budget of the Philippines is making noise now, how the Marcos family needs to pay the rules of the flood in order to accept the damage caused by the flood in order to accept the damage caused by the flood in order to accept the fund allocated to the US."

"The offer of the US, who is ready to accept the Aquino administration, has no other choice but a bribe to block the military from the US to surrender himself in the jurisdiction of the Philippines."

"Because the Marcos regime did not insist on the law of the Philippines and the authorities on the crew members of the USS Guardian, it is possible that the military and the US will give the right to surrender his rights that the military personnel refused to surrender to the legal process of the Philippines," said the KP.
