Who would happen to us and sleep?
After spreading the path to us the next part, the part of the cemetery is confused which is difficult for the burial and the pakbet.
This is the tree that has a point; as long as they are calling the old beggar here in the mountain so I thought that it's one of the small beggars in the mountain so I thought it's one of the small things that they will continue even if it continues to continue.
While you are at the same time, we have seen each other for two hours because we are in a rest of training as long as we are now here in the Wednesday of the mountain so they say we still do not love us.
"It was earlier that they stopped our text because it's as if I am a bit busy with a pattern in our time, that's why it's very good that we are going to look at each other, we will continue to look at each other, but if we will not be taken away, we will not be able to taste it.
Actor in the mountain is that we also feel that we will be sent to a close way so the Bira will always be always pitiful.
What we have been to.
More than 100 percent are lacking; we have been telling the traffic; we saw that we were talking to each other, and when we found out that we were talking to each other, they said that we can go through a mountain so that we can go to a mountain which almost passed away, and the one who passed away here in Pampanga, who passed away in Pampanga.
Is it already there.
That's because that's the amount of comment; that's why, Donna attacked.
One four Zero.
There are many things that we are because of that.
Covetous, filling, to be able to make sure that they are able to make sure.
Report to a report, isn't it that on the door, it is at the door of the gravity towards you.
January.
Fell.
Also bring news.
There is no.
That is not a Sunday there, according to him, he said.
You have told you.
Isn't it right in General which, what is his story, he also loses its stories that sometimes fought against the subjugators of our country, beauty of one o'clock in the afternoon.
Four years have been hid in the provinces that is why included in the stories are sharp but it is a good thing that the first ones are good.
No.
Only half of the pipe was shattered when you have been paying for a vacation in the afternoon that is why it's almost all of you and is the one who is going to get tired, which is the source of the contestants.
There is a sign that the payment will be paid, that is why there are also many people who will go up to this mountain because, until now, it still believes that this mountain is also seen by a group of Rerole, Ipit Gang, which led to the also Misty Go.
Too long ago, the residents, who are said to have been placed there for, hide what they have to hide, what are the only things that we can do, so many of our countrymen are not that fast.
But now, those who are in the mountain are now gone.
Waiting for life will persevere and livelihood.
But he / she said that he only changed his sharp gazes in us, shrimp; and covetousness.
Yes, I can benefit from the house of a call for them, but that is true that it is not a lot of people that are just coming from that.
Appetizer!
He / she was able to look down; he / she also does not have something to say.
Are you going to live in a few pre-life, so we are assigned here.
Because I was able to look down, the first one who was the first one to look at first, whose interest and respect the mountain.
It's not bad that I am not ugly to being ugly because it's just him who's just the noise of his house, the other groups there.
It's a good thing not only.
That is the question of the house helper.
They sympathize with the call.
Not only at home but the former president.
