
Illegal gambling, ESETC.

Who is the official of the Philippine National Police (PNP) who earned money from illegal gambling dens and whatever illegal drugs, then let us see that you are not hit by lightning.
If there is an official who will say that he is not able to earn money from illegal gambling, he is calling him lies in the body.
Why did the officials get to fight for being the PNP Chief, because there's a million coming from the payola here, can you think that even if the officials of the PNP had a seat, there is already waiting for millions of bills.
It is not common to us that illegal gambling is coming from the biggest amount of money received by the PNP Chief.
Who will be the gambling Lord who is not being able to make it not because they all are strong typhoon in the chief of police.
During the past days, I was able to talk to a district director of Manila Police District (MPD) and I asked him if it is true that he received more than a million pesos from illegal gambling dens in Manila just within a week.
I was surprised with what he said because he denied that he is receiving something weekly or instead, he said that he is not in the expenses of his office, right?
When I asked him why the officials were fighting for being District Director of MPD, he looked at me and said he had an appointment.
Well said that it is not only the PNP Chief that the officials are hoping to fight and be fighting over their positions as Regional Director, Provincial Director, and even chief of the PNP, and even District Director of 5 police station, as well as the chief of the said unit.
Even if you let the officials take a check on that, there will be no concrete evidence that General or PO 1 or captain or lieutenant was using money from the government because they admit it or not, their wealth is from illegal drugs, particularly the illegal gambling and drugs.
"If it's just the personnel of a famous unit which is with the rank of Staff until Senior Police, the houses and mansion of the house are studying, with 2 or 3 houses in the house, when the wife is studying, there is no work and when they entered the police, there is no one who wants to say nothing.
No matter who even the president of the country can no longer be taken away until it is not illegal gambling and there is no lack of abuse against drugs, because illegal and drugs are the source of millions of money without any evidence.
And even if even the PNP Chief is still like that, it will still be the same amount of money, who is the one who made a huge amount of money, who is difficult, and not all of them have a millionaire first?
Is I right, PNP Chief, General Alan Purisima?
