PNoy help, have a heart of a heart.

Before the state of the Nation Address of President Benigno Aquino III this July, the call of farmers at Paliparan 2 in Dasmariñas, Cavite will be given attention.
President Aquino calls for help, President Aquino, "the tenants in their land, including Mang Efren and Mister Pablo, after she has not given them the land they are hoping to undergo the Department of Agrarian Reform for the program of former President Corazon Aquino.
Their question is over how the land that happened was not given to them the land that was at 119,117 square meters that is why it took the name of the International Realty Corporation.
According to the farmers, they brought everything to the Provincial Prosecutor's Office that promised to help them to be led by the land that he is farming.
But they depend on nothing because they were not even informed by the guessed to the true events that happened in the face of the land, that's why the HRO was established in order to support the farmers who have no idea about the law and not to cheat on him.
Hopefully, before the anger in the chest of the farmers became stronger, it would be better if President Aquino will be able to investigate the incident even if the farmers who were given their own land are better because of the diligence of his great mother.

Just like his boss, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada, is his heart, Chief Inspector Bernabe, Jojo "Viceral, Jr., chief of Manila Action Force (Special Action Force (masses).
Although he was not able to help anything, he was able to help whatever Foundation, together with his chief of staff of Captain Jimmy de Pedro, who wants to enter college even if it is difficult in life.
It's obvious that de Pedro knows the youth who want to enter the UDM in order to finish their studies so that they will work hard to lift up the level of their livelihood.
There are a few students who came closer to Iriberri to personally help him on financial issues.
Even if he is strict with his personnel, especially in the implementation of the law, its heart is soft for giving help to work hard youth in order to finish studies.
Hopefully there are more people like Iriberri in Manila City Hall and in other parts of the Philippines so many of the youth will be given a chance to be able to study.
