Malaca単ang versus New York on COMM.

Recently, he released his commentary on their editions of the New York Times (NYT) of America.
The point of commentary against President Benigno Aquino III is positive.
The content of the editing in New York Times Square.
President Aquino said that he will stop the harassment and threats of the Supreme Court, as well as his dream, his term as a leader of the country will worsen.
The advice of New York Times Square to her, "a stop to be seen with the court for the Supreme Court (Aquino), for a step down, is just a stop.
Gemini Secretary Hernaez "Sonny" Coloma said the attack of NYT which is said to have not known the real situation of the country and the management of Noynoy (?).
The President should always consider the interest of the people and the people.
Anyway, the defense of Coloma is normal for his boss because he is riding a car approaching the ravine, I mean, right path.
That is really the dog that has been given expensive newspaper.
Blind, if it's blind!
The truth is, the splashes of the smoke made by NYt was even thin.
Forget to think about it because they have an offer and right thing to do a good person.
That is if he has difficulty in mind!
Can Malaca単ang control the bullying of Malaca単ang and his allies in the Congress against the Supreme Court?
It is almost obvious that they are looking for the Judiciary as a need to leave funds because of the decision against PDAF and DAP.
And because Mar Roxas knows that he will not win as President in 2016, even a surprise he will fight, he will be able to fight back instead of another term for Aquino!
According to the One GAPAID, he said?
The Marcos regime was further strengthened even if it has not only reached New York Times except for all the large corporals in many countries in the moment the new proposal of a congressman from the province of Isabela will be submitted to the legislative chamber.
The helmet house bill can be wiped out!
To be a ring, if it is a coincidence, Noynoy has heard President Benigno Aquino International Airport?
How are the faces of this proposal?
How much is the fund she needs for the election in 2016?
There, they have been keeping a lot of voices from their boss.
Whether it is going crazy or being entertained?
Read it carefully to Malaca単ang is the editing of NYT so that you will be enlightened!
