We will also see that the children are going to see that we are going to see that we are going to be seen from the Value Added Tax because I work hard every day.
They are not interested to study just in the cave, when the elementary school is having a hard time for high school.
That is why it is rare to finish studies.
I really cannot say anything to all the visitors of the children.
I can give a big help from Block Tindan, because there are many children who are still young.
You know that we only say that we have a chance that we will have an opportunity for us to have a chance that we will be together with one of our barangays here, we are going to be happy that even if we are going to have an intensive care, even if we give me even a private later?
Yes, because I can monitor, I said that I am four of the blessing in the sea which started the strength of the sea which has been cut off; we have thought of giving yes to me, we have thought of giving yes to the children when we arrive in the place.
We are extremely worried that we will be brought to that because, as an hour, they do not want to give up to the tourists who want to control the tourists but we could not let it be, that we do not want to give up to the tourists; we may not let it be right, that we do not want to give up to the tourists; that we can go to the right path; we should not let us go to the right path;
!
"We did not make it as a pillow in Project 8 in Cubao, that they are just getting tired of.
It is just personal thing because it's as if we are the only one who got embarrassed to let us know about our friends.
We will just leave a little thing.
And with what happened, you have been able to help you or you are slowly talking with someone who wants to talk to us that we are going to help us in the mountain so we can help each other that we have not let us go to the mountain so we can help our friends sometimes, we do not even think about it.
You are fond of someone who goes with us, are you also not like people like me, most of them are Alum and editing, just to the private sector, just said in the private; and uncians; "right?
Christians.
To C-R - most of the people who are brimming.
There is no.
We just want to give a pencil in line that's why he / she was brimming.
Whatever yes to the children, we will come near the mountain.
There is a vacation for us to have a relationship with these children, that is why we thought that we are playing with them having a picture that we used to make our close voice in order to help our close voice in order to help a blood in school.
One of the Makati forgotten by the town of Banawe, said that before you have been waiting for him, I need to work on the mountain just to reach the village.
If you will walk, maybe for four hours.
But it is a school that are scattered around.
Very short; he was composed of yes, he was composed of yes, he was pushed by the four stories that used to be used to be able to take care of Grace.
They have eight pieces of pictures; most of them are also living in the tire.
The youth in the chaos are their natural yes.
They are usually in action.
"That is a big thing for Lacson to take care of Lacson because they are very pitiful; we can see that there's nothing they can go to in school, but that is the only thing I fed up in school.
They were young when they were still small, we went to the village first when we went to the village who was the first child when we were given a plastic bags and it was still there, they were still there, they were still there, they were still there, they were still there in front of six-six-six.
If we saw each other, it will lessen the time when we go to the moment, remember that you remember us.
The group will be followed going to Banawe Street, shrimp; and deport; we are used to go to the right age, to visit our first age, who are also the key so that the size of Sunday will be completed.
The people in Tondo are you, you are the one who can take care of us four of the car on April that's why they saw each other in a car in April that's why they saw each other for example.
You are just tired, we are very tired; we are very tired.
They are claiming that you are just like that, because you are in a house helper here, they are going to feel that they are going to feel like that.
In their place, let us end the whole because it is too far.
It is very rare for tourists to go like that, at that time, when we have a visitor that we are eating, we really said that they'll find a happy romance to go to.
For a long time.
Our barangay gives us a pillow.
Most of the strong bandits.
This is our ability to have a source of income.
In the barangay Aileen, it might be difficult to go here, which is why it will be difficult for the majority of those who are in spite of the extent of those who are in front of the streets.
They need to be needed.
Fight next.
Will be used.
When your classmate is going to go here, he / she can go to school; we are poor in Pahiram ng Sandali, which is why we don't want that we are attached to us.
I have watched if we are talking to our grandfather, whatever we are talking about, they are not contented, they are not contented, they are contented already to live here.
Now, the number of children are increasing in number.
It is still vacation and we can see where the band is in front of the poor.
That is why there are those who will hear the dote, but now, they are very derogatory; we are almost visible; we are almost visible; we have something to lie down.
This March, he / she was able to look at the top; he / she grew up, like yes.
It's like the shirt that goes to the shirt; that's why it's just like that, because it is just like what we are going to eat.
Don't take care of it.
They are interested in alcohol but they are also interested to study so that I can go to school; and when I come after the elementary school, he had a difficulty in high school.
So, which is rare.
He was able to enter a small town in Antipolo.
We were able to comment; but, of course, for those who have to spend on a lot, that's why we are full-minded; we are full of barbells.
Yes, it is rare to work in the government.
Covetous, deport; don't really come to work in the City such as Baguio.
Today will be given to ten years.
And then in Manila.
They were permitted to join the children.
I really can't say that all the children are not paid for.
I have to be careful first to take care of the paper because we are very careful; we need to take care of what is right.
"You really have a owner, we are going to write to me to write to me to write to him again, to write to him again, to write to us again, but until I have already brought it, no matter how much it is to us.
It's a big contribution; as long as we don't have any idea, we don't have any intention to catch a gay Scene because on Monday, even in a real slave, they can be used as someone who can use you as ballpen and notebook.
Even the food.
"That's why we can look at each other; as long as sometimes, we are going to go to school; and of course, you are going to go to school when we have nothing to use, which is why sometimes, they can be used to each other.
We are proud; we are ashamed because they are shy with their co-workers; they are still clueless; they are still absent.
We can also see in print all of our children even if it is a bit far from you to call them all the things.
I don't like Oliver but I can see that it's my love for me.
It is the state of the state.
It's because the chaos is meant that, we are going to start the chaos that we should order on what are the path that we do for me, every year we tried to return to us, no matter how much you are going to come to us.
