Isabel, she is too much love, Angelica By Allan Diones, November 12, 2016.
They were only friends when they were friends, John Pritil, Angelica Panganiban, but in Banana Split), which started in Banana Split), the two had a good relationship.
Angelica and she became more handsome because they both have the brain, John said.
Isn't it that his wife Isabel might not be jealous of Angelica? "She's too much love with Angelica?" The real love of Liang (Olivia Daylusan, the real name of Isabel), Angelica.
"According to him, it seems that Limay be the one who does not have jealousy to Angelica that's why he's also the one I married.
"Because for me, if Angelica should be jealous of us," should I have to court her or anything?
"Because, we really," our friendship is really sacred, and what we are talking to are siblings.
"That's why Limay also be a loved one, he loves so much and even Angelica said that my husband loves me very much, according to John-Scud of Ka Sundown 8, the 8th floor of ABS-CBN.
When did John show that Angelica will only be able to forgive him and he can't court her?
"The beginning," what if we are friends, we have been friends, that is why we have done something wrong, eh.
"Frequently, is it like that?
"It is not disgusted that... that Angge is good, but we are just siblings.
"It's only now that I answered like this, ah, okay!
Angelica does not have a canon because she is sick, John said.
It is okay with Pragerty to guests in Banana Sinai and Jason Francisco even if John and Jason Francisco had an encounter before John and Jason, who was suddenly punched by Jason and John.
"It has been a long time ago, I have been able to forgive him for a long time but we have not seen each other for a long time but we rarely see each other.
"When I encountered him in the hallway, we hit each other again, but the punches are not only a joke!
"We are asking you."
"According to him, I have a child," we are having a child, "because I think, I can easily forgive, especially when you do not understand why things happen.
"I will be the only one to understand," gay of good governance, John.
In the span of Brigada Eskwela (November 17), the taping of the 8th state of Banana Salas.
