Painful for a mother.

There are times in life that you are not expecting a situation that is often happening to women - to a mother, they are the ones who bring their children to help them and meet the daily needs of their lives and to meet the daily needs of their lives.

The mother, in the span of a few months of cooperation, she is still able to fulfill his duty as a wife, but even if it is hard to take care of his duty as a wife, maybe she will still get to make her real love for the family.

Together with the sacrifice, together is the saving of all things to make ends meet with the budget given by the wife, sometimes they are capable of seeing the children in school, and most of all, they are happy when they feel that they are loved.

But it cannot be avoided that they are hurt, physical or ill-tempered, they are still being selfish and they often meet a man who will make them happy and they think they already saw the person who will bring them to a good life.

Is it possible that you can be considered a man with no joke or you have chosen your fate in the company of a man that you think is that, after you get tired of it, use and just leave you away.

Painful, if you were left with the children even if you are far from them, you still continue to address the needs of the children, you are still ready to address you or your children, but, you continue to depend on nothing.

Is it right to take you the right as a mother of your children?

This statement is for a mother who will sacrifice, leave and bring her children to hope that the children will return to him and the children are in the care of their father and other siblings.

Now that the father is dead, the siblings of the deceased wants to bring the children without permission from the children after he will file a complaint in the barangay to face the side of the man, in that time, the children said that they will not go with their mother.

That is why, he does not know what he will do with that scene but she thought that it might be an assurance that they have gotten the mind of her children, she thought that she is supporting her children in order to get her children's feelings.

While he was taking the situation in our conversation with cellphone, I felt the sadness and pain that she was thinking if she still needs to go to DSWD to fix the issue, so I feel that she was extremely hurt and he felt that he could no longer do anything.
