On one o'clock, we are calling for one o'clock.
It is only mean that this will continue to continue, that the tricycle drivers are being done here, which are being done by the tricycle drivers who are taking advantage of it, if you have noticed those who have something to use, it seems that they are going to be the ones who are taking advantage.
We are proud; he is starting to look down; he is starting to use it and this is where you have seen a candle, which is why there is five bridge that we have been saying with white, "we are close to the Lord, ah, you are close to the Lord.
Second is the yellow party, who will go to the head to the cages; and his father-in-law.
Keep red and narrow-minded people in life but all of your lives have blood.
Then everyone laid down, with blood.
The blue ocean is starting to start.
Because of your perspective, it is far from our youth high blood pressure even in the sky.
You are green-headed by life because it is those who plant, isn't PGreen and thousands.
It seems that he already starts with him.
Okay.
Last night.
The night is cold.
Monnette.
Used for companions.
So all those that are like these are those who say here this month, and it's only this month when we saw that the patient was asked to ask the sky for a long time that we were able to ask a black patient from the hospital, and we were able to give thanks because he was able to give thanks because he was a maid from the hospital.
So that?
It is as if something has been seen like this.
Just a small voice, there is an older brother of rice and then eggs.
Very small; unciation; that's also the number of hornets, whose legs are going to go to church.
He is ready for any coming rice and he has eggs.
We are doing this, there are four people.
On the other hand, he held this one in the span of one year in the span of one year.
You are going to join a rainy season when he responded that it is ready for the farms to investigate because there are people who are going to know because there are people who are going to leave because there are children who should leave and know that they are going to leave a good second and who will separate.
The third is also the middle of the past, that's why the decision is very low; as well as the decision because it's okay, he said, as a result.
That her pregnancy is with the help of our Lord Almighty because if there is no Lord Almighty, all your hard work will be ruined because there is also no ability to do that is for the Lord.
So to those who are going to do it but you don't want to fulfill it, it is also surprised at the Lord to look at the Lord, that's why there is another year without disaster that happened to the whole family, and the youngest.
But there are those with Maurice one that's why there's an illness that is not in the hospital because he is not even grateful for you to be thankful but with white chicken, we are starting to thank God.
I did not let go through the house that, before I have not yet done anything, I have not yet done anything that we have not yet done here, so that I do not have any threats because I am hiding, not only one leader, but he / she was not hiding; he / she didn't look down; he / she didn't hide anything.
We have asked the Lord, what until there are many people who are like that, don't take care; we will take interest and interest on if there are leaders.
"Who like you parked but in the mercy of God, I am also not thankful that we are thankful until now.
The refrigerator should be put to the refrigerator.
We are taking care of it that we are requesting the children to not lose in our farm.
