PDU-C-WE is TIDs TIDs TIDs TIDs TIDs at August 22, 2016 when President Rodrigo Duterte celebrated, he is already doing the evidence of planting evidence. "
We-September. We-Persist back, "said President Duterte's revelation in a press conference this Sunday at dawn in Davao City.
The reason for the President is why he is doing these kinds of oil when he is a prosecutor of Davao City: To go out where they are being planted with evidence, "We First Division," says, "said Duterte.
The President also defended his campaign against illegal drugs in front of the allegation that there are evidences against those who were caught and were cut off in the operation of the police.
He also defended the shot-Quiti Kill because if it was not, the operatives were killed by the drug suspects.
..., it was said that there were a lost Two Wives that was given to the police. Tibagan, the Police Office of the police, a man, after the Wtch, two men, who were said to be together with the drug campaign. "Statement of the President.
He also denied the police behind the crime that can't be resolved by irregularities in the country.
"Walis" we can't do it, Wtch's the point of the Our Lady Of-International Criminal Court?
The declaration of declaration is EJK!
Meanwhile, the investigation of the Senate will worsen this morning in the series of killings along with the campaign of the government against illegal drugs.

The investigation was included in the case filed by Senate Resolution number 9 of Senator Leila de Lima who are asking for an investigation on the widespread cases of extrajudicial killings and being linked to the country.
The Senate Committee on Justice is the human rights led by de Lima to lead the investigation of the investigation with the committee on public order the Dangerous Drugs Act of Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson.
What happened in the session hall of the Senate was completely finished at around 9: 30 in the morning.
The joint committee will hear the testimony of those who are looking for witness to the extrajudicial killings.
De Lima is expected to visit the Philippine National Police (PNP) chief Director General Ronald dela Rosa and other law Enforcement Agency to be invited by the committee.
The committee also invited the committee of other sweetened bosity are also invited to submit his position on the topic of investigation.
