
PNoy and Ampatuan massacre are going to overtake at the Ampatuan massacre.

President Noynoy Aquino has two years as a leader of my beloved Philippines.
But it appears that the Ampatuan massacre might beat the Ampatuan massacre on the social media.
We have 33 companions in the profession who were massacred in Maguindanao during the time of Miss Gloria.
For the four-year administration of PNoy, there are 25 million pesos and being killed.
Richard was Jony.
On 25 years of being killed is his brother Richard Naje on the Aquino administration.
Naje just came from the game of basketball and was going home to their house near basketball when he was shot by a riding-in-tandem.
The killing happened around 7: 30 in the evening on Sunday, April 4, 2014.
When Naje was killed, he was serving as an acting manager of the DXT-INTRFM, a police station based in Bongao, Tawi-Tawi.
Before this, he was reported by the DXB station of the Catholic Church in Sulu.
Included in the quick reports of the condition of Najid, Americans, Omar, manager of DXGD-AM, is also a radio station in Bongao.
Ruby Garcia and 40 grinned.
The killing of Oamen is really standing up.
Our own news that Ruby Garcia is not yet 40 days killed and the murder of Naje is now there.
"Should it be that the killing of Ruby is not yet ruined, we are surprised by another killing of our ranks.
The killings are very worrisome especially when they think that recently, there are three weeks that the deceased was killed in different parts of the country.
6 every year.
Six million pesos per year has been released by the Aquino administration.
In his four years of service, there are 25 people who get killed.
If the Aquino administration has long been the Aquino administration, it means that it has been added to 12 that were killed to be amen?
Sat down, hopefully not.
But based on what the government is doing, it seems that the media will continue.
It is as if PNoy himself was not in his feelings and mind when he said that around 58 were killed in the Ampatuan massacre while it was already 32 years old.
It appears that it seems that the policemen would always be swayed by the police that they will only be connected to their work.
All of these, Bro, of continuing the media killing.
The massacre and massacre!
A massacre was called for killing Kamen in Maguindanao four years ago.
What is the call of 25 to be killed in four years under the Aquino administration?
Can this be considered as the form of the massacre because of the number of journalists killed?
The killing of three people can be considered a massacre and more than one time and one place.
But the murder was severe because they were really target of the killings.
It is worse than Ampatuan.
If the killing of journalists continue in number 6 every year, the Ampatuan massacre will affect the Ampatuan massacre.
If 33 were killed in Ampatuan, 36 have been killed in the six-year administration of the PNoy administration.
If this will happen, PNoy will decrease in his duty, which is one of the legacy or he will leave the media killings.
He can further say that the people can say that he became the killing of the United States for his time and administration.
And one of the news that will be fooled will happen again because of the lack of interest of the Aquino administration which is calling for a serious solving of the media administration and brought justice to the families of the victims.
Sadness and happiness was felt by the journalists in the death of the government, which was used to be erased in the Tuwid na Daan but it became negligent in killing.
Program.
In the past election in National Press Club, it is clear that one of the people who should not forget the duty of those who should not forget the responsibility of its members, in poverty, illness and death.
But this is also part of this and use a responsibility to all journalists who are facing danger, especially on the discussion of others in our rights to live and be in exercise for our rights as Pamen.
Which is why in the death of Naje, one of those who will perform the monitoring of the implementation of justice in the implementation of justice will help after being caught by the arrest of Naje for giving his ability.
And remove the obstacles to achieve justice.
From here, let's challenge Senior Superintendent Joselito Salmorin, provincial commander of Tawi-Tawi, who helped in searching for the killer of Naje and shut his mouth when saying that he is only one of dialing the key and not able to stay in Naje.
