
Hundreds of lights are right!

It seems that President Benigno Aquino III seems to have mercy on the citizens.
Those who voted for it are hard to win and have put President Aquino in his position but the only one who stole money is his followers to lend money for his campaign last 2010 presidential election.
PNoy also stopped saying that he has done many things because he did not do anything but to listen to the foolishness of those KKK (relatives in Kaklase, Polanco, Kabarilan) who are all able to listen to the foolishness of those who are suffering in his "Daang Matuwid". "
Now, the administration is dreaming of the term of Aquino, so that Juan dela Cruz becomes stronger while Juan dela Cruz does not want to support her because there is no help from the government to give them a good livelihood or work with the right salary.
The citizens do not eat at the right time, noodles and rice are the only ones that he comes with, it is said that Malacanang is given to the visitors from other countries.
He should not say that from his own pocket?
Um!
It is better that this Manila City Hall, led by Mayor Joseph Estrada and Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" Dooley, who are not tolerating his personnel if they make mistakes, especially those who do not follow their regulations, "no Kotong."
The office of Isko Moreno issued a list through the director of the Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau, that the traffic enforcers who were fired because abusive, lazy, asking for money, extorting money from and receiving benefits.
Erap and Isko believes that there will only be an effective system in the system of traffic if the residents of the citizens are united with the cooperation and cooperation of the motorists through following the traffic laws.
Um!
The Manila City Hall are implementing the stretch of Rizal Avenue from those who are going to steal a case because it seems that those who are in the government are being favored because it seems that those who will benefit are the ones who will benefit from their position because it seems that those who are going to lose their positions just because the case is expensive against it.
Happy Easter to Magz Alano, of Gumaos, Balayan, Batangas, that she will be able to celebrate May 27, Retiro Street of Gumaos, Balayan, Batangas will be the one to be able to celebrate May 28, happy Easter, my neighbors.
