Palparan, wash your hands on the killings, kidnapping, abuse.

Macky Macasaverted!
August 13, 2014.

He was afraid for his own safety as former general Jovito Palparan's own safety that's why he hid the accusations against him by the picture of the press conference at the office of the National Bureau of Investigation's office within the office of the National Bureau of Investigation's office.
She does not have any fault. This was insisted by former general Jovito Palparan in the took place after the authorities arrested him last August 12 after three years of hiding.
The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and other agencies that were arrested by the suspects and fugitives have already launched a press conference, not only by the groups of human rights and progressive, but also by one United Nations (UN) Rapunzel-nosed.
Here, he insisted that he does not have anything to do with the disappearance of Karen Emano or Shermelyn Benico, he was forced to do with the disappearance of two in 2006 so he will be forced to the office of the Philippines, "Karen Emano and Shermelyn Benico, instead they are members of the rebel New People's Army (NPA).
"We should see each other in court," said Lorena Santos, general secretary of Pandi, who is the group of relatives of the victims who were forcibly lost, and even if it is true that it is not enough reason for the NPA to be abducted by Karen and Sherawat.
"Even if they are members of the NPA) or not, they should not believe what happened to the two, he said, that they will monitor the case of Palparan as long as they do not end and give justice to the victims.
A special treatment?
They will just blindly approve public groups for human rights in front of the NBI. Macky Macasaids.
Despite the arrest of Palparan's arrest, the families of the two students who may be given the Special Action Force can be given the Special Forces of the authorities.
Palparan's request was said to have took a lecture that she was suffering from her painful hip as well as his weight loss.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima promised that there is no Special Action "for the former general.
"The security only wants to make sure, to ensure that he will be given to him, but he will be given to him, but he / she will take care of him here, but he / she will take care of him here, but he / she will be able to take care of him / her, but he was able to take care of him," de Lima said that she took a nap.
According to Santos, they want to see Palparan in an ordinary prison like the political prisoners who were charged with actions.
"He was held at the press conference, while they were interview by the Republican candidate, while the political prisoners should show that she took a nap and increase the fist, they are not allowed," said Santos.
It is expected that the Regional Trial Court is expected to be placed in order in Malolos, Bulacan where Palparan's place will be placed.
In the record of the group of Task Force, as he acted as the officer of the 24th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army, Palparan in 2005 until 2006, there were 71 victims of an alleged killing, 14 victims of failed murder and five incidents of the massacre.
Do you make a lot of novels?
Though Palparan's arrest is considered by different groups, they have a suspicion that the Aquino administration is using the arrest and it reached more than two years before the fugitives were arrested.
"Hopefully this should not be used (Aquino), who is very handsome for Aquino, because this is the courage and shouting of the citizens of Karen and Sherlyn and the wide call of the people for justice to the victims," said Santos.
In the press interview in Malacanang, Communications Sec. Herminio Coloma Junior said that President Aquino is focused on solving the violation of human rights to resolve the court and hold the issues against human rights and violation of the law, "said Coloma.
Sarri will talk to his lawyers.
But for the group of women from Gabriela, "the opportunity to arrest is when Aquino's rating of Aquino is very low because of the controversial Disbursement Acceleration Program and the impeachment case of the President.
"What is the most good way to lessen the activists and the military but to show their strength to arrest the military who are stubborn," said Jimboy Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
According to Kilusang Mayo Uno (Izzy Canillo), a challenge to the Aquino administration and the system of Palparan's case will not be proud if Aquino should not be proud of Palparan's arrest and say he is one of his own human rights.
"" There is no case for violation of the rights filed against Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, "the group said.
It was also said by Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bayan, that the Aquino administration should be guarded because it has its own violation on human rights under the program against insurgency and Oplan LS.
"We are calling the public to support the relatives of the victims and the case against Palparan," the end of Reyes.
