
A call: You will not leave you alone!
By Arnold Clavio August 31, 2016.
Everyday the public is waiting for the spicy words of President Rodrigo Duterte against Senator Leila de Lima.
"
That is just a few of what Duterte has released against de Lima that according to him he is holding the highest official protector and benefited from this, the senator did not complain and if he will resign from his position, he is allegedly a sign of remembering the accusations against him or his weakness.
It seems that the President bowed down the lawmaker but I can choose the famous host of the program, Mike Enriquez, "they will not leave you alone!"
In the eyes of the public, de Lima loses this with its credibility as a member of the Senate and lost its morale to lead the investigation of extrajudicial killings.
Especially that there were some photos connected to her alleged sex video.
I received a part of the said sex video, there was a few minutes and fifty-four seconds.
It can be seen in the video the two individuals - a dark man and a fat woman like us, who are having sex in the bed.
But it is clear that the woman in the video is not that de Lima is not clear if you analyze him / her.

The President should also be careful and the people might be deceived by the people around and the senator believes that this is the senator so that he will just discredit.
What the government should focus on is the fake evidence that will connect De Lima on the operation of drugs in Bilibid, what is needed is the drug video of De Lima and that is the more serious issue than his sex video.
But in the politics of the Philippines, de Lima is unlikely to resign from his position because you know, the general character of politician or government official in us is a taste of the face.
Is it a good thing for Eto ask about illegal fruits that he admitted immediately.
Until now, many of the drug lords in the country are continuously coordinating with the authorities to clean their names and say that they are not involved in illegal drugs.
Until when will the conflict between the two leaders of the country, we do not know.
Is de Lima similar to the former Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez or former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona, who responded to their own position because of the extreme harassment done by former President Noynoy Aquino that it is important to save the institution instead of their personal interest.
But the case of De Lima is unique - this is about the war against drugs, some are killed or killed because of drugs.

De Lima is protection in the Senate to prolong its life.
It looks like Duterte is still holding a lot of information against de Lima if he only has a strong information, to destroy the political life of the senator who was accused of being accused of him who is behind the Davao Death Squad (DDS) and ordered the killings in Davao.
Lord, I will take care of it.
