Floyd is really a sound.

Postanes and Alex Cruz.
On August 17, 2015.
In!

When Floyd Mayweather Jr was asked by a sports writer, who among the boxers he faced, he can say that he gave a good fight against him.
He named the Top 4 boxer and the shocked fans of Manny Pacquiao is not the name of Manny Pacquiao in his list.
It is a big slap to Pacquiao that he is considered a boxing ring that is one of the best boxer in the history of boxing in the world.
Anyway, Floyd was telling the truth with what he said that because he himself became brave because of Pacquiao's performance when he and Floyd faced each other in the ring.
Many were disappointed with that fight.
He can also show Pacquiao because up to now his history in boxing is still being written, he is being forced by Pacman because he wants in history that his name will be considered as the former king for example and holding an eight world division.
But Pacman has a sign that his shoulder was broken even before Floyd had a new face.
Well, that has passed and there are really a lot of moments in that fight, but there was a point when Floyd was able to love Pacman when they arrived at the ring - why did he not consider the rematch with Pacquiao request?
Instead, Mayweather has chosen Mayweather as his last fight in the ring before she is retiring in boxing.
Why did he not wait for Pacman's coming from and give him his rematch to erase everything that he defeated Pacquiao because his right shoulder when he fought, will be filed.
It seems that he is going to fight Pacman's coming from and will be driven out of the true Pacquiao.

It is alarming that we watched the news that a police shot a security guard just because he was confronted by smoking inside the internet.
The intensity of the shooting has a huge impact to a person who love peace.
Can you think that no matter what happened, the policeman took out a gun and shot him with no rival security guard.
Wheels, what would be the decision of the police management on that incident?
Hopefully the death of the pitiful security guards can be given justice.
