"Noynoy is weak, weak from power.

By Filipino Weeker.
August 14, 2014.

President Aquino, on a ceremony this All Soul's Day, August 14, in Camp Aguinaldo, Quezon City.
The cheating in Ninoy and Cory Aquino was cheating, and millions of Filipinos who suffered and fought in the burial of the Marcos dictatorship.
This is how Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares and Carlos Zarate insisted on the statement of President Aquino that he is open to put under the Saligang Batas, included in their roof after the term in 2016, as well as the implementation of the power of the Supreme Court.
According to them, it seems that it was declaration of the intention to implement the Marcos dictatorship from the country.
"Aquino is going crazy and hungry for power, so his ambition of becoming a dictator needs to be removed from his position to prevent his bad plan," Colmenares said.
"Before this, before everything happened, I was closed, I admitted that, but now, what is being used is a judicial system, but instead of having a called judicial robes or anytime, Aquino said, in an interview with TV-5 / Pambansang Kamao.
Because of DAP.
For Colmenares, Aquino is pushing for charter change so he will not be held accountable for the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) that was declared by the Supreme Court that is illegal last July 1.
"A charter change is also a way of Aquino so that he will not be held accountable for his fault in DAP, and in the continuation of pork barrel system because if he will be held accountable, he should be held accountable and no longer made a way to pass," Colmenares even explained.
In the said interview, the President also said, "of course, my boss, I need to listen to it," Aquino stated the initiative of his supporters in social media who were calling the second term of Aquino in spite of the Saligang Batas of the Constitution.
"How will the people want to pass in his position even if in his regime, there are no work and poor, the price of goods increase, corruption and violation of human rights?" Said Zarate.
Rafael Mariano, chairman of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), who seemed to be very drunk in power was temporarily complacent by Malacanang. "
"
Support of "Yellow Army"
It was said by Renato Reyes Junior, general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), the new statement of Aquino is related to the reports that Aquino's supporters are planning a "Yellow rally" on August 25 to take noise for the second term of Aquino.
"There are reports that it has reached us that this event of these events are personalities who are involved in the Black Nazarene the White and Ht-10, as well as the Code (caucuses of Development Authority)," said Reyes.
The Black Nazarene has a former group against former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who supported Aquino's candidacy last 2010.
The Hact-10 members of the cabinet of Arroyo decided to resign and support the removal of the former President, they announced their arrest of Hact Hotel in 2005.
The Code-governmental organization, which was involved in the anomalous transaction during the time of Fidel Ramos, but supported Aquino, many of their members, like Teresita Quintos and Dinky Soliman, are in the cabinet of Aquino.
Aside from supporters from the former civil wedding, who is in the cabinet of Aquino, the allies of the President from the Liberal Party and Samar Rep. Ben Evardone and Samar Rep. Ben Evardone, who are all members of the Liberal Party, were also strict with the second term for the President.
There is no trace.
According to Reyes, it seems like the President's opinion is too high, that's why he agrees with the Saligang Batas and change it with what he wants, while the Congress and the Supreme Court did not agree because there was a clapping of his desire for him to stay last 2016.
"It is clear that there is no clapping of the people with its term for its term as the extreme concern of the people is for the trash of the citizens to be punished and abuse of power (government)," said Zarate.
