To enter.
In the afternoon, I have visited school students in school, because they say that the February year-old person who is playing with him will continue to win.
Now, when it comes to the earthquake, you do not change in the earthquake, so we are talking about it, we are talking about our companions, four members of our countrymen, four sectors of different sectors.
And what before I thought?
It is okay for its subsidy here about what I am asking for the extortionist people who say in total, it is summer.
"He / she said that he / she said that he will go back to the birthday of his classmate who was hit by a classmate who was hit by a minor; however, we still have nothing to enter our problem, that's why we do not want us to go to us, that is why we are going to do that, at midnight, I will just do that.
It seems that it's not too much problem, and since the month, he has not given any wound, that is why we still have a wound that we really want to give cancer to their children, they really want to pay the bacteria on the card that they want to pay without bacteria on the card that can be given.
Story.
Serious in the place to show something.
As long as well.
According to this, in number of yesterday, I will report here to all of me here in the area where they are going to school, and of course, there are several policemen who have been missing; we have a motorcycle that was last seen by those in the last moment, but they have not yet done anything yet.
When will we go down to the Philipines.
We are really going to have a lot of people, do not let me stay here in many like this that are similar to those who are similar to each other so that we are going down to go down; we have already went down, whose side are already like you.
Captain of the parents, maybe what the child is doing is like this.
It's because we are really just waiting for the next thing that we will be waiting for, that there would be a small amount that goes on, but when it comes to the issue of September a, we should go out that there are others who responded in Diliman, right?
It is probably a time for you to pay the number of pay for it to be thrown away.
Video.
Is it the City Hall?
Bro, kind of gold and bad room in Tanza Cavite, but it's like a lot of fish intake, but there are also my parents, "I and my parents.
It would be better if Erwin went home because they saw that it was a child when they were a student of an ice color, it was not good and income.
"We are already married to the uniform, because you know that we are the only ones who look at that, Pia nanny or to those who want the parents to know, that is why there is a fish in order.
I don't know.
It is probably what DepEd is saying.
"We called the interview of our interview; we said that you should have a perfect way to ask him for five thousand two thousand one thousand, I have no problem because it's okay for you to get back to those who are going to run because he said that he / she said that it's okay for me to get back to someone else, as if she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't want to go back to him / her that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't want to go back to him / her that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't want to go back to him / her that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't want to go back to him / her that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't want to go back to him / her that he / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she said that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that it was
For example, it's just for free; we can count the teachers, even if the teacher won't pay, it will not pay the teacher PAO-PAO instead of the province that they have some of us here with us.
I am the ones here in the house where you can use and have a text message there, but we text.
"The barangay should not be fetched by your girlfriend who can be used as someone like that, what's okay, what's good in the Philippines, but, of course, Tito Paul will buy because we have a lot of changes.
He / she was able to talk to him / her to go to school; he / she can go to his position for five years now that we are over the training of everyone in grade four and all of them.
So long; we can look down; we are proud; that we are going to use, we will use it before we go back in grade four years.
Yes, as a year-year-old lady, that's why the product of conscience is unusual.
Grade 4 is one of what will be in the next year in grade one Two and a Belleza, child, because it is more beautiful than this and then.
Her new movie is over and will be able to go to school; he / she cannot take care; if possible.
Can I accept Tina and aunt but when you can see that we are looking for the eight-six-month-old teenage boy, we are going to talk to your youngest, who will be mad at the second-year-old man, who will be mad at the third year-old people, who will be angry; we will be angry; we will be mad at each other.
Four o'clock, is he not an earthquake. "
It was said to be.
Story.
Let us keep our training to the children, Joy is not going to go to the Whole.
In their business, that's like that, which is very low; we are very refreshed when our father can support it, we are still watching.
Yes, the Commonwealth Elementary School.
We have a visitor from the land that comes to us, on the other hand, what we do is that he is happy with a practice of practice.
He can do something to buy medicine that is on the way there is no signal.
They have become the same with the children who will automatically join the poor.
You want to get along with each other; we have to go to school; instead, we have the biopsy are disappearing.
Again!
Sorry, we have been doing many times for the novels they are doing to Two people.
A six-month-old dog has six months.
We should have been working in school; we can see that our countrymen might hear it because of all the children of Ocean.
Beware!
Hope that we will go back together.
Also five.
!
Loaning the small yes.
What?
Is this the right tourist spots.
Are we only going to give ice for sure that they are sure to be ice.
, it has become four.
