AiAi was still not able to get married.
"I want to be a single woman."
By Ginger RL. 9, 2016.
AiAi delas Alas will allegedly focus on himself the year 2017.
He now knows that in his whole life, all work and suffering are not for her but for the family, especially to his children.
The reason why he said this is because of the huge change in his children, they are already grown up, aside from the youngest child taking her out to Disneyland after Christmas.
He is talking to his children, he tells him that he does not need to worry because they can do it.
"Now, I already know, that all of them are gone when I am not the only one who does not know, AiAi was the one who was able to go with the contract that we were able to go with.
MiG that he is thinking when she thinks that her children have their own lives.
She told her two children to go home here, but they already wanted to go there to America.
"It is also happy that I am happy because I know that anytime I lose, they can handle it.
"It is sad that... that they are already grown up! I have no baby," he just smiles.
So in the year 2017, he will think of himself.
"Will I deny my life, because, it is all my heart, I always think, my children, how are they?
"They are already grown up, but now I thought, yes," no matter how I have forgotten myself.
"It was first reported that I was too much with my children, to the family, to those I help.
I have forgotten myself. "
She plans to travel the day to travel.
"
"I did not even take pictures at that.
"I did not miss the surroundings.
"I am very happy in Baguio City.
"WGAPAMORE by the other countries I have been to.
That is what he wants to happen, and he also wants to travel to the provinces.
AiAi was assured that there will be no wedding next year that she wants to be a single one in the next year, even his wife Gerald Sibayan.
They agreed to have no wedding yet.
"Maybe it will be in 2018, he says.
"I will not be cheated on.
"But it is not at the age," isn't it, because I am just a single woman, I want my life to be a single one.
"Of course your life will invite me if you have a wife," he said.
AiAi was still not able to say what he would do to GMA 7.
She is okay to have an Akyat Bahay Sunday, and Easter Sunday.
Today, the new drama actress in GMA 7 of Jennylyn Mercado is going through this day.
They will continue the local government of My Love, in the Stars.
It's a new gift of Jennylyn, to look for someone who is the Model Shop who is holding Cornell University, but I still don't know if they want to be alone.
Jennylyn is ready to go back to the new drama that will be transferred to the new drama that after Dennis Trillo and his vacation is Dennis Trillo and Europe.
It is happy that Jennylyn is happy in the gathering of their vandalism and said Dennis, the relationship between both of them is quiet and happy.
