Juan Series 3: From the beginning, the "Lobo" and Jesus was there.
By Zaytono.
"At the beginning, the word of words, and the word of God is with God, and the word of God is with him and if he is not doing anything, he did not do anything that he did." (Juan 1: 1-3).
If you are reading the story of the book Genuis, this is what's being said.
"In the beginning, God has made up the heavens and the land" (Genuis 1: 1), "what they are talking about is not just the word" traslacion "in the Bible," what they are talking about is not just the word "traslacion" in the mind, "what is called" epal "in English."
When the word "epal" was used to waste, "he is also being linked to the sanctuary, what they are talking about is what they are talking about to Nihonggo," the powerful which is the powerful cause of all things that they see and cannot be seen.
In Juaning is, the word "epal" is one way to identify the Lord who is Yangh (AOIL) that's why, the primary religion of the Israelites before. Juaning is, just like most GROs at Humalig) and most of our Filipinos.
Let us see the Ethics Committee of Juan 1: 1 of the original Greek patient.
"Carct.
The direct translation in English is like this:
"She could not avoid the word of the word because of the word passing by the Lord, God to avoid the word."

Let us have to read the mail in Tagalog!
"At the beginning, the words, and words are accompanied by God, and the words of God."
Apostol, Apostol, what is called "Lotion" is already separated from God, "he is also a God of" Lotion "who made all the things that happens, and if he does not have anything done." (Juan 1: 2).
It means that, "Daang Matuwid" said that he is still first compared to the angels, he is older than the angels, he is more older than Satan or Luciano, "she is more old to Adam and Eve because he is the one who created them.
The Model Shop is the root and cause of dengue in the whole capabilities to take shelter.
Now, Juan did not mention who is really the Lotion? "Did he give a" tip "to the character of the Lotion?
There is one, read Juan 1: 14-15.
"And even if we are with a person with each other, and we saw his glory, the deed of the only son of the Day is good, as well as the blessing and truth.
"Juan (Bautista) made a testimony about him and screaming," he is what I am saying, "the coming that I followed was the first to me because he was first before me."
"And from his life.
A friend, started by the evangelists of Apostol, he is playing with one thing: Jesus who is from the 21 chapter in the author as the IOS.
She is the Lord who fooled him.
There is only one God, three were executed.

We will see this truth in the next chapter.
Friend, let us listen carefully to what Juan. Jesus is saying, he is worthy to be worshiped and giving honest faith as if your heart is open to Him?
My prayer is what you should do today, rain is followed every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
