But they would be the next to support and become stupid.
But you need to look for the call.
I can always look at what I say, maybe that's what should be given to Uy, what happened yesterday, I talked to us.
For that, there is nothing.
Farmers.
It was thirteen years when you went to each other.
That is when I gave them the famous boy that you should have a meeting today, and then they already have a meeting with them now and then they are being made to give them a help, because you know that it is in number of the past, but what I said is the budget for the future.
That's why it's not right that you have said that you have said to be still innocent.
He told him to be able to speak.
Force to judge.
He is a little number of things that he gives you in November twenty-one so that the help we need is to give you to the patient to know what I will take to your wallet so that I will be able to sleep with your wallet.
Come home there.
I am sorry, that, you should call me every child who is not only a name and to serve as a number number one of our pictures, according to him fall in Agriculture.
You will be involved again!
Okay.
That you are not your friends, you are in the news that you are in the same age, whose side will be distressed; we will be distressed as the Elenyos in Agriculture.
Yes, many of our countrymen are not able to talk about it, especially that you do not talk about it, all of our vegetables are okay, especially to the pakbet; rather than the pakbet; rather than the pakbet.
He / she grew up; he / she was distressed; we have a problem on what we were eating.
It is okay for us to continue to have friends, we can see each other; we are very small; we can go to school; we should stroll in the radio.
The office of the videoke bar in Makati Stock Exchange in the house is said to be their radio, so they are still in radio and barbells.
Yes, we will coordinate with what we are doing to us, but I do not have any else to correct them.
We will find out the grades and actions of his older sister-in-law, who can be able to go home to the sake of my pesos for the sake of my peso.
It might be okay that I will go to a good morning so that he will be embarrassed to go home in the morning so that Benson, Benademia; Rayton, is very weak.
Edwin is good if you want it to be.
This morning, C has a good morning, especially for those who will just hear.
Now, at all, I am calling for an apology to us; we are thankful that we have passed by a few moments; we are not able to understand all the moments that we are in our office so that you will understand the situation of his older sister-in-law that we can understand the situation of his older sister.
Very small; as long as I am ready, as long as my program is ready, it is still ready for those who will be asked to explain what we are saying, which is why the value of the peso is different; we will go home to the region.
He / she grew up; he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he will file a complaint against him which has been registered to us.
We are anxious; he / she said that I have a movie, that I have a movie that was five years old, "Registration Authority us.
And this is what we are proud of, who are all together with what you are doing now, especially if we have something to do with us now, the procession is very popular; the procession here in TLaw.
It's okay, but he / she's okay to look down; he / she can go ahead; he / she can't take care; he / she didn't have any problems to look down; he / she didn't have any problems to look; he / she didn't have any problems to go down; he / she didn't have any problems to go down; he / she didn't have any problems to go down; he / she was not able to leave.
We can say that we can see each other; we are not telling me that we have a few years that I don't feel pity for what our sister-in government is doing especially in the procession.
"We are anxious; we are doing all that I am being supported by the National Agency, especially that Attorney's adversary, who is Atty. Ayes; we, who is Stephen are our National Police, is currently being supported by our National Police.
He / she grew up; he / she only had two thousand pesos and we only have two thousand for each other, especially those who love our three pesos here in work.
So now, what is the start of the process? "
First yes, 24 years old; I don't know how much I don't know, I have a high-ranking people; but until tomorrow until August 10 pesos.
What?
Is he calling this kind of job?
So that this position is just for me.
That is if there is a survey, in case it will be done here, they are not prohibited; they are prohibited to be involved in Fairview with the amount of August 10 pesos for the child.
No matter what I want, why is it that at midnight, I can see him at midnight; I can park here in the park because we have done that we throw the procession.
"We are anxious; most of him have said that I have told the position not only in Davao, where it is the payment for other people but here is it that there is a payment for other people but this is to have a time for the fishes that they are living together.
So this is the buyers of the vendors, they are also riding to ten years that you will not be able to breathe and be able to breathe and play the eggs of each of us.
And then there is a tough time when it grew up.
Yes, that's why, in the same age, he / she said that only three months have passed, so that I am only right in order, it's just right that I am just weak at all but I am just weak.
What do we have been focusing on Contact Policy "you might be on the side of every day, it is obvious that seven who are on the streets are seen to be part of the streets, the administrator of the office where we are applying for two days.
Ah, before it was done by Two pesos each other.
Yes, we have a lot of people; he / she says that they are implementing what he is saying.
That's why we should give us the National Police that we are calling us.
It's because we are addicted to people.
We are giving up the operators to ensure that if the position is, they have a place.
According to it.
According to this, it is a bit more.
But we also have children who are affected by the projects like Two.
That, and then, we also give a boat to use those crew members of the operators of those who are using and then by mother at sea, and one of them is not the same.
No.
Each has a way to use vehicles.
We can stay at each other.
But we are saying that we are saying that we are stupid; we are very dominant and whatever ugly can be, it seems like the pork and corn are a chance to have the opportunity to join and grow.
According to us, Jesus Christ said that we are affected here in the process that was to answer, like those who were young, I thought that the children who are kids are very young.
For a child who is very young; he / she's also young, also with the parents who left him.
Reversing, Moro and Moro here in Davao snacks.
They were able to go out and turn the top of the Holy Week.
They are the state of hmmmp!
But there are a lot of those who are going to enter Metro Manila for so long to be able to look down; and fur.
"We should be able to look at each other; we have learned that we have been aware; we have learned that we are stupid; we are proud of how much they can do with the family that we have families.
Yes.
What I am going to know is that, we can see each other; we are still seeing in other Raon; we are really seeing that we have been caught with the bag of Chambers (August, who are really being caught by the students who have been caught by the students who have been caught by the students who have been caught by the students.
Even if they could not get big, they can no longer get a lot; that's why they can't make a way to earn so that they can't be able to earn so that they would not be able to earn so that he / she can be able to earn more effective in his / her older sister-in-law, who is very effective.
It is a fishing which is focused on me, but it is not a video of them to have a B-nosed?
What are the persons who are proud of the position that might lose in the position of Older Center for our Bogard, because there are other positions similar in Zamboanga Peninsula, which is really what they are saying.
To compromise.
We, and when we come to a Visayan student, they are able to take care of the political program for those who are calling them to make him take care of the people who are calling him in the region and will just take care of them for other places in the Region Corby.
That is why because of the program of Director, Perez's program, I was very beautiful because your Ate Vi's position is really true.
There is no.
I am really different; as long as he / she is very different; as long as he / she is really different; this is really what our peso is doing, that is why it's really bad that our peso is only doing that in the other side of the house that we don't want to look straight; we can no longer taste the fishes.
I have been so long for these for a long time, "our dogs that I carry on what I have done, that are similar to those who are rude and different kinds of meeting.
Yes, I am not too much meeting but we are still here, but we are still here, my teeth are stupid; I am sorry for people here, or those like the ocean because there are more fish in the sea.
That's why I really are going to that I am going to go there, we are going to live there in a table there in a dining area, which is why I am going to go to a restaurant in line that's why they're going to be the socket of big fish there in Davao.
"According to him, then I said it's because those who are calling me are here.
An instructor, as well as March 28; meanwhile of March 20 so that it was an agreement that the majority of the peso and then are at the mass with them de Jesus.
It can be said that we can say that we are stupid; we are really close to those who are taking pictures, they are very much alive; we can say that we are very much alive; we can say that our farmers are hungry; we can say that our farmers are earning big.
They will still do something to be given to a assistant held here in our project, that is why.
I just want to be near but we are always pitiful in other sectors.
You have a problem especially that we are going to give the Bianca but we are going to be given the statements; we are really contented, they are really contented with what they are saying at midnight at midnight.
Covetous, fur.
Of course, we still have to been going to a lot of people who are going to have been going to.
Program.
For a text message, we are sure that it is easier to look at the door.
Now that we are hungry; we can look down; except for our sanctuary; we are very pitiful; we can say, i'll go to a fishing; that is why it is still a priority to show up to a fishing; so that they will also be the one to show up in the rehab.
That is why we give our sight to a resolution of sorry for a corner.
It will be more prosperous for the expulsion of Information Agreement and fishery.
So we are looking at the cision, who are sick in the airport.
Here in the times we are fulfilling the things that we see.
!
What?
Who are taking care of the number of people who are taking advantage; that we do not have any problem with the implementation of those who will be sentenced number 2 in relation to my second, one of us will go home to the sake of their second moms.
As long as I have been with me with my conversation with the patrons who are the U-budol gang; we are proud that we are going to know that we are going out of our immune system.
We have known each other.
