Malis, one is my professor, one, in relation to the calling of him who is the only one or TJ TT because of his answer to the debate in Cebu.
The senator did this together in the campaign of his father, M Riyals, in the election of Two Wives.
The most famous rivals of P-C-four of Two Wives are still fat from the Congress Abdullah KArcillas, Pampanga who was able to send a doctor a while ago and we learned how to support us.
But Paul said that.
It is okay with who they want to go around, as if our fellow countrymen are still going to go around when they go out of the studies of Salthough hanging here, we are okay.
This is the reaction about the insult that came from the money that came from the earnings of what was raised to the province to love the liver.
They will renew their support for each other, who are given to them, who were given to them but for me.
Covetous, fur.
Covetous, fur.
You are doing things that are really needed before.
What else would be the one who has made a light scratch what will be the help of others.
Recently she paid support to the Revilla of Cavite that my siblings know.
He was asking why would he go to his former girlfriend because of the famous pillars of his strength, he will support her.
I do not want to reach the arrival of who will be-M-M-M; maybe later.
We are crazy; we can change your mind if we seem to be all of us.
We are anxious; that they should have connections with Two Wives.
Mavic immediately answered with what Mike said that he could also reconcile with another.
Here, he / she and Bibi went here to the past land in Cebu, I will ask what he will do with the news that he will be buried in the news of two rooms who got buried there, of course, he needs to rise up.
And together.
"Isn't it possible that later come that later at around five o'clock later at around five o'clock at past six o'clock at past six o'clock at around five o'clock at past six o'clock at around five o'clock today, there are many who are in a hurry to rent, that is why we are in a hurry to cross that.
I am already tired already.
Even if it is not that long in the news that will be felt in the news, aside from Binay, it is time for Binay to taste the price of the President in his plan to wait a corner of your former but Ariel Anuar?
I will not just leave you but the line is for him by Filipinos.
Because it's small.
