
Successive gunshots in places destructed by the typhoon Yolanda.

The committee.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
23, November 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (extension of said area in Yolanda of the Philippines is the announcement of the House Committee of Liberal Party of the Philippines about the declaration of the ceasefire, which was released last November 8, 2013, the original name of the New Year in November 8, 2013, was original to end up at 11: 59.

It is also being transformed into a declaration of ceasefire, this is the following days of the Botchok (HB).
P (Science)). Eastern Visayas Regional Office.
They are monitoring.
Central Visayas Regional Office.
Negros Occidental.

The declaration made by the ceasefire was the declaration of the ceasefire, because of the intensity of the destruction of the storm that took place, it was even said that all the committee members of the legislative chamber are able to ask for an opportunity to continue all the rehabilitation of the country in the area where the rehabilitation of the country will continue.

The constricted force of the helping to the custody assigned by the citizens and the group of calamities will continue to continue their wish for reform the land, and for the fishermen for the suspension of the country, particularly the fishermen for the immediate place, particularly the immediate place of the country.

The constricted forces of Luzon and Mindanao are going to gather funds and supply for the victims of the past disaster and they are strictly coordinating with the masses, who are busy in giving help to the broken area.

The concerned units of the BHB) head to the country will remain as an active defense in the time that they should do everything to help the masses, but to avoid any kind of actions being held by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the areas where the authorities of the Philippines (AFP) should do everything.

In the face of the truth, even if it is widespread in suffering and poverty, the Marcos regime is rampant in the launch of the 8th Infantry Division, this is just a show in the launch of the 8th Infantry Division that remains focused on the launch of the 8th Infantry Division that remains focused on the launch of the 8th Infantry Division that remains in Tacloban City and continues to be put under the martial law.

In Panay and Negros, the 3rd Infantry Division denied the 3rd Infantry Division that was completely suspended in the turmoil that happened between a local unit of Botchok, Kabankalan City last November 16, which resulted to the death of a soldier of the AFP.

It is pitiful for the high level of being alert against the imposed operation of the AFP, it should be maintained by the Bables as well as the masses to push through the cancellation of the citizens in front of calamities and extreme poverty.

The management of the PKP has issued the proposal of Malacañang for a national and non-governmental organization with a national and no asphalt.

A long-term ceasefire and national can only happen in the basis of the Saligang Batas-economists and political issues that if not, the ceasefire will lose meaning of the people and they will only take advantage of the sanctity of the citizens.

If Malacañang is really serious with its proposal, he should have an immediate end to a part of suspension it to the peace talks and will continue to talk with the basis that the National Democratic Front of the Philippines and will continue to deal with the basis, the most corrupt and ways of the ceasefire.
