Filipino Tristan (BE is also recognized in WPS! Baba Perez, Richard Buenaventura, Tina Mendoza July 16, 2016.
The fishermen were saddened by the provinces who are affected in the fighting of the Philippines and China at the West Philippine Sea because despite the released decision of the Permanent Court of although they still cannot be allowed to fish in the said ocean which is their only livelihood.
A few fishermen tried to sail back to the ocean of Scarborough Shoal after the decision of the Philippine Coast Guard after the decision of the International Tribunal for the Martial Law of the Philippine Sea (NJ), which is tainted by the Philippines in relation to the disputed island in WPS.
According to some fishermen from Masinloc, Zambales, they were allegedly not able to come near the entrance of Scarborough Shoal, they were allegedly blocked by a speeding vessel on the Chinese Coast Guard since they were slowly saved away while three big ships of the Chinese Coast Guard were slowly taken away from the Scarborough Shoal.
They said they were scared because instead of water Cannon who used to use them, the Chinese Coast Guard released a gun.
They are saddened because in spite of the released decision related to the rights of the West Philippine Sea, it seems that this has no use because they will not be allowed to fish with their livelihood.
Even in the province of Pangasinan, the fishermen were also having a hard time because of the strict security guard of the Chinese Coast Guard in the said place.
According to Cato, 2170 Infanta Brgy. Chairman Charlito Manunggal St., the fishermen are hoping to have the ability to have the ability to have the ability of the supreme court of the Personal Economic Cooperation (although the citizens here in the ocean part of the Philippines.
In relation to this, Presidential Spokesman Ernesto Abella clarified that the government cannot stop the fishermen who want to sail at WPS, however, the first warning of the government should be careful.
The statement was made by Abella as the reaction to the report that one day after the implementation was tried by the fishermen to go to one of the islands, but they were blocked by armed Chinese nationals.
