Edok at the project first before funds!
September 12, 2016.
This is the statement yesterday by Quezon City Representative Winnie Castelo, which is needed by the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), the flood control which will cause P400 million funds in the 2017 national budget.
Wow!

There is a fund but does not have a plan, shouldn't it be sent to Congress the projects that will be given funds before it will be approved?
Among the lawmakers on the two houses of congress, do you going to approve the fund of a agency without being clear, and even if the chairman of the House Committee on Metro Manila continues, it seems that they are decided to give them immediately because the flood is really a problem in Metro Manila.
But if that is how many congressmen have bugged him by the MMDA to plan the projects that will be provided by funds, well this should not be the system of public service from the government.
The funds given to the congressmen and senators are not different from this, it is not the pork barrel or the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) this to 80 million worth of budget for the congressmen who are in 2017 and the national budget of Malacañang.
It is said that this is different because of the projects in the district of the congressman, it is said that the projects and programs that will be given before the budget will be given, not just like before which will be brought by the budget, which is why it is only needed that there is a connection between the budget, which is very needed to be taken out.
Hopefully this will happen again! The projects that will be held by the 2017 budget will be very important, if it can be exposed to the public, it can be easily watched if it is made an hour to undergo and even "Ghost project," hey, the lawmaker should be held accountable.
The money should not be ignored which was not allowed to be utilized by the people under the office of PNoy) that during the previous administration of the congressmen, those who are waiting for the "pork" of the congressmen, who are hoping to be buried in the face of their manhood and names.
Now that the funds are returning to lawmakers, they need to pay for the lost BuB, who are directly being utilized by the citizens.

Do not make sure that the plans and projects should be held before giving them the funds.
