Due to the impending brownouts, it should be implemented on other kinds of course.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
The department of the Geosciences Bureau (GE) and electrical posts (EEE) in UP Diliman (EEE) in UP Diliman, which is set up for the increase of current bills for some of the course, will increase.
According to the proposal submitted by the two departments, it will conduct a laboratory that reaches up to P4,500 worth of rocks filled with GE, approximately 200 up to P1,800 in EEE.
It is possible that the laboratory laboratory may rise up to 200 pesos to 10,000 pesos from 70 pesos to 10,000 pesos from those who are currently being swept up by 100 pesos to P500 to those who are just like GE 120, Ging 153, and Ging 154.
According to the proposal submitted by the two departments, there were some new equipment from laboratories and the needed budget is increasing in order to maintain them.
"The department that was held with the responsibility of the responsibility of Human Rights, Arinoli, in good condition, was formed, and even if the contribution of the line of the Pambansang Kamao will be tested, as if Pad or ID," according to the suggestion of GROs), "according to the proposal of GE.
Starting on 2009, EEE is just receiving 1 million pesos from the budget of UP for what maintenance drug ring (MawE) every year, and it was only 10 million every year that they are paid for EEE.
At present, there have been 143 engineering in UP Diliman, who is being harassed by 200 pesos up to 70 kilometers per laboratory because aside from this, the students of P2,000 will be kicked out for the pension and other bills such as energy and internet.
Aside from GE and EEE, the.
Before the change in the laboratory conducted was implemented, there is a need for the proposal to give a proposition to the College so that he should be approved by the Board of Regi, the highest group in the university.
At present, the Engineering Council is already conducting a consultation to the implementation of additional bills, the representative of the students of GE, Lyle Magayon because of the proposal.
"In the First area, it is wrong for the students to wait for the students to be paid for, which should be held by the government and should be in the jurisdiction of Mecy of UP," said Maglente.
Just this past month, Terry Ridon, Sangguniang Partylist Representative is proposed by House Resolution (HR) number 740 in Congress to investigate the other bills aside from the destruction of public and private school.
According to the Department of Budget and Management Council (DBM), it reached P12,000 pesos or more than half of the total amount paid by the students to just wait for the different bills of the State Universities (SUCs), including other bills were the fake cellular phones, library and laboratory tests.
The total increase of Oryong Cs from other bills of 2013 where P111.1 million here is from UP.

"Mpost of Barangay Are), a text message was given to him, to nudge a job, a great-year-old student, which can be bought by his co-workers," said Sarah Elago, National Union of Students, the Philippines President.
