
PNoy is numb!

The general manager of the Metro Rail Transit (MRT) has no longer in position as the giving of the investigation in relation to the giving of favor to a relative connected to a company that got a contract of MRT last 2012.
Well, is it true that the cleaning of the Aquino administration in their yard is true and right? "
If that is the case, why did President Benigno Aquino III not order the firing of his official "King of pork barrel?"
It looks like President Noynoy did not make Budget Secretary Florencio "Butch" Abad to get fired because he knows a secret and not because there are a lot of changes in the government.
Boom: Laos will push through with the reason that Abad will become a big loss if it is fired from his post, it is not a good opportunity, especially the career of the country, that it should not be put in position that should have been placed in position that should have been taken back to the worthy employees.
The welfare of the co-workers is always compromised and they do not care about these, the Aquino government does not care about the people who wants to take responsibility of his victory in the 2010 presidential elections.
That is why, this is the reason why the government is in danger because of the material results of the election, friends, classmates and Kabarilan (Kumamoto) of the president who are strong with PNoy.
Um!
Because of the complaints received from the road and the cause of the slow flow of traffic, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada and Vice Mayor Isko Moreno and Vice Mayor Isko Moreno "Dooley ordered the ban for them to pass the 46 streets in the city.
The father and the second father of Manila are right because this is for the safety of the drivers and passengers of the tricycle and pedicab who go through the 46 streets where it can be quick to cross the 46 vehicles.
The trees of Manila believe that the flow of traffic would be fixed if it will be registered to the Manila Development Authority Regulatory Office under the management of Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau director Carine Hacadversary, passenger tricycle and pedicab.
The Manila City Hall and cooperation of operators are asking for a long time to remove the colorum and discipline their drivers who usually comes upon the flow of vehicles.
Well, what will be the imposed punishment for the succeeding traffic enforcers who can easily let the stubborn tricycle and pedicab drivers especially those who are colorum in exchange of the bark?
