
Sanga-PS, RL.

The plaza is called by those criticizing him and taking care of those aspiring for them and the eyes of this law are illegal and will also give a big embarrassment to them.
Some of those accused are Senator Vicente "Tito" Sotto, on the issue of the RH bill before, a magistrate of the Supreme Court who threatened to be charged by the impeachment and a student of UP allowed to file a corresponding reward.
In other countries, the leaders who were charged by the plaza are able to let go of their duties as a measurement of shame but there is a measurement of shame but here in our country, that is why they do not want to resign from their position.
I do not know if those who can be considered as thieves in the concept of the concept should not be able to resign from those who are accusing them!
Recently, this is what happened in the recent World Economic Cooperation (WEF) that was held in our country because it is the host of President Benigno Aquino III or Bira 3.
In his appearance to the WEF representative, in the forehead, G. Aquino boasted about the "miracle" of his leadership especially in fighting against corruption, he said, the Philippines will be the next "umbler" of the trade in the world because of the high-governmental organization (GDP) and this is a proof of the strong economy.
He was supposed to have a good speech but Baba 3 is also beautiful, because he thought he was the author of HPS or Revenue, RTEL) and run of Tax SSgt, and speed of Tax Sumang or run.
In my opinion, the said programs were made by his former teacher at Ateneo, who was former president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in 2003, 2005 and 2008, according to that event!
Rape! That is the reaction of many people, especially in social areas of Facebook and Twitter or Twitter.
The attendees are not enough with the WEF because "others were able to use the real state of the Philippines, and why they know the true state of the Philippines, and why they know the real state of the Philippines is strict, and why is it that the newspaper is strictly prohibited inside the WEF?
Is it afraid to discover the camp of Aquino that the news are all corruption in his government?
Hopefully, Bira will learn to accept the truth that since he sat in position, he has not yet done anything, hopefully he will not be accused of rape by the author as if he is not the one made.
It is only truth that we want us to go back here.
