He and a curse of "Saba" in Mindanao.

By Joanna.
SSeptember 13, 2014.

Kautasan in Sevidal is a picture of the people.
Outside the Rizal State University (Mucal) - Iligan, Northern Mindanao, it is possible that the chair of Salvador immediately appeared at the corner of the viewer, while behind this is the eye of the Pambansang Kamao in the two decades of ice, and like the decomposing kingdom.
For the students and teachers of Mangga - Iligan, it became familiar to the installation of Dilawan around 8: 00 in the 25th of August 2014 when it can be watched over by Dilawan around 8: 00 in the middle of the refrigerator of the viewer while in the middle of the agricultural production of women.
Vicmar Palimpinon, Herpes Dico, Herpes Dico and Tres Roldan Caraan, the viewer would be able to get the son of mother and son, who will be the son of Barangay Lipunan.
On the age of dancing, the viewer would experience with Steve Fernandez in Oediting, a democratic tragedy, which is very popular as Oediting (496-CE) which will also cause the downfall or to take back it. "
This was experienced by Oediting us, the king of the IFI Church (found in Boaxe.
The excessive discussion in Dilawan, like fate, power and decision is Salik, which can be recognized in the privatization of Domeng and when it comes to a movie or stage in different countries.
Since the Integrated Permanent Arts Guillena (RTC) was established in 1978 which led by Steve Fernandez and Laarni Fernando-AD, which is currently being endorsed by an executive director based in Antipolo, writing and harassment as an actor-called director of mine.
On the Saligang Batas, "the creative process of" transfer to the weather and space of the song's favorite song, music, milk, sound and other sources of funds which can be claimed by a community or society.
In the revelation made by the story in Oediting, Fernandez stated in some political issues and even the main aspects of the nearby provinces of Maguindanao, a product of training in writing in 2010, the Sibol, which is a concrete picture of the historical election in the name of corrupt and aunt.
In the Immonen of college, there were only two women and journalists who were killed in the municipality of Ampatuan last November 23, 2009 until now, the department of justice for a corresponding violation of human rights for journalism and for life is blind.
Filipinos have different kinds of infant for some, it is lucky for some, it is good for some, it is unlucky for the mothers and doctors, this is a challenge.
For Fernandez, a horrible scene happened in Maguindanao: Disgusting things that could possibly be mentioned by the Ampatuan massacre at Dr, even in its record for the foolishness of luxury in poverty, of the power of luxury in poverty, of the power of the peace talks.
Just like what is correct or in the theater, the people are crying because their severe condition in the middle of the fight of Datu Udin (Michael Lagring) and Samsuraji), fear, disease and death is related to the rotten government.
The abandoned dictator Samonte, threatened to attack the force of Datu Up to return to his position because she offered strength to the belief that the wife of Datu Uai Mayi (Lara Espiritu was arrested in the search of the infant child of Bai Mayi.
There was an interrogation of Khorny woman (Jerrick h Agroup), carrying more than two decades of cruel memories in the murder of Datu LMB in the day of the birth of Datu Up and General (Christopher Lagos), along with BGHMC), and even in the current time, and even in the current time, and even in the current time, and even in the current time, and even in the current time, and even in the current time, and even in the current time.
It is a good thing for Agroup to take advantage of the character of the old person who was sentenced with a curse, Datu Uge in the end that his mother-husband who killed the former Datu, while his cruel enemy now is her own father.
"Made of weakness in spite of words, even in having a conversation with a conversation with the right emotion and pulse of some actor in a few scenes," why did they go home right? "Why didn't they fight?" "Who was the father of Datu Up?" And "who was the rebels?"
A few questions can be answered with a good upbringing by the actor and sensibility of the actor and sensibility of the actor and sensibility of it at close range, but can help so that the revelation of the scenes affected by the brightness of the brightness of the character.
The family of the family had a secret from Dilawan, it turns out that their country is composed of "rebels" in their own side, agree to the application of the individuals and those who treat them.
A genius child, Udo (Miguel Joven Perfecto), is rebels before in the management of Samonte, which is why he went along with Datu UMC), which is currently being blamed by Datu UPP), while Bakaita (Julius Hechanova Junior. the holy Week named Pandita (Julius Hechanova) became the Queen of Datu Ubay (Julius Hechanova).
It is also possible that it is not the type of "rebels" from the court or / her opinion, this is not allowed by the individual's problem, but it is certain that the root of the human rights in the country will not be put in relation to the rich land in the country.
Because it is painful to the truth, Bai Maypajo and herself, like the Queen of the original directive, agreed that this is an action given by the traditional politicians if they do not want to change.
Datu Up is not able to smoke with his own eyes like Oedanus, but it went out to the gun, there is a sign that this is a sign of being done by his father "dictator" in the same resolution, it does not mean that the pain, corruption and turmoil did not end.
It is important to mention those who have their own ideas from the show according to the viewers, "Ang or any leader should be a good punishment," Ang or any leader, to die with dignity of wrong people,; "Ang who is better to die with dignity instead of living a crazy dog."
On the part of the movement and statement, it is better to mention what the people want to mention what was given by the people / court or which was made by Dianne Calment, Lamasan, Lamasan, Lamasan, Lamasan, Lamasan, Lauro, Jr.
In relation to this, it is in 37 years and the progress of history in Mindanao and the progress of history of the Filipino / Asia in total, it is appropriate for the organization to have a bigger height and improvement of the theater in important issues of politics, economy and culture similar to the worsening economic and Muslim terrorists.
