
P175.B DAP and P96B is brought with Napoles' scam.

Instead of disregard the list of alleged corrupt and crooks in the Philippines, what the government should do is to investigate.
The government should show the shouting for the investigation like what he is doing to the enemies of the administration.
The citizens are not eating the person who has caused trouble in the real issue.
And the real issue is that those corrupt and corrupt are only in the opposition.
It is better for the majority of officials who are corrupt and corrupt who are sensible.
Even if the government has been proven that it is walking in the Tuwid na Daan.
It was clear in the sun.
When the Supreme Court made the decision on the Priority Development Assistance Fund, the said fund became clear which is against the Constitution.
It is against the Constitution, even leaders of PDAF, which was the first form of PDAF and formed the time of former President Cory Aquino.
After that the Court caught the decision of the mandate to the authorities to look for all the people who benefited from the statue of CDS, PDAF, Malhmm, and others.
From here, it can be said that majority of officials are corrupt and corrupt, and this is also the belief that it is clear on the day that it is clear on the opposition if not only the opposition are corrupt and corrupt, but also those in the administration.
Of course, aside from this, the citizens are seeing that all of those who received CDS, PDAF, Malhmm, and others are seen.
Where is DAP?
Together with the Priority Development Assistance Fund which was filed by the Court before.
More than P170 billion is the DAP released by the government to allegedly improve the Philippines.
If the PDAF goes to the past four years, it is P96 billion.
But it did not reach almost four years of giving PDAF so it could not reach P96 billion pesos.
What happened to DAP, and until now it is still sleeping and the Court is sleeping.
In the opinion of many experts in the law, the DAP was also like the PDAF, "that's why it's as if he / she is an enemy.
PDAF is said to be good and there is a law for a year as a temporary solution to what may be given to him or being in accordance with the Constitution.
But the DAP, no matter what is the basis for the expenses of the government.
Present in the impeachment.
It can't be denied by any lawmaker that the PDAF and DAP were used as the briber of the congressmen and senators to be removed from ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona from his position by the impeachment.
Even though lawmakers are saying incentives and DAP, in the eyes of the people, it is bribe to people.
When they pretended to be congressmen and senators on PDAF and DAP, who among them will say that they are not able to do actions that are against the Constitution?
And who among the congressmen and senators who say that they do not have their pockets even though they have not even received a cent from millions of incentives?
Lightning struck the hand and took the glance that there was no drop of fat from the funds he witnessed in their thick lips.
It is important.
Important issue, Bro, putting up the value of DAP and PDAF so it will be clear that the people from Malacanang and Congress in the past four years will be clear.
And again, no one can say, any lawmaker and from Malacañang, those from opposition will only be irritated of the lives of the citizens.
That's why it's only right for them to be imprisoned and have a return for crowned and earned money.
It is more fiery.
It is clear in this issue that there are more big stealing of money that money is involved compared to the controversy involving Napoles.
The Napoles' scam is only worth P10 billion but the orders of the PDAF and DAP should not be equal to the fingers of ordinary citizens.
And the citizens cannot feel where they have been used and went to.
The citizens cannot feel what the government is saying that the Philippines is going to progress because of PDAF and DAP.
Awooooooo, AOIL.
The criticisms of DAP are wise.
When it is unlikely that the Supreme Court will declare PDAF, they suddenly stopped the release of funds for DAP.
Now, they strongly believes that DAP should not be discussed in the court because the government has stopped using it.
Moalting the academic, this is allegedly the same thing that it can be washed away by those who are going to be washed, like the rape case, and because they stopped the rape case, they have no case of rape.
It is a big amount that is not clear where the high part of PDAF and DAP was really very clear, and if there is a clear cooking oil spread by corrupt and corrupt.
That's why if there are various reactions from the government, it would be better if the authorities would be better than to just ignore them and they can say that they are just in a head.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
