
Janella, separated from the adversary, which is given to him.

Postanes and Iris, Nicario.
On November 14, 2015.
In showbiz.

Janella Salvador is very serious because she was given and trusted by the mother and mother lily and Roselle Montecrated to catch the Regal film fest season.
According to the mother-mother lily and Roselle, we are tired of Janella to be a lead to the masterpieces of Director Jun Lana.
Janella, is not denied by Janella, she is addicted to the speed of events that came from Be Career with My Heart last 2012, "Oh My Mama!" Oh My Mama!
He also stars in other parts of the Kapamilya Network, as well with memories; that is why she has also received many awards from now that he was given a title at Star Ngayon which is why he / she just gave birth from the Star Ngayon that is why he / she would be considered that he is very confident.
That's why the mother and mother Montecweken is confident that the male Princess went to the haunted Mansion, who would try to be with Janella.
"Upon arriving at nightfall, a certain and sure that it will be a hit with the youth now," said by Mother lily. "And Tsinelas," of social media, is Janella, the fan based in the industry of the industry, "said by Mother.
Meanwhile, it is okay for Janella, even if her mother is prohibited to talk with him because she still does not feel his heart for a man.
"I have not yet given a message that I need," said Janella, when we talked with yesterday at the Pentanglement of the haunted Mansion, official official Entry Approach of Regal Entertainment Television, Metro Manila Film Festival last October 25.
It is said that it is prohibited for him to have a date and even if not prohibited, he does not have time because he is more than his career.
"Shama," I don't know that I do not know how I do not know that I am a very close friend, I wish, I am always shy with my faith that I am always shy to thank you for a long time, "said that the so-called Princess Aryana is very lucky.
Along with Janella, Mario Moros and Jerome Ponce won.
Showbiz according to Iris and Nicario.
