Interview with Attorney Jose Maria Sison of the New Year 2015.

Reporting, Jose Maria Sison.

January 1, 2015.

ND: I am just surprised with your response, first, some of the policies that you have mentioned if you will become president like the policies implemented by the government budget.

JMK: The general title of the policies that I mentioned and proposed by the United Nations and Congress is being used as the topic of land title, however, the NDFP members should be used under the title by the Filipinos and the real reforms that we need to talk and vote for the benefit of the Filipino people.

ND: And then, you mentioned to strengthen the military's military to defend himself.

JMK: I think about this statement is a presumption and used by what I think is best for the country and the citizens under the defense of the national sovereignty and territory of the citizens and the territory of the citizens and the territory of the Philippines and the territory of the Philippines and the territory of the Philippines.

ND: You also have a sharp tongue against President Aquino and Sec. Deles and Sec. Deles and Secretary Deles and they are the two primary reasons why the peace talks of the government budget is possible, how it can be said that they are pointing at the peace talks with each other.

JMK: As long as there is still no agreement with peace, or even if there is a formal agreement with the panel when they will attend a part or the two sides that will push through one side or the two sides that will push through one side or the two sides that will push through one side or the armed arguments which caused the peace talks.

It is not always said that Deles and Local Government will cause an insult to the launch of the Gin Kings on the time of the unilateral ceasefire, it is contrary to the declaration of the ceasefire, it is contrary to the declaration of the ceasefire, it is contrary to the destruction of the ceasefire, it is contrary to the successive cases of rebellion and common crimes.

The removal of cases of rebellion and ordinary crime is a violation of political cases and to the Saligang Batas and in the Saligang Batas to prevent the truth that the government budget for each other and the government budget for the local government budget for the local government of the local government funds for the government's power.
