
Lim is full of programs, Erap is not a problem in Manila.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 15, 2015.
In opinion.

It seems like a couple of slaps that fell on the face of those spreading gossip that has a serious illness and no longer get up by Mayor Alfredo Lim.
Last Friday, Lim counted when he visited the four district of Manila to personally bring the wheelchair to those who are sick and with disabilities.
The Manile単os are relieved and had hope when Mayor Lim got a glimpse of their community in the Independence Day together with Manila Rep. Atong Asilo and Councilor Ni単o Dela Cruz.
Included in those who received a free wheelchair, a 67 year-old vendor of vegetables in Balut, Tondo, whose legs were cut off, died due to diabetes; and stroke, a stroke due to diabetes, who had a problem in their spines.
Lim sends a joy to the free wheelchair when she saw him, together with too much gratitude.
Just like what he has been doing, Lim pointed to the relatives of the patient to use the wheelchair and then pushed them in order to make sure that he will move properly.
He has been doing this for a few decades to help the poor who are sick and have disabilities so that they will not have difficulty and will be spent on.
Just like what is expected, Lim ordered people who are very happy and together as the mayor of the city to end up again as the mayor of the city to end the taunting of vice president and suspect Mayor Joseph "Estrada and Ghost that they are experiencing.
Three years is already too long for the corrupt tandem.
Everyone knows and experienced all programs and services for the Manile単os, that's why he was the mayor of the city.
Erap and Isko are full of problems when they hit the city.
The corrupt tandem removed the free treatment in six hospitals in the city during Lim's administration.
More than 300 percent of Erap and Isko are raised up to 300 percent in Manila and sold the properties of the city.
Even though the people in Lacson underpass are seen and made a mall for their allies.
Even the historical Manila Zoo is being pushed through, even public schools, Grand Boulevard Hotel and continued to be given to capitalist countries.
The vendors are everywhere because the size of the collection is not a joke to the pocket of Erap and Isko as well as their collector from the group of Sto. Ni単o and ALNARL.
Even the motorists were not quiet because they were victimized by the carnapping of the illegal drivers who are going to make the accomplices of Isko. "Isn't it, councilor Felix" evil "Espiritu?
The million-million pesos in real Proape Tax (Rabies), the barangays were shared by the corrupt tandem.
Who is in a good thoughts, the riding-in-tandem of Erap and Isko?
They prioritize corruption in the Philippines!
The debt of Erap in the country's funds brought up to P4.8 billion pesos in the country's country due to bart for him in the plunder case last 2007.
This is what Doctor Ronald Mendoza, executive director of the Asian Institute of Management (AIM) Policy Center, in front of 400 business Leaders' Center in Davao City recently.
He is also one of Erap in the list of 10 Mell of all-time, together with ex-President of Nicaragua Arnold Egan, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos, former President Ferdinand Marcos.
There will be no permit that Erap is the symbol of the corruption in the Philippines, therefore, the voters have the fault if they are allowed to be elected again if they have been allowed to run again for the crooked plunderer of other countries in 2016.

For any complaints and reactions, text or call 09174842180.
