Why is the rebellion, rebellion or violence?

When visited in the Philippines under the regime of former Pres. Ferdinand E. Marcos, economists are from Sweden; we can't help in memory what he said: "A shower of blood was caused by blood in this country."

Why is it that rebellion and violence continue?
Why is it that after the strong, bloody rebellion is the violent rebellion of Salisi Gang under the leadership of Captain Ramon Magsaysay, and can be considered able to find out from the regime of the late Pres. Ramon Magsaysay, and it can be considered that more than four decades could stop the struggle of the CPP-NPA.
Why will the rebellion and violence of our Muslim brothers in Mindoro will continue, this is only a question of culture and issues in the territory?
In relation to the rebellion and violence that happened, we also cannot help to listen to their point out of Padre Peo Torres, a Catholic from Colombia, who joined the movement of Antartica in their country because of the bad social activities there.
As they say, rebellion and violence are going to continue under any regime, up to greedy and selfish interest, even if the national economy is controlled by the national political leaders, even if the national economy is controlled by the national leadership, even if the national economy is controlled by the country, in the destruction of the filipino masses.
Rebellion and violence are going to continue until a slave, and the farmers are not implementing the real reforms and violence which can't be suppressed were the workers in different corporation, factories, and a surprise.
It will not be eradicated in the rebellion and violence until the state to answer the primary needs of the citizens: Food, land-housing, food and schools, work and proper salary.
It will not be eradicated in the rebellion and violence until the state of the country will just continue to make a state and too much tax so that the corrupt officials of the government will earn money.
The rebellion and violence will continue until the progress of justice and he is just pretending not to see the turtle and progress, which is usually in favor of those who are influential and powerful, and on the other hand, they choked the wild boar or ordinary citizens.
It will not be eradicated in the rebellion and violence until the so-called democracy is just for a few days and are being used by false democracy and violence until our opinion, until we don't really continue to take advantage of it, until we do not really implement justice!
