Report from Panay.

A movie, Production.
December 05, 2014.

It was more or less than three hours the group of the movie Proletarian Army and Pukan in the area said that it has reached the area of BHB) although there was an operation conducted by the AFP in the area, they opted to raise the movement and recovery of the people affected by typhoon Yolanda, it was very eager to share their experiences.

Ka Nena was met with the family one of those who survived the typhoon Yolanda while she was going to go to the house of a councilor at Chapels that he works as a helper, but he pointed a few galvanized iron sheets and using a plywood.
Ka Nena was not able to join the rally at that day, and he shared that there are increasing number of those who attended by Aquino, if not just because of their lack of fare, Ka Nena assured that she will go to the next rally.

In the other hand, Ka Nena was not able to run for a long time when Ka Jay-R and Ka Justin arrived at each other in the afternoon, but we were there in the area where we eat early dinner and before the dark, the group was brought to her own house in the house.

The next day, Tim went to the "traslacion" by his companions before he left the area, which is why there's a few types of corn fields in the middle of the field, which is why there's a few kinds of corn fields in the middle of the project, which is why there's a few details in the project, which is why a few details in the project, which is why a few details in the project, were found by a few details.

The pickpocket was enthusiastic in fighting against the arrival of Tim PSP) but there was a general of gratitude for the victims of typhoon Yolanda, that is why it did not become an obstacle for the first year anniversary of the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda and other corresponding projects.

In total, eight were interviewed by the Armed Forces and photo of the video karera and a photo of the territory of the Liberal, and the members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal, and members of the Liberal Party which were also caught by the video of their rice which is a result of the strict cooperation in Hhbo.

There is a person who looked dehydrated before to serve as the sentiments of the Kashbo and the quality of the quality of speaking with the local language, the Humalig).
In spite of its implementation, the interview of each of those in the interview will pass properly when they are advised to discuss the heroism and help of those who survived from typhoon Yolanda in the place, and how they faced the heroism and help of the people to raise their lives and livelihood to raise their lives and livelihood.

When the first sudden outbursts of work in relation to the project, the people who need to go out of the river are the ones who need to go out because the rain might get stronger and it might be possible to cross the heavy flow.

Instead of being abused by the recognition given to Lola Salvacion, Mendoza, who is more known in the area as Ka Agnes also died, not only because of his contribution in the development of the masses from the development of the masses from the development of the masses from the development of the masses, just to be careful, "he is always with my palm.
