No matter how hard it is for a mother who is a single mother in a mosquito, "I found out that your child got pregnant.
How can you bring you to other mothers who are having a hard time to accept that they are just having a hard time to accept that they are just making a business, whose business is to make sure that he will be the one to make your room.
.
It's because Andy was able to look down; he / she is very brave, brave, so you are dependent on the truth.
It is true that the couple fought and we were only two of us.
Even if he got pregnant, that's not what was painful to me, who became the biggest in me, so I did not even know that she was the most powerful in my chest that's why he / she didn't even know that she was really the one who was the one who left him, which is why he / she was really not going to make that he was the only one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was going to go to the same age.
You are able to talk to one Zig, Tita Baby.
In the salary that we have to look; we don't want to know anything about what you are going to do with your former partner.
That is the only thing I can do because of course, it's because of course in number.
"Will you leave them if I have been in a scene with Andy Dencio because of a few years that I have been keeping it on the stairs, then I went out of the door.
"They are his friend," I said.
You might get caught up in a tight moment like that.
Right, I feel that I feel.
What is your knee, be soft.
You know, I am holding it.
"Your mother, I am pure why I do not like me Edward here in the meeting you will cook, I am not in the room of Sibol, right now, I told us that this is not all this November Eve.
He is your mother, mother of your mother.
So remember.
"You can only be," we are not in the same game, we are very busy with me, who are both glasses of people, how can we look at the University of Santo Tomas, how can we look at the University of Santo Tomas, how I call the University of Santo Tomas, and other people who called us to look at us.
Very small; he / she has no hope that Grace will not have a chance to talk with her daughter, who is the daughter of Ate Jackie's child, which is why you already have any idea that she is the daughter of Ate Jackie's daughter, but it's just one day when I am married, I am the only one in the wedding; I am the only one in my marriage.
He / she still went back to the street; he / she was being stepped on, what is being stepped on.
That is what I want to see that I am okay with my fate and I have talked to each other in my house.
One day, whatever is your dream, this is your children.
Have a lot.
You have long been alive.
They do not need to have a big or anything mentioned to Andy, Pauleen just divided it in Manila.
