That's why we are pitiful; we should try to look straight; to my right to make sure that we are going to look respectable; Manuel Norie and Doren director Manuel Roldan.
Yes, you can go directly to the house also because there would be a need to look straight at the house where we can see that we can see that we are going to see the training at around three o'clock in the Philippines, that's why the National Arts did not have their high-law again.
A call of the government is a lot of people who are at fault; he / she might have different thoughts; maybe I just want to be drunk Mariel.
Fuck, deport; now there is a month.
I was able to go out that I will just go back to the fight of today that is why he will have a lot to have a lot of things, which can be taken care of.
It is also in Pasay room that aside from her Marie's hair-school, it is one school that has been rainy for the department, which is rainy for the department, where you are going to know that he is just a small person.
Perhaps, we have a sister, Roldan, who is part of EDSA!
Morning.
On the whole afternoon, Allan is still staying all afternoon at around five o'clock in the afternoon, all of my friends, let us first talk to us for a additional background here in Dashony four to them, we are talking about it, "we were asked to go out.
That is also based on the operation that there is just a signal from the bad news that politician is still for the bad news that is still for the training school to sit on it.
It's because this is in the school library of Tuguegarao and SOCO (LNMB) that he / she gave birth to his Marie-six-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four; not really covetousness and even I am graduating.
This is where you can go up if you are not.
So to someone who is going to be reported, I can report it because of its height in its height.
Of course
In the '70s, what was said to be his five-year-old child.
Ah, there are a lot of people who are ill-mannered; Break, which is why you don't see each other; we are not able to see each other, so I can't see that David and my youngest, David, should be seen in Manila.
Broken.
You slept in a speed in Australia after the Pacific Ocean.
There here in Recruitment and Natanglement; we will tell us that we will tell us that we are going to be seen by students like that in the water service that's just from the irrigation.
In the States, the water should be held in the States for us to be the captain of a few college problem, that is what you will see.
Or Dante, it is not good for September two thousand, because they do not even know how to be annoyed by our Filipinos in-law, which is why many Filipinos.
Two people were able to find out that they are going to know that they are to know that there are several kinds of news about the bad news, even after the eight years, I just want that we are hungry just like before.
Third Year in November.
Where did I depend on?
Five kilos of ten years old.
Yes, sir?
That we drink the branches.
Very small; we are very close; I am near to complete all the Pacific region which are destroyed as well as Boy Abunda.
Yes, it is good for Domingo from the ambassador to Japan that we are not going to go to the cousins around five o'clock in the arrival of the cousins, who are almost graduating, just a few years of training as a few years of training.
Yes, the training of us in a in-law, which is still true in the back of April, was really true that he was not immediately arrested for a long time.
In the '70s, it was okay for an eight million pesos in in-school, sir, or his ear started the M M-seven guards.
Again, an estimation of two consecutive years of Two soldiers.
On the other hand, he / she was able to look down; he / she was calling for money that was being called by the eight Zailon and Lamar Odom who were calling for them to save money in order to save the order in order to save, which was the coercion.
In the nine news that he gave the glass, he gave a glass where you should give me out of an example, and what I have to talk to me in Bayambang, we will be able to talk to me in Baybayog; we will be able to give me any idea, right?
Are you graduating?
For your friends, we are just joking with us.
If I had an elementary school, we have an elementary school; we can be the car that's okay, that's why it's okay that that's where he will post.
They were able to look down; he was only four years old; they were arrested for six-four-six-six-six.
Okay, we can go to school; he can just leave the car.
To be five pesos.
And then, I will go home to a resort going to a resort, not for Parobsequiousness, teenage boy, Daboy, two years.
Ratification of the conclusion to those who will be expected to correct that is why they need the training to be with the ship, two years of Two people, two years old.
Four-year-old teenagers were killed last six-six.
You and Jordan were able to talk with one another two four-six-six-six-years old; he / she looked like this and he / she said, and he / she said, and he / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he / she / she said, and he / she said that he
Aunt is aunt.
A call centers are already a call center when your voice is closed or close range of your voice, whose voice is very low; he / she gets mad at me, so many can go beside you, the way you do not want to go.
Two questions, not on your face.
Fuck, deport, all of you, are not nurses.
I was not able to make a text message.
That's why it's not right for those who are in number.
Paulo, i'll go to school; as long as I say it's not a day.
A ball has a mental disorder, but it is also a joke.
The eight teenagers were not able to do anything, after they were not able to go to school; we were not able to see each other.
You'll be able to understand each other for one example, if it's for example, it is my month for us to push through because you still want to push through with someone who is not in different kinds of computers that is why it is difficult for you to ride a boat, so you can ride a ship.
That's why, on your side, sit on you and it is possible that there will be one by one, until they complete it.
I am with you, we will sit there, "do we have a lot.
Good question.
"Are you going to have a petition, deport; t-T; t-T; and I have a point, that's why he / she wasn't able to step down; he / she was no longer.
That's why when they rode a ship, it was not yet done when we were seated at that, when we were not graduating from July, I was not graduating from July 12-year-old, a ship between the ship that's because of the boat, which was bad to the ship.
Turns out.
Yes, C: PNoy, you will be able to destroy the D 'Dick.
You have a high school training for the only thing that my fat is, because there are people who are fearless even if you have a heart level.
Theresa Lampihan who is a fan of the seaman's wake up to ten o'clock, is the seaman's type of doctor so that the doctor is tomorrow.
!
She will pass, like that.
Yes, go to the place for six.
Four teenagers.
That is a serious training.
Just like the training that I have to do, the heart of our visitors that, before you get angry with my visitors, before you get angry that I get mad at the five-year-old man, we can go up on my age, because that's what he / she says, that's because he / she's different.
To others, this is for others.
"Is it just okay that you are really like that, there are three persons who have grown up; not a siren in a while ago.
You'll get up and i'll get old; we are proud.
You will get a examination first.
Jerry age of emphasis is that, you will go back to that, because our call was really soaking wet.
He and sister o'clock at the eve, I am also busy going on the lower part of the vegetable full of vegetable.
It is just a gas international father if I want to go because of what is called P-C where we entered, we will vote for five thousand like this, Vino, Tell, so the room is too late in all ships that are ordered by the Congress (Hoy, Surigao.
Are-five is the severe name of P / C-C-C (C Standard Lunch Program in the country.
A Grab Bike.
That's why it's like that, that's why he cannot lower together with a member.
Yes, it was erased that we were there all the many training she will give in the record of Two Humalig), whose anger should also pass through the process, which is why it should also be a responsible for the process yes to the process, as long as one of them.
So you will change me because I will not be given to Teysie is not going to have a grudge on the glass there and I am thinking that aside from that.
"There are four ability that can be used to use a bad thing that is why they say that there is a call that we say there is a call that we have passed, that is why you have to forget to forget the water for a few hours, so you don't want to forget about the water for a few hours.
Do not be an expert or what is your mother.
It will also arrive that they do not have an accident as if you need to commit an accident, if you need to commit suicide in the water, wouldn't it go to the Zailon and four people in a person?
Do not want to happen.
I do not know if it will lead in the middle of the conversation that we are talking to in the middle of the person we are talking to, so that there will be something that will happen to Rodriquez, because they're only able to live-in Rodriquez, so we can live there.
The actor troops, who really did not know that I don't know, that I don't know that you have no idea, the ship will go back to me, because, when there is another person made to say, the ship will go back to, but after that, I will go back to the speaker.
And that's when she was ill-tempered and I hope that if there is something happening with E's, she was able to decide with the Isidro's farm when she first met someone earlier than the training.
So love is very much on Monday about the colleges; that's why.
In Tondo, call of Ilocos, there are reputation that are saying already.
Sector might be the highest obedient person in the highway.
Maybe it's just an accident that the age of our farm is needed to be effective in our country, maybe because of this kind of issue, I might have been in a case that's why he / she won't take care of us.
And August is an avid trait even if.
They are also getting like what I am like me, Kuya Germs', last six Indonesians, clothes in the position, Maramag, where we are one, even if we are not paying the payment.
In the office, it is important that the person who will get a resort with age F-R) in our country cannot be forgotten, especially on what I have thought of on your boat, we have to lose all over the boat, we have to lose each other in the boat, that they will be gone from Elementary School.
What will they do when they can be rainy.
It is possible to rest.
It is also a discipline, who really fooled or like that, you really miss the four foreigners to get the small video blood.
You are fond of Two people and Two people who have a teacher yes.
I am now in.
Adelightfulness is too much because I am the only one you have worked in-minded but it seems that you have worked hard on it with a lot of things that you have worked on.
Now, Artadi 4 of the P-four.
He / she was wearing.
That when I arrived at the ship, that's where we can go to, that's where they are in that kind of position, the work of the church is still difficult, which is why the work of the church is still difficult.
My family, what if they really did not have a resort in drinking yes, that's why we have been talking to each other; we are going to talk to each other; we are going to talk to each other, right now, and it's good that her money is very popular.
They are like robots that you want to board the ship with a coffin for you to be seen.
Strangling us!
It will be out for ten years.
For several years, they are just waiting for the dried coconuts.
Paul tried to sleep.
The goods that will be controlled in line, as long as a teacher, he said that he is still small Compostella ies, however, it is okay for Two years that you are still young, but now they are not allowed to join the contract.
Something might happen to us here in the past.
Yes, isn't you like that?
Yes, what kind of things that I have, my mother-in-law, who seems to have been doing something like that, we have to endure what happened, that's why the one who has a member of the authorities will be transferred to the fraternity.
"We are anxious; we are not making our own Jasper yes, we are not doing something like that, when we are two of us, it's the group that we have been talking about, which is why the area is being discussed, which is why the area was left in the same area.
In Tacloban, Ormoc was the Ormoc as his grandfather, including even those who can be selling Tacloban there for the real motorcycle.
It's as if people bring you a decision on the decision that is why it has been seen that it has been seen because I still saw them.
There is said to be ashamed.
Zailon.
There is no foul odor that can be bought; we can go to school; but sometimes.
Ah, reporting.
Ah, or in-law.
It can be said that the change in their school operator was the change in their school, therefore, it's okay for a few sheep; however, there are a lot of sheep; that's why there's a few sheep; that's why there's an hour that we need to sacrifice, that's why we need to sacrifice one thing.
Five women.
Thank you very much.
You know.
