
The popularity of PNoy.

The popularity of President Benigno Aquino to the citizens of the country will surely be hit.
This is what Malacañang should prepare for because it is certain that the decision of the Supreme Court is sure that the decision of DAP or Disbursement Acceleration Program is certain that PNoy's bribe to the lawmakers of the country to make sure that the former Chief Justice Renato Corona will make it out.
If in the latest survey conducted by the SWS last week of March, it fell to 6% of the rating of PNoy to the people, it is certain that this will be a double number in the next survey which will be conducted by the survey.
It is also clear on the result of the SWS, the 21 percent of PNoy's rating of PNoy are very sensitive to more and for sure they will go out of the survey as First Class "or" the common filipino masses, who does not want the governance of the child of Tita Cory.
Even the residents of Luzon, where PNoy came from, is not contented with his system because if we will turn the latest survey, it will also fall for 13 percent.
This is the sign that Malacañang and PNoy should face because the DAP and PDAF will bring down the trust of the people with the Aquino administration.
Even "Daang Matuwid" said, there are also many who do not believe because of P170 billion pesos, so they should also avoid using it because they might even see the anger of the people.
What hurts is that PNoy is compared with Ate Glo because it appears that this administration is corrupt because the mud being thrown at the former President did not reach 100 pesos.
The strategy of the Palace and PNoy is really wrong and it is also wrong because their guidance for DAP was the Administrative Code of the country, which is why our constitution should prevail.
Even the high school student knows that the Saligang Batas of the country will prevail and this is the Supreme Court's Supreme Court that's why it turns out that the palace is full of height when they have done the Administrative Code.
For sure there are still a lot of issues thrown at the DAP administration that is why they need to prepare because if the people have put them in power of power, it is certain that the people will be the ones who will be able to bring them down to the loss of ALNAs Windyhill, Alvin Feliciano.
