Are you corrupt?

The other day, a columnist in a famous newspaper in the country was the one who wrote the column about why Filipinos are corrupt.
It hurts to hear.
Then, it's as if we can still complain that the accusation is very painful, "said corruption.
Let us not just believe that Filipinos are corrupt and we should not pay attention to this defamation and we should prove that we are not corrupt and not in our country what is called from corruption.
There are also corrupt in other countries, it is as if we are the only ones we see and not other corrupt countries.
It's because the media is still active to report news from corruption, that is why it's as if he / she is taller.
But in the consecutive wins of corruption in the government that are involved with the famous and most powerful names, maybe we need to pay attention, painful, the question is why are we corrupt?
The said columnist has a deep explanation that it has been a long time as the writers and passed by all the President of the country.
He said, this is in the history of our culture and in the history of colonization.
Like that, we are in our system.
There are practices that we say, we Pinoys are the ones that can be used for corruption such as deep in social interaction and huge amount of debt of debt.
That's why even if we know that what a person is doing is wrong, sometimes we are just blind because we will be blind because we are going to have a debt of gratitude.
If these kinds of practices are being joined by greed and even pushed the wrong reason that life is difficult, which is why they are forced to make mistakes, it is really a problem of corruption.
Do we not have hope?
There are even more, if not in the current administration, it is in the next generation.
The youth just need to understand and accept the problem of corruption and to understanding them where this case is from.
No one wants corruption and corruption, the real intention to treat it for a new tomorrow for the country is just needed.
