Dorina Pentrante or Single Entry Approach; he / she cannot say that we have no one to help us in the campaign period, and even we saw that we can help each other in the campaign of the past and what we want is to help us in the campaign of my sibling, what is the good campaign that he wants to humiliate the people.
"We are in a line with that in the decision of the firecrackers Year, of course, Timothy are against the two of those who are at the same age, so we are going to get to get the problem.
You can be cut off by the company.
Now I am sitting like that, two.
I am going to go to such a lawyer, isn't it that you have a lawyer that is why they always have a lawyer, that is why I always write to you as the age of person beside you, yes, but sometimes, she is really a person who takes care of me, but sometimes, he / she is really a person who takes care of me.
And going home to your own corn, I am in Saturday for us to look respectable; we can't believe that we do not want to be a core-ten o'clock in the school.
For the motorists, it is not prohibited but there is a little problem like that, for those who are going to have a long time, however, they should be ready for our company, they might be ready for in the other room so that they might be ready for the other room so that it can be ready for you to be ready.
But
You are going to know that there are a lot of those who already know that there are a lot of those who are popular now with the D B virus), because according to our fellow countrymen, the heroism surfaced because of the incessant food of many people.
Who will be the cause of many?
Yes, after praying, the rise of black black comes when it gets broken.
It's because they are going to be in Cavite, it's as if they can eat beans; and goatee.
But he / she was annoying, very fur.
It's because now that we are aware, the doctor is so the problem of what we are calling for our fellow siblings, what we do not know what I can do to the health of the person with Boso-Boso that we do not know what is their obligation in the health.
Because I have a voice, he / she is very weak; and then.
Voted in.
Some were cut off.
We are crazy; we are talking to the experts even if I am also talking to the experts.
You are the same problem.
There will be a problem in the past.
I bought that from his position that could not be cut off.
Yes, it's my role that is also popular with my sister because my eldest child called me, but we do not have a problem for us.
We need to.
There is a T: V will really be the third alarm.
He said there was another while they were drinking, it was delicious.
It's okay to look straight; as long as we wake up; and then, we will look down; we still have a call on our line of communication.
I did not tell the Las Piñas City Police Station, to fog; yes, Karen and your stubbornness, very good in the morning.
It is also good for you, sir, it is good if you are here.
Already swollen.
Greeting and dresses are proud; as long as I am still young, I am also sorry that I am just joking.
Feet to cat are given for firecrackers.
Because this is the other side of Ate Linda, on the Christmas party.
I just want to ask why.
So it's the food that you can eat cleanliness of the body against children and to get off the food that I eat.
Yes, what we can make to say that we can say that we have to say that we have to say that we are going to have a drink.
You can leave because our body is clean.
My problem here is that we are fond of reading; but of course the relief is happening to you.
Yes, we would make sure that we can fix it or TAnnie "compared to Ate Vi's call as a sermon but it is still not sure that you will eat first.
You are your neighbors.
Okay.
She said I will go next to me.
You are like Nico.
Just like the secret that she shattered, that's why we did not share.
In C-R, it is true that all of us are going to be united and they are preparing all the same.
You want to see a lot of vegetables.
He was seated.
All are all right.
Really!
Even if the blood of a student's student is already gone for a year in D (V), you are going to be in exercise so that you can easily forget those who do not need your body to be broken; we are okay, you are okay.
Yes.
Thank you very much, I am just a follow-up vacation.
!
!
When there is an investigation, what can it be done?
Within the span of age, we should first let us go down at the age of Surge, because sometimes, we have grown up; we have grown up to each other, so we can see it.
Yes, one thing that is scary here is that we can take advantage; maybe he might be removed from what might be attacked by you.
Because after that, I should buy there in front.
We know where we end the blind eye that we are listening because it is possible for him to be at the end.
It is best for you to be ill-tempered because there might be another problem that Andres is going to have a problem.
Okay.
And then in my video, thank you very much more, Karen Teysie is very much; she is really used in his mouth to look down; he / she is really used to what Tita Baby James said, but he / she was already used to by Tita Baby James, but he / she was on a motorcycle.
Well.
That is why the Model Shop is right?
Okay.
That yes, he / she grew up.
Let us go to our preparation because we know that even if Labo is the beginning of a gift of New Year, we can go ahead; we have long been ahead of eight years.
We are very proud; we are the ones who have events, but there are also students who have learn how to learn.
It's as if we are going to have a strong decision to be focused on, instead, it means that he / she tells that, he / she tells that, he / she tells that, he / she says that there are those who sell illegal drugs.
Most of all, there are also children who are also there, we are already there the money that we are going to have the money that we have to use, that's why it's okay to go to the nearest hospital for the right examination and they are not expensive to look at the nearest hospital for the proper way to wash it.
There is nothing bad to have problems that is okay, that is why there is a hard work that you have to go there, it is really good that you are the one who will be left behind by the body of your woman that you have brought to the two last night, which is near to confront each other.
But it will be a new dog to develop there in Antipolo, when he said it is fine, that is why he can be in a seminar but all kinds of time.
"We are okay yes, we still have a noodle house; we are even asked to ask each other to us these kinds of books later on you, Alvarez, Cavite or all night on the 25th of seven.
At night, it is good for you to look at each other; that's why you are connected to the kind of important thing, "it is easier to keep on.
Of course, you will just ask me.
Ah, in my end, there are more people who visit yesterday that there are many people who visit yesterday that my relatives are drinking in our house and of course there are some who are drinking.
Fat people, so do you have a fire fire in order to avoid high blood pressure, especially with history, "with history.
You want to buy now that I am going to make sure that we are going to become a good illness; we are going to make the food this kind of food this kind of food we are when we are.
Take care of the amount that should be done on what needs to be done.
The forbidden is really nothing.
Prohibited, but can be.
If there is a small amount, they can't stop.
So that I have no idea that you really like that, as well as you like that, he / she really likes that, that is really prohibited, that is really prohibited, to correct the problem of heart disease, then I will get it.
There are two kinds of patrons who are proud of each other.
If there is drinking, it cannot be avoided.
God has a shooting.
It is not enough for someone to go to other places because this is a problem, which is why the problem is very low.
While what they will say, they are going to say that we are the ones who will say, but I am the only one who will collide with you.
It is also a problem.
It can't be a Smart of drinking one that was being played by one by one to drink one that's why they're still not doing anything that can't be the ones who can take care of, unciation; Rayton; and goddescent; and godmothers, "
So long, he / she grew up to the same; the third.
Our arrogance, Corona, has been shooting, but I don't have an appetizer when we are pointing at each other, so that you are not fat!
Covetous, very derogatory; we seem to have been able to know that we have made it hard to remove or say that it can be different if you can talk about it, maybe you can share them wherever we are.
Like that, in Jollibee (for the long time, I went to the colleges; we were able to go too much-minded; I don't have a small-minded people.
There,
October.
Instead of you, share to your mind to share the message of M-A, it's as if you need to give us a challenge that is why if your Christmas is not a challenge, we should not be able to avoid it when there is a challenge that will not be done when it is here especially in the bus that we can't avoid, especially to the bus, that is why when it is here, there is no problem in our health; that is why when it is here, there is no problem in our health; that is why when it is here, there is no problem in our health; that is why when it is here, there is no problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a big problem in our health, that is why there is a big problem in our health, that is why when it is here, there is a
In blood in the operation.
Let us wait for it to solve the noise of the noise before there is a court, because there is a court, that's why there's a case.
Do not laundry in that time.
Very small; we are very happy; very happy, very happy and happy with a wound, it's really bad for us to stay in cooking oil so that we can still stay in oil; but it seems that it's not good that we have no job.
"I can always say that he doesn't want to go to school; we really need to get coconut wine, so we still have to have a challenge, we are still going to have a problem in Bicol, which is why we have to have a problem on the challenge because it's a long time that we will be a problem in the challenge because it's a long time that it will be a long term for a long time.
We are anxious; we have no answer yet; there is still no answer to school before, it is really different when they will buy.
More before, when it was of.
It's okay that I was just going after him because I recently got angry; he / she said that it was you who was a Antipolo who had all of them.
One of those who died here in the typhoon we passed by, they say that there is someone who does not want to accept that they have nothing to accept that there will be an accident that there will be an accident between the typhoon, which can be seen by the typhoon, so that they can just sit on the case, but they could not sit on the case.
It is needed that the Department of me will be the one to tell and when it will be said that it will be said to be one of the typhoon so that it will not be a case that will attack so that he will be able to give proper care if he is the owner of the BI-worker or Jollibee for.
I'll be able to look down; he / she's the Department of hhness, whose Department of hhness, which is possible here, is it not right, "I am just right," I am just right, I am just right, isn't it right?
Which after this can be the key to what is lacking, that is why there is a huge amount that can't happen; that's why he / she is very derogatory; he / she is very proud; he / she needs a certification of the folly.
It is not a hold-up driver.
But maybe even the doctor.
Doctors other day, if this is okay now, it is okay for us to go back to this point, which is why we really have a hard-tempered; as long as we do not have a hard-tempered; so as long as we are not happy; we are not happy; we are not happy with the P-PAPP; what's why we are not happy, our trip, that's why we, our trip, is not a lot.
Yes, order to sell fireworks to the children who will be caught in the evening, who can be seen in the end of them, who asked.
Second in the second; we believe that we believe here that we are not the only government to make it.
It is said that a very big rain is also a huge rain in the hands.
Are my parents so that it is better for you to be far away, you can still love with them because we can still go back to the young man who is living near the night of the New Year at the New Year to look at the New Year at the New Year.
Just a sound of their toll fee, drilling, oil; and those who are driving for an appetizer; we also think that they're taking advantage; the person who does not want to get along with those who does not want to.
Together with the gunshots they were holding.
A thousand I will have an accident yes, it is gladdening to see each other, Jason, and they were going to go to each other, whose trophy is a trophy.
Yes, I am going crazy while I am starting here and what I use is okay, okay yes, the people who are asking him to eat, are okay, is it only okay to eat while the change are changing.
On the other hand, you can see that at the same age, he / she is stupid.
Well.
But he / she said that he / she / she / she's like a woman who might become a woman.
So that it's okay to be chosen to be Totoy's ID; that is why we are strictly reminding, we have a strict prohibition to our fellow hospitals here in here, because there are a few hospitals that they need to pass, because it seems that they are like a calamity; this is like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why they're like a disaster; that's why
Yes.
If we take care of the beautiful costume, when I have the truth to them, I still don't have any idea, because we have not heard anything, but we have not heard anything that's why we have nothing to hear about it, so we have nothing to hear about it, so we have nothing to hear from it.
Let us eat while your call to remind the Department of our gift to the place, especially in the New Year, can we say that our fellow citizens will not be happy in the new year, and I need to be happy with our three roads to anyone.
My fault is the cowards that we should forget to pray for the time our Lord is okay, "it is okay.
We are anxious; we are not the love of us, not even the love of our fellowmen, when they have a lot of money from Two people when they have a lot of patients, that is why they are okay, father.
