You know, whatever we do, that before, our fellow citizens will really like that at the back.
Covetous, fur.
The Arellano University held the name.
Center, for example, you are very kind; we are not able to walk; I will not be able to walk but you are not able to do everything because we do not have money because it is up to you so that it is up to you.
Ah, that's why there's a lot of people who are proud and unciation; we were able to go around to the hospital but there was a payment for what happened.
We are crazy; we have to go to exercise; we are going to be a payment for the colleges; we were able to pay attention to each other; that's why I've been talkative; we were amazed; we were laughing; to the next days that they might get angry.
Maybe they might get tired of becoming a hospital anymore.
You want to.
I will bring a resort Fil-fi.
Okay, for the next time that we are in the following days, maybe because of his older sister-in-law; we really need to see that we have seen each other, that is the first reason for the top of all that they are tired of, which is why they really need that on the other day that they are tired of.
"Yes, you have added, that's why we have added to this, similar to Samantha Power; that's why they do not have glasses; we do not have a mirror.
This is where we can look at each other, that's why they still don't have to walk yet.
That is why he does not need that he is not lying down.
Yes.
Yes, because we don't go to school; we are hard to start, it's hard when we started, maybe later, even those who will go home there might be the ones who will go home, the doctor, the doctor.
We have Wil, sir, the sibling of Marco.
Operation was held at gunpoint; we were able to look down.
But they still haven't heard that we are going to point out; he / she even release the T'boli, which is why they would have the one to have.
They are our sibling.
Very small; we can see that our visitors in Cardines; so that they are not going to go to the hospitals in Quezon City.
Hmmmp!
Stop experts in Pampanga.
That is the moderate region, so that is the regional branch that's why.
Ah, it's like that.
We are very noisy; we can't be able to give Gumba.
Okay.
If you want to bring me.
That's how you get all of you as well as me, we are really brave.
That's why we were able to look at each other; he / she has five one-one-one-one-one-one-old person, but this is really serious, but here, we are serious here in Medical Center; we are really sure.
We, "we, are our fellow citizen, who are similar to each other, but it seems that he is very thankful; we are very thankful that our hearts are very thankful; we are very thankful that our hearts are the ones who are going to make sure that they would really be happy?
Before, we saw that only in the center, they are only looking at the center only because they really have a lot of cases, they are not happy that they are living together with other things, they are living together with other things.
"If you can see from other towns that are worth it, isn't you possible for you to return.
So we are the doctors' doctors, who are very careful, they should talk to each other; we should talk to each other, check-up first before they get off.
Later on the pain in the eyes, what do we take care of in the bamboo.
I try to pray that I am blind.
I just want to get a glimpse of the blind; as well as the blind; and so that you are not like that, it's okay to see that you are okay, so that you are going to see that it's okay, so that we will just look like that.
Starting to myself, I invited all of it like this, Jun.
Jun that on this July 29 teenagers are in our Hoy's very high blood pressure, and then you are going to find that we are both of us, we are both of us, we are both of us.
