They call it: MMFF 2016.
By Arnold Clavio this 27, 2016) I will be recognized for those behind choosing movies that have a quality for the 16th Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF).
Many of the industry of showbiz did not agree and expressed criticism on the said decision, particularly some producers and for a long time that the MMFF has been earning a long time during Christmas season.
They target the audience favorite gifts when they bring the movies to be brought by movies, but we also have the time to improve the consciousness of the called "gay or the masses, let us think of the audience and deciding to raise their lives.
Will we just forever be used by the things that can be used for them?

Especially in the last year, the controversies of the movie was even brought back to the terrorism.
Every Christmas is coming, most of those who are playing in the box office are mixed with the famous actors to be included in the story that are being feared to be afraid of or for apology to the term).
I watched the trailer of some movie contestants in the MMFF 2016 and I myself was impressed by what they were made.

Let us give time and chance to see it.
If the colonizers are admiring the movies of Filipinos, it is time to support them.
Those who are chosen are 1, Ted Failon, 2, Jun Lana, 2. Jun Lana, 3, Erik Matti. Seklusyon, 4, Arturo Brion, 4.

Marlon Rivera's, a woman in Inabanga, 2: Number 2170 Infanta Street, 7. Alvin Yungga's Oro and 8.
Here is the urge to laugh at some of them.

"Christmas queen" A film representative, Baby Ruth Villaros - about the OFW in Hong Kong, and the beauty pageant that they will go there every Sunday is their happiness for the challenges of working outside the country. "If the Philippine government will stop all the challenges of working outside the country.
"Sais" - ReEntertainment Television, Erik Matti - a priest who is investigating the miracle being experienced by a child, Angs, Sta. Ana, said that the story of a gay man who loves to join the beauty pageant, which is already known from the beauty of Paolo Ballesteros, the first meeting of Paolo Ballesteros, which is already known in a film festival in Japan, is slowly being used in a film festival in Japan.
"The woman at nightfall, including the good behavior of Eugene Domingo and Eugene Domingo from his first version - the challenges that will be faced in making a movie - from choosing the character and the script of the lead woman, Marlon Rivera.
Long live the Filipino film.
