Repair the footbridge of Brgy. Sto. Niño, Parañaque City a true situation!

Postanes and his mind.
On January 13, 2015.
In Bulabugin.

The residents of Paranaque thought that what they feel can be lessened every time they pass there in Sucat Road from Multinational Village until Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA).
It is said that they are done to repair the Sto. Nino footbridge last year so they thought that the traffic in Sucat Road will be finished.
But what they thought is wrong, because the long time that is being compared to repair is a panel, which is why, now, they are being harassed, "the other parts of the footbridge.
As long as well, the motorists have already pass through a "with high experience, commuters and businessmen who go through the route."
For a long time, they will continue to step down to traffic because of the terror placed on the road because of the destruction they are making.
Sonhmmmp!
It is almost three months when the footbridge of "has been done for almost three months but it cannot be finished!
We are not against it to repair if we see a person who is doing something that we just want to become a integrity of what they are doing so that they will not be busy with the people and economy.
"That should be the first consideration of Paranaque Mayor Edwin Olivarez, he should have thought that the route that is being affected is coming through by people working and by the trucks that bring products in different parts of the country.
It is a big loss in the economy of the residents of Paranaque in particular and the entire country in total, the traffic Jam is making a huge loss how fast and how fast will be finished and how the flow of vehicles can't be stopped.
Well in the administration of Mayor Jun Bernabe, that kind of work is not last!
That is why the residents of Paranaque are always asking if Mayor Edwin Olivarez also goes to the place, "that's why he doesn't feel the complaint and the decision of his conscience!
Are you really from Paranaque right, Mayor Edwin Olivarez?
If you really do not go through this part of Paranaque even the PIO of your PIO), it seems that you will make it look for you to look at you what the people's feelings for the people's feelings.
It is certain that you will understand why the people of Paranaque are calling because that is the real government service.
"That is all!
