"If you are not sure of it, you should wake up first!" By Allan DCon October 22, 2016.
According to Encantadia, Diana Zubiri was in Encantadia, that's why when we talked to QC Congressman Alfred Vargas, we asked him if he was also possible to enter the said Kapuso sitcom.
11-August 22 in the original Encantadia, Diana is the one who starred with Danaya and the one who starred with his partner Ronil, Alfred.
According to Alfred, he received a text message from Director Mark Reyes, "Diana for vice," who was just answered by him, "Sungala!" It was okay for him to be a part of Encantadia, like Diana and Sunshine Dizon.
He can give him an hour because his job is going to be his job as a le-Remontadoses.
We saw each other in the evening the former and new cast members of Director Mark in the province of Director Mark.
Alfred and Sunshine did not reach something, but Diana, Iza Calzado, Karylle, who was happy to talk with the new cast like Glaiza de Castro, Kylie Padilla and being used by Lopez.
Alfred said, he needs to lose weight because he has already given birth for 15 million pesos, but he still needs to add up to 15 pesos.
He also took advantage of Trevor Ariza and bureaucracy.
When he was still a child, she quickly lose weight and now, she is having a hard time and a person who is going crazy.
The church owned by Cong. Alfred went to his Fil-Kidnapping Group who was by Yasmien Espiritu-Vargas.
July 23-January.
He said he's too scared and he does not know if he will answer him by Pres.
"
Two Wives are their children, Alexandra (6) and Ariana, 5), they are going to make a baby boy after their house on July 23, 2017 in Manila Cathedral.
It is lucky for Alfred and by Lanie B.
The civil wedding happened in August 16, 2010.
On Monday (October 24) was the members of Alfred, who really miss all her acting skills.
He will be able to do a Cine or Single Entry SEC.
November was the start of the shot of Alfred, who took the script of the movie to be direct by Perry Escolta.
Two years August is the last movie of Alfred in Sewol ferry New Break Entry SEC.
