Duterte's government should not stop helping those who are stranded.
Bailagutan, September 23, 2016.
But it is more happy, according to the United Overseas Filipino Worker (U-OFW) and OFWs for Peace Agreement (OPC), if the government will continue to help thousands of OFWs in Saudi.
Based on duty head consists of team from different agencies of the government like the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
At an estimation of 8,000 people who are trapped and stranded from nine companies in Saudi, there are 3,000 people who were repatriated, but there are more 2,000, who are similar to what happened to those who were repatriated, according to the U-OFW, who wants to be helped by the government.
It looks like the representative of the government immediately heard the group led by G. Monastona because according to DSWD Secretary Judy Taguiwalo, there are hundreds of OFWs who are still stranded in Saudi for the government to be able to return to the Philippines.
In the record of U-OFWs aside from the said hundreds of OFWs who are planning to save the government with the leadership of DSWD, many of our fellow countrymen are waiting for it, according to Monastona, the government is waiting for the government to go through.
That's why the group is reminding the government to raise it based on the agencies of the government to implement a first mission in order to be stranded, thousands of OFWs to be helped.
Mister Monastona are right of repatriation of our countrymen who are stranded in some parts of Saudi, this is considered an early Christmas present in the government of Duterte.
We understand the request of our OFWs but hopefully they should be careful when applying for a job and most of all, make sure that it will pass through the right process to attend the right process to face any country.
