Vargas, there.
Bulang Malinao, August 28, 2016, Senator Manny Pacquiao has a reason for his preparation against the Mexican-American WBO world champion Jesse Vargas last November 5 because it was not just a giant boxer.
Aside from his height of 5-foot-10, they have punches, with punches and other punches, they attack and is much better than Antonio Marcel, who was beaten by the senator before.
Former WBA and Teaching Hospital is the 27-old year-old Vargas which was strapped to the record of 27 times, 10: 00, and only one losses from the amateur artists, Roger Mayweather Jr, Uncle Janno, the uncle of Floyd Mayweather Jr.
Vargas started to be boxing at the age of eight and there was a record for the amateur 120-20 that he was recognized as a Mexican National champion and United States, amateur National champion.
The first fight of Vargas is admirable because I became the loser of him who has no losses before, Joel Gonzales.
Vargas is also defeated by his former stronghold in the welterweight champion, Daniel Sarmiento and Teaching Hospital by a 1st Infantry Battalion, Wisconsin, the welterweight champion Vivian ano of Guilig in the First X and unanimous decision against Nihonggo.
April 2014 when Vargas fell in his first world title after being defeated by Russian Kyung-ib Allowance (WBC) via unanimous decision for the title of Wikipedia, Jr. Welterweight division.
Her Second World defense against the Mexican superstar Antonio DeMarco, to lightweight champion via unanimous decision in the undercard fight of Senator Manny Pacquiao and Chris Algieri in Macao in Macao.
Last June 2015 in Students, the fight of Vargas against Tim Bradley was controversial.

Even if Vargas was beaten-up, he had just deceived Bradley, 20 years, when he was hit by him, which was why he almost got out of his knee which was followed by two punches on his head.
But the referees have been mistaken for 10 percent warning that the fight is over, which is why Vargas thought that he won via TKo, which is why the judges have already needed to look at the judges, and the result, Bradley won the unanimous decision.
Because of this, Vargas asked for his maturity, but Senator Pacquiao fought against Bradley on the third time so WBO welterweight title has been long rest.
Vargas recovered from the missing title of the TKi in the 9th floor.
One of the trust in Vargas that he will heed Pacquiao is for the age and a motivation why he is the young lady of the senator, this is an illness of the former boxer.
That's why it is still early that Pacquiao exercised to show Vargas that his 10-year-old child is only a number and has no effect on their fight in November.
