Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez from Senator De Lima, 2016) after President Rodrigo Duterte's first State of the Nation Address (SONA) by President Rodrigo Duterte on Monday, it is expected that the "war will start between the former Secretary Pantaleon Alvarez and Senator Leila de Lima who is the former secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ).
Speaker Alvarez wants to investigate the worsening problem of illegal drugs at the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) under the term of De Lima as DOJ Secretary who has an administrative and operation in NBP.
"
SolaCalida has initially criticized de Lima on what the former secretary of DOJ is about to suppress the widespread illegal drugs inside the NBP, five years, which has been the leader of the DOJ for five years but he was not able to launch a cringe at drug lord in NBP.
It has been a long time agreement that drug lords were living together like the king in their 5-star hotel, which is part of their laptop and cellphone that resulted from their laptop and cellphone with a strong competition.
It can be recalled that only on the second part of the 2015, De Lima was held at the NBP, and it was not immediately seen by the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force (PNP-SAF) to enter the said dens in drug lords.
If I am not mistaken, it was only then that de Lima has decided to become a senator seriously in drug lords in the NBP, and he needed to transfer the 20 drug lords in the NBI detention case while the 20 drug lords in the NBI detention case was being pushed to destroy their boards that is full of expensive appliances, bathtub and high-caliber guns.
It is surprising that we have not heard from the cases filed against the officials and the jail guards of the NBP, who are responsible for the Philippines, who are responsible for the Nueva Ecija such as Herbert Colangco, which is currently being dragged inside the NBP compound.
We also have not heard a case filed against the high officials of DOJ that was said to have gave a signal to New Bilibid official to give the drug lords in exchange for the huge amount of money.
And there is no wonder that the Senate and the Lower House will not investigate in Nueva Ecija for the drug lords in the NBP because they are allies of former President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III, which is why they were included in a connection between the Liberal Party (LP).
It looks like De Lima is not fighting back now because Speaker Alvarez himself will file a resolution to investigate the NBP and for sure that de Lima will surely destroy her.
But because de Lima is a senator, he cannot force it to attend the hearing because the senator will only do the issue of the press of the people about him at the lower chamber to wait for the war between Alvarez and De Lima.
