The PKP is greeting the Botchok of realization of the plantation of the foreigner.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 20, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) praised and congratulated the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) for the successful implementation of the launch of the biggest marijuana plantation in Bukidnon and other parts of Mindanao who were saved, robbed and stolen by the big foreign corporation who were rescued by big foreign corporation.

Yesterday, a few companies of the Piat, North Central Minadano Region (PMabog, Bukidnon; in the storage room of the large vehicles in Del Monte, Bukidnon; and in the storage room of Calatagan and Del Monte, Bukidnon.

Some contestant has been observing the different units of the Botchok in Malaybalay, she was from Cagayan de Oro to stop the entry of the military's help in Cagayan de Oro in order to stop the entry of the military's help in Cagayan de Oro in order to stop the entry of the military's help in Cagayan de Oro in order to stop the entry of the military.

According to the spokesperson of NDF-Mindanao who is Jorge "Ka Ord" Madlos, one way of revealing the operation that happened in Cagayan de Oro which was caused by typhoon Sendong last December 2011," this is one of the reasons of giving justice to 2,000 people who died in the flooding. "

"We are calling out to the owners and operations to fix their business and stop destroying their businesses in Mindanao," Madlos Reyes added that the damage caused by the environment of their plantation is severe. "

The companies of Del Monte and DOLE are included in the most big corporation in the Philippines with 23,000 hectares of were planted with bananas in Surigao del Norte.

"Under the Aquino administration, foreign contacts is implementing operation," said PKP, said that this corporation is being supported by the farmers and the production of rice in Quezon, Bukidnon for the security of the farmers and the production of rice in Quezon, Bukidnon.

The PKP has convinced the Botchok in different parts of Mindanao to continue the launch of the offensive against foreign contacts who are responsible for the pending calamity that killed thousands of thousands and caused the widespread damages in the livelihood of the citizens in the past few years.
