
A hindrance in a peaceful resolution on the chaos in South China Sea is the presence of the exercises and exercises.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
June 28, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (US) was the military to be replaced by House Resolution of South China Sea to undergo autopsy.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the government budget of US and Aquino in holding an altercation at the South China Sea, which is a part of the continuous efforts of the US and China.

Not less than three ships to be exuals are not less than three ships that are supposed to join the exercises that are scheduled to join the exercises that will be held at the Panatag Shoal which is near the coast of Zambales which is the place that the Philippines and China are fighting for.

"It is clear that the exercise that is part of the US is part of the effort of the US to show the strength of its military in the Asia-Pacific and to resolve a peaceful resolution in the territory that will be fought back to Panatag Shoal, of Spratings and other land in South China Sea.

"By the active support in raising the military by the US in Asia-Pacific, and its acceptance of the Philippines as a peaceful resolution on the turmoil in South China Sea," added the PKP, "said the PKP," said the PKP, "added the PKP," added the PKP. "

"In front of all of this, the government government budget will only be ashamed to call for a peaceful resolution on the conflict in South China Sea," added the KP.

"The PKP has made the government fund for accepting the warship of the US to sail back to the ocean of the Philippines and when holding an active attack against the Philippines, using it to anchor the warship of the Philippines, using it to anchor the warship, which can anchor in the warship of the Philippines, which is why the US will anchor."

"I can advise the PKP that the Marcos regime led the plan of building facilities in the coast of Subic so that the military can use their things to serve the ships and which can anchor in the dock," said the KP.
