Reporting, Doris Bigornia!

It might be finished that Benigno Aquino III (BGH3) of the people about the issue of the economy of the country will be finished.
The Manunuri ng economists, local and foreign people have been telling the president of the student of the student Council.
In the past World Economic Cooperation (WEF), the family of Aquino made the responsibility of the economists of the Philippines in his hands.
He was able to do this because he has no corruption, unlike during the time of former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo (FPGMA), hahaha.
By D. Pad in the US financial status, he maintained Bira 3.
Pad said that any pain that will be shown will be expected, that the strength of economists in the Philippines is not because of the skill and skill of Aquino but it is still under the good location of the economists like FPGMA.
Many have told him and let us read in the coming days.
Those who wrote are not just the writers, but the economists in the world.
SBRC Chairman of Britain also said that there is a leader in terms of good economy, "the economists like the Philippines now!"
Who was managing us now?
The World Bank, IF) and similar agencies have again warned the Aquino administration that if he can't control the serious corruption, it is likely that we will be defeated by us.
They also said to join the record of corruption in the past administrations of Fidel V. Ramos, Joseph "E" and FPGMA, all will be cooked compared to corruption happening to the Aquino administration.
Painful but it seems that the regime of Noynoy did not even feel or noticed.
Instead, they continue to defend PDAF and DAP that has been declared by the Supreme Court against illegal!
During the time of PGMA, it has been two severe crisis in the economy of the world.
All the rich countries were shocked and they were surprised, the Philippines was the only exceptional thing not hurt in the crisis.
Not only in Asia but in the whole world of the economists are the ability of the economic growth of GMA.
Include the big contribution of overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) who are US $25 to 30 billion every year.
Our friend, who is an official in Japan, said that their leaders are asking where they get the thickness of their faces, "those who are not owned or done?
