Before what the congressmen are just the beginning of August, you want the opportunity to be cut off that is why it is just that you have been cut off in the counter Mindanao with the driver with the driver.
That is when we gave the budget to a love in Vicente Hala; we were able to go home to the lawmakers at the right time, who went home to the lawmakers at the right time, Jonas went home to a few weeks, who went home to Joker's door, who was already dead, who will help each other in Tuesday.
Up to the members of the military who will bring to the military hair to follow the office of our Filipino but this is the U Vs.
I felt pity because.
Fuck, deport, personal utensils.
At the debut of the Office's debut party, he / she was able to take care; she is the only child members.
Find out.
He died in three for a long time, that's why the residents are saying that the residents are saying that, they are saying that the soldiers are innocent and that is what will happen here, which is why there's something that will happen to him.
Where will I stay for his father to be with the soldiers.
In R!
There are many families who came out because they have been in a call center because in fear of the military, I did not go back to the military because they were not able to go back to the hospital because they said that they went to the hospital because they were the first to make the payment to be broken.
According to him, according to him, according to some soldiers, I will be brought to Davao, be brought to Davao, but this was settled after it was paid by the people.
By a jeep, a jeepney.
For the child of Riza.
You already know who are you, because you gave you a place.
PNoy!
Because that is going to come in Saudi.
Fur, fuck; Mike Mike went with the lower abdomen, try to try the lower abdomen.
Yes, brother.
According to the investigation, we are getting mad and we are studying here, God is still studying; we are still studying; we are going to be the initiative of the bank that in the investigation, that is why you'll be able to catch the sound of their idol in the government to kill anyone who is their action.
