
Statement of the youth Nationalist Alliance stated in the hot topic of corruption and corruption in the lack of fraud and fraud of Aquino to the Filipino people!

Tel.
Youth!
August 28, 2013.

The people were able to deny the compliment of Aquino, "if there are no corrupt, there is no poor," I could depend on the wall of Aquino's administration after he failed to follow the complaint of the country to remove the system of pork barrel.

This was held by the press conference last August 23, and I tried to put out the people who are mad at the people of his statement, "hish the PDAF."

The group of youth are quick to conduct a corresponding reward from the wide alliance between Aquino's pork barrel scam, to commemorate the role of Janet Lim Napoles, to commemorate the corruption of Janet Lim-Napoles, which can be touched by Aquino from the treasury of the people.

More or more than 400 were able to act on pork barrel under the pork barrel under Aquino and against corruption, thousands of people were held by protests in different parts of the city in the entire country.

It is fake to remove PDAF so that theft from the people will be cut down.

For the youth and students, the reform being served by Aquino is just out of his hard work to lessen the protest on the streets.

If analyzed, the reform presented by the Marcos US-NPA will be made out of corruption, plan to be faster and giving out stealing from the people.

(1) "Sky's"

(2) it is concentrated on this funds for the hands and control of the President or the executive leader, it can be used for the lawmakers to make the lawmakers if they want to get funds and will just start a fund from the government.

(3).


Presidential Pork Barrel Bakil on in!

Aquino also does not forget the giant fund which is more than 1 million pork barrel scam, most of the employees who are involved in the projects which are not beneficial for the projects and corruption in the projects which will be implemented by Aquino and the national budget of Aquino, and just to escape the human rights in the corruption and corruption in the country's projects, and directly to the public funds for the corruption and corruption in the country.

Just like that, the youth and the citizens are showing-off in the pork barrel of the Congress and especially the more than P-bala 'pork barrel of Aquino, and will be held accountable by the Marcos US-Aquino in the fraud and widespread corruption in his leadership.

Allies of crooks and corrupt.

It was caused by desperation and because he insisted that this is one of his own cooking oil, cheating was used by Akbayan and Aquino to say that his ally was not less than 400,000 pesos as a citizen on August 26 in Luneta and spread in the whole country.

Meanwhile, Akbayan should not just go through with the statement that's compliment for Aquino after the show of this is one of Akbayan as one of those who are benefiting and in fact, he is an accomplice in stealing the people and taunting of the filipino masses.

Aquino is also having a gas now with his accomplices in the took place, to belittled the actions of the people against the PDAF and corruption because he knows that the development of the people against the Marcos dictatorship from corruption is also intense, and in fact, the government of the US-Aquino is still having a serious case against the country.

She is making a grudge with the fight!

It can't be recalled that there is one day of action so that the corruption and corruption in the country should be measured until the issue of corruption should be shown on the wall of the people, the issue of corruption should be placed on a thorough investigation by the people to force and tailed around.

Corruption and corruption are made up by some of the power being used by some of the power to run by the government and the state of their own interest is to destroy the state of corruption and corruption.

The youth Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan, is calling on the every opportunity to expose the Marcos regime, which is needed to reveal the fight between the Philippine US-Aquino's budget for the corruption, the private sector or the budget for the safety of the poor people in the city.

Different complaints and issues of the people are just needed to mend it to the strong cause of fighting against the Marcos US-Aquino.

Along with the quick sound of politicians and students, it is better that our ability to lead the challenges of youth and students are prepared for the challenge and line of national democracy and they are ready to act and make the new blood of the youth and students, and can be prepared for the new blood of the youth and students.

The indignation of the citizens towards the militants, the disclosure of the pork barrel and corruption, and the primary plague of the society is already organized, which is why it is thorough in the drafting of the Pambansang Kamao in the country!
