
The police and Caloocan police are a extortion of the police.

Where will the eight members of the Caloocan City Police who tried to save the sibling of a Manila Police District or MPD who were arrested and imprisoned for three days?
In the documents that reached lily's Calvento Files, we can say that the root of the arrest of the warrant of arrest was being arrested by the personnel of the warrant, Ramon Pedrozo and the martial law enforcers, Rosalia Raz, because of a warrant of arrest for the anti-Illegal Drugs Group.
It was said that last October 23, they have not reached the hearing for a promulgation of their case, Pedrozo and Raz who were brought to Pedrozo to the hospital, that's why they brought the warrant of arrest Hon. Dorina Pentrante, Grace Pulido-M-Illegal Drugs, who became a warrant of arrest of MTC-B, 52, of Caloocan City.
October 28 the lawyer will file corresponding reward for the release of the court to the Office of the Office of the Philippines and for the release of the warrant of arrest of the two.
The court has made the request of Pedrozo and Raz who will file corresponding motion together with the release of the warrant of arrest of the two last September 3.
November 14, Pedrozo received a text message from someone named Mark who introduced himself as someone who introduced herself as alias Mark in a convenience store in Maypajo, Caloocan City around 5: 30 in the afternoon to pick up the said baranggay.
Upon arriving at the said place, Pedrozo and Raz immediately arrested him and carried him to the said station of the police and immediately put the two in the prison that they did not even find out about the said warrant.
While Pedrozo and Raz were in jail, he was approached by the police Senior Police Officer 4 Michelle Alcantara, and was allegedly asked for P100 thousand pesos in exchange for their freedom but Pedrozo and Raz did not give money to the prison.
P / Insp. Marcelino immediately went to the Manila Police District (MPD) in Caloocan City Police Station, carrying the copy of their annulment process which was released last November 3 but they did not pay attention to it so they remained imprisoned.
The two were just able to go out of the prison for Monday, November 17 after they were able to give the declaration of the warrant from Sagada, 52, which was formed last November 3.
When Pedrozo and Raz were able to go out, they filed a case of Arvin AOIL, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Arwin de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Arwin de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Arwin de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Arwin de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Arwin de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Vergilio Calanoga, PO 2 Neil de Guzman, Police Officer 3 Verg@@
It is said that there are many residents who have mentioned that all residents of the warrant have been complaining because what they are doing is driving on Friday so that they won't be able to post bail so the family of the arrested were forced to bail.
The severity of these police is now that you have found a direct amount of 100 thousand in exchange for your being a policeman; if the failure you did is proven, we can just look at where we get any money.
