New, By Rey Marchil on August 8, 2016.
For a long time, the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP); but "pitiful cowboy," he was challenged by the Philippine Air Force (PAF), which is full of "air" and "does not force."
It is funny but it is painful to the ears of the truth that the AFP, especially since billions of pesos is the content of the newspapers, which was made up by some who led before the former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino in Malacañang.
In the past 6-year, the modernization of the AFP will not be denied, except if they really are blind and deaf to the truth that the civilians did not complain, they are afraid of the new equipment because their force will weaken and it will lead to the coins of donations from the country.
Under the AFP modernization program, a new weapon can buy the AFP; not only a gun but ship and airplane that can be used during the time of calamity to speed up the response and help to the needy.
The monitored territory of the army of the West Philippine Sea (WPS) - this should not be done through a few days just to be replaced by the station station in the island because of the modern equipment, the action of the government will be replaced.
Not only "that, the entire AFP was given inspiration and strength of the Aquino administration that the Aquino administration has become aware of what kind of race the Filipinos, whether they are inside or outside the country.
Since the year 2010, the understanding brought by the AFP - only a few of these are 2-worth of aircraft carrier that will be completed the entire group, and it is possible that the veins on the neck in Mendiola cannot be erased from the modernization, so it is possible to erase their group.
During the time of PNoy, the 8 combat utility vehicles, 2 Navy Group, 5 improvised explosive device (8 attack helicopters, 3 improvised explosive devices (Izzy Canillo), 114 Overseas Filipino carbiness (Izzy Canillo), 120 kilometers, an adult, and 63 thousand pesos.
Former Solicitor General Natalio, carpenter, who served as the commander of the United Nations DischForce in Golan Heights - the Filipino soldiers are brave and great. "
Now that the ability of the military can be given enough funds and support in the time of PNoy, a little knob of the new government is what the new government will do to make it more.
