Unity for the ASEAN for the time of calamity.

After a long time of preparation, it was successful in the Philippines last 16 to 18 in July, 2014 to the Asian Defense Security Adviser on 2014 (Adona, 2014) attended by the country delegates.
In this gathering, there was a direct fiber in different companies which are going to help the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Philippines and the Hadezers of the Philippines, and the Hanglement of the Philippines, and the Hanglement of the Philippines, which is the different kinds of defense of the Philippines, and other security defense.
It's obvious that the boils of the three Major Services Committee is noticeable, especially the Navy.
Included in the information that he showed is that the ships and airplanes that are about to release and are coming to the armed groups like two Del Pilar First Class Traels, the importance and ability of these during the time of calamity and disaster, even if it is natural or human rights.
Featured on the said Adona, 2014, the victims who were supported by the three Major-Laban of service, attended by the delegates and file a part from the sector of civilians, academia and security in the Philippines and other countries.
In the Philippine Navy, for example, we are the Armed Forces and master ng mga Bayani, together with Miss Aya Mackay, the theme, "Serena Lupa, and good deeds, experience, experience, and good deeds, and best of our armed forces of sea in the field of noon.
Comechore have first talked as Commander of Fahavez and marine First Division, and what he did was about the things there was the Navy and what included were the very big participation of the armed forces that was experienced by the armed groups, using his ship in the history.
Part of this is the quick action and immediate action caused by the hundreds of passengers of the sunk at Acer Ferry 9, the help of the Navy, which happened between the Princess of the Stars, which caused the collision and collapse of the ship St. Thomas de Aquinas of Mactan, Cebu.
Rear Adosto will deny the experience of the Navy in Multinational Village DR Operations Director, he also thanked the cooperation of many countries in the world during the time of calamity like "Sendong," Pablo, "and" Yolanda. "
That is brought by a rich experience, "and the potential of the local and real cooperation in the time of disaster and calamity that the Philippines and supporters of the Philippines and supporters of the Office of Naval Forces Agreement (NDF-R operations were assured by Captain Teddy Quinzon, director of the Office of Naval Forces Agreement (GAS).
This is the horrific act of protocol are spreading and will be submitted to the upcoming 8th ASEAN Navy Chief's Meeting last 28 August 2014 in Bangkok, the Thai Navy, after the successful host of the Philippine Navy last year.
Using their skills and knowledge as leaders: Director Tanim-ena of the Department of Social Welfare and Development and retired Brigadier General Romeo Fajardo of the Office of Civil Defense, they shared their reaction about the teaching of the three speaker from the Navy.
What we don't care for here is a lot of Filipinos?
It was given attention by Vice Admiral Jesus Versoza, chief and Fisheries Code of the Philippine Navy, the importance of the delegates attending the Symposium.
Here, according to Admiral Kuusuela of Filipino soldiers, it is not only the Navy - their readiness, ability and concern to make a life and livelihood in spite of the lack of modern equipment.
The importance of exchange of gratitude and experience is important to improve the knowledge of the countries that became part of the country which has been part of the country that became a part of the crisis which is being faced or the only way for the crisis that is facing, there will be a basis for the appropriate response and help.
This kind of meeting is important and full of things that we lack in the modern equipment, it will be a meeting with other countries in a meeting with the sea which is needed to be progressive and even for the help in this moment, Atty. Edgard Arevalo added.
