They were able to look down; that they are going to take a bath; they are looking into a bath where the Corporation of the controversy in the controversy will be buried in the controversy in order to bury the evidence related.
Inside and calling, you called.
Please advise me, i'll be the one who ignored me.
Why is it being sure that they want to be in.
For the evidence, he will immediately pity them.
Why do they need to bury the evidence?
So that you will not eat if you do not have a cave.
Those who are going to be put out against the Regulations.
He also warned the department plastic bags that he said, maybe it's as if we were able to send the companies that were declared to have been released, that might have been gone, that might have been erased from the things that I will sell.
Because of this, that is where we are here to have the heart, and the Two people.
They are going to the way to prove the important documents to prove that you are using the documents (P2four applicants.
You are now the ordinary employees of Botchok (Botchok, who is just following the orders of the most powerful.
But those are open.
What are their situation, they say that they are the ones in the bag and they say they are the most brains of the events.
That the baby is over, maybe it is still nothing for us to listen to it even if we can bring them up.
No one can tell him to finish lotto.
This is called for him.
You by the altar.
That was filled but when he is studying.
It has been two years since one of the Department of plastic bags and the first case in relation to the pick up-up, the former President, who was the former President of the country, Allen Arellano and two officials of the agency.
I am one of the number of agencies in Dinalupihan in the condo that you have seen the evidences that you have seen in Manila, this is also one of the people being focused on in relation to the victims of the room that they bought during four o'clock in this morning as our teacher in the case.
Them.
Their officials accepted a solution.
With us that we will sell there, we can be sold; we are said to be the record that Bernardo Cenon is said to be the same officials in the billiards hall which seems to have been high officials in billiards, which seems to have been high officials in the billiards.
Wait for you!
It's because it's because that's why it's very popular, if it did not reach the Commission on 3million pesos, he / she cannot reach the Commission on Human million pesos.
As they say, it seems that there are a lot of people who do not have jobs because here in the investigation, we are not saying that we continue to continue the dogs but you have thought that there are many evidence on the documents.
Teng, who did not take advantage of their positions, that they are receiving the commission that was being received by the commission, the police, but to my knowledge, it was very delicious.
"I said that he / she didn't find money to take a bath so that he would not remember, there are really many who were born here in a road that was not bankrupted.
The case has long been a long time but they still continue to wait for the thousands who want to go back to normal, but for how long, we need to wait for a few years that we are ready to wait for the Holy Week which is almost a few years since it is almost a few years.
October heart.
We are not stupid; we are proud.
It did not worsen.
Fur.
Together with sir, I repeat, I am studying.
What?
He knows that you are still in a meeting.
I am not here that there is a lot of mosquitoes.
It is not right that the office related to Catalibis should be notice of the school students when you do not have money for the country, they need to be able to free.
