MMDA is ready for the traffic in the SONA By Erfe (MMDA), the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) is ready to implement the flow of traffic for the first State of the Nation Address (SONA) by President Rodrigo Duterte this coming Monday (July 25) that will be held at Batasang Pambansa in Quezon City.
According to MMDA chairman Emerson Carlos, up to 1,220 are personnel involved in the parts of Commonwealth Avenue and nearby places to fix the flow of traffic.
At around 12: 00 midnight on Monday, the traffic personnel in the said place were already in position because they were said to serve as additional wage increase of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Presidential Security Group (PSG).
According to Carlos, they did not expect the heavy traffic in Commonwealth Avenue on Monday because of the desire of the President to make the SONA simple and normal so that it will not be busy with the public particularly those who responded.
This is also a reason why the part of Commonwealth Avenue is not needed to be closed.
"We Seal is no longer a portion of Commonwealth Avenue, the PSONAs," according to Carlos.
But according to Carlos, they are ready to implement the correct lane if needed.
Aside from this, their emergency personnel are also wearing a fire piston which has been used in the time when there is a in-law that can happen.
Because of this, MMDA will still notice the motorists and commuters going to Commonwealth Avenue that can use alternative routes.
For the hands of public utility vehicles (TJO) who will come from EDSA, it can be done in Mindanao Avenue, right in Don Julio Gregorio, straight to Republic Avenue, left in Faillane or Regalado Avenue to the destination and Vice President.
The public utility vehicles can pass through Mindanao Avenue, right at Quirino Highway to their destination and for government.
The vehicles whose vehicles came from Commonwealth Avenue are going to be done in Den in a Avenue, old, of Chuang, right in Republic Avenue, Don Gregorio, right in Republic Avenue, Don Gregorio Road, Old Sauyo Road in Mindanao Avenue and Vice President.
In line with this, MMDA clarified that Universities Vehicles (Ubers) or known as the call "number coding" system has become effective.
