US-RP Balikatan last 2014 in Albay, Mapait na Ligas and Hala of citizens are going to go out.

GraceOka.
Santos Binalera Command, NPA-Albay.
April 20, 2014.

In the launch of a part of the US-RP Balikatan last April to May in the province of Albay, it is clear to the activities of the US-RP), "similar to the entire packs of the US-RP), this is a clear violation of sovereignty and integrity of the country, against the people and to be a thrift.

Some of the type of Czech Republic (Humalig) "like the construction of the school building (PBAP), was dismayed in the parts of the country that will be held in a few barangays of Guinobatan and Legazpi City, which will be held in a few barangays of Guinobatan and Legazpi City, which will be held in a few barangays of Guinobatan and Legazpi City.

The word "wangwang" aims to look like a non-military "in the said activity of the Balikatan last 2009 in Brgy. Balambac, Ligao City last February 2009 when it was conducted by the military troops that will be held in Albay.

The Balikatan 2014 which will be held in Albay, which will be held in Tacloban, is only one of many activities that can be used by the US and AFP-PNP in the campaign against the US and AFP-PNP as the preparation of the US and PNP in the legislative chamber of the US and the US government officials in the campaign against the US in the country.

The activities in the Balikatan 2014, the best presence of the military troop in the US and other parts of the country is clear that the Philippines will only get involved in the chaos and integrity of the US troops that can be removed from the presence of the US troops that can be removed from the presence of the US troops that can be removed from the presence of the US Marines and Albay.

The continuous launch of the Balikatan last Balikatan last the constitution of the Philippines is against the constitution of the Philippines and the agreement that will be implemented in the US of the country, but it will only serve as the economy of the US and the military who are interest of the US and the local government of the US and the local government.

The US will take advantage of the Balikatan Examination because their needs to control our country and the market of the entire Asia-Pacific which is considered by the US to save the plunging economy is very happy, especially that he is supporting the anti-citizens and anti-American program.

Similar to the militant fight of the Filipino dialibis against the Balikatan last 2009, it should be shown on and fight the Albayano was allowed to cooperate and take action against the citizens of human rights similar to the US-Kidnapping Group (EDCA) to be vigilant and take action by the US and the Philippines this month of April.
