
Dead and the corrupt are very confused with the MERS.

It is up to Filipino doctors, nurses and other Overseas Filipino Workers who go and work in countries with the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome or MERS.
Especially in Arabs who are currently being attacked by the death caused by MERS.
This is the fact that the truth came out from the lack of consolation for the urge to stop them from the government.
18 countries have MERS.
The World Health Organization stated that 18 countries have MERS.
In the Arab countries, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar, Oman, Jordan, Kuwait, Spain, Yemen and Lebanon.
There are also countries in United Kingdom (UK), France, Tunisia, Italy, Malaysia, Turkey, Egypt, United States of America (USA) and Netherlands.
In the Arab countries, there are many deaths that reached 168 in the past two years, including one died in Malaysia recently.
The spread of MERS and increasing number of those who die in the present are increasing.
Based on the truth.
Even if the World Health Organization is worried, this is still not filing a calamity, and this is becoming the guidance of my beloved Philippines for the treatment of the disease.
But do you need to have a pest in the ranks of OFWs before the government needs to study in going to the countries that are affected by the disease?
Is there not enough warning for the death of MERS-three OFWs in order to think of the government and conduct a tight warning?
A remittance is important.
Due to the loose treatment of MERS, it seems that the government wants to talk about the remittance or remittance of OFWs instead of the estimation of their lives in death.
Money is more important than the lives of OFWs or Filipino people?
Because, only the nurses who are working in the Arab countries are being paid for $12,000 every year or $1,000 every month.
How about the majority of other OFWs?
If the millions of OFWs from Arab countries have sent a remittance to the Philippines, well, billions of pesos will be the amount.
More than $21 billion will be taken away by the total of 13 million OFWs and it costs almost 1 billion pesos.
It is a big part of P1 billion that is coming from the OFWs from Arab countries and it is indeed the stomach of the government.
It is certain that there will be an additional OFW from billion pesos worth of officials from the government like it is revealed in the present.
Very confused.
In the minds of many OFW, it is not easy to die in other countries instead of getting killed in the Philippines from hunger and difficulty.
Because in other countries, if they die, somehow there is something that they will leave behind by their families for their future.
Here in the Philippines, they do not have any inheritance to the family, they are still on debt of debt for his hospitalization and burial.
That is why, they are dead if their situation is dead in another country.
Together with the belief of 30 percent, the captain of MERS.
And it is unlucky for them to be counted among the three OFW who died of MERS.
Doctor, a nurse project!
This is what worries me now.
It is likely that the doctors, nurses and other health program will serve as beneficiary of MERS in different countries.
With the number of health companies that are working in Arab countries, and when they go home to their respective countries in vacation or the end of their contract, they will surely be the most effective MERS.
Because they are asked to treat those who are sick and because of this, they are certain that they are the first ones who get sick of illness.
We need to worry.
This is where our government should worry.
It's as if only our doctors, nurses, and other health programs were able to go home to the country of disease that is more intense compared to the SARS or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) who killed 8,000 people in the year 2002.
Now, Bro, what is our government doing for the coming health, which may have a contact with those who have MERS in other countries?
This is a question and the questions should also be brought to the questions about other OFWs.
The government will not be complacent about this issue and just act if the lives of our Filipinos inside the country itself will not be complacent.
Corrupt and joining have MERS.
We are just thinking, Bro, why are we not sent to officials involved in corruption and corruption of those who get sick?
There have been three OFW who died and there were other hospitals because of MERS.
What if they will take care of those who are sick and use the money that they get from, instead they get rid of it from their own pocket and interest?
They will surely come into your own even if the death penalty is not a trend for those who are like them, hehehe!
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
