The distribution of the land in Hacienda Luisita a civil distribution.

Because Winwyn Fernandez wants to have a right to the land, 74 years old, he signed the papers that was given by the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) so that the land in Hacienda Luisita will be distributed.
Nanay Mercy was one of the more than 6,000 beneficiary of the land in Hacienda Luisita, but he cried when she found out from his companions that they still need to pay before the land comes.
Because of this, Nanay Mercy was not able to get the Cerge of Land OPLAN) that's for her on the day of giving of DAR and barangay in Balete Drive.
"I do not know how to read and write a letter if I just know that I will pay" that within 30 years, I have not signed that the FU (Appointments is that they did not explain to me, "according to Nanay Cion.

He made a sound.
TRLand that is called by the farmers of the hacienda, what is happening now to Larang Tita which is expected to make the land that they can claim.
For them, this kind of system will be exported and to be a wills of the land.
"They did not explain to me" what they were saying, and then I saw that this is just like this: 41, from Barangay Balete Drive, 50, from Brgy. Balete Drive and one of the beneficiary of the day to get the Cambot who gave birth.
He just found out that they needed to pay the Land Bank which is part of their signed contract before reaching them the original copy of the land title before reaching them.
But if they will not pay, the original copy of the land will not go to them.
Aside from this, the land that is needed for him is already at Barangay Mabilog.
It was also not revealed in CampA if a lot of number of land was used for him, which is only included here are 0.66 hectares that he / she was going to own, but he did not know where in said barangay he would not be looking for.
Orlando Simon, 60, from Brgy. Mapalacosta, a others pulled out for him and the land that was broken for him was far from Barangay Mutricycle or.
"What they only give is Vic" Atong "Mamondiong, the distribution of the land because it should be paid by farmers," according to Joseph Canlas, the chairman of alliance with Magbufarm in the Middle Luzon or recently.
According to Renato Mendoza, an official of the alliance with Magbuagan (Ammunition), the editions of the government is intentional to pay the slow process of payment to attract the land that cannot be paid to the land and to rise from Cojuangco.
Continuing to study.
According to Adik-sweat, Fernando Hala, they did not keep those who were not put in a distribution of a distribution of the hacienda, like the land that was owned by Tarlac Development Corporation which is owned by Cojuangco and the land owned by Cojuangco.
Aside from this, a sports Complex is what was wanted by Cojuangco the reason why they are claiming the 100 hectares of Barangay Mapalacosta, according to Simon.
Canlas also said that Cojuangco-Aquino should pay attention to the citizens of the hacienda of 1.33 billion pesos for the sale of the land of Subic-Clark-Tarlac Expressway (80.51 hectares) and RCBC (500 hectares).
The residents have a doubt that an estimate of 500 hectares of RCBC from due to the estimate of their estimate of a fence was confiscated from there.
The continuous control.
According to Mendoza, firemen and a lot of policemen distribute these to each barangay during the time of sending a copy of CampA, aside from the suggestions of the military who were at ten barangays inside the hacienda.
"If the distribution of land is really true, why are all police and firefighters who are here?
According to Simon, they know why there are military in barangays and because that is the fight against the land, they are allegedly reports of the suspension of the agents of their fighting.
The military stood on each house in the barangay to scare the residents who joined in Paholo which if they are not going to join, they will lose a lot of land that will be distributed, said the fake.
However, the citizens here are still determined to expose the reforms that the reforms are implemented on the land "of DAR in Hacienda Luisita, which is held by the family of the president of the republic.
