9 dead in the Midnight shootout Botchok (Nov. 1, 2016-nine men, who are said to be drug pushers after the death of the masses, was sprawled on the death of the masses against the arresting drug operations in the three cities of Metro Manila yesterday at dawn.
In Navotas City, according to the report of Police Senior Superintendent Dante Noguna, it was completely discovered around five o'clock in the early morning when the members of the Navotas City Police, Northern Police District, Special Action Force (Special Action Force (Special Action Force) and District Public Safety Company arrested a operation.
Upon arriving at Market III, Navotas Fish Port Complex, they were suddenly shot by the suspects, Gerald Butillo, 35, of Ilaya Street, Brgy. North Bay Boulevard North (NBBaba, 31, of Market St., Fish Port Area and Alvin Patintero, Nihonggo.
Around three drug pushers were killed after allegedly exchanging shots with the police in the encounter that happened in the city of Caloocan yesterday at around 1: 00 in the early morning.
In the report of the Northern Police District (NTC), particularly PS / Supt. Roberto Fajardo, the incident happened in the stretch of PNR Railway, Daang Bakal, Guilig in, Barangay.

33 of the said city.
The Caloocan City Police-Station Anti-Illegal Drugs-Special Action Force (SAID-NPA) received a call from a concerned citizens about the ongoing sale of shabu in the area.
The said station was immediately caught in the operation and when it arrived in the area, the suspects were caught in the act while the two were still investigating the identities.
But when they saw the law enforcers, the patrons of the suspects quickly run.
The suspects immediately moved to the location of the police who were forced to fire back which caused the immediate death of the former.
A suspected drug pusher also died in the drug operation conducted by the Manila Police District (MPD) - Police Station 6, yesterday at dawn in Sta. Ana, Manila.
SPO 2 Charles John Binalon and the deceased were identified as Willie Nepomuceno, alias Willie, of the right age and from 1858-B-B Santa Ana, Manila.
In the investigation, the police were allegedly conducting a buy-bust operation wherein PO 2 Benjamin Oh no.
A shabu was seen with shabu and he was able to carry out money when the suspect, who was the police, was obvious that's why he attempted to pull a gun but was shot at by Oh, "
The suspect was rushed to Sta. Ana Hospital but he was declared dead by the doctors around 2: 10 in the early morning.
