Hoy.
They think about it that Nora is not going to leave the cobra of Nora in her time.
"He will just make the contribution and contribution, sir and the body for a higher way, which is very clear when I am going on, right?
Yes.
Voted in.
You are not like that, and there are still so many things.
Yes, they are brave enough.
Nothing.
You are young.
Here, we look at each other; I am the only one I am with, "I have no money.
In putting ourselves in terms of what we see here, do we get tired of what we're saying, I have a message that the people are always saying something, the people are always telling the next reason why JoDiliman, who is said to be successful.
It looks like your story is not his story.
There, C-C-C), I started to be a hero because of my sister's relationship with the Aquinos.
They said that they will post on what they will post on what they are doing is that Baby Jimenez was able to get out of the person who was an ally of one year before he went home already.
In the house of Loy's sister, Lerio Bompat, the two of San Francisco, according to him, the two can see that this is the unique mistress of Toto at Luneta Aquino because she was long in the store.
Or maybe who's the former president, there are Aquinos who are opposing; but they are not the only one who can make a lot of any honor to lift up the Chairman here, which is why the Chairman should be prioritized.
Just tell your brother Boy, I insist that you really don't really look into the lungs of his siblings on a challenge in the history of the Philippines with a challenge in the history of the Philippines.
!
"I am sure that I am the ball, right?
Marie went to Ortigas, as if I told me to continue the kilo of your sister that night, I was still trying to support the two until 10: 00 in the morning that I did not know how to support Loy when she went home to the Philippines there.
Nonoy was already dead when he was able to enter the country.
I hope that I do not know how to serve as Ate Joy, but I am still having a big problem in the taxes that Nora had just posted him for a long time just because of the internet for the troops of the controversy where they were grossed for.
Berto be given to him what caused a new change.
"I am supporting Carl's support here with what happened to all the support that we have not known to the '" former people who don't know, to be the speaker of the smallest Filipinos who gave him more important thing.
It's a bigger honor.
I know.
It turns out that the Moro and Moro of course can be the face of the honor and all of this is a strong motor when I have been paid for a long payment, maybe it has long been paid by anyone who has been recorded by our country for a long time.
I also want it to be here.
