She is my cousin, if I will call him what's the news on the past, he / she was full of confidence; she is full of boils.
Ha ha ha ha.
Do you know that your cousin is just low.
Full of dresses are full of hornets; he is with Jomel, anyway.
How many years have they laughed and laughed.
You are laughing at that short-tempered; and fog; women.
Then, we are very pitiful; we are the ones carrying the woman who is carrying a woman from where they are living in the house where I am living there in the house of my supporters.
They will know the woman from where he is.
Those from where?
You are proud of women.
Yes, maybe last night, she said that it was just the call of the children who went to Bicol.
According to him, they seem to have been a teacher more than it seems to be a six destination that can be strong.
That's okay, that's why we're okay, very small; so that's okay, that's okay, that's why they are abroad.
Yes.
"Yes," a t-shirt said that they even asked a cake on the side of the woman right now, "the t-shirt said that we did not experience a cake that is not outside, he said.
"Will they be my aunt that is why it's mother who is in the ordinary age, and now he said that he would have been just one.
"Can't it be found out that they are a mother of food on the side of the woman because they cooked for the cousin of Ate Joy Viado, where they cooked food," said their mother at the same head, maybe later she gets mad.
As they say now, it is not there that they got married, "they will be looking for something in one head.
He took away from the jeep yes, when she got to live with the jeep, as a teacher told you where she went to the children, they were thinking about it, that was why I gave you to the children of San Juan as well as the people from San Juan.
Let us laugh and look for the children of Ka softdrinks or iced tea; we are far away if they will let all the children do not know about the child.
Yes, then when they only called a lieutenant Espontes, to those from San Juan, you are really happy here, he said, because they can taste it outside.
I said what.
As said by the councilor, they hired a small amount, even if he was just low, she said that he was just a low attitude, he said that he was not brought there as a viand, and then the feet were left behind in the house.
He / she grew up; he / she has the first case of half, he had a first case, which might be the first case that he / she might be at the same case.
You are just going to have a viand for two viand; we might just be different; we might just be different from the rain that can be seen by the rain.
However, they were on their way home when they went home yes, he said the theme of his left smile, the smile of the four-year-old smile.
