
TV Patrol, April 08, 2014.

Where are your mother?

Dr. Love, the words that we rarely see, especially when we are facing such a cold body, and often heard in a cold body, and often, when I witnessed this kind of scene in the cemetery, what is the value and meaning of this in the cemetery.

There is no show even if it is just a show and there is no remorse.

Things are only important if we are gone to us, until we are with us, we will trust the things that we see and have no assurance, and there is no assurance that all of our hearts and souls will happen.

I am hoping that this story will open the mind.

Maputi, son Ko Lang.

In twilight, Melocotones' loud weeping was heard from his room in Kalupaan, and when she went home, she could no longer stop his Lolo Indo, and when she went home, she was like a sharp blade in his heart.

Her mother was able to gaze as Melcor, who was worried on the door of the room, "Melda," I did not want to talk to me! "She did not want to talk to me!" She was forced to stand up from the door and open it.

"Why is it that what you need for me?

"Maybe, how can you get a child?, because, you are always crying since your grandfather died, you are not usually eating, why is it that the mother is worried about?

"I cannot forget grandfather, I always remember the conversation and talking, especially when I have problems that I have brought to her." The explanation of Melda. "

"I know that, my child," I am also looking for your grandfather, "why did I do not want to talk to me," why did you not want to talk to me? "I did not want to talk to me," I did not mean what you were saying. "

"Why not, I am here... that I am here, and they will help you," his mother's request for Mella, is here.

"Because you are my problem!

Lawyer!

Usually the children cannot complain, confess, and explain to the parents what is happening to themselves.

For the reason, they lost faith and respect to their parents.

A long time has passed before it comes to this kind of relationship, not just in an instant, the parents started not fulfilling her children, for the promises of their child, for the concern of their child, for the sake of the child who has been given to her child, etcetera.

More than this, in times when children need to be ill and confusing their problems, they cannot be found all your parents all the time and if you understand, they understand more and threats to the child.

If there is no understanding and not found in their own home, the children are looking for it to discover the happiness brought outside the home; to their friends, and up to addiction to bad habits, that becomes the reason for their safety and severe tragedy.

Repentance is always late because it can be easy to become a mother, but it is hard to make a mother, especially the frequent reason that is always busy and at the crib.

Someone goes out, "the parents; and those who know that you are proud of your heart and you are able to do this kind of advice, that if you're on your situation, you are lucky, with faith and extra hope, you are lucky.

And from this, let us not refuse this to our children, let us not pay them anymore, before everything becomes too late, and the one who will be caught should be guarded, Miss Kita Kung the son Ko Lang.

Hoping.
