Watch China By Bernard Taguba, August 21, 2016.
During the time of former President Fidel Ramos, the Filipino people are focusing on the country's problem with the cage of electricity supply which is the reason why he was given an emergency power.
But while the Filipinos are focusing especially the leaders of the country on this issue of electricity, we miss that it is also important to Filipinos, the islands inside the territory of the Philippines in Spratings.
What we are doing is missing in this issue because of our domestic problems that is why China already woke up with the resolving of the electricity problem in our territory at this time of President Rodrigo Duterte, the problem on illegal drugs and murder of drug personalities.
That is also the problem with the serious problem of traffic in Metro Manila, wait, not only in Metro Manila, it is also not only in Metro Manila that is why it is possible that it is possible to be part of the emergency power given to PDigong.
Of course the start of the peace talks between the government and the National Democratic Front of the Philippine National Liberation Front of the Philippines (CPP) and New People's Army (NPA) will take a scene.
We will still have charter change if it will be a scene in the next year or after going to the 2017 national budget until December of this year.
That is why many issues are going to get the attention of Filipinos and I don't remove the possibility that China will take advantage of it to strengthen the territory of the Philippines in the West Philippine Sea.
It is not impossible to happen because they have done it when the problem of the Philippines is the supply of electricity that is why the citizens should monitor their duties, not only to the citizens but in the whole country.
It is noticeable that many congressmen do not want to talk about what is happening in the society especially if the issue has something to do with President Rodrigo Duterte.
Around 293 members of the Legislative Chamber are lucky if there are 20 people who will give opinions if you ask them about the social issues or what's happening in our country.
If you ask them, you will answer you first, no one to comment at me or so they will not answer what you text.
It is obvious that they do not want to comment because the Palace might take revenge on their opinion because they are still members of the super majority of the Minority Floor of the Congress.
"Those who are noisy in the time of former President Benigno" Noynoy "Aquino III are quiet now because they are part of the administration.
