It was 12-year term for the president.

Second term for President Benigno Simeon Aquino III, is there someone who will object and someone will object to those who are happy and nobody is worthy to replace him in P-law, will probably agree with, but others, will surely agree.
Earlier, the Constitution has not agree with the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution, according to Artadi 4, the president and vice president, and it will end up in front of the said date for six-years and it will never run over the election for six-years and it will never run in the election for six-years.
The case of the former President and now the congressman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo is strange.
He was able to use nine years before he was able to run for six-years after the burial of the former President and now the mayor of Manila Joseph Ejercito, who was not qualified in the impeachment case, was allowed by Arroyo for more than four years.
It is good to clarify that the Vice-President can run for a second six-year term but is there a Vice-president who would want to run again in a higher position and end his praying, but wait, why would it be fine?
Usually, every time the term of the President will end on the constitutional solution, there is always gossip for the news, extension, which is why the people have been pushing and charged.
It was also reported that at the end of the administration of Arroyo, the latest attempt to amend the Constitution is the launch of the signature of former president Fidel Ramos, and all the elected President Rodrigo Duterte who will benefit from the implementation of election, they will deny.
From the view of others, one term for six-years is very popular for a good President, this is the reason why there is provisions in the Saligang Batas of America for the elected President with English which is probably the reason for our own Constitution, which is probably the reason for our own Constitution which is the term of our president.
On the other hand, it is very long for six-years for the failure of the President, this is the reason why we are provisions for the impeachment, or infidelity of the people, or infidelity to the country, whether the impeachment of our politics will unlikely push through.
In my opinion, it is not for example for the good or failure of the president but a wise voting for the country, but it's only the primary treatment of the filipino people, but also for the ability to lead the country but instead of the real name, influence, fame, beauty, or destination of a candidate.
The change in the country's good governance is not key to the Saligang Batas about the second term for the president so that six-years will be implemented if the candidate who has preparedness, skills, intelligence, experience, and most of all, and most of all, will be focused on.
There is also no cure for a democratic qualifications for those who want to become president who are born in the current Constitution, not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40-year-old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40-year-old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40-year-old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old, and not less than 40 years old.
A big part of the country's education is being carried by the clean results of the election - before the election, and after the election, and after the election, it is better to end the culture of the election and know the culture of belief that a candidate won't lose.
It is time to change our political system and that is the start of our own roof, to our own family, we should call and share the proper awareness in choosing our country and programs to us in the councils and congress.
