Is the Sandiganbayan to have nuts?

It is only purpose to send the legal burial of the Sandiganbayan in the latest survey against the US President and the Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
The Supreme Court of Con-Her was able to go to the Supreme Court of Con-Her, Pampanga to have been stopped by the Comelec since she was not stopped by the Comelec since he / she was chased by the COMELEC (Commission on Arroyo's annual voting for the New Zealand elections.
Why is the Sandiganbayan against the request of Aling Gloria? The basis is the plunder case of GMA from the exhaustion of funds of the Intelligence Fund of PCSO!
Fight IT led by Sandiganbayan lawyers Are nuts, it seems that they do not know what they did to CGMA in the case they are doing, the witness of Malacañang and Commission on Audit (COA) clarified that the former president has nothing to do with the PCSO plunder case.
Which is why one of the critics of Arroyo, Akbayan Rep. Walden Bello called for an intensive act to set bail. "The primary officials of the PCSO were given all, why does he still do not want Gloria?
There is only one reason - the lawyer of Sandali in Malacañang is too fond of obsequiousness of the case, he does not want to be released by the COMELEC to answer all the expenses for the trip, security, food and medicine.
Admit it or not, they do not want to run again for the former President, Malacañang wants to run again and to do this, he needs to leave him to the National Bilibid Prison!
In the statement shown by the Sandiganbayan, it is clear that the 1987 Constitution is clear why they don't just dismiss the 1987 Constitution which is one of the rights of each person?, why do they not just keep on top of the rights of each person?
No wonder, even in small court, many of our ordinary countrymen are not able to get enough law, especially the law, just for those who are in power, not on the streets of society.
Anyway, that is what is happening now to those who are involved in pushing the money of Juan - the pork barrel scam!
Many of those who were involved but the charged were only the opposition of Sanga-nuts!
