Editorously why the rehabilitation is not enough?
October 7, 2016.
This last time, President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte filed a spicy words against America (when he told US President Barack Obama, and in the European Union ("EU), the foreign contacts is still meddling with his" war on drugs. "
The President strongly believes in the implementation of America to the killings in the country as a result of suppressing the plague of illegal drugs and those who continue to vote the rehabilitation, instead of getting killed, those who are involved in illegal drugs will be allowed.
The President also said that it is not a hindrance for him to be the rehabilitation center, "it is saddening that these words are not a chance to change and leave this bad vice because they do not believe in the rehabilitation of the leader of the country.
This is not the taste of the Lord Maker is not the food that he has done in His fierce.
How can the Lord love the person, no matter how much it is to be done and even if this is, I have a lot of feelings in the cross of his cold-mannered son of Jesus Christ, hopefully, this kind of feelings is being looked up and supported by a big number of Filipinos.
When he got out of the land and live as a common person, the Great Jesus Christ showed how much is the love of His will of the people.
He was hugged by Jesus Christ's wish to rest and accepted by Jesus Christ in his life due to the corrupt tax they did and those who were abandoned by the society such as hornets.
The Manle is changed with the bad feelings for them by the society that was planted in their minds by the Pharisees and the leaders.
Without choosing, no one has been abandoned and the love of God is fierce and everything is equal to the love of God, whatever the sin that he has done or corruption.

But this is the love of God, it is right that he should not use and abuse it to make mistakes and crime so there is a destined law on earth to follow the people.
This is the law that has been used to those who have sinned.
But even in the law of the people, death will not be given as a punishment, even the law of people, give a chance to change a sin and do it in prison.
In the case of drug personalities, there is a rehabilitation center, "Second Chance" hoping to not refuse this to them by the President.
The campaign against his administration is "change" but why is it that there is no chance for change the victims of the plague of drugs?
