It is only the solution of By Rey Marchil on August 10, 2016 when the rebel groups they exchanged at Mindanao will not be finished, the peace that they have been hoping will not end, not only now but in the next few years.
The direct response to the needs of the rebel groups, the terrorist Abu Sayaff only had a solution for the dreams of peace in Mindanao; however, if the government is serious like what former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino - it will be compared to as soon as possible.
It cannot be denied that it is not an effect of some decades of negligence, abuse and lack of understanding is the root of the long history of the war in Mindanao - which is why all the filipino people are experiencing, hoping to serve as a reminder, especially since the filipino people want to return to their positions.
Good start is the desire of President Rodrigo Duterte to end the disagreement between Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and continue the program of PNoy, particularly the reform the economy in Mindanao.
The investment on the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro will not only cause fire but blood and sweat is a way to raise the reforms and politics that should be focused on, according to the existing law.
Under the Sajarra program of PNoy, it is estimated that around 11 thousand pesos were conquered by PhilHealth and 639 were destroyed by free education in college, through College of Dansalan College in the year 2014-2015, while one thousand was given to their training.
The peace talks between the government and MILF, which is tainted with blood because in Mamasapano, in the long time, the soldier who was assigned in Mindanao to go home; this is also the prayer of those living in the said place not to be involved in war.
The people who lost their homes because of the war in Mindanao; lost their father; lost their children; lost their properties; and they could not know how to get free from the problem brought by the war.
Now that the elected President is the elected president and true blood pressure, the Filipino people are hoping to focus on the advancement of peace talks because if not now, the person who had the two presidents will be repeated again with peace talks.
And prayer of your servant, hopefully the rebel group will cooperate and should not let pride of who are the protagonist in their ranks, map or Misuari) because it will be better to read its saliva for a lead.
