
2013 / 5.6 / 25.

The initial reading on the political race of "Kaleath is the World"

It was first heard in the radio, "Kalbo" in 1995, the same year, which was started when the peace talks between Governor Development of the Philippines) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

In her opinion, the "Master Rapid" enumerated all the documents to be held in the society.

Some Are, a native of the brimming of Some Are, "RTECAYEAre, Rich Asuncion of Home Are Some so, some Are Shane-Friends are taken out of Number Are Shane-FRIENDS.

On the first part of the song, I laid out the appearance of their employers, the opposite of each other, the opposite of each person who has a rich and thin; friends and enemy; and many of this is the same way to follow the dining table and other things.

Sevidal is great with some Arinoli, OPLAN), that is why some of the Shane Sevidal, which is why some of the Oeagile Sevidal, "

"Thank you," thank you, "thank you," thank you, "Atong Ang, the original boxing video of" Kalbo "in newspapers," Francis Corpus, while the Editorial Department, "International Airport," looked at, "International terrorism"

Francis Faulve, 1995: "Thank Can with Talk n a gun."

It is noticeable that the angle of the footage from Francis Corpus, often on the part of the camera; it seems that the construction of the camera is noticeable; it seems that the commissioners of the top of the top of us while we are witnesses are watching him.

There is no need for seven to study; it may be settled through the angle of the camera.

In this position, the Master Rapisora, like a priest, is like a priest that gives his followers.

"This is also the position of Elmo Magalona from" Kalantol, "Filipino people, which was released this May 2013 until 4 hours, which was released this May 2013 until 4 million pesos, which was said to have a distribution of a song along the message of the song," thank you as a stun gun. "

2: 11 in 2013 in this angle, Elmo Magalona from this angle, Elmo Magalona from the thing used to study by his father: Thank Can and Talk n a gun. "

There is an emphasis that the defense of the pork barrel scam did not push through it, according to him, the endorsement of the peace talks in the Philippines is clear, which is clear in choosing the peace talks in the Philippines until it was exposed that there is a direct connection between the peace talks in the Philippines, as long as there is a direct negotiation between the New HE.

It looks like this is still in his singing this 2013, and to the continuous peace talks under the Marcos US-Aquino, it is important to discuss the social media and the new version of "Kaletiquette) of the old and new version of" Kaletiquette. "

Current state of peace talks.

It can be recalled that last April 2013, Malacanang expressed his interest to continue the dialogue with Duterte, for the sake of the anti-Illegal Drugs Act, "Wtch, the Philippine National Liberation Front,"

In Hala Joint Task Force (GSU-NDFP), it is clearly stated in Article 4: "The Social Security of peace, which is being monitored by the businessmen, which is being monitored by the businessmen, which is being implemented by the businessmen, which makes a sample of the climate of peace."

In relation to this, the same party agreed and signed the content of Oxford or Joint Task Force (Article 8 of the said agreement it was stated in the commemoration of the provincial government which was initially ordered by the Philippine government last 2001.

It appears that even though it was a part of the "tanim-building, the release of the political prisoners including those who are detained in the Philippines is detained, and it is being used by GSU-bala" which is being used as a new thing to stop the peace talks between the Philippines.

In addition to this, while the peace talks between the two parties will be implemented, it is expected that the Philippine National Bureau of the United States will continue to resolve the address of the Philippine National Bureau of the United States, which is part of the Philippine National Bureau of the European Union by the Philippine National Bureau of the European Union, which is included in the custody of the Philippine National Bureau of the European Union by the Philippine National Bureau of the European Union.

Meanwhile, in the final interview with the chairman of the NDFP members, Luis Jalandoni, 13 years, he clarified that their side remains open when the next president of the Aquino administration remains open, and if needed, they are ready to wait for the term of the next president of Golovkin because they continue to continue the peace talks.

At the end of the armed fight.

At this point, it is important to talk about the part of the armed fight in the Philippines in one interview, Luis Jalandoni, material and actual action that gave way for more than 40 years of the armed movement in the country.

In the extreme exploitation of the citizenry, as well as the leader of the United States, the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines), the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines), the Armed Forces of the city of the Philippines), the Armed Forces of the country of the Philippines.

Just like what was mentioned, it is an important part of the Oplan Galugad conducted by a few members of the NPA rebels as their name as "terrorists," it seems that he does not recognize and take care of the veins of the armed fight, and in the fluster of desperation, there are only two more choices to die or to die.

The horrific act of "Kaleath is the World" and "Kaletiquette.

Let us go back to singing and music video, just like what was mentioned earlier, both sentiments of the old and new version of stray bullet, and instead, the only difference is that it would be said to be the only one in the legislative chamber, and instead was released by a "Ipit Gang", "

That's why he / she was a hero, that's why he / she was a mistress.

Earice cream, Phacienda, "thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, a gentleman who is a traitor, and the arteries of the 20 pesos.

It seems like the society is not able to make it like that, it is natural for people to have different situations; and as well, using their own situation; and as well, the use of human rights to be expulsion.

While this is being monitored by the treacherous ways, that is why they are not asking those who are different from the poor, why are there an armed conflict between the poor, why there are an armed arguments between the poor, why there are an armed arguments between the poor, why there are no armed arguments between the poor, the same with the construction of the peace of the Filipino masses.

It is noticeable that this kind of view is noticeable from the older generation that is currently being implemented by the older generation on the present, which is owned by a young man who has died, and (3) in the cave of the father / son, and (3) in the corner of the father / son and a dead / life.

Through the burial of the burial and Filipino hospital, the dead was alive and went to a cave in life.

Through the current technology, the citizens heard the voice of almost five years of the dead Master Hanper, the son and famous male teenager, Elmo Magalona, of 21 years, which was used to look for the father and son in a lot of scenes in music video.

2: 18 once again met with a dead and life to say: "Don't have a point, that is a sign that there is a sign that there is an agreement."

Meanwhile, in this scene, it is as if this is not allowed by politicians who have given this kind of consciousness (or maybe the lack of lack of lack of peace) to the younger generation, fitting to the current situation of the peace talks between the GSU-NDFP).

2: 36 Wagas, which was known to be covetousness and a father-and-son-in-law.

According to addition, addition to the words uttered by the word "Maritez-Tropas," by the new version of singing and music video, if there is an indication that he will be able to step down from the current administration, he seems like an indication of pure recognition from the society and for the worsening economic growth.

"It's as if Francis Corpus, who seemed like the saint of a new version of music video, remains in spite of his death, so that his death will be spread, and one of the last statement of Gatid," Camply, and one of the last statement of Glamang, "Camply, and one of the last statement of Gatid," Camply.
