
It was a message of the legislative chamber to make the resolution given to Maraykit, Cavite.

Simeon Magistrado.
NDFP) in Cavite.
March 6, 2014.

The National Democratic Front of Cavite emphatically refuted the politicians of the Marcos US-Aquino in Barangay Patintero, Maraytono.

In their desperate to be given, the elements of the Cavite Provincial Public Safety Company said Tacloban City Public Safety Company arrested the Philippine Air Force, and Marañon, Police Chief Inspector Egbert B.

Hoping to be secretly arrested by the members of the police, William Verzosa, 60 years old, and Lorenzo Obrado, 59 years old, and three other members of the fisherman in Barangay Inarado.

The government troops of the government government troops of weapons and bomb at the house of the victims were held and were filed with a case that is illegal as an illegal number of Firearms and Gaming Corporation, along with the motives of their members of the New People's Army.

Even before this incident, a similar case was also filed by the arrest and filing of cases of the illegal number of irregularities in the alleged members of the NPA who are allegedly members of the NPA in Barangay Inarado.

A desperate steps by the Marcos US President Aquino to the said policy and coordinating with the NPA because it is the purpose of the masses to give protection to the people, spreading fear and planting fear in the community where the struggle of the citizens will be given importance.

This is an indication of the slow movement of the masses to one side, and the defense of the country's budget for the Lord Nazarene, a giant group Alhabsy Misaya in the other side.

It is a big part or equivalent of dozens of hectares of Brgy. Pamukid in the jurisdiction of Hacienda Looc, which is considered by the Manila Sibol Development Corporation and SM Public Works and Development Corporation, which is owned by the private business and high-Illegal Drugs Act, resort and other hobby of the rich.

Meanwhile, there are some parts of the barangay captains, Leonard Virata and Panaligan, who recently became violent, the attack of the fishermen in the barangay because they have prohibited the construction of concrete houses in the barangay and put off the construction of concrete houses in the barangay and put in-control of people and businesses in it.

A part of the Philippine US-Aquino will be a part of integrity, which will be held by the tactic of threats and foolishness of the country's umbrella and livelihood for almost 500,000 families of the poor cities and local fishermen by the giant foreign private business and local fishermen that might be an obstacle to the wealth of the province.

They detest these kinds of violation of the administration of the Marcos Aquino to human rights that will prove that the current regime seems to have nothing else but the bloody path that will bring the public towards a deeper poverty.

If it is true that the current local government budget for the leadership of Jonvic Remulla and Ramon Revilla III is true, they should not use this kind of violation of human rights in the illusion of yellow democracy, the local government needs to show that the difference with Aquino should be shown.

However, we should not be wondering why there are more people who are coordinating with the Bagong Hagdan in the middle of their human rights that should not be determined if the people are aware of the true colors of the Marcos US-Aquino - that it is a violent action that we have heard in order to protect their kind of interest.

Let us not allow the fact that the fear that we have experienced is fear, and we need to put out our fear on the most important thing that we can face the attacks of reactions, let us ensure that our US-Aquino will not be able to put off the fighting against our place to live and livelihood.

It is time to take advantage of those who are oppressed and being raped by the politicians who are taking advantage of these kinds of power, crushing, the anomalous state of the US-Aquino and condemned the government budget for serving the kind of sweat.

Which is why, we call to our fellow countrymen who are tolerating our strength for the movement of the masses against the movement of the masses against the annual revolution.

Oust the covetous and burdensome the Philippine US-Aquino!
Long live the Filipino people who are lacking!
Long live for the fading country!
