Group PNoy "will not agree to the fur.

The politicians in our country will not agree to the disbudget because the funds for the next year will be considered to spend for what he did in the election.
This is the real reason why the Congress will not agree, even the followers of PNoy that are politicians in his cabinet, because this will bring them the funds that they will use for the project to be handsome for them in 2016.
It is clear that the 2015 budget will be a member of all politicians especially those in Congress and will bet of PNoy to do their plans and programs that will bring their dreams in the election.
It is also not true what the majority floor leader of the Legislative Chamber are saying, Congressman Neptali Gonzales who has the direct budget, as well as the P391 billion funds for the public funds will be the fund of PNoy.
It is clear in the law that the government needs to be touched or the expenses of the government can be touched or expenses in the taxes that they can use, like water and electricity that should be done in driving a agency of the government.
The reason why the project that will be implemented this year could not be done again because the government has already done it so it is clear that this is really a problem, Mister Neptali, who is just pretending to be a regular am.
We can be likened to the justification of Gonzales in DAP that where the Supreme Court said that illegal activities here by the Aquino government is illegal because it did not pass through Congress and the funds that should not end up until the year is not yet finished.
It is clear that the people whom they always experience is the strategy of the representative of Mandaluyong in the legislative chamber because even in barangay officials they know the meaning of a direct budget.
We cannot hide the fact that there is a member of a politician who has a fund which is why this column has complete belief that there is no need to make the budget that will happen because we know everything is just a show.
