On the second time of meeting in the senate a long time ago, we can no longer see what was former Makati Vice Melia Mercado and how the Binay family does not get a project in Makati with no project in Makati.
In every step that was done in Makati there, it is still fixing that Binay is still fixing that, according to the former Makati, there is already thirteen percent according to the former Makati that is why Binay, on this appearance is the background that's why consumers might be.
The bad two more.
You can see that I am going to taste the colleges; we were able to send people to each other.
With Roselle Jurado, not last time.
I admire you for the only family.
Those who are in the middle of the large number of rocks there in Abigail Valte are still buying.
This is in your personal needs.
So that you might think all of the Capital Gens as well.
He / she said that he / she was still the beginning, he / she was distressed as well as a lawyer.
My third is, Kuya Jerry, that's the plan for the officer of Melody.
Until present.
I also said he talks with the private sector.
Ah, radio.
He / she was able to point out; that's why they are just a bomb that is why they are the only ones for his jail including blaming each other.
In each side in Makati.
Us by the mayor.
Nobody will benefit.
The traffic.
Mercado said in the hearing of what I said about the controversies of Makati in the southern part of the southern part of the southern part of the southern part of the southern part of the entire Makati.
In the country of Mercado, Two million pesos was opened by Binay to Fish it was only one of the projects from Two two weeks since he was able to fix the money from the Binays at the other house where Morales was going to attend the other house where Morales was returning to Bicol last night.
Coming.
He went out of the right side, right?
You think there is a project that you can take but now is the fight.
They say.
Maybe like this.
That is indeed, isn't it?
We are not sure that he has a lot of relationship that they called.
There is a meeting with nothing.
Right!
That is better.
It is said that only one point of five million pesos is the content when it has been fired but there was a chance that it reaches up to ten million pesos as a mayor of the doctor whose money will be sent to the Binay family several times in the house of the people that we will buy from the Doctor.
!
Here?
Where are you going?
Fuck, fog, "I said.
Please do not know where to be sent to your money.
I told me to bring me to the house and give Nancy's answer.
That is there.
What kind of pants is who are planning to be kind to our people, it is good that I have a soft disposition; so we opened the two of us and not a lot of people.
The source of sale is the source of sale; that's why we are like that.
I do not know.
Their agreement.
According to the son of the visa-elected vice president, Mercado, it seems that Mercado's children, the children of Mercado, it is sad that Mercado's children, who are using Mercado, said that I do not understand why Mercado's entire family is that I cannot understand if he / she didn't understand if he / she didn't understand.
Why?
We are repeating our family, especially when I do not know that I do not know the island that I do not know, it seems that they are being forced to buy at me, Mercado, and we are the ones who promised him to be a one to become a person.
Then, I will tell someone that I am not stupid; I can only go to us, "I just said to us.
I am sorry.
No.
I'll be the one in the afternoon when I went to you in the afternoon.
Because I was stopped by the mayor.
I thought we were in the stock market.
My older brother said.
Because of you.
He / she grew up; he / she even asked me to make a way.
It was brightened up after.
One million peso.
So that they can be used as an employee.
Make your salary slow now.
Ten.
Mercado was said to be given money in Makati for a year, he said, he didn't received money from Makati for a long time that he / she did not have any regular amount, which was said to have been paying for twelve pesos for the decades, which was why it was said that it would be for a television series that has been missing for a television series.
Let's take interest on our fellow countrymen that is why they are very proud; we saw that we need to put it on Bburial?
"Boracay is going to return to him again because they criticized that they criticized each other, so I still don't know why," we should just pray that we are not complete; we should just pray that we were able to go to each other, that's why he / she didn't say that he / she could just tell the truth.
To say them.
Panabo City was said to be invited by Binay, like Binay, about the hearing, on September to five, she will send money for the three years who did not come home with Binay, including the son of the Makati mayor, that Binay.
Perhaps, we are confident that the visa were cut off in case in case they faced each other in order to earn so they can earn.
His / her own father has its own father.
Isn't that like that, Lovi?
One another.
He / she is almost Olongapo and Two Wives are really true that's why you also want him to be kind to or to be able to live there in the house.
Jessica will lay down the companies that will be sent to the senate but if he will be asked by his son, instead of being asked by his son, it is not the father's form, it can be said that it is a few days for him, which is why it can be considered that his child is clear.
From Jam, aside from the very hot topic of the devil, he / she and his partner Conpartner, at the Makati-year-meeting, Stephanie Nicole, was in a meeting.
It's because you are a little bit pitiful; as long as he does not have money to do with the law, he said that he has no evidence at him, but, he said that he has no evidence at him, but, he said that he has nothing to do with the former for a long time, "he said," he said in Adora.
They went to them Chairman Yanglement; she said that she will wait a distance from the price of the sea of Binay a twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty-old man, and she said that if you can see it, it can be seen if Vice was said to be able to see if it was said that Vice was able to let him say that he / she said that it was not right to force me as his former bike.
There is Zuzurueggi Street to know that the charger, who is prepared to be the charger, is being prepared for if the sales of Binay is in front of him, "said yes.
The counter charger charger, what can be expected will be done by the senate?
Yes, brother Marlon to listen to someone who goes to a Toyota Fortuner in the government, which is why there is still a new complaint that we should do, which is why there is a need to make a law, which is why there is a need to make a law, that is why there is a need to make the hearing that they are looking, which is why there should be a pending case of six months, which is why there is a need to point the hearing that they will vote.
"On the way home in number 1, what was the case that I was against, is it not a case against Commander who will accept it, and what happened was that he would be recommended to be the one to be recommended to the Supreme Court.
Instead of doubting the possibility of Jona, we will be able to support that we are in Tsong Tantos, who are so many documents from the Makati City Hall, that is why there are no more documents from the Makati City Hall here, which is why there was no other documents from the Makati City Hall here, which is why there was no other documents from the Makati City Hall here, which is why there was no other documents from the Makati City Hall here, which is why there was no other documents from the Makati City Hall here, which is why there was no other documents from the Makati City Hall here.
Earlier, Formosa said that the senate has already thought about five percent in the senate so that they can be released, and it can be released.
Jessica, it's just too late; he / she was too late; he / she said that the hearing aid was finished; he / she said that she will be a job in the next week, she will be a job and a sharp blade inside the clouds.
Where should I pay?
In that Chairman, we are saying that, "we went to Chairman yes, but, he said, they will be ready for a whole hearing to listen, but, he said, that he would say that he / she would say that he / she was going to say that he / she did not show up, he / she said that he / she did not come in the hearing, he / she did not show up, but when he did not show up, he did not come.
