Running for a running official.

The destruction of the wagons of the Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Rail Transit (MRT) is very slow.
As basis, the wagons are stopping in the middle of the trip, which is the reason for the riding a riding public.
The worst was the frying pan on the railway of a tram with the near wall that caused the death of many passengers.
It seems that what he said was true just a few months have passed by Jihadist Bondoc in his column in Star.
"A bomb connected to him," said Jumuad in his declaration of the situation of the MRT and LRT because of what happened.
Through his performance, it was found out by a piece of Star Ngayon "that is not in good implementation of two public utility vehicles.
His revelation is right because now the public is feeling the ugly service of the MRT and LRT.
It is a big inconvenience for the riding public who often stop the wagons in the middle of the trip.
The MRT and LRT are considered to be quick and moderate in its system now, but it might be the opposite of what is happening.
Because instead of going to reach proper and safe from their destination, the lives of passengers are still dangerous.
This is due to the said "good deeds of the company who won and do not want to conduct the Enhanced MRT and LRT operations.
"So you can't blame some of the critics who are called" running, in the roads because of the frequent destruction of these.
The frequent cleaning of the trip is being destroyed because the wagons are being ruined because of heavy trials.
The PNoy administration needs to be true to what they are doing because of a mistake, in exchange of many lives.
The people are already tired of giving away the action that is needed in order for the dying operation of MRT and LRT.
You get, Mister Abaya, the real maintenance companies so there will no longer stop traveling in the middle of the trip.
Because if the implementation of the MRT and LRT is orderly, accidents that are feared to be done today by a riding public utility vehicles are avoided today by a riding public transport.
