The price of oil is the same.

Many motorists were able to take a lot of motorists in the decrease of the price of petroleum products last two weeks and almost two thousand pesos or more than more than two gasoline station.
Even the businessmen who use gasoline and oil in their business have benefited because they save anything, even if they have a coins.
However, there was suddenly a bad news because the price of oil products was moving and instead of down, it increased to 20 - 30 centavos.
Is this the style of the oil companies that the needs or use of oil?
The oil companies stop the height of the price of their product because they are just fooling the people in order not to use a little supply because the time has a big effect on production.
They should just admit that the tax being sold by the government from them is big, which is why they also have a big contribution to the bark.
Will the government of Aquino will take action to fix the economy of the country, the decrease of the price of oil is a big help to the businessmen who are forcing to save the livelihood in the Philippines so that the workers will not end up.
But, with what is happening now, even if the government wants to pay taxes that the government wants to pay taxes that is appropriate for their regulations, is it not right to pay taxes that they will pay attention to their rules.
Well, the wives of the house should have been waiting for them to earn a lot to help in the pillars of the house, had their own bones in order to support their children who are studying.
Now, if they are going to investigate the tax of the government and the people of the city hall are going to report it, like those from the Bureau of Fire in order for the percent of the Bureau of Fire to ask for a permit this is too much.
Wow, let us continue to follow the "Daang Matuwid" right now to continue the riches of his followers (surely the workers who will lose jobs because of the increase in price increase in gasoline).
When did Aquino wake up with the extreme difficulty being done by his administration to the people who extremely looked up to him as his infidelity from poverty?
