"Be the protagonist right!" No permit, no permit, "
By Bam Aquino, 1, 2016, the protagonist is one of those who often complain about the parents and students who are called "no permit, no permit," policy which is implemented by some schools.
In this kind of system, a student is advised to get an exam if there is no permit because it will not pay for the toll fee or other bills.
One of the students who experienced this went to our office to convey his complaint, according to the student, his money was ready for him, but there was a sudden emergency of her family and used the money.
Despite of the promise that will be paid at the set time, the students have not yet taken the exam due to lack of permits.
As a result, the piles of students were delayed.

He was just completed when he was able to pay the Special Action Force to pay the debt.
This kind of policy will be finished when the case that was filed by Senate Bill 3235, who was able to make it illegal to any school to stop the student who was able to capture the student who could be released because of the non-governmental organization and other bills.
My belief, why is it that a student needs to stop him because of debt if it is possible for her family to pay it in the close future.
When they bring this, the schools cannot be prohibited for the students to get payment for an exam and give them a separate bills or give them a separate encounters between students.

In the proposal, the school can no longer put the school of a student who took the Special permit to get the release from the officials of the school before the exam.
The private Las Vegas is under the proposal, public utility vehicles, public and private Higher Education (HEIs), including local Colleges and Universities.
Fined with 20,000 pesos to 10,000 are the officials and employees of the school that will violate the order.
It is part of this to be degrading, infrastructure, which is a businessman's party, exuals, and other individuals who would be proven guilty.
As protection to the schools, the parents or the legal Guardian of a student of a surprise in the school should be given to school, wherein the value and date of payment is stated.
It is important that we make sure that the students' education will not be delayed and affected by any debt.
We believe that with the help of education, Filipinos have a bigger chance to progress.
This will only happen if we are protected from the welfare of our students to help them finish studies.
