How the MILF and MILF are with?

"(ALL WST" what President Benigno Aquino III wants to pass the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL).
BBL is what the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) wants to stop the war in Mindanao.
How is President Aquino and MILF in the issue of peace?
What is the true goal of the MILF on the construction of BBL in Mindanao?
What kind of system does the MILF want to let Aquino stop?
If the MILF is true and honest, to achieve progress through their own management, there are the Asibars Region for Muslim Mindanao (ARMM).
ARhea is recognized not only by the organization of the Islamic Conconference (MPD) but the United Nations (UN) is full of blessings and funds from the government.
Four administration even before President Aquino took office.
The operation of management by ARMM is free to be out of being out-out of regions and free governance, the funds are complete, and with its own local administration.
The state of ARMM) is clear and it is clear that they are riding the Saligang Batas of the republic of the Philippines, who are leading and moving in a report, an official military and police.
Aquino said, "ARMM) said, that it is also the MILF's scream.
They really get along well.
If ARMM came back, Bowie and the MILF should know the solution to succeed in the autasan in region.
AMM came from the Office of the immune system of the World Leaders' or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Iric Arribas of the national government, Better "any general region in the Country, Bantay, Fight IT.
Let us not mention who are the negligent leaders of ARL. This is what should be implemented by Aquino and the MILF.
The Office of ARMM came to the custody of the MILF.
There can be someone who can show their loyalty to their loyalty in Mindanao which is not needed in Malaysia or other countries if they are, Aquino and MILF are honest in their said end of the war in Mindanao and embrace peace and peace.
It will only be a Filipino solution to the problems of fellow Filipinos and the Philippines to set aside politics and set aside the selfish interest to set aside violence and arrogance.
Sure, ARMM came from the MILF and stop the BBL, if Aquino and MILF do not want it, not peace is what they want to commit suicide, no one else!
