The fraternity and Zurbano family are prohibited in spite of that there are still some congressmen who can do it as well as a few congressmen do not need to do the legal schools from Quezon City, which is why they were not able to make it to the schools of Quezon City.
The children of the victims of the tree fell.
Mango, and there are still some who are waiting for the hospital who are waiting here in the hospital, and there are those who are dead and there is no land in our authorities to make sure that the law is strong.
Three days of course, Maasin will only change.
After I could not be involved in the investigation of aunt of Two, two of how he / she had a white uniform, he / she could take care of it, he went to the head to the president of the fraternity but he was ordered to be the president of the fraternity.
It was his five.
They will buy a child, because they already knew nothing about them eating a reserved reward.
Yes, the victim has long been identified.
I am still a number.
And then.
Who do not just go home abroad.
Probably his poverty.
They were once again paid by the brows as they say that they can see that there are people who are still awake and in the entry of several passengers who were already awake, who were first seen in the principal of two motorcycles, who were former eight years old, whose Republic Act 85 years old; and co-ABB), "
Yes, that's okay.
Yes, Doi will not be grumpy.
Failed.
Even if not?
He / she grew up; he / she does not accept yes, he / she does not show that he always goes.
Covetous, very high-tempered; we can take care of each other; that's why they are really the same?
He is already with him.
After the death of the student, Julie, because in the church here, because a few congressmen do not want to be able to go home, but according to his proposal, it is an assurance that the last name of them has an assurance that it is not good to do.
But the bidding did not act on how he became the second year of the car of his siblings.
I hope that he can give you a give to you.
In the span of being a good sibling, it really can really help that.
School, especially about that, you should be given to other kinds of kind, to say to those who are always different from those who are always different because they really help others.
Because I do not have a father to do one by one by each other if not all your brows, so the question how can you stop what can be done by the authorities.
