You will love NAIA because of the cruelty.

Not only the industry of oil, electricity, hospital and others were threatened by the government to private companies.
Even the Ninoy Aquino International Airport is going to be held accountable, especially the operation that involves this.
When the industry of oil and electricity decreased, the government said that oil and electricity will become cheap, just like what happened, the opposite happened.
There are public hospitals that are spreading like Jose Fabella and National Orthopedic Hospital where he is called to be charged by the mothers to give birth to their mother, who will give birth to Calamudi and accidents at the panel?
It is likely to happen like what happened to the industry of oil and electricity.
He thought of NAIA.
According to Japan International Space Agency, it was started when NAIA has been delayed in the airplane and passengers starting in 2015.
At present, only in the passengers only, up to 35 million people will be the reason of NAIA that will destroy the actions and condition, but they noticed that the passengers of NAIA has suddenly grew up from the 31.88-million last 2012 at a estimated 31.96-million last 2012.
The passengers are getting addicted to 101.49M for NAIA in 2014 or 25 years since now.
It is said that as early as now, the government should act so that the problem will be solved in a heavy flow of passengers and airplane.
If it is true what the CA is saying, our primary airports might become a problem.
Why.
While the said CA is saying to be true, a question is if a private companies are going to conduct an operation against the advancement of NAIA in order to provide solution to the problem.
What the government is saying is clear, the government does not want to spend a lot for the operation and they are not sure that if the implementation of the government will continue in the hands of the government, the government is really beautiful?
Child of seven canned goods, can it be removed from there in NAIA and those from the Department of Transportation and communication with people like that?
Service!
There are those who are saying that the implementation of the said part of NAIA will only cause the love of NAIA to everyone and this will cause more obstacles to the good service of NAIA, especially the passengers.
For example, Senator Antonio Trillanes IV said that the airport office will surely love.
NLEX's toll fee is part of the airport's toll fee which can also experience the fare in taxis and all of those who take advantage of passengers, may also be a report in case they have a parking space in their vehicles.
Because like that, Bro, what is happening to the establishments that are holding the private companies.
All of these will become a hindrance to the progress of the lives of the citizens.
Among those who criticized the million OFWs and families of these who are always at the airport to work for our country, if we think about it, there are still many Filipinos who use NAIA than the foreigners who will experience the advancement of NAIA.
No.
Based on the experience in the operation, the implementation of the Metro Rail Transit, it is possible to ensure a proper operation and irritable.
In MRT, Bro, there are all failures that are happening.
We do not need to enumerate the failure here because the passengers are at the bad service of MRT because of a high private operation.
A question: What will happen is that what will happen if the said part of NAIA is given to the private companies?
No one is sure, but it will create a big problem the privatization of the operation is certain.
The NAIA has become tight and tight because in 2015 because other airport can still not be able to help in the airport areas.
There are the airport people who are going to do, will be raised and sold the facilities, but in the next years.
And this part of NAIA will not be caught in this aspect.
But what will be a big change will be the love of all the service here that will surely be the problem of the citizens.
Touch the government.
We do not believe that the government does not have the ability to touch all the aspect of the service of NAIA.
We believe that we are not losing but some of our countrymen who can handle an operation against the Priority Development Assistance Fund under the government is too much.
One more thing, it is scary to think that if the private companies destroy the important part of NAIA, the day might come that if the government does not have anything to do it, like what is happening in the industry of oil, electricity, MRT and others.
