
The desire to be given to the calamity, is the reward.

We have a lot of countrymen who are victims of earthquake in Visayas, especially in Bohol, that they are not reaching for help.
That's why, some of them are hoping for alms on the streets and others will end up to theft from others.
It is difficult to see that because of hunger and help in medicine, many of the youth get sick.
Here, our fear is going to the fear that maybe because of the desperation of some mothers and women, they will be forced to sell the flesh as long as something has been saved from their starving families.
In the midst of the tragic situation, it is still suspended for the politicians and agencies of the government to let the urine do and take advantage of who among them should be distributed by relief goods to the victims.
AOIL, Leoncio Evasco sent the protector of the National Red Cross because the said group refused to turn the-turn of relief goods.
Evasco wants that he will directly be distributed by relief goods but the Utah Jazz wants to give them properly and there will be trouble that will be given based on what they will greet "No."
The Model Shop does not want to make a happy help from donations from the companies and individuals and even if they do not want it to be used in politicking.
Evasco denied that he is politicking.
Because Evasco pulled out the Disbursement Acceleration Program (Actor, our fellowmen here will be put in a bliging.
Food that, became a rock!
We are not saying it is right that Mayor Evasco and Vice President are right now, instead they should think about the situation of the victims of the earthquake.
If the Red Cross did not accept the desire of Evasco, it was said that the mercy of people screaming for help while hungry and thirsty for days has not been watched over by the help.
The stranglers left when we did not get the relief goods for the barbells.
And hopefully, Evasco did not allow her pride because he does not want to share the distribution of help.
He should be thankful because a help will come for his desire.
He is sorry if the Model Shop has no trust in him because the politicians like him are corrupt like him in politicking in the middle of the calamity.
It is too saddening that it is still there, it seems that there are no politicians and agencies of the government who are true to help if they will not be the ones who will benefit and could not be paid.
You will turn your arms!
