
Philippines, Uncle Sam?

After being taught to have killed Jeffrey Culp alias Jennifer, the United States agreed that the suspect who is US Embassy Private First Class Joseph Scott Pemberton was temporarily put under Camp Aguinaldo.
This is in order to consider the rambling relatives and improvement of Laude and some against the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA).
But Pemberton should not just leave the Philippines, which is why the guards are all American soldiers.
The United States remains not recognized for the rights of the Philippines in handling the murder case of our fellow countrymen who were held in toilet for a motel in Olongapo.
And Pemberton and his boss did not respect the law of the Philippines because even if the Americans were in the territory of the Filipino, he did not release the hearing.
Wait, how many foreigners will follow our country when President Benigno Aquino III did not give importance to the lives of our countrymen.
It cannot be denied that Aquino won't contradict his decision not to peeked from the wake of Laude to grieve because his position is right that he will not sympathize with what he does not know.
So on the day of the burial of Laude, he will attend the anniversary of Jesus the Lord where more people will mingle with them if he will get the sympathy.
In other words, he has no time with the people who have no connection with his life, but the Filipinos, only with the name of former President Corazon Aquino, the mother of President Noynoy, but is dees and showered in time and time when he will be brought to his final resting place.
The tears, sweat and rain in the body of those who sympathized with him are almost like that.
When President Aquino will wake up, they are now guided by the Americans in relation to the VFA which is being thrown at the VFA between the US military personnel in taking advantage of the law of the Philippines?
Uncle Sam is urging Juan dela Cruz and use the VFA to take advantage of the weakness of the government.
The Philippines should wake up with a lot of debt from the United States in the Philippines from abuse of human rights and nature and taking advantage of the lives of our countrymen.
