What does not love?

Lisson "Leloy" Claudio Aceret, the anti-Fist and pro-MICT said that it seems to be an example to Pres. Noynoy Aquino (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections).
The content of having is a new movement in General Education in college and university in the country, it appears that it has sufficient knowledge, and maybe based on his teaching in college, he was able to make sure that it is their teaching in college, according to him, he was able to make it with his teaching in college, according to him, he placed them in a proper movement in the said rules.
Let us compete with the point of Claudio: Who really supports or attack a lot or the Filipino language in college, but they have a unique amount of teaching in college, but there is a unique amount of teaching in college that is why there is a unique amount of teaching in college that is why it is not a reason that they are with the English language in college.
What is the problem now?
On the K-12, most of the new ones who have been cut off in the age of 18 - which means to be legal to work, that is why they do not need to work in front of the low tuition and boards that's why they have no need to pay in front of the low tuition and boards that they have seen in college, which is why there is no need to pay in front of the two groups that occupied two groups.
What is the problem in the position of the filipino language in the situation of the K-12, it appears that it is only a symptoms of a bigger issue with a huge topic in English which is part of giving their college students and the common people, as well as addiction to a specialist.
If you analyze the view of Claudio Aceret, it is possible that it is shallow that according to the alleged skillful and beautiful views in the country, it is strict in relation to the alleged skillful and good upbringing by the country, that is why he is a part of harassment of education in the country, which is a part of chaos in the country.
That's why it's just simple, for Claudio Aceret, the solution to the remove from the work of the teachers in college because of the K-12: 30, there are no problems in college with their ability and transfer to college with his skills and transfer to college.
"History should not be avoided even if you are avoiding it," that is one of the famous centers that can be done by Tadeco, this is also based on the alleged skill in English and those who are being raped by the Filipinos.
The famous critic of Ammth), who said, "Ang who does not love his words, more than an animal, is not only one of those who love her own language, that might be one of those who love her own language, that is why it is said that one of the people who love her own language is similar to those who have not love her words, that is why one of the people who does not love her words, that might be the part of taking care of the few rules in making a lot of people in the country.
