"The source of Imelda was a payment," said Miss Earth Staff!
"It has been a few times when my sister was able to stop him that's why, Miss Ecud, 3 was the Miss Ecuis, 3, the Miss Ecuador, 3, and Miss Ecud, 3," Imelda) By Jojo Cabinet last November 2, 2016 Imelda Schweighart.
Imelda Schweighart is only four months old because he resigned last Monday, after the video of his allegations that fake their nose, chin and bothers which is said to be Miss Earth 2016 Katherine Euphrasia EpiPen.
Miss Earth Organization confirmed by Carayrayan, Executive and Vice President Loreno Lomibao, that they accepted the pregnancy of Schweighart last Monday afternoon.
Schweighart is defended by her supporters because according to them, the Filipina beauty queen is said to be true that some parts of the body of Euphrasia Einstein said that the truth is fake because they are with EpiPen.
Supporters of Schweighart is identified as Art Delan ally, who was not able to fight with Espin the Filipina beauty, they are talking to Schweighart when he was caught in a video.
"We are talking to Ate Jackie (Schweighart," of course, fans.

We were alone to make his partner in-Her but instead of Fight IT.
"When he saw each other, even if he knew that we were sad, our partner was raised so that he is happy and became happy.

"You just made it a way," what you said, is that we should not be ignored and encheer up, "the defense of Delapt," his mother will be brought to New Zealand by his mother in order to stop the controversy.
Val and his partner also spoke, the age of Schweighart, about her own sibling.
"
"It has been a few times that my sister has told him a few times that the people are in favor of him, especially when they are in Davao.

"Miss Ecuous, with 3 years old," my sister, "the Whole year, did not have sex, and she was having a hard time bringing her things for a point," the statement of Brad his partner.
Kiangan, Miss Philippines Earth, has no meaning!
Miss Philippines Miss Earth Air Base Giovanni el Gregorio, who is his partner, Schweighart, is the new Miss Philippines Earth 2016 because of the absence of a beauty queen.
For the majority, they have no meaning of Gregorio as a replacement of Schweighart because Miss Earth 2016 is over, which is why the Miss Earth 2016 is over, which is why he does not have the international beauty pageant.
On the other hand, Schweighart is wise in his decision to resign before the call of her bashers to take back the Miss Philippines Miss World Organization to recover his crown because of the controversy he has involving, Imelda was still in her side.
