Wednesday, January 22, 2014.

On the fourth birthday of Lola Rosa Asedillo.

On the 19th of Al-Rosa, the youngest child of the hero Teodoro Bacani.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

We went back to Brgy. Lahi, Kalayaan, Laguna last January 21, 2014, this Tuesday, so Lola Rosa Asedillo, the youngest child of the hero Teodoro Asedillo, was able to make it again.

We are four of us left around 10: 00 in the morning from the national office of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masa (PLM) in the city of Quezon City - the driver who is Mars, your sister, Ka Sonny Melencio, who is the national president of PLM, and me.

Before reaching the market, we went there at the office of PLM-Cavite in Cavite for you together with a meeting there after a few conversation there, we went to the office where she went to his office in Calamba, Laguna, and ate first there.

At the second in the afternoon, we grew up going to Kalayaan, Laguna.

We were two cars, one of us came from Manila, and one of them was a van of the residents of Cavite and Laguna riding with a big community in the mountain and there was a big community in the mountain and there was a big community there, that the population was bigger than Barangay Laba, where we went there.

After a short conversation, we rode a car again and went to the house of Lola Rosa.

We were met by grandmother Rosa in front of his house, and there was also a role that I handed the two cars when I handed it to Lola Rosa, and one paper that contains a faith as "Teodoro Asedillo, which is one of his birthday and a role that contains" Daang Matuwid "in Luneta, wherein according to my professor.

We walked towards the house of her child because the banquet is there.

We introduced to him to Ka Sonny Melencio, the national president of the Liberal Party of Masa, she is ready to be annoyed, biko, coconut milk, Ka dela Rosa, while I am being listening to Lola Rosa, while I am the one to be listening.

Lola Rosa has many stories about her father and their lives.

Until Lola Rosa realized that in the movie "Asedillo said, many are still saying that he only saw the foul odor, which was only made up by the director Celso Ad Castillo, and perhaps his mother was still alive then.

We gave a copy of the song to the colleagues of Lola Rosa, and one of the comments on what was written is "on the 19th of Lola Rosa" when the old man is saying that she is an 77-year old only.

And I also said why.

It is also discussed there that in case the story will be built again, it will be added to whatever is lacking, and maybe it can be considered as an actor who is also a member of PLM which is why I have to have a actor who is also a member of PLM, that's why I have to have a actor who is also member of PLM so that she will have a chance to continue with Lola Rosa in order to complete the story.

Maysilo, I called some of your colleagues to focus one cup with the birthday of the old person in holding our copy of the old copy of our copy, and we turned out together with Lola Rosa, who is also called on that place, Mommy Rose "

On the 120th birthday of Carla dela Rosa,

The youngest child of the hero Teodoro Bacani.

It will smell for 15 pesos.

This is my happy birthday.

Or, Lola Rosa, who is the child of a hero.

While making yourself checked by your thrifty person.

Like the father, you have a good dream.

A small piece of relationships will come.

Our first meeting is historical.

We are not expecting you to be known.

That is why we were so happy.

You have reached through all of you, it is really quick.

In our hearts and spirit, you are stamped on.
Grandmother Rosa, you are the picture of the strength.

Your father is the symbol of heroism.

Because he is fighting for the right of the people.

He defended the laborers, which is why in the society.

What he has started from the heart and spirit.

The father is a great teacher in students.

You will be blamed for the time you get.

For the workers who are really true.

That's why he needs to be a real hero.

While the youngest is a great mother and daughter.

And for a fervent prayer, the filipino masses will rise.

Grandmother Rosa, you truly have a real child.

Hoping that you will get stronger in twinkling.

This life is because you are real.

Again, a Merry birthday is a Merry Christmas!

The group of Filipino Workers (BMP), Liberal Party of Masa (PLM), the Congress of Pagkakaisa ng Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino), Aniban, Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino (CDC), Miss World Football League (TDC), are getting used.

January 21, 2014, Barangay Lahi, Kalayaan, Laguna.

We said goodbye to Lola Rosa at the sixth and half of the evening (6: 30.

We were happy to leave, that this is another historical event that we cannot forget.

The two vehicles came from their route going out of Brgy. Liminangcong.

We arrived at the national office of PLM around eight and half of the evening.

The photos taken by Greg stars Jr.
