LJ, pray for Paolo to have a proper perspective in By Allan Diangco, November 12, 2016.
LJ Reyes and Paolo Ballesteros are positive and positive that's why their families are being ruined for each other.
LJ says to us, Paolo is close to her family and she is also taking care of the family of PAO.
Jony Villon was with LJ when Paolo spoke with her two children from the in-Paz-Xalene in Cebu where the children were living, PAO, whose child, PAO, who is the child of LJ Andanar.
We asked LJ, to my ex-ex so they will never have a okay relationship? Paolo will be okay with Paulo.
"Who does not want your long distance relationship with me, right?
"It's because I am, I am coming from the company, I know that I know how I know, I know, I know,"
"Of course, you want to be a" relationship with all of you because your connection with each other is gone.
"So, we were amazed that it came to a point," said the Kapuso actress.
At present, LJ and Paulo is still not okay, but he is positive that in the Philippines, everything will be better so that she would also be able to socialize.
LJ knows that whatever happens, Paulo will be the father of the Father of Her ang.
The father and son were not able to see each other for a long time because she was not able to join or lend the viand of LJ.
We joked with LJ, maybe Paing is busy now in her new romantic relationship.
A non-showbiz hopes that the new woman is said to be the new woman in the life of the Kapamilya actor.
LJ's reaction, "of course, I pray for him (Paulo) to have a good perspective in life, a good perspective in life, good, good thing," that is what you know?
"I, in truth, I am not mad at him.
"I will not forget that she is the father of Hepatitis B. I know that she already knows me, 6 years old.
"As long as my child is happy, my child is good, I am okay, eh."
He said, Jiro has been used to the situation that is why he is not looking for the father, Paulo.
What's good is that the young lady, Tito Paolo Consignation.
LJ says she has been in a long time with LJ's two children because LJ was able to go back to the Princess by Buhay partylist.
It was carried away from the set of XRS and Xalene, but he was already separated and PAO was in-time. "
When they were talking in Cebu, the Two Wives didn't want to let LJ immediately go and get along well.
LJ is fond of child and she said to us she wants to have a child of Girl, after she works.
"Then, it was done by PAO of Girl!
"Don't.
Paolo is still fixing his annulment with it.
So, if the things that should be fixed should be fixed and he invited him to get married, is he getting married?
"Well of course," in our relationship now, he is not "a young lady," no!
"This is serious, so of course, we was impressed by that person."
So, "the annulment of PAO, wedding does not end?
"Yes, I, of course, I also want to be aly for lamps out that he has a own home that is going to go home, like that."
As if he can see himself, he / she and Paolo are going to end up together?
"Yes, I did not think, I am really taking care of our attitude, eh.
"I am tired, because I am thinking a lot of things, he is doing so many things, he will say to me," or what can you do to me? "
"Then, I will pass it to him / her other classmates and he is the one who will do it, like that, and then he takes good care of it."
He / she was wearing.
LJ is currently busy with Paolo because Paolo is with the Smart mommy, LJ herself, who immediately thought to be able to immediately be able to escape.
It is said that this is in "September 29 and it is good to return to the said disease.
The one who is preparing is these congregation for a point, which can be seen by the children, emergency numbers of RA 9165, police stations, and many different kinds of cruelty to the children.
LJ herself is the one he is proud of, then she got a chore where he took the developer, crown, when she was scolded by the manager-manager, writer and Lean artist.
Free-shaped haircut of Android and Iris and IOS in the ring.
Because of Paolo's excessive strictness in supporting the millennials, the business of LJ is that he is a temptation of us, he is an official PR of Manila!
