It's in one point.
You believe that the crops were destroyed because of the severe heat being experienced today in different parts of the Philippines.
Almost it is almost as if you are the only path that can be used by four hundred pesos of water supply in Metro Manila.
Will there be a report from Bulacan to report?
It is said that in the effect of Guinness or iced tea, the authorities are convinced that there is a one who has a one-four-year-old crops that needs to be used but it is possible that he will lose weight because he is sleeping here around the surrounding.
For the vehicles that are dependent on the crops to live a nuisance to different parts of the country because of the El.
In Ilocos Norte, we already dried the crops in the area, even if they have experienced this kind of heat according to the farmers in the area, it's only now that they have experienced this kind of heat, which is why even one day they will continue to dry the department of the car, which has reached the one point of pesos.
Something else is there are other crops because you are twins.
In the past of the past, Jun-halo-nine provinces are already affected by wasps.
There is a gun there where there will be Bulacan supply of food.
Aside from being a lot of land, the entire thirty-year-old people are going to review the entire thirty-million pesos, which can be harvested; Karen together in the country with illness.
Okay.
If we were not carrying it maybe they are proud of Two.
The residents are going to go to the food, and give birth to a call to call me.
For the rain to go on their payment for almost two weeks, it's because the place was last experienced in rain.
When the arrival of the leaves, the leaves of the water has been put in heat.
The beauty in Bulacan who is the source of five percent is the water in Metro Manila when it fell out that you can go out one thousand pesos in the third floor of the evening.
But this morning, why is there no one more than 70 million pesos only because the size of this is normal, that is normal.
But it is very big.
Going down.
Because there is something that we have.
Vices on all of you.
This past Sunday, the motorcycle of the motor was already cut down on the board of water supply in businesses in Bulacan who are using it.
And then, there will be changes again in the open water in Metro Manila.
But it does not want to Pag-asa that it will not give up to the most low level of ten pesos when it fell to one hundred twenty pesos for an hour for 15 pesos.
Let us look at each other; we are the ones who will enter.
