The teachers will agree to removing the Commission on Higher Education.

By Tomas, Santos-July 17, 2014.

The department of the Filipino and El Shaddai led by the Philippines (DFPP) was headed by the "Bantay, Filipino: The teaching of the Filipino in college" on the 25th of June of the Philippines-Diliman, University of the Philippines-Diliman, University of 2013 Commission on Higher Education (PRC).
According to a mandate which was released by CHED, take the nine-nine units of Filipino in General education curriculum and instead, they will allow the teaching of the students in English or Filipino depending on the will of the school.
This order is pursuant to the purpose of the Commission on Higher Education, which is contrary to the leadership of the United Nation's Summit to have reform the education that they are going to give reforms to poverty, women, health and surroundings through preparation for the changes brought about by the Omnibus Election Code.
Because of this, DFPP opposed the mandate because it is said that he is the cause of giving importance to history, bad and spirit of Filipinos despite the said goal of implementation it.
According to Rosario Torres-Yu, director of the center of the Filipino language, aside from supporting the language, the Commission on Higher Education also miss the welfare of the teachers of Filipino who will surely lose a job in the moment to remove the Filipino in college.
"They are also not the teachers who can point out for high school because Licensure or get a board exam to teach them, and if they need to send a board exam to teach them, they should just use the Filipino to ask for this," he said.
The DFlavier added that they will be killed especially by the new system that they will implement the appreciation of our language because the people will be jailed because of the uncontrollable fit, the words need to be used.
According to Bienvenido Meca, National Bureau of Sining of Pantukan, the Filipinos are imprisoned in the belief of the education of the foreign businessmen and adding two years as the solution to the country's system to rich countries, which is why the appreciation of their own language is missing.
"We can see the Filipinos moving to the country to look for life outside the country and serving in Multinational Village, he said.
On the other hand, although the Filipino in college was not directly relieved, Doctor Glan-Atienza insisted that it is not enough to ensure that his supporting of language will remain alive.
"The education of the Filipino language should not be given, this should be the stand," said Atienza.
Aside from this, Atienza believes that the students will better understand and only give importance to the education of Filipino in college instead of elementary and high school.
"It is a very important thing to cultivate this (Filipino) in the level of age, we have more ripe or maturity because when you are in college, you are starting to build the field or discipline that you really want to do," he said.
As a Filipino in the Filipino language.
In the statement of Luna Sicat-Ciano's statement, it is not only a infidelity to his own race if it is not one proof on the cunning and unthinking of Filipinos.
"It is like you are taking a head with your own language, your own weapon to be free, intelligent and way so that you can reach your life, it is not just for yourself if it is not for those who have a connection with you," said Cinyras.
In addition to this, a new mandate did not neglect the history of the national and the important role of language in the development of a country.
As agreement with Cimetidine, Atienza added that aside from being the key to progress, it is more important to keep in mind and the Filipino language serves as the mark of the Filipino language because this is the continuous increase in the country.
"If we will use it, if we will use it, we will steal the chance to discover the knowledge that is buried in our language and history that we are the only ones that can be experienced and could discover," he said.
In the end, Atienza believes that a chaotic and long discussion will be needed in order to understand the importance of language and encourage the most of them to protest against the release of Commission on Elections).
"The language of words did not end, this is an issue of resolve and livelihood which can create what we are now," he said.
