
The 25th of the Lord, do not be a thief.

President Aquino pleaded with his critics that he should not judge him about the controversy of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), he should not doubt him and the real christians should act on him.
In his arrival at the span of a billion pesos of Philippine Arena in Bulacan of the Iglesia Ni Cristo, the Department of Iglesia Ni Cristo will be held in the Bible so that his critics will sit on the Bible.
"There are also a few who will look for criticisms even when I come here, what I can say is that, if you are both of us to be Christian, it is our duty to make a doubt," the speech of PNoy.
While in the bastion of the INC, the employees of the court have the protesters because of the harassment of the allies of the President in the country.
The protest was called yesterday "the Black Nazarene, who allegedly offered death of" judicial system because of the harassment of the Aquino administration.
It is said that the Malacañang and allies of PNoy are fighting after the vote of 13-0 of the Supreme Court to illegal some parts of DAP, that the allies of PNoy in the Congress are planning to separate the Priority Development Assistance Fund (JDF).
It can be recalled that the SC said that the DAP was against the Constitution because it was not included in the budget approved by the congress by President Aquino to the decision of the Supreme Court and threatened the magistrates to have a crisis.
PNoy's call to the critics that he pulled out the Bible, "should not possibly spread doubt, is contrary to what his administration is doing now, he is spreading fear and doubt to the employees of the Supreme Court.
According to the record, the funds given by the Department of Budget and called the DAP have reached 300 to 600 billion pesos.
President Aquino made out that the projects made by DAP were made into an emergency. "Is it that even if it is illegal, they will be imposed on a project to save.
The Malacañang could not identify the number of the scattered projects because it is really nothing where the money went to?
Senator Jinggoy Estrada revealed that he was imprisoned for the DAP fund which was given to many senators to vote for the impeachment of former SC Chief Justice Renato Corona.
The money of the country that was brought to DAP that is only a responsible or illegal is carried away by strangulation.
I hope in the Bible, our President is about the eight orders of God for you not to be a thief.
