Bring Lamasan!

By Campos.
April 13, 2014.

When he was still arrested with Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria-Tiamzon, the leader of the Liberal Party of the Philippines, it can be easy for those who are saying that the military and the regime will say that, and it was sure that the military and the regime won't be disappointed, and the latter did not fail.
And this is also done by the people who can identify themselves is intelligence and intelligence, that is why it was said by a former leader of the Leflawless, that is why they cannot mention any small evidence at the Leflawless, but it cannot be recalled that many have reservations with the cabinet of the former US-Arroyo.
It was noticeable in the peace of the Reiziectment, the priority of Akbayan, those who were kicked out by the Lefur, they were not able to express their happiness because of the difference with the image of Tiamzon, it seems that they were together with the image of Tiamzon, which is contrary to what they want in taking the name of Tiamzon, almost all night.
Whatever it is, there are many evidences that can be pulled to prove that its strengthening is not yet passed, but it is more important for them to die, but it is more important for them to die, but it is more important for them to die, just like those who have declared that he has declared that this has been declared.
It is funny with saying that the haunting of the Philippine US-Aquino is already too late, just like saying that the former President-Aquino will remain alive, and they will continue to point and teach the former administration of the said system and they are continuing to point and be taught to be declared dead, which is against the reality in the reality.
In the words being monitored by economists, the armed attacks in the Philippines which makes the Lefts are ongoing, not getting worse, not getting bullied, "in the words of Austria-Tiamzon," in the words uttered by the armed fight and Lefur.
That's why it is hard to respect those saying that the Lefzon is already old, because of course they are taking advantage of their minds, whether they are taking advantage of their minds, if not in defending the regime and the system that is coming from the logic and the system that's coming from the logic and the system that's coming from his logic and very much pity.
The status quo in the country is the reason why it is not too old, but it's growing to see that the debate is coming from the public and it is better to be recognized by a lot and bigger success compared to those who are leading to them!
