Supreme Court!

I do not want to get along with the high politics of the Philippines because it is very expensive but as a citizen who believes that we should let the law be equal, I need to release my small voice.
This is regarding the opposition of Chief Justice Ma. Lourdes Sereno's opposition to force Solicitor General Francis Jardeleza to be able to enter the Supreme Court's offer to attend the Supreme Court.
Jardeleza contradicted President deleza based on the question of integrity, that's why in the election, Jardeleza has already been out of Spaniards.
Now it's as now that Malacañang knows that it is said that he should not meddle with and what he should do is to choose those who are chosen by the Judicial and Bar Council.
The gossips are just flying.
Because, Sereno favored the Commission on audit Grace Pulido-Tan, especially that it is the ones who persevere to be able to reveal the P10 billion worth of Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
Jardeleza allegedly did not take advantage of the Priority Development Assistance Fund and the Disbursement Acceleration Program and the Disbursement Acceleration Program which both got a vote from the SC en banc anymore.
In Malacanang joined again, Jardeleza said he requested the declaration of the SC that is against the Constitution or law the policy of JBC, which is used by JBC.
Malacanang said, it is against the Constitution or the law, the rule of 10 JBC-around 9 that is saying if there is one opposed to the alphabet, this is out and what happened to Jardeleza.
Malacanang explained, that it is against the statement of Section 2, the rule of 9 which is said to be all the members of JBC should be voted against the legislative chamber to become a temporary decision to the qualifications.
It is said that the essence of Section 2 is not going to be achieved if one is against the group or for JBC.
They will only be able to achieve all the votes which will come from the atmosphere of JBC.
In the middle of all these, make sure that there is one thing that I am nervous.
Slowly, the children of PNoy are brave the SC.
Look at it, there are four children of PNoy here: C / J Sereno, AJony Basco, Doctor Jugo, Bernabe, Bernabe and Marvic Leonen.
Then, Tan or Jardeleza will follow.
What is the future of the SC for the next two years?
It is scary to think of who will be a puppy of the SC, just in case, like the Legislative Chamber and Senate.
