
Already a request!
By Arnold Clavio October 5, 2016 starting in 1987, I became a witness in the reopening of the Senate after it was formed by former dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
I will admit that I am from StarStruck when I saw the first time as journalists were Senators Jovito Salonga, Juan Ponce Enrile, Bobby Tana, Orlando Mercado, Ernesto Herrera, Rene Sarmiento, Joseph Estrada and others.
In 1994, I left the Senate with a burden to the heart because I miss the expose of Manong, the legal opinion of Angara and Enrile, the strong debate on the floor of the senators.
But last Monday night, it was sad that what happened to the high House will be sad because when the public hearing was opened in the extrajudicial killings of the Duterte administration, the senators had personal attacks.

It is clear that the Disbursement Acceleration Program is clear and it seems that their being independent is not gone.
It is only now that I have seen by the members of the Senate who are worshiping the current people in Malacañang because they are waiting for position after one Year and also in power, the Liberal Party is still in power.
Until when we can see the two camps and we will allow it to be defeated.
What is clear, the government has a campaign against drugs and many have died because many are innocent who were involved and said their lives will not be restored.
Let us admit that the crime went down but is it right that this is the result of illegal and abusive process, that even the international community is worried.
It is also clear that there is Davao Death Squad (DDS) that President Rodrigo Duterte admitted it during the time of the campaign, so what is the problem?
The public hearing in the Senate and even the Legislative Chamber are going to implement his personal fight between Duterte and Senator Leila de Lima and I repeat, the public will not let it be.

Hahaha!
Many give thanks to President to be slow in his cursing and out of the sweet words against the United States and the European Union.
And here is our Baldoms in the tone of Pers Lab (Hotdog).
Every time I see that there is always cheaper by Saint Pope, Obama, EU, and De Lima, what is a deep sigh of your system, it can't be removed from your system, especially those who are addicted to your system, especially those who are addicted to God, will not be removed from your system, which is why I will stop following the Lord Almighty who will take care of it!
