Martial arts skill is not last for Filipinos! By Bryan Allan, November 14, 2016.
Do you know that we have your own martial law for us, as time now, when they are already scattered and criminals, you cannot have knowledge in defending himself and your loved ones.
Just think about it, what if you suddenly have a threat or hurt with you or to your companions while you have to fight back, most of the discussion, "martial arts skill is not the same, the Filipinos will not leave it!
There are many martial provisions that are scattered in the world and some of these are probably heard like if we have a malfunction that came from the Chinese, Karate, and many others, we are used to fight, whether we are used to the fight, whether we are used to the fight, whether we are used to the fight, or not.
Sometimes it is a arnis, sometimes Kautasan, sometimes it is a nuisance, but all of those who are known in the world as Fotoplay or Filipino Martial Law.
During the first time, when we were conquered by the Spanish-Lapu-Lapu, some of the people passed by our knowledge in the fight, later on the year, they were joined by martial arts skill by the Spanish tourists which they called Esmilla, art of properties.
The time came where the Spanish tourists who are used to commit suicide are prohibited because they thought that this might be used by the Filipinos against them because of this, the teachers of Fotoplay.
Many years passed and he was able to teach him other people, until there were more people who know.
In FFF, the fight is pointed with different weapons and if you do not have weapons, knives, knives, pants, leg, leg, leg, head and many others.
But at this time, it is prohibited to bring many of those who are addicted to people, which is why all the things around you can become weapons, cellphone, ring and other things that we use for everyday.
There are many branches of the Filipino Martial Law Arts and some of these are the Disbursement Acceleration Program in Balintawak Street, Negros Occidental; Negros Occidental, which was started by Anntoinette Espedido, Negros Occidental, and various branches, which was named by Anciaga in Cebu, Aklan; and many different branches, which were named by other families.
But even if there are many names, they are almost doing all of their actions.
Because we come from martial arts skill and because many of the world have seen that this is one of the most effective way of fighting back when it comes to the Philippine National Security Force, Bakag, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Boko, Box "I, and many others.
Or, are you impressed by our own us?, if you want the Filipino Martial Law skills and one of these, I will not ask for an email so I will point you to some of our best teachers.
Do you remember, "one of the things I mentioned earlier at the branch of Fotoplay?" The son of late MGM Grand Ernesto Presas, Junior, you can contact 091542008 pesos and just like what is always said to the Filipino Martial Law Arts, tribute and siblings!
