For Jennifer, not LGBT, and the people.

Jilian was restless in the vehicle but he was with women from Gabriela going to Olongapo City to grieve with the family of Jennifer Laude, who was said to be murdered by a American soldier last October 11. Exercion.
"I do not know how to face him," he said, at Barangay Tatalon, Quezon City who is an ally of Gabriela because he is an ally of Gabriela because they are still shy with fellow gay and youth in the community, but until now, Jilian is still shy.
The Laude has a relative in Olongapo.
"I was saddened when I found out what happened to her, that's why I really wanted to go (Olongapo), he said, before she went down to the car, she was forced to get his self in facing the family and on the first time that the remains of Jennifer are going to be seen.
Watching.
Jilian is story, she was laid in the story of the murder of Jennifer.
"I have not experienced this kind of violence), but I know that this is happening," he said that he is working as a gay actor, but because they have already had an organization, and now they already have an organization, they will insist that they want to insist.
After being heard of what happened to Jennifer, he joined Jilian in the protest that she also noticed justice in front of the Department of Foreign Affairs last October 15 to insist the justice of Jennifer, his mother, who is an Overseas Filipino worker in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
"My child, that is our relatives," said his mother working in Jeddah, but her mother was working in Jeddah, before the latter passed away, she did not have a chance to meet the relatives from the clan of her mother, but she knew that they were in Olongapo.
Upon arrival to Jennifer's wake, he could not come closer. "I first saw him / her, my appearance is pitiful, so I did not know how to cry, so I stopped crying," said Jumuad.
If the news came that Jennifer was beaten before he was killed, he had bruises on the entire body, and it seems that the face was being hit in the toilet before being submerged and pushed through.

He was mad.
US Embassy Private First Class Joseph Scott Pemberton was the primary suspect in the murder of Jennifer and he saw the victim in a small hotel where Jennifer had seen in the room of a hotel with Jennifer, no clothes and immersed in his face in the toilet.

In that day, along with Gabriela and other groups, the mother and sibling of Jennifer were able to go back to Camp Aguinaldo in Quezon City last October 22, but they did not want to influence the ship from the hearing aid last October 21, but Pemberton did not show up.
"What I felt was really angry when we go to the front of Pelagerness," Jony "said to us, here in our country, there is really a discrimination at us, but it might lead to the murder of a foreign soldiers who killed."
According to him, the citizens and Americans in our own country will be exposed to make sure, the citizens will still need to escape to get justice to Jennifer and the people to get justice, that is why the family of Jennifer and the people are really needed to achieve justice.
"There is discrimination for discrimination, which is why there is a need to fight," Jilian is really needed to fight, and continue to fight for being a shy, and continue to be considered as member of the community of LGBT community for the citizens.
