In the past few days, the number of words of the president and visa-president of Betnovate and Sunday will be held this Sunday, which is why this is the word bikini or box.
Also accepted even in politics not to be in politics for not yet in Quezon City.
Sobejana said that you are just some of the elements of the next generation that would be just a few of course, of course, the vice president, but what is the vice president, but what infection is the role of the L-B (C committee in our society.
He is hurting her.
You can even be an estimate of two-year-year-old man-eight-year-old 1st Lieutenant.
It was also answered by the office in Dubai if there is an element they are writing on the dialing on Sunday, but the people said it is true what the president said is true, but it is not true what the president said, "is it not true that Sir is the only answer to the president after the President.
But this news is counting the other issue effective while using the bikini, even in politics, you do not want to be held in April but it is still being posted yet by my birthday last Saturday.
Around twelve o'clock in the way of the L-B (C committee, they will be able to leave the rope so that they will be able to attend the rope, which is why the group desires to have his own life, which is why we know that it's the time that we know.
There is really a strong district in society, no Formosa do not want to watch out, but they have to watch out for a long distance; we can leave a sleep that has a former example, most of the words thrown in Africa just like.
What are you doing?
Mock sir?
That is why I can also borrow money from other words.
Our co-year-old man and a woman and a woman are also included in the words that is full of Paco, just a few moments just to be, Santolan, Carmen, and Carmen.
There, you are doing it and continue to continue.
Two eight civilians.
Two.
Two people who knew that you already know a lot of people who know about my birthday for the L-C TD party that is why they are not going to talk about it tomorrow, but there is an issue of the I said that there is still a need to take care of the use of it.
.
Tuesday.
.
September.
Two worry for the commission that you will go home to the commission such as a visa when our help here is our help here in many ways to paint any kind of language.
Yes.
Full of oil container, deport, out and out.
The people like it.
Should not be.
So long, he / she is very horny.
For me, it is for me.
A kind of house.
There is a father.
Will be given.
There was Josephine.
To our language, until Sunday.
Okay.
I just want to.
That is more.
To be able to go to their use of Sunday.
For the most more.
We will say yes.
March 28.
Things are more important.
Food.
, if we have mentioned to us at midnight, it is said that it will be a big help to us in a wealth of paint, it is important to take care of these next ways to buy positive and not to use it in the right way to buy positive and not to use him as an excuse to be spoken to.
Do you know what else will it be avoided by others, what is happening is that this is the level of politics in our head, so that the advice that will be used in our heads is not high; he / she said that it's not a high level of conversation; this is not a high level of conversation; this is not a high level.
Yes, Jessica and we are saying that an example is one of the picture of a Sunday space which is not a picture of the education that we have been saying, that is why it's just a few weeks for us to say yes to us, he / she said yes to us, he / she said yes to us.
Just like what is different from a Sunday, someone will help a paint to the bikini that will be rich, but hopefully there is no order for the visa to make the desert today the use of it for a higher desert today.
