
Are they worried?

More than ten pesos will be released by the price of petroleum in the country, but it will decrease in the coming days, but in truth, if energy Secretary Jericho Nograles said, it should be P25 pesos per liter of gasoline in the basis of the international sale in the market, now, more than 40 years!
The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) seems to be a child who is requesting the producers and manufacturers of basic goods, Tamir is the Department of Agriculture (DA) for the high price of petroleum products, why are you useless?
The basis of all the price of products is the consecutive increase in the price of petroleum, now that there is a huge increase in the price of petroleum, that is why you need to ask them to lower down the price, right?
Like vegetables, they raised the price because of the height of gas and diesel at present, they should lower down the price increase of P34 per liter.
It is the obligation of the businessmen who follow because we have a law about the movement of the economy of the country and in those leaders to implement the right.
Why is it that the DTI and DA are still afraid to order the businessmen who are involved?
It is saddening that we see and hear the use of businessmen, because traffic is said to be traffic because they are still affected by traffic congestion!
Businessmen who said that kind of reasons, but no matter what they say, the law is the law that the DTI is responsible for the government agencies in the issue of the economy of the country!
Except if they are true that they are useless! Or instead they command to lower the price of our country, they are being taken cared of because of the upcoming election in 2016 - funds for campaign?
This is the possible reason for their contribution in 2010 election, they need to recover the capital and earn 10 percent, that is the reason why they are seated in position, is it not the DTI?
I do not know if the personnel of President BS Aquino 3rd about this have a heart, but we can't do anything if the members of him are all stupid in their jobs.
