"

Commissioner John Sevilla make sure that if he / she discovered the vices and kind of life of a low official of the Bureau of Customs (BoC).
We included in our past dreams in our past column, "Mr. Section Chief, said to make the high end of coffee shop and restaurant in a five-star hotel in Manila.
In the said hotel, he was serving his pet dog and this is where he was also able to let go of the meeting with his client broker and the important conference that the cargo trucks come to him, instead of his office in Aanana.
"It is said that Mister sex-tion is supposedly super-made of the air-shaped air so he is already able to ask him from his partner," not far away from the said hotel where he is allowed to serve.
In fact, aside from the condo and a new car, a huge amount of money is being thrown by Mr. Section Chief to follow the vices of the people, "Miss Balos," who loves to collect and play a high level of bags and become a few of those who have batteries, Louis Vangton, Chanel, etcetera.
Is it possible that Mr. Section Chief is sure of all that, based on his income or being given to Customs?
Not a waste of non-anti-corruption campaign of Commissioner Sevilla under the "straight path" by the administration of President Noynoy Aquino if the people like Mr. Section Chief will not leave the Customs.
I will be a source of BOC on Mr. Section chief. "
Controversial issue of employees and officials of the Bureau of Customs (BoC) is a controversial issue about their co-Homicide Chief that is held accountable and in the office, a five-star hotel in Manila.
We found out that the number of his fellow employees of Customs have not been satisfied with Mr. Section Chief because of the alleged unusual behavior he has built.
A few of those who called and texting are said to have text or the important issue that the cargo trucks pass by the Customs to inform your servant that they are part of the abusive followers of our column in this town.
Meanwhile, some of the things we talked to are every night the improvement of our program, "Katropa bench, said that there would be a chance to be watched and seen in the internet with his separation from 10: 30 at around 11: 30 at around 11: 30 at night, Monday to Friday.
