
Saturday, October 12, 2013.

The documentary on the route of Mandela "of Cantos said, the DOKimXi.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

October 10, 2013, Thursday morning, when I saw on Facebook the documentary on the funeral, Dear Mandela "who was free to be free" free from free.

It will be shown to UP Lady Oad in Diliman, it was only two motorcycles that I was living in that night, at night, I went there to watch the show.

"Just because of what hurts," Dear Mandela "that's why I went there, that I think is about the life of Nelson Mandela, the president of the southern Africa.

But I was mistaken, that is not about Mandela but to the poor in Africa who won the fight.

I just made a mistake because, ", but it was good for me to go there because, because of the issue of the poor, it was said that I came from a place where I came from in a place where I came from a place where I came from the city of Karangalan Village, to be the writers of Karangalan Village, to be the writers of Karangalan Village, to be the writers of Karangalan Village, to become the writers of Karangalan Village.

That's why when I'm thinking that, it is not a long time for me, but even more than a new knowledge, there is a chance to make a new knowledge and for the advocacy we are living with without a good process and lack of respect for their rights as a person.

The "Paula," made a documentary about the poor, out of Durban on the southwest monsoon and their struggle for an orderly wedding, especially the youth, is the example of Nelson Mandela to fight and visit their fight.

When the government of the southern Independence Day promised to remove them from far places, far from the city, three friends refused to leave their rights in their area, and those who were living in the barber shop in Manila were different, because they were living in a large shack in their area, because they were living in big rooms, and each room was a house of each family.

From their houses, they want to get rid of the highest court, the poor youth insisted that this is an example of Mandela, and they led the continuous movement of defending their rights.

However, the view of these three youth were not fulfilled, the party of Mandela is not fulfilled, the C (African National Congress) their promised change.

This is also because of the fact that the "

But there are a lot of sacrifice that they passed on, the demolition is attempted to kill them, and taking advantage of them by the government, but they became strong in that challenges.

In the end of the show, they won in court and did not leave the huge role made by the youth for the change in their situation.

The director of "Paula," DMIA Kell and Christopher Noni) and Christopher Nihonggo are defeated by the Grand Chambers (Commission on Elections) for half an hour or 90 minutes before the length of the documentary on it.

I went home to their success, and even added to me to continue my inspiration to continue the needy's rights through a justifiable way and deep resolve.
