All Soul's de Lima! By Boyet JAG co, Juliet, Loza-Cudia, September 3, 2016.
A former employee of the Department of Justice (DOJ) reacted about the statement of Justice Sec. Vitaliano Aguirre that he has an affidavit against the former DOJ Sec. Vitaliano Aguirre.
On Facebook account, Bogs Oawo, said that she called for her in the office of Secretary Aguirre on the hopes that he will sign for extension of the contract on the agency.
"But to my big surprise, the case that was filed in front of me is BPAT, April 2014, together with Senator De Lima," said to be used by Senator De Lima, "said goodbye to the UN," according to him, "he added.
He is also puzzled as to why he revealed that he has a signed affidavit when he made the allegations on the allegation against de Lima.
... that the content of my letter is that I will lose all the truth but why is it that what happened is against Senator De Lima, "according to Oawo'clock.
In the initial report, it was said that the model for a bank account, which is owned by a Bogs Oawo is the P24 million which is said to be really for de Lima.
Aside from Oawo, a Jonathan "Jong" Carine was said to have signed the affidavit against the senator.
One netizens criticized the content of the affidavit of Obuo about the exchange of money by de Lima.
According to netizens, why the BDO would agree to send his account, Bogs, when his real name is Edna Obuo, second, how the bank has been closed last April 18, 2014 when the bank has been closed last April 18, 2014 when the bank has been closed last April 18, 2014 when they were buried in good universities?

Netizens also criticized that the branch code 41 have been assigned to BPAT Bel-Air branch but Bogs is living in Commonwealth Avenue in Quezon City.
Netizens are also puzzled as to why they are still in order, even if they are still in order, even when it was said that it has been paid for in 2014.
"
Meanwhile, Sec. Aguirre directly denied that those who are going out to be connected to de Lima in the drug trade inside the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) are from the drug trade inside New Bilibid Prison (NBP).
Aguirre said, it is possible that the flow of their investigation on the release of the said document was possible.
Is PDU 30 easily?
As a reaction, de Lima said that it looks like President Rodrigo Duterte seems to be easily pissed because they are taking advantage of the evidence against him regarding the connection of the operation of illegal drugs in the country.
