In exchange for Baguio.

Did you have visitors again in Baguio recently?
If you were able to go there now and you were able to go there before, you will have a big difference.
Traffic is too much in Baguio now, and there are too many people especially when many are cold because many are drunk in a hot area for even temporarily feeling the cold climate in Baguio.
We also often go up to Baguio on 70 's and 80' s and 80 percent of change in it.
Because of the increasing population in Baguio and because of the number of those who visit here especially during summer, the summer Olympic Games of the country has been too high, which is why he is also feasted in.
I think it should be alarmed with the Department of Tourism (DOT), especially the Station EZA (Tourism Indama alias Enterprise Zone Authority).
What if the Baguio finally ruined?
The green-ZA should be pushed, and they should take on the search for the said place to be filed in Baguio, or an alternative that can be visited by Baguio.
He does not know what kind of corruption they are involving.
The budget of InEZA should be included in the departure of New Year to be together, they go out of their cage that is just like gold and search, not "what is being planted with million pesos worth of their office, tsk.
Like an example of Kalinga Apayao and this place was very beautiful, as well as the cold of Baguio.
If you go to Tabuk, you can remember the former Baguio, silent, cold, so it's very good to go out and the surroundings are very beautiful.
But Kalinga and Apayao are not allowed to be suspended or Apayao.
Many almost do not know that you can go here by plane in Tuguegarao airport.
It is a good example in Baguio and Tabuk by the DOC of the process so that tourists will be peaceful there, foreign or local.
Tourism is one of the wealth of our country that is why we do not need the perfect cies of the agencies that are more busy in facing the accusations of corruption instead of going to work similar to beautiful places such as Kalinga and Apayao.
