
Billions of public funds are increasing in the importation of rice while the price will push through.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
June 17, 2014.

Disbursement Acceleration Program: Aquino International que was being swept up by the coldness of the sun.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) supports the Aquino administration and his followers of the corrupt and anomalous contract on the importation of rice in front of the failure to face the continuous increase in price of rice which resulted to the extreme poverty of the people.

The PKP has announced to the Filipino people that the Marcos regime will be held at its entry on the anomalous contract of the importation while it is not giving a meaningful support to the filipino masses to help in raising the local government of rice.

The price of every kilo of rice increased once more than two pesos per kilo of rice this past few days, while the price hike of garlic is high, while the increase in price of sugar, ginger and other food continues.

"Contrary to what Aquino is making and working on his Marcos regime, he is still investigating the policy of Arroyo of the importation of rice because it was proven that this is one of the biggest source of rice in the Philippines with 2 million tons on the 2013-14, the 33 percent received from 1.5 million tons on the past.

"The price increase in the price of rice and other products are being acted upon by the Aquino administration to protect its rules in agriculture," said PKP, "the PKP," said the implementation of its own rice and its importation for its importation. "

"The Marcos regime chose to continue the importation of rice to raise the worth of rice coming from May until August this year, which led to P4.8 billion worth of rice from May until August this year.

"Secretary Alcala remains part of the greatly trusted of Aquino in spite of his involvement in some cases of corruption," said the KP, Aquino refused to listen to Alcala to the department of the destruction of properties.

"He went to the agricultural sector in the widespread smuggling of rice, which is controlled by the huge supply of rice in the Philippines," said PKP, "said the government budget to raise the price increase in order to increase the price of rice."

"The continuous increase in price of rice and other cheap food will be made up on the expenses of living and the workers, farmers, of the Filipino-like-like client," said the KP.
