"Yes, so we should talk to there are a lot of plastic bags that even if the opposition will continue to give in to him, it is as if I do not have any strength to the Philippines because I do not want that there is a six-year-known that there is a six-year-old," this morning, sir.
It might be said that Jojo is just watching the good location.
You are still with us here in our video.
Budo you have been cut off from the P-B-four years what you are doing now by Corporation of the Philippines, which is why there's a person who has a lot of people there.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was four-six two Canadians, four Indonesians, four Malaysians who were asking for relief in my chest.
The start of the money was started last year.
We were able to look down; as long as their preparation is not intense, and then the areas are known to avoid being judgemental.
At present, it is good to us that we have a communication to the Philippines on Wednesday, because I have a communication with the Philippines, because we have already known each of our troops, you are really responded after our troops are in the beginning that we are allowed by our troop.
This is for them.
Like the type who are fond of reading; he / she is calling the J Vitaliano P to my care, and then they say it is the primary use of me to talk to him.
Relationship with the Philippines - to take care of other places, hopefully there is a new friendship that we have done here on what happened before, when we were together, those who were able to steal and go to areas where we are being monitored is the recorded construction.
I agree with me.
These past few months, it was also together here who was called as the sister called for the election in Manila.
Four o'clock.
Two soldiers have five children in all sins in the mouth of the Philippines.
In Cavite, we already left all our units in the whole body.
Yes, our family, a bit of Ilocos, too much, is the family, aside from a cat-Kalawit Gang, political dynasties, political Ivan Gleyo, other pieces, will find the heart of the heart to my sister the PNoy.
I am seated on the body of them P-R - C-C.
When you call a lesson, it is fine where the mother is thin.
It's because Marcos is very kind; as well as the Philippines of the gossip, we continue to speak.
In the league of Mindanao.
I should also remember, most of us, whose identity, are biased, four years old, from the checkpoint in our place, and here in these areas with the cat in one hundred hours of what we are doing together with our siblings, we know that we are our siblings.
How much do we know?
That is our water with the 'orders of the' "as well as the ones who are pointing out; we are the ones to talk about the state of the state of the state, now, those who are able to buy a few who were able to buy.
Even if she takes a chair, ah, what is that way, that is why he already has a relationship.
They were able to look down; both Two Wives are both policemen in the news that they are crazy about.
Experience.
We are from the corner of our position at the place of the head at present and I have already mentioned it to sleep.
These past few days.
As a part of this, which is why it has been a part of the operation that arrived at the start, and it was not yet allowed to stop it because at the end, I did not stop it because at the end, I was still trying to stop it, and with a part of his way home for the election, it is clear in the elections.
It is okay that they are in trouble because it is really difficult to dialing on any actions.
Very short; we were able to lower themselves, they lower here in the 's.
Ah, cringe at stake; and covetousness; we are our ones.
Focused on that.
It was an military operation that we did not greet whatever was the arrival of a business that they called for the exam of the business which they called so they saw the cut off.
It has been cut off but we are still not intrigues.
They are the ones watching the Philippines' hut to those who are going out of the poor, who are said to be the ones who are saying that there are projects which are projects in the I am here with my friend.
Ah, it is easy to say that they are a member of hunger.
It is very easy to show that you might release a picture of using firecrackers in it.
In the middle of the dark.
It will be easy for the meantime and then they say.
I do not see me even if they can see the strong and deep hole of the cave, because many believe that until now, most of what they are doing especially now are many people who will support them, and they say we are the one who can support them, the pieces of those who can get money.
Very short; we were able to look down, support and support, to buy people; I will buy.
Money, especially to Agustin, they are doing what they are doing.
He / she only went home in the ground that's why he didn't want to go home.
It will be rainy for us but our position that we post, hopefully this is a new change that I will change the Administration as there's a threat in the coming election, Tubo, to give a chance for the next election.
That the serious threats will not be faced today.
It was too late.
The face can be fetched by their faces that they are receiving the airport to the Philippines about the condition of those who get irritated and are just like Abille.
It's very small; he / she only stopped at the hut, but I already had more than ten; why is he fed up that is why they grew up.
I have a wide group.
It's for us to have a measurement of people.
That is when there are no numerous complaints that we hear to stroll, I am okay with the conditions that are in that, but they continue to turn it here in the area the trouble that our generation is experiencing.
Thank you very much.
