Vor Nhmmmp!

From lack of loss, the news, Vo Nguised, general and a hero of the armed armed fight of the filipino people in the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, second, in the office and prestigious contest, Vazza, second, is still in a good life, while it is still a news that it can still be found alive at Kaingin 1 or Nihonggo.
It has been a day before the World, "Day.
When the armed group of Pramis, of the Filipino people who were in the wake of Dien Unido, Secretary of State of the US before, were ordered by the Americans in the attempt to remove the newspaper using a small country attack in Asia, but the citizens, not things, should be decided!
Because of the fighting of the filipino people and the campaign of the US, the Gera in Vietnam were exposed to the US, the excuse that the excuse that will bring the corruption in Vietnam were exposed to the US, the change that needs to expose, became the crime that needs to expose, stop the fight, stop it.
Economists said, Meghan Marai Said, Gera in Vietnam were the one who taught the most in the west where the American troops in Vietnam last 1973, which became a sign of the colonies of the American troops in Vietnam last 1973, which became a sign of the colonies of the American troops in the world last 1979.
When they defeated the group of Prayes, they were the first town to be investigated.
Mix with the narrow-mindedness of the US.
One of the filipino people, most of all, can be taken off to its bulging muscles not to be taken advantage of the revolution; however, they did not make the revolution; but when their power is on the streets, but also in the words of the group, Pablo degrees east.
Even in a articles that contains a defamation, whether the course of Vo Nguised, what we need to use is not enough to use the small fight against a big; not enough, we need to use the small fight for the success of the American, not enough to use the human rights under the success of April 30, of 1975 percent of the slaves.
In books or the New People's War in 1970, it is the collection of the Supreme Court because it is definite that the Filipino people will be successful because it is against the colonies of citizens of Filipino people, not true, what they are pushing is to make sure that it is true, the words are true, the words are true.
Material support from China will receive a material support from China, and it is clear to them the spirit of the local government to be used in Hanoi in 1967 due to the delegation of the Filipino Workers who went to Hanoi in 1967, the real way that you can help us is to push for the revolution. "
For 99 percent of the world that is experiencing violence and charter change, Vor Nguig Giovanni Lozano will not forget to be even more intense competition in the world, his spirit is more beautiful now and in the future.
