Many use a lot of fight.

Manila City Vice Mayor Isko Moreno now has a lot of enemies.
Since the ordinary vendors, drivers of the truck, jeepney, pedicab, businessman and the truck owners are pointing at their anger at the second floor of Erap.
The suffering and suffering of the said sectors of Isko are intense and that is what he should weigh and analyze because this sector was the one who brought him to a success in politics.
At present in Manila, it can be clearly seen in less than a low sector that is why their former companions in the streets that they should have a protector, now that they have been responsible for their ranks.
Most of what we hear is to anti-Isko in the election so it seems that the children from Tondo will be extra hard to get the sympathy of the real children of Manila.
There is a heavy challenge that Isko will face this challenge because of the excessive sweat that was hit by his campaign against traffic, and it seems that Isko should consider the reconciliation with the poor workers.
If Isko will make noise which was hit by Isko, the businessmen and the truck owners are sure that the businessmen and the truck owner will surely lose because they have a severe burden to it.
In the word of Chinese, they reached the hands of Erap and Isko and they will fight for their fight for the future of the rich sectors that are at stake.
We have heard a lot of things that if former Mayor Fred Lim and Isko are the only ones who are against the 2016 champion, he is capable of defeated by the former mayor because Moreno himself is campaigning for him not to vote.
This issue is simple in politics and that is what Isko now has a negative votes compared to all of all his allies.
There is also a time for Isko to adjust and change their tactic that is why we should do it because there is a lot of cases like plunder or corruption that there will be a lot of cases like plunder or corruption that there is a 40-year imprisonment that is the punishment of ALNAs Womb of Alvin Feliciano.
