
All of us have the fund of RA to 2016?

If you think, it is certain that PNoy and his supporters were buried in handling the funds of the country because of the decision of the Supreme Court against the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program, that's where you are mistaken.
King-mother, PDAF and DAP were already alive.
Only the explanation, for example, Chiz Escudero is simple about PDAF, what is against the Constitution is the meddling and handling of the implementation of PDAF by the lawmakers because this is against what the palace is saying and not the Congress which led the law to serve the law.
That's why, a mother-and-child, will be open to the congressmen and senators the proposal of the law for the anomalous projects which have a budget.
And next to this, if they still have been removed from there, it can still reach 70 million pesos every year the project of a congressman and 200 million pesos for senators.
How about DAP?
Here is it that even the chief of military is campaigning, the soldiers should defend DAP because this is where their opportunities are coming from and powerful.
This is after the military has a new leaders who said that the soldiers will not join the politics.
The leadership of the leadership should not be dry by saying that the soldiers should become partisan or strolling in politics, this is there the order to defend DAP?
What is that?
But in the legal issue, the order of the SC for DAP was not yet final, especially since there is a motion for based on the Palace.
That's why the palace is going to continue the DAP, especially since the SC does not say that the DAP itself is not being done by PNoy, Abad and Purisima.
That is why, PDAF and DAP are very much alive and, because of this, there is no doubt that there will be no doubt that there will continue to the deception or theft from the money that resulted to himself, politics and others.
There is an important development in the hands of the President in handling the funds of PDAF and DAP, and they will be able to use its power to prevent the interest of his allies, in 2016 especially now.
You can see the mystery and miracles for the PDAF and DAP, all sorts of Jun Briones.
