PNoy is Binay and Binay.

For the First th time, rural Secretary Sonny Coloma said the truth in front of the media in Malacañang.
In-time, we have no doubt on his statements for his boss, President Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3).
What he said is true from that until now, President Aquino has a big trust to Vice President Jejomar Binay, while there is life, the Aquino-CoCs) will be with Jojo Binay!
I do not know where the Caloocan City Congressman Egay Erice will get the script in Caloocan High School.
He is reading the script of the legislative chamber that looks like he is getting bullied by a fellow child.
There, he challenged VP Jojo to resign from his duty in the cabinet because of his cheating with Bira 3?
Erice said, it is said that Binay is cheating with Binay? Or he is just being servile to Mar Roxas?
As a sample of Vic Vizcocho, "IOS in the truth."
Last Boy Kalsada, Cagayan Valley, Tita Cory and Tita Cory, he chose Noynoy's mother when he sat as the president of the EDSA People Power Plant.
Aunt Cory sat down with Binay, who seemed to be ill-eyed on a bath before.
When the forces of Tax of Armed Forces Agreement (RU) which launched a mutiny, Yungga, Boy Jojo Binay fought to defend the Aquino government carrying his more than 300 Yellow Army for Cory.
In all who has launched a mutiny against Cory Aquino, VP Binay did not leave his Perez family, the Cocho-Aquino.
In short, the blood of Coyo-Aquino's blood will never separate from the blood of the Binay, that is a stamped on to their veins, which is why it is believed that nobody is left behind.
That's why we just laughed at the election of 2010 when Mar Roxas was managing it from being a vice president for Mr. Noynoy Aquino.
I do not know if Roxas did not see the truth, the clan of Coyo-Aquino III did not see his own support for Binay.
It is possible that PNoy is with Mar but he is only one of the big clan of Coyo-Aquino and who knows, Egay is just playing with the fire with Mar? Yes, PNoy, Binay, Binay, Binay.
