The debut of President Duterte went straight at the International Space Station.
By Ellen Toribio, September 7, 2016, I am not happy about the conflict that happened to President Rodrigo Duterte and the US President Barack Obama that should have happened to Laos.
Whether you are anti or anti-Duterte, the president is the representative of the Philippines in the world.
If he fails, he will not just be in his personal shame but to the entire Filipino people, the ASEAN summit in Laos will be the first trip of Duterte in other countries as President and it is important that it will be orderly.
; and what happened is that it is annoying because nothing happened from Obama to curse Duterte to curse Duterte, "according to him," he said in front of you. "
How did this happen?
Before he rode the airplane going to Laos at Davao airport, there was a press conference and he was asked by PAGASA that because of the statements about extrajudicial killings and human rights that are happening now in the Philippines, is he prepared for an answer.
The reporters mentioned.
Duterte reacted because this is the only part of what he said.
"I am very fden with his columnist that," let us wait for it to be the vice president, "WHO), the President of the city of the Philippines," a fellow Filipino Worker (Tell, "a fellow Filipino Worker (NJ.

Thank you for the sake of the heart to be a bit of quarrel.

P-number of number of times, it is more cheap, there in the cadmium that you should not take care of me.

Tell, to answer.
"Noguides that you are the American American Indian in the movies that you have used to the movies that you have used to the film that you have been impressed by the Catholic Church, thank you so that you have a hidden talent, WHO)," thank you?

Tell is a hidden talent.
"We, to be victimized by Republic Act OPLAN)," I'm Jerry, I do not have a habit to break down, a Filipino in Quiapo that will be in extreme anger and anger.
You will not stop there in the campaign against illegal drugs that will be met with a lot of people who will die there, the I will be impressed by that, but I am impressed by that in front of you, I still want it to be seen in front of you. "
After the meeting ended, Duterte: "Whems," Whmm, was said to have been the cause of hitting my classmate, we was impressed by the iron fist, we was peeking into an personal attack on the US President. "
According to him, he just wants to clarify that the independent foreign policy will be implemented by a new administration.
The ASEAN Summit is the meeting of ten leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Games that as long as the ten members of the ASEAN in Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.
After the meeting of the ASEAN leaders, there is a meeting with the leaders of the ASEAN countries like Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, Russia, United States and others.
