Wednesday, April 30, 2014.

President Obama's visit, President of America.

This April 28, 2014, the President visited America as part of his "Asia Pacific Ocean, perhaps this is in order to strengthen the alliance between the Philippines and America, perhaps this is going to strengthen the alliance between the Philippines and America that is why it is not just for the economy, diplomacy and military relations.

As a result of his visit to having a social military, the 10-year-military strategy is signed by both sides in our country and it means that we will also feel the presence of some military forces here in our country and in the entire Asia, it means that we will surely feel the presence of a pro-left group such as NPA, ASG, and other groups of rebels.

In his visit, there are still some militant groups who showed their complaint and protest against the Americans because they are against the constitution and it seems that it is against the Saligang Batas and it seems that it is against the Saligang Batas and it seems that it is against the President of America's arrival.

Some are worried like the group of Gabriela, that our "women and youth are worried that this is a big problem, it means that this will result to a big problem, this may also be taken to forgotten by some problems faced by our country?

As a citizen, our prayer is the continuing peace in the world and most of all here in our own town, we don't want to have a strong alliance with one of the countries that we are expecting to help us against the countries who are ready to help our country.

We have been used to someone who is calling America, that it's as if most of our fellow countrymen can't be denied that most of our fellow countrymen want to be a federal State in America who wants to be a federal state of America who wants to be a federal State in America who wants to be the light of life and progress like this.

Ever, we will no longer allow the colonialism. We can prove again what kind of government and officials who are ready to protect our freedom, right towards progress and peace.
