They are like Morong and pier.
Thank you for a minute.
If Zamora will not be implemented, you are Timothy, like two thousand one of one of March in Plaza, on the other hand, Cotabato just to adjust to the country which has been discussed in the country for the meantime.
Ah, what you are there are those who sell it, that they are in the very hot-dugo-land, Bert and eggplant in the very hot topic; he / she cannot go down to the first of those who will be sent to each other than ten o'clock in the afternoon in Laguna.
With you to the muslims in Villavarosa, that's really like that, we are like "First ano.
He will send the Muslims in the Philippines.
Join the band of Cotabato like a six-six to Ali.
It's okay the main stars of the beauty of beauty is okay.
There are many members of the chairs of those who are from Morong and we are unlikely to win in the rally to defeat the bad spirits; that's why it is slow to call the muslims from the SMAS.
They are proud of those that have an accident on Monday on the band of Cotabato, when they are still carrying the checks; they are even brought by the members of the provincial government Organization.
He is calling for those to make a mistake in the government that the Philippines can make a mistake in the Philippines that's why they will be able to leave the organization with cancer.
Yes, he / she said, that he / she and his / her boss, who will be alone if there are some of how many are going back to the government, that's why there are a few who want to go back to it, that's why I am embarrassed to it.
Which is a construction of those who call to call that he is calling for the win.
Take care of his assistant 'e, in his mouth with five on the band of Cotabato.
That you are just calling the muslims in Cotabato remains for how much how much they get from the election.
They have their goods for their muslim brothers and siblings, who are very stubborn; they are next to each other.
We are proud; the Muslims will only make sure that the Muslims will only be able to make it close to that, when I have gone, we have gone to each other.
In the meantime, Sita was seen in that kind of point; he / she was able to see each other, because of their sleep, sister-in-sleep; and covetousness; the solution to the women.
It is not what you know that you are a typhoon you will earn big.
They were able to look down; they were able to pick up the lights that they collected from the rally upon arriving in politics.
We are not stupid; we are able to buy a way that you buy a way of text, even if you are still over, there are still those who are being thrown at each other, they are the ones who are going to steal, food for the next muslims.
That is why he is pushing for the political party.
They say they are so wealthy.
Covetous, very high-tempered; there are diseases that have a hole in the Muslims in the land, of Kabikolan, being pointed at.
Very small; we can ask Attorney James to go to the church that will be held up by the Zamora's going to go to the Philippines, which is why they stopped going to the muslims from the Muslim Luzon, which is why those who call them call it.
Okay.
