
Then PCSO, DPWH.

The Ombudsman initially dismissed the case against former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo about P728-bala scam, because the lawyers were not able to do anything because their witness who is from the Commission on Audit (COA) did not do anything.
After all, the statement of the witness of the state, COMELEC is also like that, in the case that election is happening in the living room of Pasay City Regional Trial Court (QCPD RTC) Judge Jesus Mecy.
It was clearly stated by the witness Larry Brillante, Jr. that the former President did nothing to do with his dog.
Since a year until now, there is still no plan to listen and fully sweating at the living room of Judge Mecy.
I understand the judge, he is afraid of the regime of Benigno Aquino III that he might remove them from position.
In the Sandiganbayan, the case of PCSO, the witness has also already run out of the judge who will decrease PGMA.
Everyone spoke and admitted that Miss Gloria has a legal transaction and he did not violate the law, so PGMA also denied it.
And now that the cases of Congresswoman GMA in the Ombudsman is already garbage, it should be peaceful and accepted by G. Aquino the decision of the law.
But not.
Singson now talked to the COA to focus on researching for the new fried rice that will damage PGMA about P10.2 billion that will be used by Arroyo before the election.
Nueva Vizcaya Congressman Carlos Padilla himself admitted that his district of 300 million people used for his target was paid.
That is also what other people who are pointing and doubting is also saying.
The people like DPWH chief Rogelio Singson. Jilian is really pitiful, as if Boss Aquino, like a puppy to just stay in position.
Even if they will deny it, because of a big blessing, "Noynoy said to them the only reason!
My talk to the Malacañang also said, not only DPWH is not only DPWH but there are also those who ordered Aquino to undergo a lot of cases against Miss Gloria.
Just a warning to those who will attract the newspaper at the moment that you will be involved in everything that you denied, PGMA, for sure, everyone will comeback to you!
You are sure that a cold prison bars is certain!
