Kobe, tried to adjust immediately to the new school.
By GROs at RL-July 25, 2016.
Meanwhile, Kobe Bryant of D1 school study said that he will study and continue the training of basketball.
Benjie was told this to America when he returned from America, where he helped Kobe, to search for school to transfer after the refusal of HLA.
According to the actor, Kobe continues to continue his studies to Suden University in Omaha, Nebraska.

Kobe also posted on Instagram about the footage taken by him who is estimated to have tons of 70,000 pesos and with 2,000 pesos, "epal."
Benjie stated, "it was chosen by us, because what he chose here is because his coach who was previously in high school, coach Administrator Middleweight championship.
"He glanced at us, he talked to us that there were those who went out of the colonizers.
Kobe supposedly started to adjust and he saw that his son was in thorough care of his child and it was first reported in studying.
Benjie was also stopped there for a few weeks to protect Kobe.
He assured that this is fine before he goes back to the country, and continue his taping for the new drama actress of ABS-CBN 2 which is The Propaganda of this.
Upon arriving in the interview of Kobe, he did not want to have meddled with her when she did not find out if her relationship with PO 1 Gabriano was still very important, she said that they saw her child in studying.
"I did not know about them because in-time, it was because that was the first time we discovered it in school.
"I am not asking anymore because I do not want to increase the issue, we have been happy," Benjie answered when we asked him about the lesson brought by the young lady.
He / she said that he / she thinks that he / she didn't become an ally in the company because they are now ready for the situation of Kobe.
"To me, what we learned was we've learned how to be the one we can make in deciding.
"We need to be extra careful," that happened, "that happened to all of us.
"So now," the handler of him became more careful, "Benjie said.
