Let us just talk to him / her to go around, ten percent, while it was pinched on the consecutive times that of a person who loves a person who loves a person who loves a person who loves a person who loves a person who loves, reading the bus from five pesos in Bulacan.
Yes, but whatever it is that they do not have a misunderstanding, look at four consecutive days that we need to use to understand us.
Would be forced to be true, Padilla.
Yes is the return of Coke.
Yes.
The Padilla can do it all night.
Yes, it is a good morning so that we will go to school; and we are all listening to all the good morning to all of you.
Okay.
Very short; he / she really knew; he / she knew that I am very low; I told me that I am a little bit pitiful; so much as we have a little bit-tempered; and sometimes, we were able to treat each other.
Here is it!
We talk about it.
You should keep those who should not fight.
Covetous, fur.
"You should just go ahead and look straight; we can go straight and go straight to there is a mental problem that will happen again.
Fuck, fog; and above.
That is the strategy of Mindanao that is also a strategy in Mindanao but what should be bigger.
Let us wait for us to understand this, who really is really?
Sometimes, we really talk about the small seconds of one peso and there is Star, what are the reasons why our positions here in this place, what are the typhoons that are not mentioned.
Or because of how much it is better for the whole world to teach in the whole world, maybe it is more important that we can look at each other; so that we are more important, we are more important that we are like that, right?
Yes, this is a text message like this from high school that is even more handsome for all of our countrymen.
The month between PNoy was gone, and then at the airport, he / she was at the airport; he / she was at the airport.
We continue to help each other and our dealings with each other, especially to those who are taking security, are not just going to there, just yesterday at Surigao in the area, which has been grossed for.
There is a good example.
It happened.
Food Corporation, the resolution of the good score of our First Republic is our voice in the child.
The Philippine National Police is that this is one of the triment; that's why there's an enemy, there is an enemy, that you want to sit on, are defiant;
Let us talk about it in the place.
We were able to see each other; he / she was able to look down; Information Agreement about a text message to us in a place there that's why he had her stomach at the investigation.
That's why there was one of this' Information Agreement).
We are anxious; we are asking the Philippine National Police Station to help each other so that we are only one of our fellow countrymen who are only one of our countrymen who have no fight, and I have mentioned that we do not have a fight and I have mentioned that this is the only thing in the past few days and second.
In my opinion of the interview of the security, you are asking the proposals that there are proposals that are deport; our office, our office, and then.
When I wrote the beginning, "when I went back to the Philippines, I was calling the security operation to the Philippines-Tropas; we don't want it to go back to hell-prone areas especially in my place where it is good for me to go back to our place, which is good for me to go to our place.
All that is leading is the price in the Philippines Makati with a thorns in it because of that.
That's why they were able to take advantage of the checks; they were able to catch up, in their office and then on the law.
But if it is time when there is a problem in a place, then it's a bit peace because you will try hard to take care of being an enemy.
We are very proud; the fund is very low; so it can't be the turn of our siblings in the Philippines when Cris became the manager of my head for the security.
So that is our average wage.
And in case the entirety of our country is, we hope that the whole of our country will not be very quiet; so that it's not just very quiet yes, so that not all of the Internal Revil will go to so that I will go to a very long time.
Reporting, Jessa Lojo, this.
It is being said that they are not helping each other.
That might be shirt that's why it's too much there in the land that's why it's too much there in the land that's why it's too bad that's why he / she grew up.
What's an ordinary day, I think, I think that we are taking care of us; we are taking care of us especially since it is.
Yes, there are things that you have been on top of that, so I really have a word that there is a rumor that there will be a dialogue with this so that I should answer the Lida to give us to us.
The orange is a tree of calling for an agreement before doing something.
Covetous, deport; and-bust operation, that is what we called.
You are usually the same.
There are movements to go to yes, George, who has been declared there, there really is an agreement that there will be a person who is calling him and that is when the way is open.
Yes, you may take it a few days before you show this operation.
'Sister-four.
Yes, not like that at the airport, it's just that the P / she did not look at the airport; he / she didn't look at the airport; he / she didn't have any idea; he / she didn't have any idea, to turn the space at the space of the songs you're applying at or for Two two women.
Boy there.
If you have Harrison.
Yes, the heart attacks.
What I have, these are important.
Zero operation, isn't it?
Yes, that is really true, we have heard that we are also aware that there are people who are after our countrymen who are running after our country and is always on the interest of our country, that is why our countrymen are always telling the ashes.
They will lose them.
"That's why, in the same age, he / she can look down; he / she can look down; he / she can't fool me; so we can't tell me that I can just tell me that this is just tomorrow?
"We are asking why we are going to look at each other; we always think that what's important is that, I always think that I am always worried; we are really worried; we are really deaf and deaf.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was distressed; the procession of the procession to rob you can be seen.
On the end of the operation, it was done to be frugal to 280 pounds, which can be exported; uncharitable; and dried coconut milk, only a joke, and it's just a joke.
Yes, we are very pitiful; we are right to look down; we are right to look down; we are right to catch up with John Paul, where I am calling me as a month.
It is very difficult to know that because you yourself will be put in trouble with your friends if ever you make a mistake.
There is a need to worry; we will really prevail in the eagerness; we will really prevail in, Banga, Banga, Papal; and for your knowledge on what you are really ill-tempered and to your knowledge about your place, right?
"We are anxious; we are saying that there are people who are saying something about who should be filed against it, so that I need to fight, that's why I need to be taken care of, so that you can be taken care of that you will be taken care of.
Your mission was stopped.
Yes, it's like that, in what we are saying, we have to look at each other, so that we are the ones who are low-up; so that they are in personal interests; we are still in personal interests; we might also be in different kinds of operation.
Your motorcycle, isn't it right?
Yes, and then I know that I am always filled with me and I am always filled with you, "said Secretary 'Sunshine Dizon maybe my older brother will know what is happening and then the older brother will know about it.
We are walking, you don't know if I do not have anything right now that you are really beautiful.
You remembered everything.
.
