Frankly: Duterte: The relationship in America will not be cut down.
By Ellen (Oct. 24, 2016) I will tell it, but in every moment, President Rodrigo Duterte is saying, just keep calm, do not just keep it out, and the future, the tone is different.
That is what happened to China's announcement on Thursday that he was separated from the United States.
He said in his speech at the Philippine-China Trade and Gaming Corporation of Beijing last Thursday after he did his bad feelings because he was tortured by Immigration in America after he was tortured by Immigration, Taba, "I was tortured by the directive to the military and Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).
He answered, what he is saying should not understand what he is saying.
It is said that he could not cut the relationship with America because he said many Filipinos in America are saying that the separation "separation" is the separation of the foreign policy. "
This is exactly what he said: "Walis thank you, the diment of thank you to the Tanim-bala"

Fight IT is to the best interest of my Country, we can be watched in a long distance relationship.

Wtch?
According to him, we have been following the Americans for a long time because aside from China, he talked to Russia when he talked to Russia, which is why he talked with Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medalliances in the Asian summit in Laos last month and said that if he wanted the Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medalibis, he said that if he wants to be brought by the Russian police.
"Icherness, if Fight IT led to the US, I will be in the US, I will attend the US, I will be the one to attend to the US. My Mama," I know that it will be cooked hard with the economic growth of my Country. "
But he says he knows that the relationship in America could not be cut off in America, "wangwang."

That's why he will not go to the United States: "Though, even though he was in the United States, he / she was the one who was a glimpse of the Pambansang Kamao, which was being abused by those with no shame."
It is up to you to understand how to understand.
