
It is VP Binay's VP Binay?

President Benigno Aquino III stated the challenge to Vice President Jejomar "Jojo" Binay recently, "if you do not want to become a member of the cabinet, resign and do not make a problem but help the solution."
VP Binay answered, "I am a team player) will stay with PNoy team with High School but because of the wet from PNoy's answer, this is an assurance that she will not be gone through PNoy but also from the clan of Coyo-Aquino, who gave him a change in life... and wealth!
From a simple human rights lawyer, he was seated by former President Cory Aquino as SPO-Ib-Charis), Mayor of Makati City, when he took the old shack and a piece of clothing, loose pants, and was almost going to explode from the shoes.
Yes, that is how Jojo Binay is hard before.
We have been with him in hearings and protests during the time of the regime, we are dark, but it's a bigger fire in the fare on the court as lawyers of activists and the country leader and politicians.
His loyalty to Cory and Cosim card cannot be tested.
Now, Binay is calling on a fight that may lessen not only on his political ambition but also for the entire livelihood, the accusations against him by two pilots who want to become president and vice President are not a joke.
He needs to face the pending case.
Impatient because he did not feel the pet PNoy that's why he spoke with the weakness of Noynoy's leadership Chief Justice Renato Corona and the negligence of the citizens who were victims of past calamity and calamity.
But his last fight was intense, he defeated Aquino in the implementation of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo when it was not humane.
When Binay said that, I believed that PNoy did not know anything because he was busy with himself, that's why he was busy with his own belief, there was someone peeping on him in the fight of VP Binay.
"That is what he was hurt with Noynoy.
Wow, in her statement, it is clear that he is afraid to be separated from the company of Aquino!
