"People's Day" for the truth, responsibility in Mamasapano was done by different groups.

The hearing in the incident in Mamasapano can be failed in the Mamasapano incident, all the next table of the primary personnel being invited by the Senate and Congress.
This is the view of different kinds of anomalous group, which is why they opted to launch a own "epal's" to listen to the testimony, not the leaders of the police, military and the Aquino administration, but also for ordinary citizens from different sectors.
Last was the hearing of different groups of farmers who were held in the very part of Malacañang in Mendiola Bridge, which was led by Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines, Amihan, National Lakas ng Manggagawa sa agriculture, and according to the call for President Aquino to resign from his position.
Included in the issues being faced by the farmers are the lack of true reform in the land, company and big corporation, spread by the military forces to scare the farmers, harassment and small fishermen to favor the big corporation and foreigners, and others.
The burial of Aquino's responsibility in Mendiola's decision was also made in Mendiola's burial in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25.
On the testimony of Kenneth Guda, he got a Filipino Weeker and journalists killed in Mamasapano last February 9 to 11, revealed the events on January 25 to 11, based on the command of the police forces in their community, based on the order of President Aquino and the government of the United States (US).
A hearing in Plaza!
Last February 20, the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) was headed by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
"If in the Senate, there is an executive session, here, a pot session," says Raymond Palhino, chairman of the Bayan-Metro Manila, and served as a model in the session which was attended by different organizations.
Listening to the listening to students, patrons of the church in Quiapo, tourists will sell, and other people in Quiapo at that time.
In the said hearing, Guda also discussed the result of fact that the fact of fact that he had many information that did not have been thoroughly revealed in different hearing in the Congress and a report to a nap.
Guda said that the residents of Mamasapano himself said that they heard the noise of the US drones that was held in a week before the operation.
According to Guda, even if the drone that's being done by the US in the operation was exposed, the hearings and the US's hands are trying to release the hands of the US in the incident, and the attempt to release the documentary about those reported by the American troops in the operation.
In the said hearing, Propaganda of the Philippines of Manila and an expert in relation with the US and the Philippines, the history of the US's involvement in operations outside the country.
According to him, it is trying hard to expose the trace of the US troops in the operation, but he will be forced to remind the history, the US is always there in operations that are not only focused on the so-called "war against terrorism," but also in the war against criminality.
Failure in making promises.
It has been three years since there was no chaos in the area, according to residents interviewed by Gabriela Representative Luistro also, who is also included in fact that the encounter was a big question for the citizens who was there.
"Why will there be an accident, there will be a peace flow down, there are also some who are said to have been said in a ceasefire," Ilagan said and asked him by the residents.
The citizens were forced to evacuate when the shooting started at dawn of January 25.
Ilagan said in the statement of a mother, carrying his two-month-old children, but when she found out that her husband died because we did not have a livelihood, "said we have not yet returned to him," he still didn't want to return., "he even said.
According to the mother of their mother, there were also a grenade and bullets on the lower plantation of a few days after the incident.
It can be recalled that the area of the incident was said to have been the symbol of the movement of the citizens in the corn farm, which was not given emphasis and not yet revealed in the previous hearing.
"Hundreds of straight and straight and straight.
Meanwhile, in their announcement, while the hearing is happening, the group of human rights that a human rights in Mamasapano can be related to the long list of human rights to the Aquino administration.
To save our country in more danger, Aquino needs to push forward to "Accountability," says Cristina Palabay, chairman of Karuhatan, cases of killings and kidnapping, cases of killings and kidnapping, cases of killings and kidnapping, and others.
In the hearing, the representative of different sectors, including Sammy Malhes of Kilusang Mayo Uno (MP) and Jimboy Salvador of Gabriela, served as the person.
Meanwhile, Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate also spoke, that it is also the contestants in fact that Aquino said to the public, that if I will be able to forgive them: "I admit that he will be able to resign.
"Let's go back to what President Aquino has responsibility.
He turned it to him not only the lives of the 44 SAF 44, including the lives of 18 UV Expresses of the MILF, who are hoping to have peace in Mindanao, under the Bangsamoro Basic Law, and the one who killed it is seven civilians, which up to now there is no assurance that whoever will give them a tactic., "said Zarate.
For the groups who joined the hearing, there is still no indication for the President to take responsibility for the series of failure that he was in in the series of failure in Mamasapano, on the long list of his lack in response, according to the Bayan.
Because of this, they said, the noise of the call for President Aquino to go down from his position is getting stronger.
