The person who is preparing for a long time for rice to sell the news will be good in the next week that the weight of something that you remember has been cut off from the corner, Tina.
It is expected that when it comes to the country of high rice, there is a call of Echo's call to protect them so that nobody can go out.
In a meeting with Boyo, Elementary School in the international group held by Agriculture Sec. Elementary School and not in the organization to cover up the covetousness of the amount to discuss about the cent of rice.
You are absent for nine people, how can they get the land water of the father that is why they look at the land of the father that is why they have to cover up to the cover-uppers; that is why the Arinoli, who is a good person, is not good.
We are calling the secretary Justice Secretary Pangilinan who's together with Pangilinan, who is very proud; in Bulacan who was made to be made in Bulacan who can be made to live here in a new-year-old person.
Let's also be the role of local government agencies to go to our country, whose names are deport; Gulanggani;
It took a vacation for a vacation for a long time and for a long time with rice that was selling the country for a long time, which is why there's a lot of rice in other countries on the contract of January yes to a mother in the truth that the companies that take advantage of rice are true.
When rice comes here, there is a new witness again.
I just went inside the ship.
There is treatment he is doing even if we were found.
And then.
!
It was cut off.
When it comes to this.
His brother is a bit blurry.
And when it comes to rice in the market.
That is what I am thinking about and all of my thoughts.
That is why the vendors are buying rice in the market which is why all the food we eat at the market, all we eat, are really tired of what we eat, who is extremely tired of those who are tired of the T'boli, that you will be clearly seen by the T'boli, that you will be able to catch up.
A while ago still earlier.
