The residents were already fetched by the board of a board after being able to tell this College of the soup in case that was done in his position, which is why their solution was to fetch the Baduy. "Of the group.
Vera.
The military continues to search for the body of this that they are saying that, they will go home to the place where they will go home to the place where they have been left here in the area here to save the three hotel together with Renz TucHoy.
Let us immediately show an ordinary person to get our lives.
There's also each other, even the length of the vice-P-PNoy) and he is strong with the family of Robs there, who did not give it to the military's family to protect the group, who did not have anything to protect the group, who did not have to take care of the group, I can no longer take care of Mark, "the Philippine Star, in our country.
Even if you do not want that to happen, it is as if we do not want us to pay attention, we also need attention to our opportunity by Two who are conducting a record for them.
Mayor Rodrigo Duterte added that there is a good strategy to buy a group not only in Mindanao for all parts of the country.
It was sleepy.
In the middle of the misunderstanding that I have not been together.
High blood.
Gambling.
Ah, I am the only solution seen by Vice but he can also arrive on the fight against the group.
It went up and down.
There is something like that.
That will come home and we will end it.
Resigned yet.
In duty.
This is also not a sweat I am graduating, but aside from crying, we should not neglect those who are going home by a new member, we make sure that our countrymen will not be able to support them, if there is a livelihood that our fellow countrymen have, that's why we should not take a glimpse of our countrymen.
To talk about this thing we talk to on the line of the telephone is one day there in a in-exported policeman there by videoke Mendoza, thank you for a dog Boning.
Ah, it is good if the Philippines is beautiful but not only experts, what do you say we had a shortcomings in the government where it happened.
Fuck, fog, old and former.
?
Yes, it is said to be a military again or alright.
Sleeping.
They are doing all that they are doing.
Being slaughtered were proud; that it caused their needs yes, there was a pay for her offer, but I can see that there was my end with us.
I am just a part of the area unit but I am only the bread of the government I am going to be in a good location.
Can't be done here for those who can be done tomorrow, the one you love is open so they go here in a hut?
Snack time is active and tomorrow.
Yes, when it rains, we can see each other; I do not have to see each other for those who are innocent.
It's just cheap that he is challenging, Rihanna.
There are families.
I said that he / she said that he / she really likes me; he really wants me.
They are full-tempered; they are the ones who are their relatives who are their viand.
"I am here in the public station where you are saying, it might really be a mean time, there is really a sign that there's no need to help or fear, that is why they do not help or, as long as they do not help each other when it comes to the incident.
Ah, that is okay.
What we are eating with the voices that we have had a lot of voices that's why they're going to go to the cauldron; hence, they'll be able to look like that.
Two need to have an intensive conversation; double or double-nosed; double or double-mindedness, which are also Production of the World station cobra and that's why it's as possible that there is a National Capital station cobra that's why it's not in Pampanga province that's why the cheeks will have ended there.
Now that we have three to God, what they are holding, are the ones who are holding the military; they still continue to catch the military, where are you having a hard time when they are after him.
Ah, it is hard for them to do what in the field of this situation, it is true that the military '70s is hungry, and that's why the First Division, whom he wants us.
Many of those who are Teguides with the Smart.
And as a result, there are even those who eat at the same age, fog; and operation.
That is why we are stupid; our voice is Timothy his voice.
He / she grew up; we were able to convince him that she should just be able to study all of the things that you should think of, instead of the new projects and then that is more busy with his / her Ate Rep.
He is going to be an acadversary, maybe tomorrow.
Yes.
Can you not just go out war against Adeleza.
The waiter that I have said to say that the war was very popular.
Then, they are able to go to school; but if they order the pension increase, they will not last for a long time.
I was not able to look at him; that's why he / she wasn't able to look down; he / she said that he / she was distressed.
"Where Rhea is brimming with coconut wine, and for the whole world to be done there, we usually do not have any position, but, of course, I am being done with any position in the Philippines, and I am being done by any position in the Philippines, and I am being done by my position to the Philippines - I am being done by my position to the Philippines.
Yes, we have been our problem for a long time so you can see what is right now that you might get to them especially since they are going to offer them.
So that it is too much.
Yes, he / she is really in business; he / her most beloved is different, and they are the same with your most beloved.
I woke up, yes, but the voice is just in the spot where there is a couple who owns a hold-board.
But according to him, he said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she went to Boracay when he / she had been cut off, that we have been cut off; we have been cut off; we are really being broken; we are really small-tempered; there was no traffic in the characters. Series yes, but they were.
"I will be able to check-in-check-out operation in Quzard, Tantos, who takes care of the Indonesian as one after the consecutive reading on the Indonesian at the National Bureau of bed.
