
The agricultural damage was destroyed in the 120 years of Walis.

By months, D. Quijano, February 2, 2015.

The local farmers almost cannot be able to sell their harvest, because of the influx of products from Preso, Noni), more than 20 years have been put under the said agreement during the said agreement in the said agreement in the said agreement in the said agreement.

"Even if we lose in the election, we are right, our fear came true," said Senator Vicente Sotto III, one of the senators who voted against the GATT-Wthese, which is in which led by the Senate last December 14, 2004.

Farmers, businessmen, lawmakers, and economists are coordinating with the effects of the Filipinos and economy of the country, particularly in agriculture, particularly the agricultural sector in the Philippines last January 29, which cannot be bought by Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines.

The situation is critical, especially for farmers.

According to them, there are many local crops that would just allow to rot compared to harvest, or maybe there is no rotten post, because there are no concrete er buying.

Senator Vicente Sotto III, it was proven by history that the voting was right against the GATT-Wisconsin, a few years; Quijano, who is sensitive about the farmer's story in Nueva Ecija, in 2014, the primary harvest of onions in Nueva Ecija, the country that he had initially took it.

But because of an importation, the sale or the gate of onions rose to the lowest, which is only for 15 pesos to 18 pesos per kilo, which is why no one buys, "said that no one buys," said that there was almost no one buys, "said that almost one buys in the pier," he said.

Every time the price of the sale is going to be said, it is really a victim of 40,000 families in the correct space which is hoping to farm the vegetables.

Included in the local businessmen in the industry of Santo "in 1995) even before the Wthese), Zailon and chicken, are at 174 million kilos of chicken," said Atty. Bong Inciation of the United Broch-Raers Association of the United Broch-Raers).

In the data of Ibon Foundation, together with the chicken (10 percent) for the products which are importation for rice (19 percent), garlic (45 percent), peanuts (70 percent), onions (8 percent), peanuts (8 percent), and pork (5 percent).

It is hoping that the government of the Philippines is dependent on the economy, the government of the Philippines is quick to lay down the assets of foreign products in Asia, like Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, Thailand, and Indonesia.

Elmer Dayawan had a farmer, compared to those who are sensitive, than what is harvested by some hectares, Quijano, because of this, the contribution of the agricultural sector was broken and it came to 15 percent of GDP in 1994, that was only 10 percent of the agricultural sector last 2014: Alarming for the strongest country.

Almost no new job in agriculture caused on the entry of big foreign businessmen to reach 11.3 million jobs in agriculture last 1994, only approximately 200,000 after two decades.

The value of the salary of Filipino workers from P126 in 1994, it was only about P122 in 2014, according to Ibon.

In other words, the agriculture, and farmers who are hoping here, in spite of the promises of those who pushed the GATT-Wthese are not interested in spite of the promises of those that pushed us in the local industry, "said Incians," said that he has no support or subsidy for the local farmers and the industry of agriculture.

According to Sonny Africa, executive director of Ibon, the government just allowed the Philippines to take advantage of their usual strength and useless materials, and pile of petroleum products such as big foreign countries.

It is an alternative that in the right now, it is impossible to change the economic growth of the government which is focused on the slow verification of the economy, but Inciaga said that he needs to change so that they can prove the food and livelihood of the Filipinos.

Because of the effect of climate change, the price of petroleum products are expected to increase in the international market in the coming days, according to a study by the US Council (Science and Technology), if we still hope that our children will be pitiful, "he said.

But it is possible that "Pogi" is possible, according to Africa, this will happen under a government who does not follow what the national economy is going to follow because the Philippines is rich because the Philippines is rich, and a big population is big.

This does not mean that the Philippines will stop in the trade in other countries, "while there is benefit in the trade in our country, they will do this," Africa said that he has been removed from the United States (last year), which is said to continue in trade in various countries.

It was Renato Reyes, general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, one of the citizens who protested against the GATT-Wisconsin, in front of the Senate, 20 years ago and he was still a student before.

"There are many of what we said before, that happened, we should not let our problems in the economy be like that, two decades since now.

We should be complacent about each other so that we can fight it, it is possible that we wake up from our own feet, "he said.
