I was able to look at what you are talking to, I still talk to you and I was told to go to him so that they can also talk to us.
Covetous, fur;
I know it is dead if they are going around to do that, at a point, because, because I do not want to accept it, I did not want to accept it because I did not want to accept it when I entered with Ate Linda, 32.
I went to Aldy.
Yes, now that we talked with them, I did not see what I was small, I said, I would not do anything, I would not do anything but I could not do anything but he was not the only one who turned around.
What you said now?
When?
"Isn't it that right?
Yes, we need to look down; we need to go ahead; that is why I also have a doctor to you.
You want to remind me, what if you say that later you'll go to me here, because I am also giving him / her.
There is a way.
But you already know that.
Yes, I have a piece of patience for you to be given, no matter how much we are, we are very lonely and I am a bit sad.
"What if I just say that these are just like these.
She is looking for the news on Facebook and Nene, who is able to pay for them.
They say they are saying something well.
Yes, then, according to September, she said that the hospital was given birth for a few years.
The numbers are getting reduced; we are not the third year we have been our third year.
What's the name of the three years that there is no four who goes on.
As well.
"We have been saying that, what I said now is that we saw that we have seen what we have seen right now, that is why I know that this is the third time that we have seen what I've mentioned to me, that is why I don't know what we've mentioned to me, that is why I do not even read about me," we have not yet paid for my third year.
In our four years of living now or those that you want to remind, it might be a bigger head for us to send one five with Ricky in giving waves and did not give.
Factories, here, then they are over the second.
That is just giving way, that's why he / she was distressed.
Ate Vi sympathizes with me and then, Paul, yes.
Yes, this is the third time that we only gave birth to Ate Vi.
That's why there was a t-M-M; that's why he / she didn't have five-five-five-five-five-four.
Yes.
Yes, this is like what we have been in here for four years.
You should talk to Nene.
We are two of us and you have seen what you have to say yes, we should talk to each other; we should talk to each other; that is why I am not ashamed of us yes, yes because we are asking for us.
At the house maybe it is just March when he / she might have an immediate action, maybe there will be an immediate action that maybe he will not say to us.
"Yes, yes, because it is for four years that we are going to wait for four years; we don't even know if you know me not to watch over prosperity, not let us not mad at TPLEX.
