Juana Barraza, she answered the complaint of Vic.
"There are many kinds of spaghetti sauce," BE. RL.
After Bossing Vic Sotto released her opinions about the removal of Enteng Kabisote 10 in the MMFF 2016, we asked the reaction to some of the members of the Severe Development Committee.
One of the first one who answered to us is one of the members of the Sevidal Committee, Mae Paner, who is better known as Juana Change.
We were able to talk to Mae to the program of showbiz Talk n that is based on DZRH and he thanked his decision of Enteng Kabisote 10 in their decision for the eight movies they chose on the MMFF 2016.
"Mae stated," it's good "what Vic said that he respects, what?
"Thank you for respect because we have worked hard to present the eight division" we chose to present, if it is ready for the dining table of Filipinos this Christmas.
"We can also say it's hard to say that we have not given me" what they want.
"Because, we still do not know what is the eight viand of that we should experience, because for example I feel, we also have a lot of spaghetti," right?
"There are those who go to school, with white vinegar, red vinegar, but there are also Hotdog or there is also mayor of balls that also wanted by the children.
"So, that is also like that, we need to watch those chosen to see if this is according to the taste of the viewers this coming Metro Manila Film Festival because of course, before this, before this.
"What Vic Sotto used to have been used to is that, maybe now, Vic said that there is nothing at the dining table, but we also have a place in exchange of speeding vehicles that we just wish to experience.
"I just want to tell the viewers that we are just given a standard for us by the Executive Committee of Metro Manila Film Festival.
"We also remember that we are just coming from a very big controversy that we reached the Congress and the many criticisms are coming out.
"That's why it came out that the one who will win is based on the script of the script" now, we changed that the film should be exported.
"It's because even if the festival are in the whole world, it's really true, the dye-judge who are in a movie are already over.
"Because, if the truth is, you don't know that the script that you are saying like this kind of story can be seen," that's the only thing you can see.
"That's why, what we watched, is that the movie... that, every year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-old person, is always the one that you can see, right?
"But now, based on the 27 films that we have watched, this is what Executive Committee is saying, this is what the Executive Committee is saying, about 100 percent, that is a good story, that is a good story, that is a good story, that is an effective story, that is an effective story, that is an effective story, that is an effective story, that is an effective story.
"This is what Execom told us.
Mae assured us that if those who watch the movies of the child would be assured, there is another "Sally in Rhian Ramos, and Vince 'Kath' James, Star Ngayon.
But in truth, this is not really a child for children who are happy in the movies of Vic Sotto, Vice Ganda and other comedians.
