Capitalists have ended, the head of the government ran.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
There is 2, 2014.

The workers of Carina: 30 members of the fight of Filipino workers in the funeral parlor, low wages and negative policy of the King Cateel.
Almost 3,600-year-old worker of Caringal, which was said to have been said to have been able to have a week paid for their 15 years, they have not yet been vacation for their 15 years, and they still haven't been a vacation for their salary.
They did not make a mistake.
It is impossible that the company is saying, according to the workers, just recently, it was easy for them to end the huge order of her bra, panty, and other Holy Spirit like Victoria's Secret Service, Discipline Office, Maranon and Spencer, Misamis Oriental, and others.
Expensive, very young.
Factory of Carina.
"Carina, in Laguna International Industrial Subdivision, the largest factory in the country," said the Filipinos, only here, "said a worker," said the workers who were selling the market for $18 to $70 every day.
Last February, they should have been going to their union with the new round of Collector Bulang Agreement) but the company has closed their wishes, before the salary of the workers will be a priority.
Most of them, from different factory of Garay (sister, of Carina), said that it also closed the decades of 90, the former company was closed and was built in the union and was built by the workers and removed the workers.
Now, in the "illegal" closure of Carina, both of the ones seen in the union are the same reason why they see their regular workers in order to replace each other or not, the transfer of operations in Swift, you, where it is said to be more cheap.
The workers of Carina. King Catalite was the Pamadan.
As of now, there is still no assurance that they welcome the Department of Labor Law (DOLE) for the illegal acts of the company, which is headed by foreign owners who are based in Hong Kong.
"For now, we do not know where we can get a livelihood, how can we make the owner to face and take responsibility of the damage he has done to our workers," Elmer Mercado, vice-president of the union.
As of now, many are forced to fall into a slipper factory, or a huge amount of 20 centavos every piece of 20 centavos every piece of 20 centavos in the whole afternoon - it is only enough, for a movement of rice and sweet words to eat at the family.
"President Aquino has no care for us.
"The" burdensome "of Aquino.
On May 1, All Soul's Day, it will be led by the center of the workers and other sectors of society in different parts of the country, they are calling to end the implementation of President Aquino to the citizens, especially the workers.
"The workers are angry at the policy of Aquino's young work, the President failed to make a decent job for the Filipinos, and the workers are tortured," said Elmer Liscano, chairman of Lam.
According to Mahathy of the Social Weather Stations in the last room of 2013 about 12.2 million Filipinos, Migrante International aims to work every day to work in other countries, because of the lack of work and low wages in the country.
In the span of four years, according to him, Aquino did not hear the call to increase the wage increase of the workers.
In the whole country, even if the government was able to order the wage increase, the Two-Tivoli Wage System, which is pulled by the salary of the workers or not, was being treated at a very big amount.
The coldest spot has become worse in the estimate of the Anti-Lakas ng Masang Pilipino (Labor laws and Eher, for more than four million, the Filipino workers who are asking for more than four million, who are receiving higher wages instead of a low salary.
It is estimated that as long as there is no solid document to change in society, it will worsen the lack of work and for the workers.
"In the international crisis, we need to convince people who do not have faith in foreign investments to make jobs and to create jobs that we have to release to the land and the national anue.," said Liwag.
But this is the opposite of what Aquino is doing, according to what the workers of Carina would like, "they can't rely on to the government who had a head with them because they were surprised when removing them from work, they are ready to fight.
