Are 8 more than drug addicts?
"You are plague, you will be next!"
Bakar Street, Erry Pritil, Juliet, Lobo-Cudia, please do not allow me to be addicted to drugs, I am plague to Muntinlupa, you will be next. "
This is what was written in arresting the corpses of a 50-year-old Ronnie Salunoy, who is one of the eight drug pushers who were killed in separate incidents in Metro Manila the day before yesterday in the afternoon.
Salazza was dead on the spot under a tree near his home in Brgy. Poblacion, Muntinlupa City when he was shot by a man who was suspected to have been killed by a man who was held at Oplan Tokhang at E. Rodriguez Extension, Brgy. 144.
Recovered from the suspect is a gun caliber .38 gun and two sachets of shabu.
In Caloocan City, two more drug pushers got killed in the consecutive incidents where there were black clothes and pants and the suspects who were riding a riding-in-tandem were wearing helmet.
It was around 8: 30 in the evening two days ago when kill Larry Pizarro, 49 years old, of Giuliani Street, Congressional Avenue in Barangay 175, Camarin, while he was allegedly waiting in front of a store.
Four male riding-in-tandem were shot at Pizarro.
It was found out from Executive Minister Benny Ortega of Barangay 175 that is under the list of drug personalities as Pizarro in the said place, and he allegedly surrendered a few days ago in their barangay but he returned to chance for his surrender.
It was around 2: 30 in the early morning when four suspects entered and fell down in his house in Daang Bakal Street, Brgy. 163, Sta.

Quiteria.
Recovered from the investigation of the Scene of the Crime Operatives) was recovered from the investigation of the Scene of the Crime Operatives) from an unidentified caliber gun and three sachets of shabu in the house of Padilla.
In Manila, the suspect who was Rommel Navarro, from Almario Street, Tondo, was also dead after he allegedly fought in a buy-bust operation conducted in Lecias Street, Tondo, past four o'clock in the evening.
It was found out of Chairman Reynaldo Pascua, Barangay 61, Zone 5 in Tondo who ordered Pizarro to surrender to the police after the Oplan Tokhang was held but he refused.
It was found out that Pizarro has a case at the Manila Regional Trial Court Branch 2 in relation to the arrest of him last October 21, 2015, related to a violation against the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
In Makati City, two suspected drug pushers were also killed.
A Wtch, 29 years old, was found sprawled with a gunshot wound on his body in Bernardino St., Barangay Guadalupe Viejo, past three o'clock at dawn.
Some witnesses said that four male riding-in-tandem and the mask of the suspect shot the victim.
The local officials of the six-year-old drug user and involved were also involved in the hold-up in EDSA-Guadalupe area.
Rapid Macaraeg, 30, was dead on the spot, when he was shot in front of an eatery in the corner of Traeg and J.P. Rizal Streets, Barangay Olafia, Makati past two o'clock in the morning.
It was said that the victim was also a drug pusher which allegedly admitted to his relatives.
Meanwhile, around 2: 25 in the afternoon was when the suspect Marvin Samonte, member of Mando Gang and from Delpan, Binondo, Manila was killed after allegedly fought against the anti-illegal drug operation by the Manila Police District.
