He is very confused.

Billions of pesos is to steal and cheat on public funds are officials and personnel of the government and accomplice of them.
It appears that this is based on the record of the Commission on Audit, it is still a big belief that there is still a big belief that there is a big belief that there will be one of the record of COA and if they will be included, the hair-raising robbery of the public is certain.
Theft in Filipino ademia.
In the last report of COA, there had been P5 billion pesos that happened during the time of President Benigno Aquino III or in the year 2011.
COA explained, millions of names were involved so it has been a long time before they had a clear case in plunder and plunder and plunder case in the graft case, the amount of stolen wealth is not up to 50 million pesos while from P58,000 pesos and above.
It is also involved with 113 million pesos.
COA said, there are a mix of new thieves and cheaters and those who are involved in P15.B scam of Janet Lim-Napoles, who are involved in P58,000 pesos in order because of the size of this amount, perhaps that the crime will be placed in corruption and corruption.
Hopefully, the COA will hurry up and take its jobs well, which is why it's true that he will not give a big help to COA when he opening the record of the public about those who are involved in it.
Put the crocodile or the most big pork that has made the abuse of the public funds if COA will let its condition as a Constitutional Commission, which should be forced to hide from the people's stolen wealth and the people will be able to discover the stolen and hidden wealth of the thieves in the government.
83 lawmakers of P15.B scam.
At last, COA and Nabcor has already released the list of lawmakers that costs 113 million pesos' scam, but just for the years of 2007.
It is said that there are four senators who are involved in a 79 of lawmakers who have mentioned nothing or are seated in the legislative chamber to the senators who have mentioned, why is it that only three of the evil senators in the Philippines are against the senators who have been complaining of the case being investigated by the Office of the Ombudsman?
Here, it can be seen that the bad posture of the COA or the own Office of the Ombudsman is obvious before the people just smirked, the authorities should correct the right path away from "Tuwid na Daan". "
P15,500 billion DAP, for the Filipino ademia.
For the interest of the people, it is also good for the COA to rush the record of Disbursement Acceleration Program under the current administration of the Tuwid na Daan, the DAP that costs Php 526 billion for the year 2011 until 2013.
According to the Department of Budget Secretary Management Council, the government has issued an amount of 83533B of DAP last 2011, P58.75.B last 2012 and P15.4 B in 2013.
When the DAP was questioned at the Supreme Court, Malacanang suddenly stopped the release of the funds for it, especially when the SC declared that illegal the Priority Development Assistance Fund, Jews Development Assistance Fund) and other people similar to its fund or program.
To whom was the DAP went?
One of the most important things that should be examined by the COA and Office of the Ombudsman is where it could be expulsion of DAP.
It is being said, for example, some of the senators who were fired from former Chief Justice Renato Corona may receive P58,000 pesos each other.
Aside from this, the senators, PDAF, which costs 200 million pesos in every year.
What are the COA and Office of the Ombudsman to do the truth about the robbery of the money that they are receiving?
Up to Malacanang.
It seems that the COA and Office of the Ombudsman is going out of DAP, and it seems that the SC is trying to stop the SC to release a decision.
There was even the hands of the SC in the height of the budget for the SC in the year 2014 and the SC was allowed to release a decision which is against DAP, which is why it is said that the SC will release a decision against DAP, CDS and others who are all illegal and against the Constitution.
Anzon, Bro?
If Malacanang brought the COA and OMB, Malacanang will investigate the investigation of the stolen people, which is the basis that the Philippines will be defeated?
