The Kapuso actress Gladys is set here, and according to him, she has seen a new family who has a chance to make many viewers, like Marian Rivera and Comedy AiAi delas Alas.
Kris, thought of.
ASAP, said to be out of New York, Jun Lalin, September 2, 2016.
Kris Aquino still has no official statement about the spread of news that he will transfer to GMA 7 (through disgusting Entertainment Television, Mister Tony Tuviera make it.
But last Wednesday, Kris was able to go out of their house at the Greenia Aviles, Quezon City.
According to him it is possible for him to buy such as a u-turn, "Kris does not want to send the house this September.
So, Kris and his children will return again to Josh and Bimby to stay in a condominium unit.
Nevertheless, they are hoping that they will be able to go on Christmas in the house that he is making, most of the things that Kris bought from different countries when he's working.
"The endorsement of the things he is buying abroad is not a problem because the people of the LBC Ronda Pilipinas which is one of the holy Week is being helped by him.
Even when he fell for other things for the Grets mayor, indeed, Kris was not able to have a hard time because the people of the LBC Ronda Pilipinas, duh!
Wait, in the new management of his team (and TV network that also), when will Kris be able to have a child?
"There are those who look like the First Republic Act (September 4 and 11) of Easter Sunday, Kris is said to be alone because of the Best AcEntertainment Television, GMA 7," no!
AiAi delas Alas and Marian Rivera are not telling stories, two of the reasons why the event will happen on the two weeks of going to celebrate the First Class.
But they are both saying that they are impressed by the amount of staff.
AiAi was surprised and Marian was surprised at those being prepared by their staff to want to celebrate the First Republic of Easter Sunday.
Those from ASAP) have their own team for their New York.
They were taking advantage of the New York that they will be included in ASAP New York episode that they will release to ABS-CBN on September 11 and 18.
The episode is nice on Sunday.
Different kinds of homicide in New York were visited by different ASAP teams, which is why they have a lot of places that are given to each other.
And even if you are still fat, they are too busy because I am too dominant.
"Some of them were cut off in illegal shopping.
Anyway, ASAP-New York is out and there is no need to step down from there.
There are some who said that the ASAP New York should have been affected because there are still many who want to be able to watch like that.
It was said that the first thing to take out is, "Nueva Ecija, so all the companions in the show are very happy.
