That is not because of your yes to the military as well as the military against the Morong Islamic Liberation Front, sir in D: M / her boyfriend.
It's been different; as long as they will be held a 9: 00, where it will be held a span of a few days that the residents are not affected, and now it is possible that the residents are not affected by their pity in Mindanao for a long time.
According to Jun, he said that he / she said that he / she didn't come from where he turned dark, but was she not able to leave the Philippines, which is why he / she was not able to give him to the Philipines of thousands.
According to him, he said that they are going to be in a deep sleep with the military ten million pesos.
They have five years old but he changed.
To have a meeting this morning.
Always choose a blessing.
The news of computers are that they are able to go out from the witnesses of things in the world Islamic Liberation Front yes.
Saturday.
At a stop light which was launched in barangay here in the house of the former dizziness.
Where is that so that the name of you are going to be returned?
Who is the Chairman, who is for a pipe, which is being led by drilling, fog; and some of those who are a case and Commander.
Carla, I do not know what to act as leader of you.
We really saw our minutes.
Very short; we were able to look down; because of the huge salary given to each other, do not kill each other.
Try to think about it.
Hmmmp!
Five-year-old Rhea is five-six.
Piled up for a long time.
In a point, the soldiers and the blessing are full of blessing.
There is a possibility for them to be killed by those who have been killed is a person near the cauldron.
According to him, where he stayed behind at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
You can see that a man has a strength.
And holding a gun, can there be color?
That has one one.
What kind of white is with my mother to buy.
It is a very big yes.
Yes to what happened to Susan 'seat, that happened in the interview of my sister.
In the same time that you almost told the right to tell the right soap is one of the budget of the office, will it be a big possibility that it will be difficult, because he is very difficult, because they are very poor;
They have different kinds of space.
.
They will give them together.
There.
Jasper Together, five-year-old; and fur; I could not hear each other; he / she could not hear.
To whom?
Pro-Friends to think that only three relatives of the Guzman were able to pay attention to the three relatives of the Guzman.
One one who was killed was one of those who were killed by a blessing.
But it is really just a moment to dominate the military.
It is said that the opponent is no longer with two thousand, so they still don't say how to be sent.
Because your one is like this four o'clock.
One thing, he / she was a giant.
Their discussion.
There is.
Fur.
He / she was able to work on duty, which is why they have to add more raincoats because of the city.
And while you are just riding in there, they have not yet known that it reaches seven thousand the Chris Algieri when they will come home.
Many of those who are from the receipt of August are not able to go well in their own sister's house, that's when they were filled with co-helpers who take care.
Run!
To give birth.
I am having a hard time now.
For the material things, don't it go to Mindanao?
So you can ask for us.
What will happen here is that if the military sees that it is okay with that kind of situation in the area, so they themselves will tell what the residents are going to tell the residents who have evacuated there.
You, how can you look straight; that maybe he / she has to look down; maybe he / she can go ahead; we will be able to look at the A Ortho-P) who is really the one who's going to be a civil wedding; he / she feels that you are going to be white; he / she seems to be white vinegar.
Most of those saying that, she is put up with them by the Intelligence Coordinating Agency in that part of those who are going to fight and call that there are those who really see that.
No one is with their troops that is not being implemented, but we know that we are very confident; we are the one who really knows.
We are very proud; we are really four years old, he has not yet been the military who are the bodies of the D SOM F) and it did not happen to there where it became a severe heat and belief as well.
He just always closed his defense with his defense with his defense that they bought last Saturday and even Sunday there.
On the other hand, what I will tell your mother on what happened is that, it seems that the fight that he saw is rude or what was already dead, which is why it's because the military is still there in the place where this is still in the place.
He said to my knowledge that, Kuya Ian, they have to have training for those who are important in that inside the S-B: M for the back of the situation that is why they know even if it is still five of them who are important to them, who are important to them.
This is it, that's why it's just like that in the seashore that is why it's like that in the middle of the sea that is why there's no rain, that is why there is a budget that we are taking, even if there is a budget that is being given, even if there is a budget for those who are rude to each other, it's as if there is a budget for those who are annoying, similar to those who are annoying, similar to those who are annoying, like this.
What are happening here are those that are happening here.
That is the province's office so that they are really proud of that of those who are in a closed company, with our hearts, whose hearts are our hearts, Calayes, "our hearts, Jessica knows.
We are because our family is affected here in Makati, but we know that this situation is really difficult in the side of the road, that is why it's really difficult for them to go back to the side of the road, that is why we're going to see that they are living in the side of the road, that is why we're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why we're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road, that is why they're going to see each other in the side of the road
