In the back, I might have lessened my conversation with one of those who survived from the height of our conversation with his mother in the win, I could not see that the members of the eighty four Sibol before noon.
They said that they have been living together in Quezon City for almost midnight, Marie and Marie.
Paul.
It is said that according to the Commander who gave us a ride with them, for thirteen years, she himself entered the head of the head and she showed them her arms while they were able to know four years at around four o'clock in the afternoon.
Maybe four others were wounded.
Two people have no one tomorrow.
Four.
115 years old.
In duty.
I told him that this was given by one of the one who entered the eight hours of the eight siblings Borj were taken as well as the one who killed me full of television.
Meanwhile, all the eight eight thousand pesos were still Boy.
According to the one who gave a video, it was eleven o'clock in the morning when he can get it.
In the video, they saw that they were holding their children.
Here, according to him, they are going to remain in the hut that she will withdraw in a hut that is why her face will have an decision for her face and do not name her for his age and his family.
You're just fooling there.
Or what is the solution?
Because I am sorry.
Yes.
You want to serve at the office so that we can go to the office.
A warning.
According to him, he is taking the videoke bar they know they are taking hundreds of new enemies that is why they say they are moving to their ear and they are taking advantage; they are taking care of it.
With the number and surprise of the enemies, they will surely be consumed immediately.
Dominic is getting closer and we are just getting stronger.
It is possible that after this.
That's why you want to help them a surprise that is why I was too full of plastic bags.
They only found five hundred pesos from them but they were not able to do they were forced to help them.
We might get closer to fund the five roads that are already hungry.
Or so many of our countrymen are too strong at five o'clock in the morning, that time will start, but around four o'clock in the afternoon up to five o'clock in the afternoon as long as the class starts.
It was said that one of them was hit, which is why his companions in the company were killed.
At the end of nine of their dead dead while sixteen were wounded, we were not able to buy a police.
No.
There is no.
There is no need to continue.
Maybe it suddenly rained up again and we did not leave your long story in your room.
But can be amputated.
According to the desire, the incident took off and he placed the answer to his clothes and have the record for the shooting.
I am in grade.
You are applying.
The former will visit five.
!
Zero.
You are really one of those who have nothing to do with nothing.
I have a lot of things that you have to say.
Maybe you might not be cut off.
It is said that in the school, why did they have no right to enter their room but it is painful to their opponent to live around eleven o'clock in the middle of the evening that they will be together.
Ah, isn't it?
They are.
Help from.
I did what we did.
It was found out by the people who admitted that you had a cowards.
But I said.
Jessica, like the relatives of those who have been dead for four stories, because according to those who have been able to go out in English, hopefully the heroism did not want to go out in English and may they just stay with us there, but why did he just give it on to the people there.
Almost in more than a month now, since the incident happened Eve, we have seen a video of what happened to what happened to him that's why he / she did not show that he / she was not able to release this only now that he was able to release it now.
Jessica sees that those who go out of the B-J B) to be able to see how they were able to see how they were able to see how they were able to see the truth, that's why they saw that it was really a bit of time when we were really a bit of time.
The time has long been long before we are really in the act of being ruined because of the time that they are in-time.
They are now in the Philippine General Hospital but they are now recovering under the words being done by Caltex, 35, and they made sure that it is okay with her condition, which is why it is a little text message that is why it is said to have clarity and it is said that we have a clear and out of us.
The result of this I didn't want to have Zombies like this, she said that he / she didn't want to show that she had a show that she wanted me to talk to me and I was also able to show that she had a chance to talk to me and I was also able to talk to me and I was also able to talk to me, and I was also able to talk to me, because there were also those who come out.
That there are some who looks like they are blaming each other, that's why he just wants to pick up; he / she just wants to go down to the house that they have been saying, it is important that it is right in the video that they have been able to leave because it is only right in the video that they have been in the video as long as it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video that is why it is in the video.
"According to the interview, in the interview of your interview, he / she said that he / she was in the morning, he / she was able to go to the morning so that there were some who were saying that the people from San Juan were gone, but this was too long before yesterday in their lives.
Because they were so separated from wooden pincers in Nasugbu, you didn't hear that only four men are going to hear that there is something that you will hear from firecrackers every time it came from.
They say that the enemies are going to be removed from wooden pincers which they don't see, they have not seen AOIL.
The meantime, the hours that can be seen in the same age are the ones who are going to go back to their lives because it's too late because they are not going home because they are not going home, they might not be brought home by the dead because they believe that they will believe in his own group.
Five PNoy, they are really, where and in the end, they strongly believe that their co-workers have died.
Thank you very much to you.
