
DSWD Dilawan, fix yourself!

It can no longer make sure that this is done by Deodiversion of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) in the hands of Secretary Dinky Soliman to our fellow countrymen who are affected by different calamities.
This is too late, there is a good thing that there are news from DSWD himself that many of them will be sent away from the DSWD itself, but they have seen that we have seen each other while they have seen each other in the DSWD.
What happened was not just all of what happened when the DSWD gave a broken relief goods in the hands of Dinky Soliman, because even during the time of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PGMA), they have already surrendered a few times.
But we are also impressed by Aling Dinky Soliman, so, when typhoon dear President or Yolanda hit Leyte and nearby provinces, the help that came from many countries, well, he does not want to give importance?
It is the reason for someone to make a small hair that is a small woman of Social Welfare, then they should monitor their food, but not, just a few weeks of the past, there are only a few weeks since the past have been bought from different kinds of cash and baries.
In Leyte and nearby places, Dinky The Social Welfare Secretary of PNoy would like to destroy the donations especially the thousands of rice cakes, and when they see those already have color, the hair to give them rice is high.
Can Miss Dontogan, Dinky Soliman, fix yourself!!
Anyway, you are really used to that kind of system, and you also know that your boss is already used and you cannot take away your boss even if it has a size of Mayon volcano.
But you should also be careful of Madam, the people might get filled with your rottenness and they are pulled by the smallest hair that has been made into your head.
Maybe even if it is just a show that PNoy is talking to his followers, I mean, people, that the victims of the calamity, are already victims of calamity, do not notice, have mercy on us.
Are you the ones who eat and rotten rice, canned goods, noodles as well as you to be given away from the residents?
"You already have the strength to say," only one percent is the damage? "
It was like I was able to clarify that the people of DSWD are having a good time because they have to earn money, maybe it is always prayers by Dinky and his opponents in his agency that hopefully there will be a lot of calamities so that they will get bigger.
Aside from that, foreign goods will go to change and change the local government, "it is not a celebration for them!
It is a proof that you are your hair even more than the fiber of your hair, you should be ashamed of what you are doing, that is why you don't think, "the victims of calamity because what you are always in your mind is what you are always put in your hair.
My goodness!
President Aquino, where is the straight path that you promised during the time of election?
