Robin, assurance with Coco and Dingdong and Dingdong.
"To you, the film is, me is the revolution!" BE, RL.
The departure speech of Robin Padilla was published when she accepted the recognition given to FPJ Memorial Award in the 6FAMAS Transport, two days ago.
He prepared speech at the back of absolute pardon from Malacañang and the copy of the opposition to him by US visa from US Embassy.
Part of his speech was the last wish of her being an action star with Dingdong Dantes and Coco Martin, he said in his speech, "they are going to continue brushing what FPJ will continue in the movie, especially in television.
"That is why this night it is clear that many of us will rise and will spring to the king in every heart and every family of the Filipino.
"We are all siblings under the flag of Fernando Poe Jr., Mister Coco Martin and Mister Dingdong Dantes, to you the movie, the revolution."
The offer of Robin at NAPC yesterday was accepted to accept the said award, we asked the actor why according to Coco and her Dingdong and Dingdong.
"They are the ones taking action now, they are on TV, they are the ones who have abilities.
"They are" the ones who can make movies.
"What I am worried about was that, no one was like that,."
Robin's children, who denied the US visa.
With the continuous interview with Robin, he answered all of the issues being discussed.
Only one thing is, he did not answer and turned his back on the issue with Kylie Padilla and Aljur Abrenica.
"I do not want to talk about that," I immediately finished our interview with him.
Before we did anything about Aljur and Kylie, we talked about Robin about the US while he applied for absolute pardon from Pres. Rodrigo Duterte.
He is still hoping that he will be given absolute pardon from the President.
"There has been absolute pardon me, we have not seen any reason for me to deny," gay actor.
His only concern is his children who also lost US while one.
According to her, "this approval of my children is more important to me because my children are the ones who deny.
"Kylie, who denied," Shen, already denied that the visa was sentenced to visa.
"They got involved, that's why I am like that, what are we for the children.
"It is not that we seem to be very young in America, but first, our race is an American.
"My daughter's race with Liezel is American Jews, Goldberg," that's why they also have the right to reach there.
"He is ashamed of what is happening to her mother and child in America but he is just in social media.
He is not able to hold it, look, that he really wants to do this to Mariel, and their daughter Ynna elle.
"What is right, is that, until you are just like that, technology, but we are still praying.
"I have no complaints at the US Embassy.
She said she should be given a chance to give US visa to personally see his wife and child.
Robin, will fight BB in taking action.
We also asked the reaction of Robin about the decision of his brother BB Gandanghari to do the legal name "to be the legal" in America.
She said she can't do anything about the decision that her sibling is saying because that is your lover.
"It is his happiness, that is why I cannot give her happiness," that was.
"He already found out" that, "I am happy with her as a sibling, what is important is he is happy."
They only had communication in Instagram, and she is happy because BB is busy with her.
"This statement," he is busy now, he said he will take care of me, he will be the transgender that is a transgender star, "okay.
"With the big challenge that happened to me, I admitted that in the end of our last training, he is really better.
"BB is now well because he is tired, he dyed the war, which is why he is really painful than me.
"But with the strength of... someone is able to enter a car, and you are able to jump out of 150 pesos, you can just wait for it."
