Those who are gay and BI members of Michael Pangilinan will have the concert with Michael Pangilinan in a concert last November 26.

Postanes and his mind.
On November 24, 2014.
In showbiz.

Up to now there is still a severe impact of Single Entry Approach where Michael Pangilinan has a severe impact at the tune of P-Pop Dr. Love, "" Phacan, Ako "Joven of Joven.
However, every time we watched the music video of Michael together with the said songs, we did not worry about it and he was not able to talk about it because of the very much good opportunities he opened to him because of the foul smell that was entrusted to him by the star Records.
For sure, there are a lot of LGBT which made it lead to the First Class Humalig), which will be held this November 26 (Wednesday), which will be held this November 26 (Wednesday), which will be held this November 26 (Wednesday), which will be held this November 26 (Wednesday), which will be held this November 26 (Wednesday).
"Of course, it is still there for a few decades that I release to be under star Records as I am Dr Love, I will make sure that I will not fail in my small ability, I will make sure that I will take care of me," the sweet promises of Michael.
According to a Musikaramay Director of show that he had done something new to Michael because she was impressed by her talent, "it was said that she didn't have any idea about the sound of his / her favorite songs such as Usahay, Buyers Limited but in case she had a unique numbers of Usahay, Buyers Limited but a lot of others.
It's because Michael really is a good child, "I am not having a hard time to make an agreement with them but hopefully, it would be better for them to reach a child - Tito Butch Abad's plead.
The accused is the one who is asking the line-up-up of Michael dela Cruz Tandingan, Primo Diva lot who are going to make the concert of 8: 00 at night so that the patrons are going to meet so that you can see all the show.
And of course, the concert, which is not because of the help of Mers, Major-Illegal Drugs, was the reason that Jihadist were able to thank all the following - Isabela Governor Bojie Dy, Erjas.
Clad in showbiz said to be able to go to Germany, Joel Cruz, Carine's Beach Resort (Pagudpud, Ilocos Norte), Quadro or Cabal-Revilla, Mama Menor Chua, Mister Zaldy Aquino, Mister Venancio, and godfather Noel Martinez.

Peter Ledesma,
