Nadine's back to the Kapamilya Network?

Postanes and his mind.
On October 11, 2014.
In showbiz.

To Pilar?

TSETC.
It responded to Facebook, when I saw him in the relationship of her son Richard Chua with the actress, Nadine Samonte.
"Hahaha, my friend," my friend, who is the mother of Mother Ignacia, Our Lady, I am lucky to be given to the happiness of my friend, I am lucky for each other because they both are a good child of God, God bless you, God bless you. "
But when it was about to get married, I asked the two to get married to Isabel, who are living in America, he only answered that it is just a simple thing that the two can answer about their plans.
There have already been a lot of people who should take care of Nadine's silent, but it is still okay with the continuous control of his career.
It can be said that it can be said that it can be recalled that later at Star Circle, because he started at Star Circle, it went to GMA-7 and became his sibling, and his contract on TV 5 last July of this year was finished.
And on Saturday, October 11, 2014, he will be witnessed in the MMK (NGO) that can be held at JM De Guzman.
Will he transfer or return to the Kapamilya?
It is because Nadine is trying to choose to be a hero because he will not let a contract or agreement not to be hit in a contract or agreement.
She will act as Joker even at JM International, the young man who managed to avoid him from the help of Rachel, who will be held by Nadine's help, which she agreed as his girlfriend.
Can it be possible that the relationship that started with the fancy?
JM and Nadine Lustre is going to be with the episodes of Neil Coleta, Karen Reyes, Elaine Quemel, Kim Molina, Dusino, and Aubrey, Devera due to the MMK which is headed by the business unit champion Malou Santos-Del Rosario.
In 23years, a part of every Filipino family, which is part of the world, is that, every Saturday, she smiles, and gives inspiration to TV Patrol through real stories that were taken out by their program.
Do not let the running drama series in Asia, MMK, every Saturday, 8: 00 p.m. afternoon, after Wansapanataym to ABS-CBN.
