The MRT is rotten.

Before many people kill the Metro Rail Transit because of its defect, the government should act on it.
At first, the problem of MRT did not stop because of the problem in supply and wires.
While it was long, the stop to stop it and it came to a point where there was a ceasefire between the train in the end of the rails in Pasay City.
Now, the train has long stopped because of the problem in communication with his office and operators.
The signs of death.
It cannot be denied that the signs of death will be there in this train.
The possible worse incident can jump off a train from the railway and fall down on the streets and down.
If the wagons are all over and have a parking lot and have a parking lot, then the derailing of the train in a parking lot, what do you think is what will happen?
It is the child of seven canned goods, massacre "that caused his weakness of the properties.
Teach them.
If there is an accident happening like this scenario where we attack, it is certain that there will be a need to teach the lepers that are leading the MRT.
Each took off the hands of the government, the partner of the company, private, of the company, who are conducting what maintenance and others.
The hell was sure, Bro, should the blame bring the blame on the drivers, just like what the Department of Transportation and Communications Sec.
That means that, Bro, it's never expected that the government does not rely on the responsibility and it is obvious that it has brought the private companies that are living in business.
"It is possible for them to earn a lot of money on the anomaly in MRT every time he becomes tangled.
"Those who take advantage of others, to employees, are made by them to accident.
Independence Day!
What is the news released by the MRT last 1938 is the basis of the increase of MRT, especially the wagons?
Does this mean that even before this is having an air conditioner?
But the railway and direction of the wagons are the materials and reasons?
If this is true, hey, the same age is the same age of MRT and the Philippine National Capital Region which is the First center who will travel from Dagupan City, Pangasinan up to Legaspi City, Albay on May 1938.
For those who are veteran in a Japanese and the Americans in a loved Philippines, in peace time, these trains are still in peace.
Now, the train of PNR is still running and this is just fair in MRT?
It is the child of stray people, thousands have been killed by the PNR since it's as possible to be cowards.
And that is also near the MRT?
The turtle.
There will be a quick action or quick action of the MRT at 80 kilometers per hour.
But it is only done that almost 60kilometers per cent, and now it is up to 3.8 billion pesos in order to avoid accidents.
The truth is, MRT (and LRT are also done) in the belief that it will serve as Rapid mass system. "
Quick, there is no traffic and for many people and what is really different from the transportation of the tricycle, taxi, jeepney and bus that they are carrying and also has traffic.
Now, MRT is more slow than taxi drivers, jeepney and buses like what is happening in Commonwealth Avenue, Quezon City with 604.68 pesos.
Only except the police, ambulance, firemen and other cities.
Son of 40 canned goods, the "Rapid" or quick train was slow in the turtle.
Corruption.
The citizens have no idea of the reason why the MRT from MRT but corruption and corruption are there.
Only in that old and not new technology, there is corruption or corruption.
What price will be the basis for the making of it at the price of 1938 but its price rises.
There are still other problems due to the lack of maltreatment done since then.
And if there is still, the work of these people are also filled with corruption until it appears that the defect and accident surfaced.
Take it back.
We believe that the government is operating all the train and it is not true that we do not have abilities here just like what the people are saying.
If other countries are operating in their respective trains, we will surely be sure.
The training of all people involved in the system from the management until the smallest employees are only needed.
And the MRT can spend money on this based on the regular patrons of the citizens for the coming election.
The train will earn in the Philippines and we believe that there is no reason for this to be relieved.
Passengers are ready to pay higher if they will just fix them and to become a safe place.

Ultimatum at Benny Antiqua.
