"Hello Manny scandal.
By Boyet JAG co, September 24, 2016.
If this happened, Senator Leila de Lima was not only able to leave the job of Senator Manny Pacquiao but also Senate Sergeant At Arums.
This is after Pacquiao got involved in the illegal activity in the session in the Senate this Wednesday, September 21, the staff of Top Rank Promotions of the table of Pacquiao so that what he is doing in the Senate will be measured.
The case will be shown one week before the title fight of Pacquiao to the American Jessie Vargas in Las Vegas, Nevada this November 5, while the agreement was to be done in "Silent movie," that was why the agreement was done in "Silent movie," that was why the agreement was made in "Silent movie," that was why the agreement was not followed when it was opened to cardio pulmonary camera.
It's a good thing, Balajano chased the staff of Top Rank Promotions to have been hit by the illegal detention case in senate, because he was hit by the "Double Conversatment" by Pacquiao during the said "Hi" and "Hello" that's the only agreement of Pacman in his final mate's house. "
If Balajico, he could not be removed from the job of Pacquiao, he can be removed from his job by Pacquiao who was leading to remove de Lima as host of the Senate Committee on justice.
The father of Senator Juan Miguel Zubiri will be pitiful after the suspension of the Ombudsman for six months because of the abuse of RA 9208 or a violation of Section 5 (a) of the Code of the Etau.
This is in relation to the action of Bukidnon Governor Jose Ma. Zubiri at Clearance or doctor for the release of former provincial asas he Carlos Ycaror last January 2013.
Governor Zubiri admitted that the the governor of the Ombudsman is wrong because he is not the governor last June 30, 2010 up to June 30, 2013, but former Governor Alex Calamudi and former Governor Alex Calanoga and he is not the elected governor in the said time.
"He said, my 28-year-old public service, or even the Tanim-ray of Bukidnon, thank Can, of the town of Bukidnon.

Zubiri.
Zubiri supported President Rodrigo Duterte's previous election so the governor believes that his opponents in politics are behind the wrong suspension on him.
Governor Zubiri is waiting for the result of the order given by the Ombudsman to correct the alleged suspension of the Ombudsman to correct the alleged suspension of the appeal but while waiting for the result of the appeal, he was first spotted in their house in Bukidnon.
"Mommy Lydia is pitiful when daddy is just in the house," said Senator Migz Villafuerte.
