
"They are going to be forced by Erap Et's in-law," Mayor Lim said.

Postanes and Abner Mercado.
On July 25, 2015.
In opinion.

On the issue of Torre de Manila, it should be right if it is right, wrong, what happened, though it's wrong, what happened, Thand's at 64 million Quatar, this was stated in an interview by AFJ before it was stated in an interview by AFist Mayor Fred Lim who is Atty. Renato Dela Cruz.
Because UNA, it is said that the Estrada Administration and the City Council are not true that Isko Moreno is headed by Isko Moreno as Deputy Director of Torre de Manila because he does not have Zoster business.
In the City Hall, the DMCI has been clear that the DMCI will have Zobel, 34344 that is approved by the City Planning and Development Office.
The romance is said to be an issue because the DMCI will follow the DMCI.
Second, it is also not true that Estrada and the Council of Moreno allowed the DMCI to continue because of the National Historical Commission of the Philippines (NHumalig) who said that it would not be seen from the form of Rizal Park.
According to Dela Cruz, through the radio of the NHunan, it was November 2012 when Lim got the mayor in spite of the letter, and since it was outside their power; November 26, 2013 when they passed by the Council of Torre de Manila and again last December 12, 2013 when they passed a resolution to strengthen the suspension of the permit.
The third lies, according to Dela Cruz is the revelation of Estrada by the Maryo, which is owned by Lim and is under the word "priority."
The said plantation is not meant for permits but in the letter of NHunan that reviewed for the suspension of the Pambansang Kamao in the future so that the said problem will not happen again.
It's because Estrada made out that the adal of this is for the destruction of the building, which is of November 2012 and it was on November 2012 and it is clear that Estrada should be led by Estrada in front of him, "says dela Cruz.
According to Ordinance 8310, Lim contradicted it because the Priority Development Assistance Fund) is not because the provincial government wants to talk to them and get Clearance or whoever will build the building in Manila.
That is no matter in the power of the councils of the ordinance for the separation of power by giving permit, the work of the city council, for the job of the city council, why it (NHumalig) said that it cannot be taken off from the form of Rizal Park.
According to Dela Cruz, the letter of NHughes was last November 2012 when Lim was even the mayor in spite of the letter, the city council blocked the project three times last year on March 21,2013 when the city council passed through.
"At them, PPETanim-NUCD-MICT said that the motive is right?" He said.
When Mayor Lim left the City Hall, he was able to leave the City Hall, and if in the opinion of the current Administration, there was something wrong, the construction was quick to stop instead to add 27 million pesos.
On January 6,2014 suspension of the city council, the DMCI was allowed to continue the project.
During the time of Mayor Lim, the construction was allowed to be the construction because the DMCI will follow all of those that should be discussed, and there were also no complaints from the NHumalig) under the Estrada administration, he was allowed to stop and told that it was the right action that has been allowed in the time of Lim.
He / she was wearing.
Make it a habit to watch the Rodriquez "Kasim by Bayan, Tuesday and Wednesday 9 to 12 days ago, Mayor Abner L. Afuang, and Rom Camping and Southern Tagalog broadcast journalist Aspera.
