
Bilibid Prison is in Bilibid because of drugs.

Postanes and his mind.
On January 14, 2015.
In opinion.

It seems that the war broke out inside the low security compound of the New Bilibid Prison after they encountered the consecutive allegations of DOJ Secretary Leila De Lima, but wait for the strict implementation of the illegal drug pusher which is said to be behind the illegal drug pusher which is said to have listened to the secretary of DOJ.
If the entire force of DOJ and NBI are going to be transferred and centered on the group of Herbert Colangco, Vicente Sy and Peter Co, there are still some drug lords who were left in NBP.
This is the revelation of some of the targets of the target of Air Force to prepare the chance to be revealed to an alias Kernel Sebastian, Hanz, Bangalite, young Arellano and Charlie BIDs.
De Lima seemed to have chosen his cellphone to get off but there are still evil spirits that were just left to have a business in illegal drugs.
Who can be referred to Pilo'clock, it seems that Secretary de Lima seems to be diment for Secretary de Lima so that the group left in NBP will not be noticed?
This is supposedly the reason why there is almost a riot everyday in Bilibid.
It is said that the incident is not a direct operation against inmates who were arrested and were just carried away by a group who owns a business.
This is a heavy accusation against de Lima that you should focus on attention and concern for illegal drugs or drug-carp to be discussed here.
Those who are like Madam Sebastian, who are brimming with Colangco, Sy and Co, are not good to be like the king there in New Bilibid Prison.
Meanwhile, Sebastian has no different business compared to "drug merchandise" of Colangco, al.
Why did it be that Sebastian was not able to make Sebastian and bring Sebastian and include those who have been transferred to the NBI?
Why is it that it seems that the DOJ and NBI of alias Hanz, Bangalite, a young Arellano University, "Charlie Baba, is very confused?
Does they have different charisma on the eyes of Secretary Delorino.
Not only drugs are the contraband found in the group that was left but also mixed the caliber guns and explosives.
Why can't be found and collected by the graveking team of the DOJ-NBI-PNP and the jail guards to build the gang where illegal drugs will remain $64.
Why is it that mother Leila de Lima?
There is something that makes us wait for it!
Mayor Jimmy Fresnedi, a new blessing from those from Ms.
In the entry of 2015, a lot of blessings are set to be given by Muntinlupa City Mayor Jimmy Fresnedi in his / her trusted personnel at the leadership of City Administrator Middtohan and BPLO) Gary Liwag.
The two are just some of those who are dependable and hardworking, the officials of Mayor Fresnedi may have a real concern for the people of their loved city.
Meanwhile, Fresnedi may not just be careful not only in the city hall but the father who is busy with but other important activities that could no longer face a kind mayor.
Mister Lampihan is now focused on the issue of finances and how to improve the economy of Muntinlupa.
The citizens of the city are the primary desire given by Mayor Fresnedi in all residents in Muntinlupa are the primary priority of the list who are behind the poor, senior citizens, youth and students.
Fresnedi is expected that his officials and employees in the city hall will improve the services of the people especially those who need help.
This is part of his social program who are other departments of the city like the local DSWD, Office of the Senior Police, the teachers and other non-government organization (BSP) that does not stop supporting the projects of the mayor.
The local police strengthened the revival of the order and order not only for the residents of the city but also in the act as an ally and other businessmen.
Mayor Fresnedi knows the primary element to improve the community community who is a quiet Environment and worsening the livelihood and livelihood of the filipino masses.
It can be said that Muntinlupa City is said to be said that there is a biggest in line of Industrial Subdivision in the cities of Metro Manila.
The construction of big factories and other businesses are really appropriate because of the Land area and a quiet surroundings which are far from those who are crowding in areas compared to neighboring cities.
In the first day of the New Year (2015), the mayor is already in program in launching the program that will improve the trade and additional livelihood.
To add and adding budget for health care and needs of barangay health centers and public hospitals.
Making the enough fund for the public funds of Muntinlupa and giving a decent salary to the employees of the city including the teachers, police, health workers and other employees of the local government.
Mayor Goma is always in support of the meaningful policy of Mayor Fresnedi in his City Administrator Fr. Mister Cacho, and even Gary Lampihan who is managing the BPLO.
"There is no red tape in Muntinlupa... there is a Red Cross Reef for all citizens and visitors.
Long live the Muntinlupa City wherein Mayor Fresnedi may live.
Puri is very commendable for the changes he made for the said city.
Thank you to be the lead by this.
Listen to Dilawan around 98 KH z, "target of Air Force, to 2: 00 - 3: 00 to 3: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00 p.m.
