Wanted: 00am By Rey Marchil on August 31, 2016 Matan, the collision between President Rodrigo Duterte and Senator Leila de Lima and no longer acted as "traslacion" to lessen the tension between the two officials.
The very big question: Who will be the ones who will be joined or involved with Duterte and De Lima, especially since there is it, "the king's order, the king's command, will not be hit" the fear of those who will pacify them.
Almost every day of the periodicals the exchange of spicy words between Duterte and De Lima, she is just waiting for attacks from De Lima, this is just waiting for the attacks from the President and not helping with a few congressmen in order to look handsome for the Palace.
"Let us not enter if it comes to the personal attacks of Duterte to De Lima and why it led to this situation, their story has ended up in this situation because the deep sigh of the President is too complicated.
The public does not need to know the opinion of who are looking like an expert in Congress and Senate but the people that they are using the tension.
Even if there are many votes of the votes last election of Duterte and De Lima, it is the right of the public to get a wise opinion.
What those close to Duterte and De Lima should do now, look for a "friend" to lessen the tension.
Two officials and punches are unlikely to get along well, "the President would just give up, especially if the president's image has been famous, however, all problems have a direct solution.
Even if the two will not allow to get along with the accusations being thrown at them, somehow there will be no other affected but the public is being divided to whoever is right and if the attack of the president with a giant.
On the part of Duterte, the involvement of De Lima is not clear and everyone knows how to destroy the life of a person and this is not needed to explain to an expert in order to understand the effect.
And the owners of those who want to make sure that Duterte will not make a mistake in the accusations released against de Lima because the President is smart and the record is invaluable, whether the record is invaluable, or a lawyer.
It can be recalled that, or a pity for martial law and an accident to the Bar Examination, the reason why Duterte is the elected President is good because it is good that every word coming out from his mouth is good.
If the information of Duterte is right and is not the reason to push through, de Lima should be investigated because there is no word that can be used to describe the mistakes if it is involved in illegal drugs.
And if the president was wrong, maybe the public was not able to stop the public from De Lima in the national television as well as a maiden, when it ended up in this issue.
