"Against Filipino, charter change!

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
March 5, 2014.

On the eve of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines: Instead of true reform in the land, the Congress is still selling the country's land, in the kind of Charter Change.
The Aquino administration stole the changes in the 1987 Constitution last Monday, the House Committee on Constitutional Ammute, the proposals to remove the remaining provisions in the Constitution which is implementing the economy of the country.
There was a consecutive hearing about Charter Change last week, from the leadership of the allies of President Aquino in Congress, but instead of the voices of the citizens to listen, they gave importance to the powerful lobby of foreign businessmen who sells charter change.
Lobby?
The lawmakers are in doubt of their colleagues who are possible to receive a lot of money from foreign businessmen to pass a charter change due to the millions of pesos in exchange of passing the proposal in exchange of passing the proposal, "said inauguration Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.
In House Resolution number 1 of House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte, it is possible that the Congress can pass the laws that are allowed to reach up to 100 percent foreign possessions from the land, public service, institution, education, mass media, and others.
Under the 1987 Constitution, foreign properties in sensitive sectors are prohibited, while foreign properties are limited to 60 percent.
Added to HR number 1 of the words which can be implemented by martial law in Article XII (National High School (National High School (National High School (Commission)), which is possible, which is possible for the entry of foreign contacts in the country.
But according to Gabriela Representative Emano de Jesus, member of Alyansang Makabayan, who are against a charter change, will be raised to the worsening economic provisions that will lead to the country's control of our wealth, that it will lead to a slave to follow the orders of the foreign contacts, "he said.
In the hearing charter change, the lawmakers said that the Aquino administration is saying that they will create many jobs in the entry of foreign contacts.
They will cook the data from Ibon Foundation which is being taken by their jobs to the increase of foreign contacts (Fi), according to Ibon, from 1981 to 2013, the price hike or number of those who have no work in the country increased.
"The higher economy of the strong economy is not the result of the strong economy that can create work and capital for a prosperous life of the country, instead of the lasting progress of the country," stated by Sonny Africa, executive director of Ibon Foundation.
Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares is pointed out that their economy is going to be protected from the progressive countries, including Thailand with a 51 million airports which is owned by telecommunication; and Brazil who has 49 percent airports in the land of land.
The land is owned by foreign companies (like Australia-New Zealand that have been mine in Nueva Vizcaya in this photo), it is possible that if the charter change would be fulfilled.
Change your business wants.
In the suspension of the Congress of Peter Wallace, the chairman of the Australian-New Zealand Committee of Compostella Philippines, about 40 percent of the local and foreign businesses are in favor of charter change.
Aside from the articles in HR number 1, one of those whom they want to separate or change in the Constitution is the following: Promotion of the security guard (Sec. 1, Article XII), and promotion of Filipino as a National language (Sec. 6, Article XII).
In the mission of Wallace, he said that the large plantation of the High School in the Value-Added Tax is needed to have increased the large plantation of the High School which is compared to the removal of Agriculture or agriculture of small farmers.
Wallace also said the security of the workers will cause to be a cringe at work, and will not be able to convince people.
Also, Wallace is pushing the use and food stall in English, instead of the national language of Filipino.
Meanwhile, this proposal of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines, "most of the Filipinos, are farmers who have no own land and wants real reform in the land," said Rafael Mariano, chairman of Karangalan Village from the farmers.
Mariano also emphasized, the Filipinos need the true reform in the land and the Pambansang Kamao in order to benefit the majority of the development of the economy.
De Jesus said that the country will experience more poverty in a higher bill which is caused by the sanctity of the public service.
As early as now, according to him, it is about 45 percent owned by the Indonesian dog coop, the Manila Electric Corporation (Meralco), that the government is asking the local and foreign contacts in the 72 public hospitals that will strengthen the ability of the poor.
According to Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, they will release a charter change in spite of the natural resources of the country, and the foreign companies for the progress of the Philippines in the future.
"The truth is, the government should support the local industry, agriculture, and business because we cannot involve the national provisions of the Constitution which are widespread in the Constitution which have been documented, and naturally, Colmenares is natural.
Charter change and Obama.
Gabriela Rep. Luz Ilagan, to just blindly agree to the farmers in the legislative chamber to deny the president, it is clear that the Palace has a blessing on Charter Change.
President Aquino said he does not need charter change, because his policy in the economy is focused on to attract a charter change which is also not allowed by the President to build a charter change by his allies.
The Bagong Alyansang Makabayan believes that Aquino is secretly supporting a charter change, especially with the coming visit to the country with US President Barack Obama on April.
"The removal of the provisions in the Constitution is one of the major schism so that the Philippines will be able to join the Philippines with the entire world," Renato Reyes, general secretary of the Bayan.
The lawmakers, groups and individuals promised to fight a charter change in the legislative chamber until the road, so that the voices of the people who are said to have become stronger and being stepped on by foreign businesses and personal interests of those seated in power, but failed.
