
Bankrupt, have a bonus!

Where do you see a corporation who is going bankrupt, and his officials are still able to give a bonus to themselves?
"Is it not just that, President Banoga, I mean, Noynoy said that the funds of the Social Security System has already been paid, which is why the contribution of its members is needed to save the financial loss of the said government-Illegal Corporation?
The nerve of the SSS officials, which are almost almost P10 million as a bonus, is slowly recovering.
What's worse, SSS President Emilio de Quibuz managed to join the announcement that starting January next year, the contribution of the members of the agency will be increased.
Where do we get the thickness of the faces of De Quibuz and his fellow officials to say that the bonus they took is because of the said good purpose in driving the SSS. "
"That is the" good purpose, "so, the SSS is having a hard time to grant the wish of retired members to increase their monthly pension because it is not going bankrupt.
The officials of SSS can also make their millions of bonus first before the coins, the pensioners are asking for a long time, or even if the members are given to their members because they will increase their contribution.
You will think! Like you, similar to the politicians and those from Malacañang who have their own system for an insurance so that they would just think!

What is happening to our poor town is too sad, that animals in the government continue to continue in stealing public funds.
The right and right are politicians and officials of the government who are borrowing money from their taxes that we cannot see in proper service.
In our place in Quezon City, there are streets where the roads are piled up but it did not finish half of what they did. "That half was the one against each other.
Just when, the road they are doing is small but it is certain that they spent millions of millions.
It is certain that the money given by the money that the politician and the officials of the town has done is too tight and what the politicians did to us.
We are like debt of gratitude that they are moving. "Just that, in a little movement, they have a huge amount of money.
