Bandila by Maja, it is the realization of the queen of being a queen of doing!
Angelica, is the new villain of Coco!
By Dondon Servando, 8, 2016.
"There is a simple person for a love?" It's just a simple amount for Maja Salvador in her Instagram account, there are those who follow her Instagram account, there are those who followed by Ultra Cornes as and number MSambade.
"It's too late for Maja in this nude, which should have been in the time of summer season, there is no rain, and hot weather," isn't it?

But as they say, it is not yet finished in the lepers "last debate."
Well, she said that Maja said that in her age Dear Doctor, and he is also working with her loved ones in life because she is very busy with her loved ones, that is why she is still forgotten that she is going to go, go, go, go, go.
Meanwhile, for FPJ's, Propaganda of the province, she should focus on the entry of Angelica Panganiban in the heart of Coco Martin in the heart of Coco Martin?
Well, she will act as Martha, a woman who is involved in the worsening trade of drugs in the country, it is expected to waste time scenes in the series because some of the scenes shown this week have been given to Hong Kong.
What is the danger of Alena in the life of Carine (Coco)?
For instance, Rita used to be accompanied by Rita!
In Poor Seiko Films this night, for instance, for instance, for instance, for example, he won as Top Rank Cbuana in Metro Manila.

Rita (Regine) is still determined to get her companies for example, for example.
In the party, Regina became paralyzed for example, but for instance, Lester still won't win, and that's when Rita arrived, that's why for instance, instance, for instance, for example, for example.
Rita narrated that for instance, instance, instance, for other people to be able to take care of Her, for him to finally be gone from the companies, Rita is ready to get all the lost from her.

Meanwhile, Awra (an Overseas Filipino Worker (Bojo Molina) and Girlie (Capanilla) and Girlie (Capi), Are Hala Bander and Maire of House Tantos, TIDs and the house of Sebun, Tantos, and the house helper.
So let us wait for the model of the Fallen 44, Rita, the Maestrado and the Tantos) to the children sleeping on the gate.

Out of gratitude, Rita, Maire of the Help Her, to the children.
Rita already talked to his lawyer, the CCTV given by Maestrado was the evidence they will use for snacks.
For instance, Piper Arinoli, who will be the leave of the Sebunga, Tyo, "Sebum to some police officer, of an elevator and the Crime Operatives).
