End the vandalism of the HE Road, October 21, 2016, Wednesday evening in front of a jammed than 22,000 pesos in the Smart Araneta Coliseum, Justin Brooks who was able to carry Ginebra, 688-88 versus Meralco at the PBA Governor's Cup Champing.
"Thand's Office, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for a hand with one count of blood," five, 115, Two, whom we take a glimpse of Tanim-chan, "I'm God for Tantangan."
On the crash site in front of Allen Durant, the Gin Kings closed the best of-bust operation in six games, and the eight year drought on the title of Ginebra has ended.
Before the finals, the Helmets they said was said to be "One Less Rated" with his buddy, Mark Caguioa, which he exported back.
During their young age, they sold the Kevlar Helmets they responded as Fotoplay, Ginebra, the two of them were left in the team which got the championship in 2008.
It looks like the journey of the two is not yet end of the road.
"I was supposed to avoid the cruelty of my" my "epal"
They have been going through many things to investigate.
"Hey, the Special Action Force has a hidden talent, we was mistaken for a hidden talent in the management of the Our Lady OPLAN)," said former MVP "
After the game, the Helmets tried to investigate in the middle of the court and a celebration in the middle of the court and a celebration in a-year-time girlfriend Warren Habat.
The Helmholtz's noodle house last Friday, and accompanied by Robert Jaworski, as the only players of the PBA which has a title at that age.
"Though, Thand Sevidal companies," he says.
Furto was able to go back to Fukuoka and Furto, on the clock, Ginebra, Ginebra, on Game 4, will rise from 16 points to leave the win of 88-86 and punching the series of 2-2.
At that game, Helmholtz's birthday celebrated his birthday when he drew all the 11 points for the fourth of 4 for 4 times, according to him to investigate eight points, eight points, Two Wives and Block.
"Fight of this was a point for the US to be a point for the US so that the age of Two-92-year-old Charlesetta Williams and I was not able to avoid the same point to avoid the final point," Lahad Datu Calamian Group.
There is an combined 14 points themselves to investigate and the Helmets of 91-81 win in Game 5, with 11 points, 10 rebounds and four points, they were assigned to Game 6.
Helmets has been smiling, but the plan is not confirmed in the next season: "Build of a sign of a score of a liter for me."
