There are times for the meantime.
Inside the morning.
It was five o'clock.
Lie down.
Garcia.
Zailon and Two people who will be one of the ones who will take advantage of the worst damage will be the change in the age of Two people.
Four teenagers.
The phone near the school, which is said to be seen here in the school, he can see that they were able to go to school because of course, they are still waiting for the students to go out in the southern parts of course, but of course, they are waiting for the students to go home in the southern end of course, but for us, we are waiting for some of the problems.
It was past six o'clock in the morning, because of the law, my parents' strength is the strength of the students to have a savings because of those who entered, but they were able to go to school.
A bit not timely.
Before the eight-year-old child, it is too crowded, okay.
Here in Manila call.
There are children who do not want to leave her children with Gabby Paulo if she worsen they did not go with each other.
What if Jerome is in-law, the reason why he can't see his class when his mother left, it's good that his hand is just in the building that is not yet in the building.
I can go back and go back to the people.
No word can be put in the end because they do not have to enter.
Those to watch.
Then on the train.
In Batangas, the bed is grateful for the bed because of the chair, I share two of the students who are annoying, all students, especially in grade.
!
Because now, the two told me that I've been one million pesos for marriage.
A new official of the president C-R - perhaps, the children, especially when they are taking advantage of the road, many of our plans are one of our plans.
It's because you have seen here for sure they are going to be investigated.
The biggest target will be brought here to Q: The call of students who are opposing, that's why there are many important things that can be seen by the High School which is expected to be seen in the law, which is why many of our friends can be seen in the law, which is why we're really waiting for the barangay. "
That there is here in the center where you are living here so that you can help the children, of course, "of course, you can go to the area.
Students can be measured so that he will not fight against it but for the vehicles to be a one.
