
Mayors are also killed.

While we complained about the severe media killings, the League of May's of the Philippines also complained about the consecutive killings of the mayor of the Philippines.
The Longon was also asking for help under P, Leyte Mayor Leonardo "Sandy" Javier, of the authorities, especially the Department of Interior and Local Government, for almost a month of killing their group.
There are many victims.
Included in the latest victims were Urbiztondo, Pangasinan Mayor Ernesto Herrera, Compostela Valley Mayor Rey Navarro; Gonzaga, Cagayan Mayor Carlito Pavectment; and Labangan, Zamboanga del Sur Mayor Ukol Talumpa and others.
It was caught on the other day, Navarro was killed two days ago on May 28, Pentectment case last April 21 and Ukol Talumpa on December 20, 2013.
Navarro was shot again in front of his home in Laak, Navarro while traveling to Tagum City, Pentectment, in front of his city hall and Tere in Ninoy Aquino International Airport 3.
Criminals!
His opponents in politics are believed to have killed Cauzo, and one of its veins is a big amount of corruption in his town.
The New People's Army denied the allegation of the police and military that they have committed against Navarro even if they were identified as big 4 in the province of the NPA, they have no sufficient reason to shoot Navarro.
The NPA himself admitted that they were the ones who killed Pentectment case in his alleged involvement in the mining of the country, which was strict and filed a libel case against a teacher who against a teacher who is against illegal mining.
His opponents in politics were said to be behind the murder of Talumpa and hacked him in the first attempt of his life in Metro Manila.
Justice, where?
Not only justice but the mayors are looking for the authorities.
They are particularly calling DILG Secretary Mar Roxas to protect them because it appears that they are just being murdered.
There are those who are including the mayor, but it appears that they are included in those who get killed.
If not, the police becomes useless in giving protection to the lives of the mayor and those with them.
Who will not complain about this situation?
It is better for those who are in the palace and Congress, no one is killed by them, even if there are more than tons of involvement in corruption and corruption in the country's funds.
Action is about?
If the mayors are worried about their situation, that's also the same.
It is better for the mayor, for other hours, they will command their chief to give them others.
But the baren, almost everyone can't be given an escort and only if they are ready to spend in order to get the guards from Camp Crame.
So it is not surprising that around 28 people are getting killed under the "Tuwid na Daan". "
It is still scary in the ranks of the riding-in-tandem the record which is almost made up by the riding-in-tandem in the area where the belief is more scary, while the election is fast coming in 2016, more than the mayor and Tamen will increase.
SILG Mar Roxas, sir, action there.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
