They have showed that in many different types, I don't want to get along with the wounds to sell.
This is after they tried to get the products from the complaint of Negros Occidental.
New.
He might have a pig.
They only sent two thousand their animals every Wednesday.
Yes.
The between in Bulacan was smooth.
They also smell the breeze of air conditioner because in this place of flowers, we have a dream of the people from it.
Two.
Okay.
We also have a long relationship with Jerry and his care for that.
It was already pregnant when eight months of Cherry Pie's house was already pregnant, but that's why he / she was not able to go to Jerry this day.
What are your plan to take care of your animal.
Liu was given to each other when you went home to each other, and you really want me to be a child of Tess in the course, I am an expert of what they are going to sell, and then they will be sold as the carabao of what is corny.
"We are even tied up with an unexpected event that will be at around seven o'clock in the Quicken Loans Arena, my hope, Manila yn Valdez,": 00 later, when I tried to go here, I cannot be able to talk to him when I talk to him.
Its carabao is similar to Jerry tasks in the farm, what was said to be arrested and will bring heavy things to each other, the carabao that can be said to go ahead and look at it to sell the shirt and cigarettes of the people there.
He is also doing anything in the roof of the house there are still a lot of people's house, why don't you refuse because you are married in order for our child to live in poverty in the school.
Yes, we hope for our youngest to be butchered for each other.
Here is the child of aunt Elrick, but there is an extraordinary opportunity when it came to my family, instead of your children who can help in college as well as your child who can help in college and now in the City who can help in college, and now, a mother-in-law who can help in college.
You, you are happy because she is far from me; he / she is far.
"You are not with you because it is far from him when we have money because it's five, he said, that's why it's five when you will finish, you are not the only one to help you, who will also help you Kallano?
Gerry meanwhile, aside from whom he / she grew up to anyone; he / she only had five children in Dubai and others.
But it is still like that, when your carabao is gone, what if you plant corn and a low-shirt yes, can you say that there is no carabao.
I am not getting mad at Korea and my brother who is just a small amount that is why it is okay for you to make it look for a few years that is why I am just going to make it look for a few years and to help me as a few years since I have the medicine that I can buy.
Snack time for twelve o'clock in little.
I have not able to finish the elementary man, but he said, you should do something not only to the studies of the family of the family who will only give in college what your dream is for your children.
What time I am going home.
My child, who did not last for me, they are just here and I know that you are okay to help in the investigation of their child such as their promise to send a lot of things that will happen to us.
According to him, it is said that January.
I was the wife and wife who also did not have a cellphone in their place.
Their emotions came from the relatives of their child in Davao.
The couple, who was able to sell the box office, had a decision to sell the barism; so they are one of their own enemies.
Be healed.
Here are the children of Len Bakal, Nica Tomines.
You should feel something like that, so I want to be a job; I want you to finish your studies when I finish your studies.
Yes, do you think that is why we are able to study in college "so?
!
We do not have money.
But it seems that you are studying so that your dream will be fulfilled.
Applying for a job.
There was three stories in me.
While what I told Ariel is that I am thinking about being stupid that is why I feel like this for a long time, that is why I didn't want it for a long time, that's why he / she said that it's okay for me to be a police that is why I am not in a debt of mango and feet.
He / she was in his mouth in a box office so that I would not go back then after.
Full-tempered; he / Jerry will bring his carabao to the market to sell even if he is having a hard time in, he is not having a hard time.
Even if I do not have the carabao to do at work, I can do it and what's important to you, that I am going to go to school, I am going to go to school, I am going to wait for the heart that you suffered for me this year, and yes, you want to go to school.
Before I went to each other, the animals that would be sold in the concert, some of them came from a distant place, that's why it's only here that the night will explain when it came to the window.
It is a bit more than two thousand pesos to earn so that you can fulfill his call, he is also from here and you will still stay there to be cruel to Bicol.
There are many stories here in Manila.
It is prohibited to give the medicine to wait.
Two.
Zailon and Two believe that Jerry is silent on Wednesday school everyday of the sale of pork, according to Bulacan.
Okay.
If the reward did not come.
They say that there will be many people who are known to have an illness in his carabao Balikatan.
Bulacan does not want to kill.
While the market was approaching, I miss you.
Ah, I came to a month to give.
Like this, they sold properly.
Yes, Galinelle is obvious that this family will sell it because we are asking for a child to ask for help from the sibling of my sibling, I said, to tell my sister-in-law, I said that no one else is my brother.
"He said, okay, I will ask you as a number of animals that you get up, maybe later on half a few of them but you said it's not right that it might not be the beauty that they might get beautiful.
Yes.
When he arrived at the market, I was surprised at me.
You will be able to read a lot.
Ah, many.
