
EDSA 1 is the problem of oil.

What are we now on the 126 year of the Pambansang Kamao in EDSA?
"That's the reason for him to be called EDSA 1.
Of course, we cannot help to return to what happened during martial law, the millions of citizens through the People Power last February 22-25, 1986.
Then, the captain of the barangay was ignored.
Patrolling, it is just a span of the Philippine Constabulary in exchange for him.
If there is a pistol and with a pistol with armalite rifle, whether he is the captain, she is the captain.
"It was a lieutenant or captain of the PC or military as mayor, and one colonel also defended the governor.
"The prisoners of Manong Ferdie are all generals.
In the whole Philippines, they have controlled the Lord.
Many were killed before, many were jailed.
The majority are suffering from poverty while the generals and cravony and those who are from the palace are being searched for.
Land, business, including all about them, all those who have control of the government.
The business.
This business has been controlled by a few because we want to talk about it because the people have a hard work.
We should pay attention to the business or industry of oil.
In the time of the minds, the oil companies feel very felt.
And the suffering of the people because of this can also be felt.
The people have worked hard because of the expensive oil and controlling the companies of oil in supply.
Petron, Shell and Caltex.
That is why the Filipinos have already controlled the illegal oil.
Manong Ferdie and Petron will present to fight the foreign companies on the price and supply.
But the companies of oil are intentionally being powerful until Petron will be used by the crony so that they can earn a lot and be protected from foreign companies like Shell and Caltex (Chevron) today.
It is a price hike for dizziness.
In the middle of other ways of taking advantage of the oil companies, the price hike which built a price hike which led to the price hike.
But the corrupt officials were also raided the reason why the government got buried in debt from the companies.
Billions of pesos were the debt of the government for the company of oil in the last days.
The Police District was established to kidnap the payment for the companies of the oil in the time that oil's love cannot be avoided.
If the price is low, the Police Regional Office has a low fund for oil price.
But while the funds of the Police Office is getting larger, the brains of the thieves continue.
There is a crisis or not in the price, you are doubting the funds here.
EDSA 1 and oil.
Of course, when the Philippines has been free from the dictatorship, many changed oil business.
For example, the government went back to the freedom of the oil companies to do what they want for the effects of Oil Derna Law or ODL last February 10.
1998.
This is the condition, including the selling of Petron, for the $600 million debt of the government from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
And so that you will not be an accomplice of Oil avors Law and privatization of Petron, the children of the government officials are saying that the price of the government will become cheap in the end of petroleum.
This will happen because the companies of oil are competing and they will be a bait by the price.
Especially if there will be other oil companies that will fight against the big 3, Shell, Petron and Caltex.
Tel.
The child of tofu, is currently playing with them but in position only.
Some are beside him, someone will face the position.
But they have one fight for them: An oil price hike.
If one will increase, they will increase everything and scrutinize these to increase in price.
It will be a small amount.
If these are not for the same time, they will be cut off in the terminal or they are still slow in the turtle.
OL.
Here is the record for us to easily see the effect of Oil Derna Law.
In the year 2000, a liter of diesel is only reached P8 and a liter of diesel.
Now how much is diesel and gasoline?
P47 is one liter of diesel and P47 in gasoline.
That's why it is needed to separate the ODL and Petron will also be taken.
There is a proposed law for this but it is suspicious that the government is not moving away from the Palace until the Congress.
They even want to be impeached by the magistrates who will be impeached by the companies of oil.
Eve with oil.
Those inhumane in the government in ODL and Petron will be added to the crisis of oil by taking the destruction of the expanded Value Added Tax which is placed here.
Meanwhile, Petron, the Eker in oil is around 15.
Where is EDSA 1 in the traffic problem?
He worried the economic crisis, in truth.
