PCSO "should not let the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones

President Noynoy Aquino's action is wrong in case he decides to put a politician in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO).
This is one of the most bad decision that the President can do because the public could borrow the public service which is given by PCSO.
We know that PCSO was established to serve in life, and not for the politicians, aside from his personal interests, there are employers who are employer.
Three of the reduced candidates by PNoy are all former lawmakers, two of them are members of LP and one of their best friend and supporters of the President.
Among the allies of PNoy in LP, Hernani is the name of Hernani Brad of Pangasinan and Edgar San Luis of Laguna.
San Luis and Bravanza, all of the losing governor, has a member of DILG Sec. Mar Roxas, while Beau Noel, former representative of an Wcontemptuous, in the legislative chamber, can be considered as a friend of PNoy.
Noel also identified the four of PNoy in Tacloban in Tacloban but he lost his nephew of Imelda Marcos, Alfred Romualdez, who is the wife of the former sexy star Cristina.
The job of the PCSO boss is not a joke that's why even though it is not a little malice, it should not be tainted by the said agency that can be used in foolishness and politicking.
We know that the root of the case of former President GMA are the intelligence fund of PCSO, that is why it is better that this will not happen again to avoid said office in the controversy.
He can use the funds of PCSO into the candidacy of PNoy that is why when Cory's son can take care of his name, it will be better if he will be a politician in his position.
The people are looking at the PNoy administration that's why it is possible that he should be honest in "Daang Matuwid" because it is possible that the history that he always has a basis for her attacks and decision is that he is also greedy with the reason why he is also a traditional politicians.
