The small ones are compromised.

Only the government can sacrifice the issue on general, wherein the interest of the country depends on the events in the Luneta siege last 2010.
What is really the directive of President Benigno Aquino III to Justice Secretary Leila de Lima in relation to the investigation of the incident?
The administration of President Aquino also boasted that there will be no effect that will happen and what really happened to the incident will be liable.
Everyone knows that there is a negligence but it is not for the government to us that is why it is still being blamed on the part of the police and local government that had a negligence but more than the people.
Former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim denied the situation and he served as the ground commander of the said director of Manila Police District who is Chief Superintendent Rodolfo Magtibay, which is the cause of the protest.
After the incident, a case was filed at the National Police Commission (NAPOLCOM) for an assurance that the negotiator, and Chief Inspector Santiago Pascual III, said chief of MPD-IAS), was filed in the case of Lim's people who were in good form of arrest (SC) in the hostages.
And the mercy of god is, President Noynoy and the cruelty of Kautism, I mean, General Magtibay made an assurance that the six-month-day suspension has been defeated by the six-month suspension even though he is retired.
Pascual had to be sacrificed, the imposed punishment, which is filed against Lim's promise to help the police who was charged?
And now, it is possible that the government of PNoy will just say in Hong Kong government that have been punished because of the negligence, the duty of an official is quiet because the true life of a official is very quiet because the real life who is always following him is quiet in Camp Crame.
It's because the Aquino government thought that those from Hong Kong want to believe in their Moro-Morong investigation.
It seems like what PNoy is doing is just in business, to progress the rich and the government, but they are trying to brag on the improvement of the economy of the country, but they are trying to express the economic growth of goods and services while the income of the employees continues.
