
There will be conflict in the super typhoon.

If almost small people are affected by the super typhoon Yolanda and Bohol, Cebu, now it is starting to start a typhoon and take care of those who are powerful in the government.
The Priority Development Assistance Fund scam can be compared to the super typhoon and strong earthquake that was declared against the Constitution by the Supreme Court.
It seems that the many officials of the Palace and Congress are included in the hole of the storm and the Congress which they abuse it.
"Who did not do anything but to get rich through PDAF.
We are not okay.
After the PDAF declared that against the Saligang Batas, the judges are still being involved in the said law by Madam Cory when he was still the President of the Philippines.
"Is it that the Priority Development Assistance Fund which was approved by PDAF in the end.
It is also against MGP which is why the lawmakers or people from the Palace are against the national budget.
The part of the Presidential Social Weather Center is also against the law that will surely be done for infrastructure.
And even the part of the law in Malita, natural gas is declared against the Constitution.
Especially his part which gives permission to the president of the country to use its funds or programs, aside from the energy on energy.
It may dry.
But the SC's decision is not only until there.
The judge said that the owners of the criminals should be chased to PDAF, CDS and Salmia Calapas.
There is imprisonment, Bro.
It may only be for a few years or for forever.
You can imagine, from Madam Cory's time, the Department of Justice and Office of the Ombudsman is in the same time.
Hi! "I am worried?
Who will be abused, who are the ones who stole it, who are the ones who made the projects, who made the Ghost project, which is the question that the DOJ and Ombudsman will have a comfortable.
Aside from imprisonment, it is certain that the Supreme Court will also take back the stolen wealth of all corrupt and crooks on the pork barrel scam, CDS and Congressional Avenue.
He is from the Palace, from the palace.
The highest officials of the government from the palace to the Congress are the primary target of the Supreme Court.
The Palace is being implicated and not only the senators and congressmen are not only the Palace who is the one who gives CDS, PDAF and Congressional Avenue.
Everyone knows how this will be given or being rude to the said pork barrel of their enemies in politics.
Of course, these are senators and congressmen, Bro, handling their own pork barrel, each has their own removed from them.
There are some who make the Ghost project, and there are those who visit or lend the non-government organization to feed the funds.
"There is a payment for the Palace to release the fund of the funds from the Department of Budget and Mangoyao.
Ombudsman and DOJ.
There is no other way but the Office of the Ombudsman and the Department of Justice of the investigation and filing cases until there will be cases in court, including the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals.
This is also the force of the police, National Bureau of Investigation, military and others to look for, the culprits will be jailed and jailed for days and years of trial until they go to Bilibid.
Will they take action?
There is only a big question.
Will the Ombudsman and DOJ take action according to the command of the judge?
We said yes, yes, but they are just buying them.
"Is it that the opposition is in the opposition of the opposition.
Even if they say that they will no one to insult?
I do not know, Bro.
There will be conflict.
Just for the search of the politicians, it will be a conflict between Manang Conchita and Leila.
Many are dead from the old politicians who had CDS.
How will you dig up the stolen wealth in the graves of these and in the mansion, vehicles, filling, business, land, hacienda and others.
From hiding from the stolen wealth of many of these, it is still alive or dead, it is certain that Manang Conchita and Leila will surely go around.
Good if all the policemen, military and NBI are going to do the right thing to do with the two prominent people of PNoy?
What will be against?
Impeachment, death.
We are not stupid, Bro.
But it can be considered that the acacadversary, there will also be something bad for the impeachment case, there will also be something bad for killing, if the police, NBI and military themselves will be the one who will give it to the powerful who are holding the PDAF, Congressional Avenue and the forehead of CDS.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
