"King of NBP, is said to be an asset of the government By Boyet JAG co, Tina Mendoza, September 23, 2016.
Senator Leila de Lima shattered her silence regarding the true role of Jaymar Sebastian, a inmates in New Bilibid Prison (NBP) that is considered by the witness of the legislative chamber, "king of Bilibid" and said that he is a partner of the Department of Justice (DOJ).
In a press conference, de Lima revealed that Sebastian was a "asset of the Aquino administration to destroy the illegal drug trade in NBP and he is not his" lover "contrary to the hearing that the witness filed by Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre on the hearing of the House Committee on justice last Tuesday and Wednesday.
"In the opinion that he was an asset who was an asset of the role," the speculation that they collect money from Bilibid 19, the former Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Operatives (BuCor) director Franklin Jesus Bucayo, who is asking for information when he should be done in a raid in NBP.
"They are really the ones who take advantage of what we need to guide, let us guide us, or to be with a raid with the raid," says the lady senator.
"They"
In the testimony of the legislative chamber of the former Police Officer and kidnapping, Rodolfo Magugba, Sebastian allegedly said that he paid P10 million to transfer Bilibid 19 from the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) in Manila last December 2014.
Bilibid 19 is a high-ranked leader of De Lima to be transferred to the NBI after they discovered the contraband found in their cell, including the group of Aguirre who was also used by Aguirre against de Lima.
De Lima also denied the questions that, based on the testimony of the witnesses, that there were several times he visited Sebastian in NBP and was imprisoned there for a few hours.
"It's a good thing that I am going to be," that's why they were able to give up that they were able to give in there? Though it's one of their script "though they are included in their script," the senator stressed.
De Lima has explained why the PNP-CIDG and PDEA have been paying for a raid in the NBP, this is due to the issue that Bucayo is said to have an issue against former CIDG Chief Benjamin Magalong.
"They have an issue to the personalities of General Magalong," said De Lima.
Along with this, de Lima said that he is waiting for the hearing of the legislative chamber to file a corresponding case, like the writ of Amparo's writ of habeas data. "
Meanwhile, in the legislative chamber, Maguindanao Rep. Zaje Mangundadatu said that it is possible for them to get an evidence to see Sebastian's cellphone in relation to the sale of illegal drugs and what is said to be the primary money given to de Lima.
