The Philippines won't win.

Even though our bet was very unlucky in the 17th World shot in Florida, United States of America this past week, he was considered to be brought home by the Philippines, the Philippines, the Philippines, the Philippines, the Philippines, has already been brought home by a few sports that we are carrying.
Do we have one of those who are going crazy about the sports like basketball?
It's just a waste and it seems like the range of our idol, Jews or Dionisio, was so noisy so he was unlucky to be disqualified at the last 1970s.
Jeado is one of the best Standard Lunch Program in the whole world but the total score of his total score was not counted because he was disqualified.
Beware of this decision of the Ro-Ro (Commission (Ro), but in spite of the appeal of the representatives of the Philippines, the Philippines' representative, which is completely included in the number of Jews as well.
The silver medal) is our bet in Camping Division, Edward Rivera.
This is a big thing because the best in the whole world is what he encountered.
All declared champion and gold medal will be the candidate of the Philippines, the Philippines, which is like Daniel Torresna), like Daniel Torresna) and Michael Ron Ligation (Pauline) and Michael Ron Gagalac) (ASG)).
The Philippines - the Philippines, which is also declared champion the Philippine team of Production Senior Cateel, was declared to have been brought home by the trophy and each one gold medal was Wilfredo Anglo, Rosendo "Boquirin, Castro, Anthony Sy and Edwin Golovkin.
The only gold medal was taken by Ken Dayle Tuan, Datu Al Walis "Mangundadatu.
It is not a joke to the said competition of the Philippines, the Philippines, which is from different corners of the world, and many of them have grown up in different corners of the world and many of them have homes to practice in order to get stronger in their sports.
Just think of it, if the Philippines will also give a good support to the Philippines, like what is given to the witnesses, Gilas Pilipinas and Team Azkals.
It is certain that the Philippines will decrease in the field of shooting sports.
It's a good thing that somehow there is a continuing exchange of money and time by a few minutes of shooting sports like Sultan Kudarat Governor Sambi "Mangudadatu, because if not, we will not be here in the Philippines.
