Abaca of 9th Cantangan, flooded.

If the downpour of rain is slow, flooding of luck is the flooding of luck, the strong downpour of urine's urine last Friday, 25th of July, 2013 is a sign of fortune in the annual celebration of the CDO Film Festival.
A few minutes before the nine-year-old Crib, the abundant rain caused the flood in many places in Manila.
But the storm was not able to stop her anticipation to the viewers of them to join in the hope to relax.
Even if it was soaking wet in the rain, they will still keep on Tanim-Added Tax or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of the Philippines to witness the historic program "Jazz, Dr. Love," the Pambansang Kamao "Jazz, Dr. Love," the wedding of Babao, ".
The motto of Antartica in the Diocesan of Little and his American troops and pants were soaking wet but because he is truly a man of art, he was just quiet on a corner of the environment and continued to call those who are related to his work.
Next to Racell, Joel Lamangan, a patron of Cantangan.
Even if Joel has no retreat from this person in the competition, his "Burgos" will be a film "in the 25th of August, 2013.
The schedule of film is already different and no longer after the award which will be held on the 25th of August.

It is still early that the veteran Joe Burgos is only in front of the audience who have long been waiting for the opening of 2013 Camply.
Alice does not care if she would look for her children to be a help from showbiz because she turned down and not alone in the sake of showbiz.
She is also the Miss Philippines-Universe 1981, Maria Isabel Lopez.
Chanel Latorre, discovered stars of the controversial and extravagant Fil-wheeler truck, who was already sitting on a corner and getting angry at the edge of his two movies in this occasion, the "Ipit Gang" and The diplomat Hotel "by Christopher Ad Castillo.
Just at the hour of Kajice Guda, the Festival Director and the author, which is set for any events, as well as the chairman of CDO, who is Nestor Jarvis also, and former newsreader, Director of CCP.
It is almost complete with all the category that was built on all the category of the Catholic Church, to the opposing directors of case, New Break, and short Film Festival.
Calling on them, what we only remember is that, Jeffrey Jawooooooo, the director of "Vilma Santos of cooperation between Camply and Quaura.
But Jeffrey's representative was the representative of Zig Dulay, the perpetrator of the movie "as an expert" and the participants of the short Film Festival for the acting "Misao."

In his biological sibling inside and outside the CCP, we saw Ellen from my grandfather, Marchil, the directly actor of "voice" of Cherry Pie Picache and Coke.
"Sevidal, a voice of a" voice "in Riverside Idios, is very beautiful which has been used for a project," Ellen stated that he is currently in the corner of Intalan, Cooperative or Iterax.
There is a controversial Queen of "voice" in SM Caano, which is why I am very happy to be able to come out of his project that is also included in Cantangan in 2008.
"Session Road a mission, said Ellen.
Because even if the movie has been for a long time it is only now that there will be time to waste time for many opposing organizations.
I am really persevering and she herself is selling his movie since then and her hard work has become stronger because she herself is called by the boiler and the association who wants to show his masterpieces.
Ellen is busy with taking care of his bad vice president for the Canglement and his house helper, Jim ULINP Javier, the former lover of your tribe-bala "and" Daang Matuwid "."
According to him, Al-INTEL) has not been doing anything, Jim wallet is still not doing anything in making the projects and making noise in the television.

Christopher Ad Castillo and Mon Conejado arrived together with a handsome and muscular body, which is why she's still a secret that's why she is secretly jealous of him what is caused by evil spirits.
According to Christopher, he offered his late father Celso Ad Castillo of his movie "The diplomat Hotel."
Gretchen Barretto is the protagonist in the movie and according to Chris Algieri, he chose the actress because he believes in his ability and not because he is a loved one in the life of Antonio Consignation.
Castillo did not insist but according to him, Gretchen needs to be given a chance to prove that he can bring a severe movie.
"Gretchen has been the script of" The diplomat Hotel "I'm Her Street, however, he / she was able to go back to the script" But a friend, Her, in the same time with the script.
"
How much was the production paid for Barretto while it is a big stars that there is also a lot of gratitude.
But because the capital for every project of Chmm, is still low, is it still low, or we agreed to accept Greta of an ordinary salary in the movie?
"To comment first," Chris Algieri said.
After that, Chris and Mon climbed up the top.

When Jovelle was also climbed by the lobby of the main theater, the names of those who are connected to the best friend are being called.
Then, it suddenly appeared at the door and it seems that the clothing was approved and is hanging in the west - hated.
When he ends up in front of Metl's front, he is not different but Magtanol Lee, the famous and skilled film festival from Vena Tazine.
It was also coming from the Hollywood actress Magugba, but last year, he transferred to Vaziristan, which is also intense as salt.
Lee and I met each other at Amao Road and International Criminal Court Festival in Bucheon City, South Korea last 2011 and we often talk on Facebook and email.
So I can't stop him.
Maglente went back, smile and asks for someone to go near us even if he is too late in the reopening of the opening of the 19th of 9.
I do not know at first that he is the judges or leader of being emotional this year so I called him.
I hope that I just let him go to the front of my faith.
The rain came from Manila Hotel and was stuck with traffic and strong rainfall so the program almost reached up when he arrived.
Meanwhile, Caringal, Pion of queen is also caught in arrival because of the flood and traffic.
What has not reached thoroughly was Maryo J. de los Reyes who also judges.

Romeo Bautista is impressed by the movie Jude Bautista with Nestor has been impressed by the judges.
"I have long read Magugba, and what he came from," Jarvis also said that we were going to the Alabang Integrated Center in Alabang, Muntinlupa City for the opening of 2013 Camply.
The controversial cinemas are added that the movies of Cetiquette has been added because if last year they are in Tramo and Greening Program of those included in the feast of the Filipino movie, now it is ATC.
Maglungob is an intense call that is why he is known by critics in the whole world.
In the conversation of Jovento and Lee last Saturday afternoon, Metl was found out in Oxford until the Chinese national graduated from school.

Meanwhile, the Pambansang Kamao was ordered to gather the film that was about the love of two men, a Spanish nurse and a military driver.
According to Babes, he has been able to work for a long time with the Jazz, Dr. Love, but most of those who are prepared to have a problem with the help of Goeking Philippine Institute, hence, most of them had a problem, which is why the lady director refused to take revenge on the camera, which is why the lady director denied that they were caught to have been caught in the video.
Although the end of the story of the Jazz and Theo is their separation, they are still hoping that the happy rendezvous and being together with two stars once again.
Her father still has not yet known what is the outcome of the story of Tigaldo, and RL), but there will be another chapter in his movie.
This is the gift of Babes to all of the people who are in love, including the progressive countries that are not yet accepted by the Filipino people.
The acceptance of the audience of "Jazz and Love" is good, and for all the masterpieces today.
In fact, those who were able to go out and if they will go out, "Vilma and Jawoooooozes.
Atty. Alico was not able to give a ticket, whether there was a payment or not because there was no remaining ticket.
"
According to Akbayan also, they themselves took the suspension of the "Ports" in the controversial cinemas like the Greening Program, Traeg, and the movie, Cantos, and the movie, Cantos, and the movie.
This is because Adolf was very annoyed and daring books because of showing the sensitive scenes of the boat that they have done.
It's because Camply and the MTRCB are able to self-discipline and self-mindedness of the movies there are dangerous theme and connotation which can be shown to regular cinemas in his work but only at CCP.

According to AOIL, there is a medical exam as a candidate who does not want to open the 2013 Camping there.
Before we left, Ching said that he and our fellow residents of Lopez, Quezon were said to have been hit by the declared winner of the declared mayor, red and blue waters of a private sector of Cantangan.
Ching also said that there have been a lot of stars on the meat of "an extra" last Sunday.
"There is a huge amount that can be seen by Dulyade in the events because almost all of the citizens in the world of film, television, height and music are cooked at around Premiere of the movies of Santos.
But Ching, we are all showbiz and there is nothing wrong in that kind of meaning of this word.
Because showbiz has life and life is showbiz.
