First Division, the veteran, young activists.

By P2,500.
February 1, 2012.

The youth and veteran activists are lined up to commemorate the historical First division last 1970.
Maria Lorena Barazole, Rizalde Huwagpaw, Jonathan Jony son, Remigio De La Paz, Juan Escasor, Santiago Arce, Lalai ao, April 19).
They are just some of those who chose the road to fight for the country during the time of the Marcos dictatorship when they were also some of the youth who became the contestants in a historical gathering of the Filipino masses, which is called First Division (FFS) or go ahead of the First Division last 1970.
The 120th anniversary of the said chapter in history, in the series of gathering, programs and the new activists are pointing at the university of the Philippines-Diliman, until the statue of Heroes' Cemetery at Libingan ng mga Bayani in the leadership of MGB, First Class Eye Movement (WBC) and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (ALS).
"What's being considered in the very serious event that happened between Medvedev and Fahs who left a permanent mark in the history of the country, and not just a mark, but one of the continuous effect on the country's history, but one of the unknown activists from the time of FQ, and the next president of Ferdinand Marcos.
Ocampo was the one member of the said agum that he was one of the known personalities who were fighting for him and was imprisoned and was tortured in service to the country.
Ocampo recounted to the hopes that the Fisheries Code will start and the collision between Mahogany or Single Entry SEC) and the sanctity of the Fotoplay.
"The biggest contribution of the Fahs in politics of the country is gave birth to the most intelligent and activists for the Pambansang Kamao in the Pambansang Kamao," said Ocampo.
Young ladies.
With the rendezvous of the generation that are continuing the spirit of FD by, Bonifacio Ilagan, chairman of the First Class Zuzurueggi Street, which is on the shoulders of the youth not only the lessons but the resolve of the FFS.
For Production. Choy Pangilinan of the College of mass communication, the role of the youth has a big role as the suspension of the fighting for the workers and farmers.
The youth also gave their own view and observation that there are many lessons that can be collected from the said historical gathering of one of the golden lesson that will be received from the FQ, the youth will not be in danger of the other sectors of the society.
"
"We are still proud of the foreigner, while the few are still in poverty, however, the citizens are still struggling, but while the citizens are just going to just nodding," Vencer Crisostomo of Ondoy.
According to Crisostomo, the Fahs remains a question to the youth and is continuously being investigated by the youth.
"The FE is not allowed to be free from the fence of the education but a response to the change of society," Pangilinan added.
In the continuation of course.
Years and decades have passed, there are those who have changed principle but they hugged their stand and there are those who want the highest fight in spite of those who surrendered and chose to stay in a higher position in society.
According to Ilagan, the Fisheries Code will remain in our time, according to him, no matter how to be covered up or improve the term, it remains creations by the poverty of the country.
For Ocampo, no matter how many people are, or might be a good number of people, who are looking for its price in our country or are going to go out to fulfill its goal, the Pambansang Kamao will not be stolen.
"In our commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the First Division, our decision is only a thing for us to commemorate and go back to it, instead, we will reveal the Fotoplay.
"The Fullido is the inspiration and declaration that not all times are time of patience and has time for the fight," according to Crisostomo.
"We are still the First International Criminal Court because we will continue to continue," Production. Sarah Raymundo of UP Diliman, said.
