Pacquiao versus Khan?

Who would be the last fight of Manny Pacquiao in the ring before she retire?
Amir Khan returns to the list of Pacman but the influence of Bob Arum is big as the Pambansang Kamao in his future fight.
Based on the previous interview of Pacman, there is a big possibility that he will give Khan anymore but Arum's perspective is different when Pacquiao wants to face the third time Tim Bradley or Terrence Crawford.
The said fight is easy to make the said fight because Bradley and Crawford are in his Liberal Party and Top Rank Promotions to have no squawking about their form.
While Khan is holding Al Haymon, the negotiation will be complicated.
The question now of snack in boxing - who will be followed? Pacquiao or Arum?
If our basis is the profit of the fight, it is possible that the camp of Pacman is possible to choose Crawford or Bradley, we will be fervent for the two of both Americans and it seems that Arum will become a hero in Las Vegas.
Of course, the said fight will be held in order to support the Americans.
But if Pacquiao is considering that the judicial system of the Pambansang Kamao in the world of boxing is Khan who will choose himself.
The only problem is, how will Arum accept that in Qatar which is set for the said fight?
We think, Pacquiao can wait for Bradley when he defeated him and it seems that the interest of fans will not be hot to watch this.
Crawford, it looks like Pacquiao is also not Match of Pacquiao even if the proof for this is good in a low decision, will not be bitten by fans.
Khan admits that it has been challenging Floyd Mayweather and Pacquiao for a long time and this is also a good proof for its division.
And one more thing, the doctors will surely support their countrymen.
But it is one of us who is a force to raise the decision of Pacquiao that his being a friend, which is his closeness to the family, was completed the previous world amateur boxing championship on October, where the Pambansang Kamao has become an affair of the Pambansang Kamao in an important issue.
It is possible that Pacman could not resist the Spanish owner which is why he is the one who personally invite him for the place they will fight.
