Request!: A joke! It's a joke! It's a joke!
By Arnold Clavio, September 28, 2016, President Rodrigo Duterte is very lucky when he comes to his supporters.
Because whatever the controversial statement will be done, he continues to take care and worry about them.
During the campaign, Duterte said, "at the hotel at the airport, you know that we reached five hours.

"I said, why, he said, what I wanted to call was said," Pope P / she said, just go home. "But Duterte tried to understand."
In the death of an Australian missionary, in the middle of the hostage that he held in Davao in 1989, Duterte said, "P / S / she said," P / Hala Bakag, Fight IT.
"What happened in my mind was that of rape, they were on top of it, that's why they were on top of it (Walis.
"The rape of rape?"

That is also one, but it's very good that, the mayor should be first (Was I am mad when she was first (Was I am mad when she was reported to be first (Was "
Again, Duterte tried to understand.
It was followed by allergy of Mariz Umali while the legitimate asking of a press conference.
I tried to understand the media.

And this was followed when he was followed by a gay from US Ambassador Philip Goldberg, not directly with US President Barack Obama and cheaper by United Nations (UN) Human Rights, including UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon.
Again, I tried to understand.
Maybe, the reason why he felt strong in the actions of the words that had no brake, almost 16 million registered voters who have put him in position are behind their minds.
But based on the attempt to be seen by Cenes Press Club (Commission on Elections), the population in the Philippines is more or less than 100 million.
If you will lessen the 20 million anti-Duterte, there will still remain 64 million Filipinos who need a president.
And the last, in response to the issue of the return of death penalty resurfaced, "EpiPen."
But this is not the first time Duterte issued a statement in relation to God.
Until when will we feel pity for the request of Duterte?
Like a hammering, I chose me a joke.
"I'll be a joke to the Whole world.
But I was just a joke to avoid it's a joke.
To be able to step down to the Whole world.
"Oh, I am an only child who can avoid it's a joke."
"Hopefully it will not come that there is no one in America" there is still no God?

It is not funny anymore.
Are we ready for the alliance between Russia and China?
Let us pray for President Duterte and our country Philippines to be successful with what he wants to happen to the Filipino people.
Lord, I will take care of it.
