I hope that I have been hanging around the Middle East in a resort that is going crazy in the Middle East in a resort that is going crazy in Saudi Arellano, which is why he slept with the department that he is for.
For me, you are still the two of you who denied that the trip to the other among those with the welfare of the products they do not want to escape from the pocket just quickly escaped.
The fever to be experienced by those saying they are saying is good for you to ask for help, especially if you are to be able to see, especially when you are in the side.
The Palace encouraged all of our countrymen who are from the Middle East, boast, and more Boy in the Philippines to give them their families.
You have heard that from the Pavors that we can talk to on the line on the phone call on D's F) for the entire afternoon to us all afternoon.
We picked up the bully in bye Philippines, what can be the source of umbrella; so-fittest, in our three countrymen in the August debate.
Able to go to the commission; we are only one of our fellow countrymen.
Which is confirmed that there is still a number.
In those hours, they do not work, thirty-two, and now they are watching over something in the hospital where they work.
And then, until now, they are still deceived or like that, they are still in Saudi 'aytono; we will be able to fix the race of our countrymen.
Yes, what are the reasons, that they are chosen by them so that they will no longer be rude to each other so that they will not be seen by others.
Yes, she will get her birthcrown because they are ready.
To my friends who have an air conditioner, four Indonesians, four Indonesians, they were not able to get it from that.
It is already sick.
For sure, what are their families?
I have another office in that office where he is.
We are anxious; we are very full of thinking that is very full of love for them.
Relative.
But what are you and?
The symptoms seen by the symptoms but carefree are only two twenty-year-old maid.
They were able to look down; he / she was able to go down; the reason why his debt was able to return immediately.
So that the abilities of the ability will be eaten by them.
How can I think that, how much is their treatment that they are taking, our friends, are our friends themselves on the hundreds of one who will be one of this, I help me.
Are you towards the hospital, I do not work in the hospitals so that you live with Paulo or sure, to bring them recovering from them.
As of now, we are anxious; and how much are our fellow countrymen who are going to be angry; we should really do our fellow countrymen who are getting angry in Saudi that ended up in the Philippines.
With a new contract with our fellow countrymen, from here, it is not right that I have plans to go home because you have no plans to go home because it is still a wheel that I will go under Medical check-up so that I will come here with two pork barrel.
When you come home here in the Philippines.
