I know: Sarah, they are getting closer to showbiz.
JaDine series, in exchange of Mulawin Street and series!
By Jun Nardo, June 17, 2016 two months have been given by Boss Vic del Rosario for Sarah Geronimo and she also knows that she is no Break in showbiz that's why he has given her so much.
Present, Boss Vic, in the press conference of the Miss Manila 2016, Wednesday at the diamond Hotel, it's because Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada and MARE Foundation Chairperson Grace Ejercito in the resolution of the 33 percent of the beautiful Manila Film Festival.
"The gossip is just because Sarah is said to be pregnant again, to the press of Boss Vic to give a statement about it," how will the Virgin Mary be pregnant, "the reaction of Boss Vic."

"Krrrik, okay, okay!" He added.
She said that because there is a failure, the woman is not the Virgin Mary, Sarah is scheduled to make a concert there and he also regularly watched ASAP.
"He is studying the lower show of Channel 2.
This July and August is Break that was given to Sarah by Boss Vic.
"What's the only thing, it's a habit to have a checkup, but all the UV Expresses that he is doing is around the movie," it's still the news of this new boss.

"If ever Sarah says she will get married, Boss Vic said," of course I don't have control on it, but I think he is not yet married because he is still not being prepared.

Because there are cases.
"Because he was married, he might have been married, because others are still married, and his plan in his life, if his wife and wife, he does not want to play with him.
"I think," that is what should be done so that the family member is very quiet.

Anyway, since waking up with 4, he has been fooling around four years old when he / she sits at four years old when he / she might get a song, "if there was the Special Action Force, he is a reason.

Anyway, what is his plan for the Metro Manila Film Festival?
"I still do not know that we are carrying a movie, we have a shot a movie, if there will be a shot in the festival, we will enter it.
"Of course, we are waiting for someone new to sit on who will be the new MMDA chairman but we still do not know, maybe July 1 is already there.
"For now, I know that we have Co-Production of Star (however) that they want to do, if I push through, I will be together there, according to Boss Vic.
It is said that it is not sure if Vice Ganda is about to dress in the festival?
"Vice is still studying if he wants to pass the festival now that he has a October.
What is his plan with James Reid, Nadine Lustre?
"They will just go back to 21-city tour around 21-year tour around August, which is why they will make a new soap this August, which is also the movie that would be the one to make a soap?," like Boss Vic Sotto.
How is his relationship with TV 5?
"It is okay," the other countries, of course, study it well, but, of course, it's a bit of course, which needs to be new and fresh.
"They are already preparing, we continue to continue this week, sibling," declared the boss of this week.
