
Quatar.

(On the first time, this works on the issue of the Philippine Cologne last 20 in 2012.
By Justine Fuentes.
Yulu, Yungga.
From the door knobs, closet and press lock, until he / she grew up to the house and materials that can be seen inside the warehouse of Co Ban Kibalabag, Incorporated. ABS-CBN), in Quirino Avenue, Parañaque City.
As an effect of 70 percent of materials in Ace hardware Philippines, Inc. and construction companies such as D.M. Consignation, Incorporated, it is not impossible that the materials used in some large buildings and other infrastructures are not far from the warehouse of ABS-CBN.
Extremely low, in the outside of the warehouse, high buildings or the beautiful houses are seen on the roof made of iron and plastic bags, which is why the workers of the ABS-Tropas that will be hit by the company of the OFW's harassment against the company's harassment.
Wiped the violence.
Within the eight-hour work of the workers, it is prohibited for them to sit, drink water or talk to fellow workers, if they do not have a corresponding punishment for anyone who violate the level of the warehouse, if they are thirsty, only water placed inside a broken vase.
Aside from the violent punishment, the workers are also harassed by the implementation of the company of 5-5-5 or illegal immigrants, wherein their contract has been last for five months.
Although there is a direct relationship with the workers in the operation of ABS-Tropas, they will still be placed under an accident or English which is said to be placed under the actual law in order to work at the ABS-Tropas.
There are also workers who are removed when they were not allowed to pass through the right process and were not allowed to go through the right process, included here is the president of Co Ban Kibalabag, OFW) who was said to be removed from the company since last April 30 because of "tanim-bala" last April 27.
Nesto explained that his "-year-time "will be approved, even before the very date of an interview with the Filipino Weeker, an alternative newspapers, according to the company of the Filipino workers who have no assurance for their job, Roger Solsona, Secretary-General of Kilusang Mayo Uno.
If the management of the ABS-CBN could remove the workers with no basis, they also can lessen the additional wage increase in June 2011, the company did not show any concrete explanation for the amount of 30,000 pesos, according to them.
Most of the workers of 'Kath' Day, P426, even if they have been in the company, will add up to it.
Due to their conditions, the workers decided to build a relationship with the workers because of the continuous implementation of the workers because of the continuous implementation of the people with Stella, Diego Anciano, former President of ABS-CBN News.
Destroying and destroying.
In having a relationship, the workers have a hope to run against their rights.
The company has identified the union with some of its members in the protest last May 1 and the following days, when 98-worker (five regular worker (May 3) was suddenly removed from work without a proper basis for the Department of Labor laws which resulted in May 9 to 11.
The national strike became successful when the company's operation was paralyzed, and the workers got back to work in an agreement between the management and union.
Despite the agreement, 14 regular workers suddenly removed last May 23 because their contract was supposedly over.
That is why the union was once again appointed as a response to an acquaintance that they agreed on May 28, filed a Temporary ResOrder (RTC) to provide the P1 million line of the workers and should pay the 1 million pesos for the damage caused by the protest that caused their protest.
Even though the TRO was released last June 1, the workers were shocked to release a TRO by the Parañaque RTC Branch 257 on June 6, the TRO for the 20 members of the Philippine National Police and Special Action Force (June 11, and even a truck of the firefighters were effective in order to break the protest outside the hardware.
However, the Filipino workers will remain firm for their rights in the union, assurance for work, enough salary and decent condition for the job, Elmer Liscano, Director Elmer Liscano, Chairperson me.
Has been released a foundation.
If you think about it, the workers are asking for a few more compared to the income of Coyo, and which has become a millionaire.
"Coyo, and fraud, violence and threat to the government's help so that he can continue the millions of pesos through taking advantage of the workers," said Liwag.
It is said that it is not new to Coyo, and those violating the law to get more income, it can be remembered that last 2009, he was reported to have been hiding a "smuggled goods, which is why they were used to be selling 100 million pesos.
However, there is no law that is stopping Coyo, and to make it go through the actual law, but it is stated in the Department of Number 18-A to make the end of their contract even before they become regular.
Since the workers at work were removed, it would only be given several times by the company, it will appear several times that the workers will appear and will appear and will appear in their rights in the middle of violence.
