3 witnesses of the CHR in the EJK!
According to CHR Chairman Jose Luis Gascon, the three witnesses, but Senator Richard Gordon, chairman of the committee, ordered the three to undergo hearing.
Gordon stressed that, insult to the Senate as an institution is what CHR Commissioner Roberto Eugenio Patrimonio, "said to be under the committee," if you are doubting the committee, he should not go here, "Gordon stated.
Because of this, Gordon said that the committee will discuss the proposal in the return of death penalty in the country.
Senator Leila de Lima also tried to talk to the hearing by Gascon but Gordon declined the motion of De Lima to set aside the hearing of the hearing and there is a need to set the hearing in the said issue to prepare.
Gordon, de Lima.
"It will be the will to be able to take care of what happened to the issue of thank you to the issue of thanks for the issue of thank you for any kind of time," Gordon added.
While de Lima was terrified, he already cut it with Gordon and said it, "NJ!"
It is back to EJK but?
After Senator Manny Pacquiao did not explain to his proposal to the release of death penalty yesterday, Gordon returned the discussion on the EJK but Gascon still has not yet decided.
Gascon also decided to release the three witnesses who went to the Senate because they gave a subpoena against the committee.

"In their belief that they might not be allowed to face, they will go back to their place in their place," says Gascon.
Gascon also emphasized that the cause of Gordon's anger about the articles in a newspaper (not Ammute) has not yet been in the position of the hearing of the committee of Gordon.
"Postigo doesn't exist.
In an exclusive interview of HC, CHR Chairman Chito Gascon said that it seems that the killings will happen since President Rodrigo Duterte started the anti-drug campaign in the whole country.
In the data, thousands of people who were killed in drug operations were killed after President Duterte sat in Malacañang, but even a police have not been able to file a case.
"IGAPAMORE by the alleged drug pusher, which was filed by the Duterte administration of the Philippine National Police, will file a single case against Police District-linked to the Philippine National Police Officer 3, Gascon.
The official asserted that he will send the work of the police to talk to police operations, but there is also a need to let the right to live by the suspects.
