Let in the SEA Games!
Bal-5. 23, 2016 - a press conference, complained yesterday at the GAA Arena in the start of 92nd season of NCAA.
The NCAA is considered to be treated in the Philippines summit in the Philippines.
Mansilingan, Policy "and the officials of ABS-CBN arrived to support the league that will start on Saturday at GAA Arena, it is expected that the fight of Letran and San Beda College was expected to be a text message.
Even the Second game of Mapua and JRU is going to be fair.
Just like what they always say, Let's Games.
Congratulations to the NCAA!
Robert Bolalin is one of the bet of San Beda.
La Union was a former fire fire in La Salle University but for whatever reason, he was no longer the line-up two years since he was completely lost in DLiwag.

He transferred and was taken by San Beda and given to one Year.
So now, he is one of the key players of Red Liwag.
In the past film Oil summer tournament, he is one of the Red Lampihan who gave a good point.
Which is why Bolalin is ready for the coming season.
"There are many stories about us, the blood pressure is also big, but we already prepared all" our team in the US is also good that's why we were we, Are, for the NCAA, "said Bolalin.
"What we are saying to you is a good player of Doods (Zobel, Joauma Mariano, who is the Special training in the US.
He was accompanied by his parents in his own form in Las Vegas.
"That is also what Koponang Tavena are doing.
They studied in one training of Camp Crame so that his skills will be strengthened more.
He was also almost two weeks for school and training with American admirers, and according to Jodiqui, he was able to do a lot from that.
Their good athlete, Jeramer Cabanos, was gone in San Beda line up.
According to him, which is why others are very wondering, the others are not in line up.
It might be a bit of injury in the hand.
Even JP Nieles of Mapua will not be playing.
A twenty-month-old August 22, it was known that coach Agame Co who was not included in the line-up was not included.
