
Call for DPWH and Grets.

Jose Abad's campaign against Jose Abad Santos Avenue (JAnito), who is former Gapan-San Fernando-Olongapo (Gheart) Road from Lubao, Pampanga until now in Dinalupihan, Bataan.
This is the truth: A lot of parts of the said highway is nowhere, but there is a sudden height or chin, because the work of the project that will conduct a asphalt to the cement.
What is the diment of Depensa ng Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Regional Director Antonio Tobias, Jr. and he has no action related to this?
There were an accident and there were already a lot of accidents already because of a loud thug when it suddenly came from front of him because, when suddenly, it suddenly went down, the wild boar suddenly fell down, "they even climbed a asphalt.
The attention of Pampanga Governor Lilia "Pineda will not be saved from the attention of Pampanga Governor Lilia" Pineda but hopefully if he will take action, now it is now.
We are just meddling with the laxative and his accomplices in and outside the government.
Even though not only the residents of Pampanga are using JAnito because it will pass through a tactic in Bataan, Subic Film Festival and Zambales which are coming from Metro Manila and different cities and provinces of Luzon, the government of Pampanga will just let the failure of the job be heard.
We salute the plan to solve the constricted flow of traffic in two parts of JAin the city of San Fernando.
This is the truth: The local officials of Pampanga, DPWH and businessmen in the place related to the problem are gathered.
Hopefully, the situation should be caught in the implementation of the project so that they would not be the same with the failed job in the stretch of JO in Lubao, Pampanga until Dinalupihan, Bataan.
And for sure, the bidding should not involve the said amount of failure and those behind its hiding from the authorities.
It is right to be a nuisance to the people, President Benigno Aquino said, his bosses, and for the straight path, but many are on top of it, "it is true!
