No one changed.

Wherever they look back, the flooding did not escape again because of the incessant change - on the streets, on television, on television, on the radio, especially during the election time.
The candidates who are going out of the country will come out again and will rise from a worse state of life of millions and millions of Filipinos, who are in critical condition in the current administration of the government but it seems that it is confusing in their own record when they are still seated.
Three years have passed since President Benigno Aquino III left the same position of the candidates now in the campaign of 2010, he ran using the Ipit Gang "straight path, and promised to rise their lives and livelihood of the common people.
Three years have passed, but no one has changed, instead, the straight path will lead to more than greater help to the people.
The sector of work in the past years is severe, when it is said that the economy of the country - which is said to have been progressing the economy of the country - is said to have been released by a 6-year-depth economic growth in the Philippines - it cannot be felt by the citizens.
The data of the government itself proves that the country's country will continue to continue their country from 1.1 million pesos in the year 2011, wherein more than a million farmers, Filipino workers, and fishermen who lost their jobs in the year 2012.
If you think about it, the Aquino government is worse if compared to the head of the Aquino administration, there is no meaningful increase in the salary given by the workers, and more than this, DOLE announced that there is no additional wage increase for the workers.
Three years have passed after Aquino promised the voters of change in the sectors of education but the change brought by the Aquino administration is feared to add up to the K-12 program that will add up to the K-12 program that will add up to the K-12 program that will add up to the K-12 program, and one way of the regime, to answer the international needs for its cheaper ones.
While the election is approaching, Aquino continues to show themselves from his party despite his desire to implement his promises in the past election.
Aquino is using all the branches of his government - from the Supreme Court (SC) to strengthen and even if it will lead to the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) to strengthen and even more fiery emotion from the Commission on Elections (COMELEC), that it will not be implemented by the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) in the other side, they are continuously being harassed by the Commission on Elections (COMELEC).
Despite the flooding of promises of the running candidates, it is just right for the people to see who are worthy to be elected in position, what kind of parties and candidates are the real body of the majority.
More than this, it is right that the solution will bring a widespread change in the coming election as a strong proof that the citizens should understand that the rotten system is needed to change but also in the ballot but the strength that will bring true and lasting change will change.
