
Drilon's experience with 1 billion pesos and the Senate Blue Ribbon.

Senate President Franklin Drilon made a case against plunder and corruption in the Office of the Ombudsman regarding the project of the Iloilo Convention Center.
Former Provincial Justice Manuel Mejorada filed a case and said that the project of Drilon will be implemented.
It is said that the funds used here are from the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Senate President's explanation was simple.
The Department of Public Works and Highways were held by everyone in order and making a project just to explain.
He said he did not have a role but will conduct the proposed law that will be approved for the project, including the appropriate funds.
He does not have anything to do with the disturbance if he has something and he believes that there is no disturbance.
P45,8M for OPLAN).
While Mister President is washing the hands, if the investigation in the Senate is washing their hands, Mejorada said the former staff of Drilon in the Senate, that the hand of Drilon in the project is dirty.
But he allegedly had an accomplice in illegal income that costs P45,8M from P1B fund of convention Center.
Mejorada has named DPWH Sec. Rogelio Singson and Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez.
Of course, Sec. Singson also explained and the allegations of Mejorada have been questioned.
The declaration of Mejorada as the price of a building near convention center is said to be cheap, so it is suspicious that Drilon's project is expensive.
Convention center has its own traits that need to spend money in order to become strong.
We just do not know what to answer to Secretary Jimenez, while we are writing this, Bro, we still cannot hear the voice of Jimenez.
Action of the Senate.
Just a question in the Senate, Bro, especially in the Blue Ribbon Committee headed by Senator Alan Cayetano and Senator Koko Pimentel and Senator Koko Pimentel.
Will you also investigate this case and think about how PDAF and DAP were involved here?
If Mang Johnny, Jinggoy and Bong will investigate before, Vice President Binay will just call Vice President Binay, will he call Guingona's investigation in "hearing aid," ehek, in exchange of hearing aid?
I was just asking!
If you are not interested in the Blue Ribbon Committee, this is just all Souls' day.
It seems like you are the reason why PNoy down back the Second, for a charter change.
