
The privatization of North Cotabato and Davao del Sur is getting stronger.

Macario Abaels.
Mount Bulusan Command (NPA Front (NPA) in South Mindanao)
October 25, 2012.

It has been eight days done by the widespread military operations in the mountainous part of the town of Makilala, North Cotabato and Magsaysay, Davao del Sur, and the joint forces of the PNP traffic division in Makilala last August 30, and to the foreign ship between the PNP traffic division in Makilala last August 30, and in the said town last September 10.
It was met by the number of bastard criminals who retaliated against the war on October 18, a Tim of the Putatan, assigned to the city government troops who were severely injured in the said action.

Those who took advantage of the citizens are their failure in defending the interest of foreign company, DOLE-IPR, some incidents of violence and abuses done by the civilians in the previous operations were being complained by civilians, some of them are following each other.
(1) October 16, a rubber band), Nestor Auto, resident of Barangay Cabungaan, a resident of Brgy. Cabingas, a resident of Barangay Cabanza, Barangay Lumakil, he was accused by the soldiers and threatened him to go home but he was not allowed to sleep in their hut in the farm.
(3) October 20, the soldier was not hit on the feet of Junjun Peslagan, a farmer, while she was talking to and threatened him that happened in the quarry in Barangay Lumakil in the jurisdiction of Barangay Luistro.
(4) October 21, there was trying hard for the soldiers to have sex with the couple, who are a gentleman and Missus Sebio, from Barangay Cabatingan, in order for them to be lovers.
(5) for additional incidents, the soldiers who are pointing a gun to those who are pointing a gun to the residents of Kapatagan, Brgy. Lumakil in the said barangay, one family were severely scared of the soldiers when they were captured by the soldiers, when they were attacked by their house.

The increasing number of elements of AFP and PNP to the farmers like the mentioned are very hard that affects their livelihood, and this is the actual appearance of the civilians, and the worsening economic rights of the civilians and the worsening economic growth of the AFP and the worsening of the yellow party.
