He stopped and laid down.

Considering is a art of art to remain in the current moment.

Thank you in a gathering that has a set time for each other to be alone, and take a lot of money, and hold a gun which is causing your mind.

What is the meaning of Magistrado?

In my grass hand; PRIMO, it would be a simple way to step down when it comes to our ancestors to discover what is happening in our surroundings, especially when we see what is happening in our surroundings, we are preparing to attend to our ancestors.

The number of people, both live-in and sleep), are both living in the past or are dreaming of our lives in the future, but we usually give attention to all the events, if you want to be sure with all events, if you want to be sure in your future, you can now do it.

Our life is put in control of our minds, and think about it, there is an attitude to raise our attention in the past and in the future, our mind will never stay on this point, the arts of our duties will be enough to do our duty well in the whole afternoon.

However, when we start saving it, we will be able to make it no matter how much it is to be cut off in every day when we are fond of our tasks, we are getting addicted to our tasks, and we forget about more important documents and obligation in life.

What is clear is, it is set to travel now to always wake up and be doubly careful not only in our actions and increase, we will remain silent and make sure that we will stay away and be thankful that we will stay away from our danger.

In simpler terms, even if it is a preparation in our minds to be awake in our actions, minds, feelings, and decisions that we do to start, and what we do not need to start, and what is related to your minds, and what is related to your minds, and what is related to your minds, and whatever it has to be fulfilled.

If this kind of moments will be done for each day, this will be a part or ritual for every day.

In spite of it, we become a witness to all activities of life, from waking up in the morning and until sleeping at night, but what we witnessed is to always be alert and all of what we witnessed is from your mind and your reaction is coming from your real awareness.

The long time to follow the mind is a miserable life, her mind is filled with grief waiting for fear, and teasing of various worry, and to escape from a miserable life like this, and live in every moment of happiness and glory (IED).

What should be known is silent, numb, and we do not have any ability to guide and not moving and thinking.

There is no one controlling the mind, but you make yourself make yourself from your mind if you decide on your mind if you decide on your mind if you can decide on your mind, because your mind is just watching over you, because your mind is just watching over you, because your mind will be set aside from your mind.

Until you have intentions and ambition, you are prisoners.

The mind is very restless and cannot deny, it is hard to save and supervise and allow a wise person to correct their minds in spite of making a full pain, it can make it straight.

To the reality, we have no mind, but if we think about it and let us think about it and let us believe that this is part of us and believe that it comes from the truth, and if it comes from our feelings.
In our minds, our mind is the one who has control over us.

If there is no notice, no repression to happen will happen to this, if you will not be charged or control over your mind, and it is rare for our minds to think, and it is rarely seen in conditioning the minds, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, and friends.

The minds are continuing to pour; and while we are trying to stop them, it will be more widespread, however, we are not thinking about it, and there are no past or future, we are just doing this and we are doing it and we are doing it.

There is no identity or energy that if we will stop the attention of them, it will be the initiative to lose security while we are noticing it and as time passes by, it becomes more noticeable and as time passes by, it becomes more noticeable.

If you think about yourself, watch this, while you are watching it, the theme of your words, your thoughts and emotions, when you have not noticed all of your words, when you have not noticed all of your words, when you have not noticed anything, it is a part of adopting.

Even if you are sitting in a bus, on a tricycle, or walking in a beautiful park, you can be swayed by a beautiful flowers, or listening to the faces of your partner or child, in moments and times when you get hurt.

Put it on.

It is very quiet to sit in a moment, and can be proven how you will complain about any kind of mind.

2-mindedness to shut your lips, and can be proven how much you are talkative and abuse even if no one is asking.

3 - avoid meddling with many things, and you can prove that you are really wasted on your important moments with no meaning.

With the door and inside your room, and you can prove that you are confused with the many relationship and kind of person.

5-lessen hope, and you can prove why your head is always painful and you have a lot of illness.

Be honest in your character, and you can prove that you are already being judgemental, your decision, and critics of others.

7 to follow what your heart is courting, and you can prove that your only happiness and set glory will be here.

If you find out how much the power of your mind is never thought of, you will never think of negative things.

If there are questions, there are answers.

In your personal life, Anzon in the story of your life is what you don't expect from writing?

- do you ask to give back to your whole potential?

How do you really want to go?

What are you want to experience?

What are you needed in order to make a good or fix your life?

- in your situation today, you can be said that it is always happy whenever you are happy?

What are your dreams and dreams for the future?

- are you ready to plan for what you suffered in life?

If you can make your strategies or the showcase to improve your life?

If you are ready to start the steps so that you will have to support your dream of life?

In spite of it, do you get tired of what you are thinking and doing and nothing else?

- you are not avoiding grief waiting, tragedy or failures?

If you analyze it or if you are scrutinizing the tragedy, worry, and fear where these are coming from?

- do you feel that you are already awake, but do not choose and pay attention to it?

- will you join a religion sector that dictates what you need to do, we will vote, and for the orders of others who believe or what others believe or what others believe or what others believe?

- do you want to enter a room, whose door was cut off, and brought it to yourself?

- how do you know how to lie down?

Success or failed?

Whatever it is, you are in your power to choose and this will be your fate.
