
For ten years of justice, ten years of fight.

Macky Macasaxing, November 14, 2014.

Justice is when one old man was looking at the victims of the bloody massacre in Electronic Court, which is expected to be given by the Aquino administration in the land where the Aquino family will be given to the land which is considered to be given by the Aquino family, by the declaration of the martial law in the land where their clan will be given to.

The Tarlac Development Authority (Tadeco) who is in control of the family, as well as the people like Virginia Torres, former chief of Land Transportation Office, is the friend of Aquino.

Zamora's family recently passed, the members of the Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan (Ammunition) filed a pile of cases against the sibling of Aquino, Maria Elena "Atong" Aquino-Cruz, his uncle, Jose "Mamondiong, including the two officials of the police in Tarlac.

They filed a case against the farmers because they insisted on what they insisted on the land that they were pointing at, which is a part of the project that they were rolling on, but it is clear that this is part of Hacienda Luisita, which is a clear part of Hacienda Luisita, which should be used by the farmers.

Immediately the immediately defended by Aquino to Malacañang and said that the accusations are just a gimmick of Amin and challenged him to release evidence.

In the interview by Filipino Weeker, the farmers, "boos" insisted that they implemented the distribution of Foreign Affairs of Land OPLAN) for those who join the beneficiary of the land, not the land they gave to them, not the land they gave to them.

"This is where I have grown old.

Vilma Santos of Hacienda Luisita Vazza "Bogus" Ocampo said, that he doesn't want to get Camply because he does not want to get a Cowboy because it is still in a distant place or other barangay that can be stopped.

He said that after the bloody protest of the 2004, the mother of his family left almost five hectares of land near their place in Brgy. Mapalacadao, but this past few months, after the owner of Virgie stole the land, and said that they were the owner of the land.

"They were using Torres for the land, they were still destroyed" the rice plants and vegetables, "he said, included in those who kidnapped their crops were some residents of DAR and other policemen.

"My brother protested again to prevent the destruction of our rice, what can he do, those who were together with the personnel of Torres," said, the family of Ocampo, who was from 1968, was ran off.

The Filipino workers received the CampA, separated from the small land they collected and in far places.

"This should have been done by DAR and what the people have done here, which is the ones given by the people here, they are ready to lessen it," says Rebecca Santos, who was forced to reduce its master list, which is why they were forced to run as a SALN of its own land.

"What is painful, many of those who got the Come A, it is not true that he became the Filipino farm of the hacienda.

One of those considered that crops were exhumed by Santos. "It lost a lot from us: Rice, banana and vegetables," he said.

Chel-Iba, Zambales the story of Lucia (not real name), was sold because he sold his Cowboy at a amount of 250,000 pesos.

"I was forced to sell the Cowboy because our life was difficult because we could not make the land that was given because it was far from another barangay," he said, a tricycle was able to buy a tricycle to the sale.

Lucia also said, even his two children were already sold by their Cgrandmothers. "The one, which was already sold by P120,000 pesos and one more than P3.," he said.

But it was trace from his face the sadness while telling the sale of the recovered Ciano.

As well, some of the people who talked to Filipinos Weeker were said to have been sold to the personnel of Virgie Torres and other people who were former supervisor in Cojuangco.

"I already sold P14,000" the land I got on May. But I did not give my documents, "said Ana Linando, said, she needs money back then because of sending her three children to school.

"They do not want to stop studying, so I was forced to sell the land, he said.

Stated in the agreement of the distribution of land that cannot be sold, put under the land they collected of DAR in a few years.

It also stated that the land they distributed will always be full of beneficiary.

But in the case of those who are from the hacienda, a small land could not support one family who have been distributed, aside from being separated and became the cause of the fight of snatchers, because the government has no support for them to improve their production.

But the suffering of planting - the project that has been cut off is much productive and beneficial for the farmers and Filipino workers who are allies of Ammute, Aquino continues to destroy them, with the help of DAR.
