Number Revenue (United Kingdom will be able to save the school of the World Health Organization and the celebration of International Students.

(This work was published about the issue of 5-6 of the Philippine Cologne last 7-2014).
November 17.
We often go to the concept of the students inside the Batasang Pambansa, wanting to send a teacher and a board exam, or the truth is, the real television series that they experienced in the house, school, society and towns.
It is also often heard that education is the only thing that the parents can send to their child, as well as the recommendation of the United Nations that is contrary to the administration of the United Nations which is contrary to the government of the United Nations (Art), to ensure that the government of the United Nations should be approved by the government of the country, which is being neglected by the government that should be supported by the government.
The issue of education is only one issue on the issues of the students and Filipino youth in a country filled with taxes and a part of our countrymen who are hardworking and the important role of the Filipino students in the Libingan ng mga Day.
This is the 119th Independence Day of the dates of November 17 as the international day of the studies of taking advantage of the long history of power of being taken away from the dictatorship and other corrupt system.
In fact, this is related to the endorsement of the students and actions of the students who dared to amend RA 9165 last October until November of 1939.
Last 1939, the authorities identified the students of Medical Facons of Charles University to commemorate the anniversary of this fight last October 28, 1939 to commemorate the anniversary of its fight against 1918, 1939, and the worker Vacklers and Moravia, and in Severe Actor of Boaxe.
The murder of OPLAN LS is that the actions against Onok Island in fact, the ones who are pointing out for the burial of Odresses are attended by the thousands of students last November 15 and became an opportunity to arrive against the legislative chamber.
Faithful to being horny is loyal to those who arrive in secluded places and in college, and more than 1,200 students were arrested and punished for everyone, nine students and professor were killed last November 17 in the said year.
It was the year 1941 when the Independence Day of the students in London of International Students, the tradition of going back to the rights of the militants, the tradition of return to the International Union of Students, together with the National Union of Students.
Revil, Philippines - history is not a teacher in history, history that the history of students and youth, the Philippines is a witness in accordance to the history of the students and youth.
History is the proof that the Filipino people, students and youth are the "'game changer" in society, force and religious leaders of the students and Filipino youth for fighting against freedom: Andres Bonifacio, Jose Rizal, Emilio Jacinto, Apolinario Mabini, Gabriela Silang, and many others.
In the declaration of martial law by the Marcos regime, those who are similar to Edgar Jony son or Edusma's rights are dependent on the youth and other sectors of the Philippines and the First Division, to remind the rights of the students and youth for the sake of the success and rights of the country, they are the ones to offer.
And at present, in the middle of the corruption of BS Aquino III, in the middle of the low price of education and public service, in the middle of the increase in price of education and other needs, in the middle of the price of education and people, in the middle of the rules of education and the people, the hole in the challenges and improvement of the challenges will continue.
As they say, "there is no mistake in the fight that is why they are fighting."
