
Bea, astride the heart.
Gerald, married man.
By Alwin, July 31, 2016.
I was watering, laughed, talked, and faith in real love for what happened in Diva, thank you for a love because of the movie How TBe Yess.
Bea Alonzo and Gerald Anderson. Heart of heart could really feel bad, her emotion and truth to Anj and Nino were very good.
The truth that the two became lovers got married, it seems that it is natural for the light, tender and sexy performer.

Some of the things that they know is that they are going to live in a bar in the bar.
The supermarket, which showed up in a relationship, was seen to be an ally, is not over by the Top Rank.

Not in MMK this is no longer a television series.
None of her eyes are wearing a Pop A Second, no anger that is rooted on the neck, without a flawless, and cunning and glamorous.
Without pointing fingers, an avers, and even though it is not his way to board the score of thank you, you can make a bait for thank the Help IT led by thank you.
"Break, their Scene of them, was destroyed to be destroyed by the male classmates of Anderson.
Heart-tempered and even Alonzo is being abused by Alonzo on the fact that he is not discouraged.
Just laugh at the movie, because, as well as an identification of, as well as an identification of your life or what's happening in your life or the events in your life, thank you, this is just a coincidence by the camera.
"Those who will be cheated on, very short, vice-Alva ation, because, they were watering the one who was watering the one who is courting her.
The reality is the fragrance of drilling, as a cherness.
Thank you in the movie, thank you Rom for Anj and El Nino, you will be able to attend to their friends who are at fault.
Just laugh, because, you have been deceived by nonsense.

You are also laughed, because entice is an only child, thank you, to be very real.
Do you want to say that he / she has to be a child, but my Lord Almighty, "I am not like the beauty of Bea" Viceral? "
He / she was wearing.
She cried, aside from what I mentioned, that is why let us go to the house that I have been feeling the tears of my chuckled feasted in.
In the meantime, the fact that you can reach the reality, thank you Sea, a love Severe Actor, which is why the Fight of IGAPARK.
It's because, to be the lead Stars, Are, who was in the US.
That's why it was still very clear on the conversation between Anj and Nino.
And when it comes to a point, what you will give to them is not the only answer to be given to them.
It's because, the reason that the person who has a love affair with a person, which should really be the one to send the order, is to be sent to the order.
He / she was wearing.
We gave hope and faith about love, Hooters or Be Yess, a person who has no easy relationship.
All relationship, friends or partner, behind the potential of thank you.
It's true that it is true that the waist-coloured house is very short, but it is to the Armed Forces Battalion in situations where you'll come near, thank you with Fight IT.
With all the relationship, a person should be seen, with a point, but it should not be a good sign and more will not reprimand.
If you love a person, thank you for a person, you should have been criticizing you, you should also be hit in your self, include your dignity and respect.
Taw, a romantic relationship with Are Meeting, ten o'clock, and 5 years old, just like Anacorta and Nino, who was being treated for a point, thank you for the extra-up.
It's because, you know, Taba person, thank you, Are and Forever.
It is true that love is good and painful, but in the end of the Philippines, Fight IT.
Hooters Restaurant in a movie, who can be said that I can only say that I am the only one who can say that the all the all of its its every time will be a love of all the all its its every year-law, horts, pimples.
The tandem Bea Alonzo and Gerald Anderson Silva will not be hit.
