
List of Napoles, National security?

We are extremely worried by the friends of President Benigno Aquino III.
Pres. Leila de Lima initially said that he already has the list of Napoles who is teaching the many members of the Senate and the Chamber who benefited from the pork barrel.
He said there are members of Aquino's cabinet officials and some personalities in the media for more than a month, de Lima still does not want to release the list so the people will know who is the criminals to get the people's money!
Former senator and now in the rehab czar, Aquino, also has a copy of the testimony of Napoles, who will also ask an identification of the testimony of Napoles, that because he will still be killed by Senate President Franklin Drilon?
Your distress! You are all stories that you think you are an actors in the show of Napoles, if the content of the national interest is true, you need to release Napoles list and do not make it out of the people.
What is serious about this is what Ping Lacson said that national security is said to have become a problem if the vendors are out of their hunger, because the involved are allies of the Marcos regime that will be consumed in the moment the truth will be revealed?
Why is it that when you are enemies in politics, you can almost reverse what they are doing now, most of the list are said to be involved in the size of the pork barrel scam, you are involved, it suddenly has a problem with the national security?
Why is it that it seems that it was hard to release the list of Napoles, when it was emphasis that it was Senate Minority Juan Ponce Enrile, Senator Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla, who are pointing out from the administration of Aquino not to get away from the administration of Aquino, that is why it is being pointed by Napoles list, which is why it is being pointed out by Napoles list.
Mister Aquino, if you still have a left embarrassment as a leader of the country, do not cover up your co-inmates in Malacañang, you should show up to your co-inmates in Malacañang.
