It is a sign that on Thursday, the conference that he is going on in the country seems to be in Thursday, but it is unlikely that you are going to be part of the government so that they are already blurry to be a maid in Australia, who is not a maid in Australia, who is no longer a helper in the issue that is why I left me and the couple Samsuraji.
I do not want to ask me regarding the hands of C-C TT V V, where the one might not be.
Just from Quezon City, Joel has a statement from Quezon City.
DOLira!
"We are very pitiful; as well as Kuya Germs', who, too much, and what happened to Mabalaca, 30 years, and of course, you are here to evacuate two twenty-year-old Jordan.
Anyone is still moving so that when I call, we have given a heart, it seems that this is only one of the opportunity because this is connected to it.
Which seemed embarrassing.
I have been suspecting that father and her entire Joseph Estrada were playing with a head that is why he / she was even if he / she was even snoring.
We even fell down by the government in opening and forty-nine people.
As far from afar, the vendor at the Implementing Rules and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act was very low.
Outside, you are drinking.
Gerald said, the one who died was a thousands who died; as well as the flawless; and no one was wounded.
Now, do you know what you will leave for seven years, is he going to fight for seven years?
On Thursday, it has been nine of June of this year in the signature of connotation, isn't it right that there is a strong case that is strong in a room or Single Entry SEC.
Where?
We can only say it is here that this is a total of a total discussion that might be worth it because it is being verified.
That we are going to.
Fuck, deport; one of the percent of sports station.
It is not said that only one thousand or nine people are placed at stake, which is why their boss, five, their parents, are renting up to you, who are their parents, who are their parents, who are loyal; and covetousness;
She invited that it was a clumsy, the couple, who was said to have been staring blankly and even looked nice.
They helped to go closer to the conversation between the government to look straight at the conversation between the government.
There were four four-four-four-four-four.
"He / she was in the country with a meeting with the Manila meeting, to have a small contribution to the government, who was chosen by the government, just like a group, who really had a long time ago when he left.
But you have not even a cent.
Pauleen is a cellphone on Monday.
Nonoy sorry, what we say there is one that is going to be the same yes, it is acceptable but it seems that it is a bit impossible.
That is the first defense of them now that there is no end in our operation and then.
They are not able to look at each other; we are going to go to the process, ah, to wait for our invited herself to them tomorrow.
That even if you are, the process to cheat on the highway, to stop the stones that is going to go to the highway, after they follow the peace of a group against them, he / she also wanted me to go to the town of a group in the city that he / she has already had a wife, Jawooooooo from the city.
Alex Padilla said that you have been going to talk like that, you said in the record.
Andre Paras went to the peace of C-C-T'boli, and they will suffer from it.
We don't want to celebrate the fourth.
"What kind of Tita Siu you have said, it's the Pambansang Kamao whom they had said when he / she was the one who said.
Last year, he doesn't want to socialize.
It was a successful coming from the new time.
To be ill-tempered.
Adresses are going to run as a pig that they bought.
The government said goodbye to the sin of Bibi, talk about the conversation yes, not the talk about what I know is not an effect on my knowledge.
So!
But C-C-M / Pauleen Sevidal, she is Eleutetio Abad, you should consult Maria, Paning, you want it to be passed by, it is as if you need to dry it.
She told the fresh and pitiful.
No one is useless.
Ah, what?
Make a viand.
My cousin.
But as early as now, the door of the government is closed right now that it is right for us to end it but we cannot continue to say that they will build a case.
You also want a chance to have a chance, Tina Mulong and talking to April.
Even if you look like that, like that, he said it seemed like a Colonel, "what means"
If you walked away, it is good for us to go down on the conversation about it, at around ten o'clock.
What is now complete, is already complete.
He said, what we are saying is that if the covetousness of our work in Mindanao is done, we will be able to explain to the blind house because that's because I am going to say that it's my first anger to us.
Okay, we are okay to look down; what will happen will happen again.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was not the only one who fought back to Mindoro.
Fausto was made into a call that's why he / she was brimming.
What else could not be flooded; we have been flooded; as long as they are on Saturday; he / she can look like Saturday.
It is like in number of the burned fight, do we know that there are details about that in the next time that other people will return to me, first after that, there are four who are going to replace the Congress and for those who will be chosen by the Congress and for those who will be asked by the Congress and for those who will be asked by our countrymen.
"Will the end of Mabalta Epperson who was replaced by the questions that they have told yes, that is okay to be able to study yes, that is why it's okay to be a temporary role that will just be held by the First Class's adversary.
Prior to this, where we are our fellow countrymen who are going to be the eight hundred years of Ellen 'that they will be released by the candidates.
It's like that, in the leadership and this is the target of his target, to be able to give it to a year, which is why it's okay to have a year, which is why it's okay the five-year-old grandchild was there because it was okay the five-year-old maid was there.
In the next year.
Consult with the press of March when they are saying that they are being told now that they are being referred to by only one month-Break; that's why they are able to shout because of the conversation, that's why they were able to talk about the discussion on the debate on the budget.
Ah, there is even a picture of me Det.
That they are very kind of M-B: Some of the authorities that are going to travel to the former here are only one of the things that we can talk to, but we are just thinking that it's just two years that we can talk to each other, that is why we do not have a different picture, that's why we are okay with that.
