Frankly: The real freedom.
By Ellen Toribio, June 13, 2016) there is a mixture of sadness when the celebration of the disputed freedom of the Philippines yesterday.
Maybe because the celebration yesterday was the last in the administration of President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III.
There should be no politics for the commemoration of the freedom of our country, that is why the candidate of Aquino, Mar Roxas, is hoping that the next administration of Aquino will not say that, so, of course, different ways of the killing of the country will not happen.
In his speech at the traditional form or gathering every day of freedom in Malacañang in front of the ambassador of different countries and officials of the country, there are still those who are even trying to make the administration.

There is still the role that was called by his family in fighting against the Marcos regime.
Aquino said, "we showed that we can take back the ultimate democracy as now, we have proven that democracy is being used for the good of our citizens now that we reach all our countrymen who are roaming in the process and rights of every person."
Aquino added, "we did this when we choked the voice of anyone and they gave importance to the freedom filed against those who were reported to us, we were firm that we can reach our dignity and rights."
Will this be heard in the next president that only now is the style that he showed in his governance is an iron fist?
It turns out that Duterte did not attend the celebration of the 119th Independence Day in Davao.
We are getting used to that kind of celebration for the next celebration of the freedom of the country, this afternoon will start and the gathering will start and the gathering of the Malacañang is at night.

Many lives have been the sacrifice for us to reach the freedom that we are experiencing now, our ancestors against those who occupied us in Spain, United Kingdom, Japan and United States.
But freedom and not only against the Spanish colonizers.
We are not true that many of us are corrupt and have no ability to implement the dreams.
We are not true that we are not free to express our feelings.
Last month, we had the election and we are free to buy our next leaders, part of democracy, which is filed against our ancestors.
It is our obligation to strengthen the democracy as well, not only for us but for the children and to be given to our children.
