1-sangandila by "Yolanda," this should be exposed by Ren E.

One year after the horrible tragedy, who really should be blamed for the death of thousands of our countrymen from the onslaught of super typhoon Yolanda in Visayas?
Let us get into the events before this happened.
November 7, before the typhoon hit the land, DILG Secretary Mar Roxas and Defense Sec. Voltaire Gazmin were in Tacloban City.
That's why President Aquino called on the night before the onslaught of "Yolanda" to the people to prepare and reminded the bad effects of the super typhoon.
He warned the possibility that there will be a storm survey results from 100 places.
According to Coloma, "The President is the national government of the United Nations for the super typhoon Yolanda, and after the super typhoon Yolanda, and after Fight IT, the Philippine government, which is an expert in the state of the state of the country."
November 8, what is feared at around 10: 00 when the typhoon in Tacloban has arrived at around 10: 00 in the actual account, which has been buried in the hole of many of our fellowmen in Tacloban and nearby provinces who have been buried in a pit and grief.
And November 9, PNoy and Mar Roxas admitted that what happened in Tacloban was a result of the lack of preparation of the LGU who looked for Roxas in the character of Tacloban Mayor Alfred Romualdez.
And Roxas becomes tangled, he said that he will not give help if Roxas would not resign.
This becomes tangled, politics got first compared to helping the victims of the tragedy.
Last November 10, PNoy went to Tacloban but did not even talk to the LGU officials and there were also the president who prioritize the opponent in politics.
As vice chairman for Disaster Coordinating Council, who knows the result of the storm survey, isn't it right that Roxas is working with the LGU on how to fulfill the preparation of the people who will be affected by the residents going to a safe place and not the one who does not have a nagger and should have prioritized the fight.
Usually, the LGU who is responsible in the implementation of "social evacuation" but if the LGUs are lacking in ability and lacking in time, the national government should act even if our fellow countrymen depends on it.
Roxas felt the thickness of the face of Roxas when he allowed his duty as head for Disaster Coordinating Council but was able to fly to the role of DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman, who was unable to give assistance (relief goods) in Tacloban City if the mayor did not resign.
Isn't it too late for a year after Yolanda Disaster to know that he is the one who should resign from DILG?
