Gloria Macapagal-Aries (Aries (Aries. 2), Bernard Taguba, July 22, 2016.
The legal counsel of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo clarified that he does not have any plans for now to be after and be responsible for the one who served him. "
Mrs. Arroyo said that there is nothing... that she is priority, "the two... that his family, who are orphaned by almost five years to her, especially his grandchildren," Atty. Ferdinand Topacio, stated.
"It's already dead that GMA was already dead" in her grandchildren, I can clearly see him.

First, he / she said that he / she was still being able to ask him / her to be ashamed because he was able to give her own service to the Veterans Memorial Medical Center (he said that he would be able to give her own service to the Veterans Memorial Medical Center) in case the former president will fight back to the Veterans Memorial Medical Center) in case he heard the former president so that the former president will fight him, so he can answer those who gave emphasis to him.
"According to him, we have a law that will be able to get a up that will be able to get a up, if you are and the First Division, thank you," that's why he still wants to go to a case that will be charged by the Department of Justice (DOJ), that is why he / she doesn't want to go to a case that will be charged to him, "said," said to be a case against him, "the explanation of Atty. Topacio," the explanation of Atty. Topacio.
It is said that former President Arroyo can also file a complaint against the individuals or personalities who are connected to him.
It was around four o'clock in the afternoon yesterday when the Sandiganbayan First Division denied the decision of the Supreme Court to dismiss him from the plunder case related to the anomaly using 366-million intelligence fund of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO).
After receiving the decision, the anti-graft court immediately revealed the anti-graft court signed by Justice Efren dela Cruz, chairman First Division, Presiding Justice Amparo Cabaje-Taje-Tantan together.
"In addition, of course, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo is Benigno Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo of Benigno Aguas Are Benetby, RTEL HQ.
The copy of Minahan ng Sandali, Philippine National Police, Veterans Memorial Medical Center and other personal office were immediately sent home.
