Good luck, thank you for you to be a child for the invitation of our negotiation.
That's okay with your mother-in-ray; he / she was able to look straight at the lotto so that they would wait a lot.
Here in the hot issue, he is going to leave a hot topic because from the previous height, he does not want us to be ready.
Here in the program of the K-C that we do not think about it for two years, no matter how it is, he became with him.
The discussion.
Preparation.
What could be affected by this point; that's why we have been affected; this is the result of the older sister, which is also affected by our pictures on Sunday to send a number of his older sister to save a number.
Using it.
Like what I can say about this is that he will go to our hearts, "her daddy said to the First Family, so that other people will lose something.
For the same time, maybe it will also be lost, that will also be gone to one's personal life.
Chuces, but they will also give in to grade that's why I am having an effect that's why I have an effect to our teachers, who are very kind to our teachers, which can be lost because many will lose many.
Yes, we are pitiful; we can find a way so that will be done.
Yes, I will find a way to get along with our teachers who will teach General education that he can be able to give that, in the district, but there is a little bit of different kinds of establishments; the Model Shop needs us to pay.
Grade 1 can be in grade.
I want that it is okay to go to Together "to come home with us there.
That is not a pastor or pastor.
Of Valte, this is a good morning for you.
Not in the morning, all and all sorts of stories are disconcerting; they feel butterflies.
Yes, one Two people are ready to be ready for what we are supporting and party-party (Tito Paul University of fruit, the length of our conversation today for him, which is very high-tempered; and to all of you.
Yes, we are really pitiful; he / she is very confident, he studied and became the actual question that's bothering her only consolation.
Sectors.
Yes, we are very pitiful; we are really asked to leave the people that you have to go to, are to leave the sake of the people who are saying that other people are saying.
Deputies we can say it's not true.
It is not ready for you to say earlier, even the youngest Development Authority here are pregnant, that is why for those who might be affected by the teacher.
He / she was able to go to school; she lose weight and lose weight and he should really go to school.
Yes, even the security drinking there, including their supporters.
!
Or they were able to file a public one five eight million people who are also ready, what are the five sectors who are really close to there but they accepted that it is the heat of the heat.
A lot of people are complaining; fix the High School; however, if you think about it, the private sector in the private schools that he can buy or is a huge radiation but what, that is the radiation but what happened.
It is said that later there will be a change in his homelres.
That's why we are unaware that you will save for you are graduating from your strength that's why he / she wasn't able to talk to.
One of his / her eight-six-six-six-year-old, that's why Dana's, who is really needed to be ill-tempered; he / she needs to be ill-tempered; he / she keeps on top of the past and very fancy; however, he / she had a secret admirer.
Boaels, very well-tempered; we think that the number of people involved in there are very much more than that, and then you are asking a pastor to pay the salary of those who are full of that, so that we are going to be the salary of those who are full of course, he / she came from us.
My question is all the sectors here to be successful.
Here, we talked to us about the international form of waste, to those who were given to the Philippines that will benefit from Dawooooooo, so we can still ask a big change in the country's system; we are really asked to have a big change in the system of color.
Yes, I said that it was just two years, we were able to wait for two years; we really want to know what will happen, that is why we really do not know what will happen but we really do not know what to happen but that is why we really do not have to face it like this in the situation of his sister, which is why she really does not have to face it like this.
"I will just ask if I am a call here in a noodle house; however, of course, you are on the way of Kuya Jun that's why her Ate Virgie continues and then she agreed.
He / she grew up; he / she has been waiting for a reserved reward if you will come to us in our area.
That is where we are in line; we are fond of searching for someone to call, I am suffering from the call that there will be a huge percentage; the promotion that we want from do, from the tricycle to college.
Even if we are in line with each other, we are applying for a noodle house; we are applying for a noodle house that we are applying for because this is what your business is doing because it might have been here and it might have been here and it might have been here.
Million is very different; but because we were given a chance to give them a chance to finish this season, we have given this Christmas Day on the day that I want you to undergo and for the meantime.
You will be given a chance to be happy.
We have no co-workers who are your good news, right?
That is the first time that she becomes the first one in my parents, especially that we have increased that is why the parents are having fun with the children.
I experts say that we are very stupid; we are stupid.
Two years to join the ways but also for the best of our students to go abroad, we really need to say that we should not say that we are one of our Entertainment Television, "that is why I am going to open, we are able to follow.
I am not like that.
I am an older sister, "are you both in line with you two of you, sir?
Yes, the toll fee is very derogatory; because they are the ones who are Inhorny, and what kind of human rights are, a few kinds of domination; February 18), February 18, when it was discovered now that it will come today.
Yes, you will not be able to tie the five-five children.
According to him, it is said that that in the Philippines, eight people have already been beheaded by the Metro Manila.
Only one thousand, just half of that.
They are going to move on different kinds of establishments; we are too high; too much.
Covetous, whose legs are over; very high; and deport; hence, they are calling the education.
That's why I am not stupid; we are stupid.
It is not complete, he did not go with anything, but they did not do anything.
The bag.
But in number.
Maybe yes, the Two Wives are able to talk to each other; that's why they still do not have anything but you can still hear.
As long as you might get out of Darwin.
"Why is there a need to point out; we are more cheap; we are more cheap; we can go along well, to be able to go with yes, that's why they are asking, we are asking about it.
You are saying that it's not good to have a text message.
For the yes, there are those who eat while eating, or not, with a difference just to wait.
They are.
Ah - we salute those that we talk to there, C-R; we are almost five o'clock.
We have something to have.
So that there are thirty people that are said to be the same policy wherein they have five children that are okay for Bitoy's head; we are okay to continue our backs that we will continue our backs that is why we will see each other in the end that we will do here in the end.
With our companion Banker alcohol, here we are going to continue here, we will know that we are going to know, we will know that we are going to know; we will know that we will look at the end of the end.
