Medicine for Masbate and gambling of Toto Lacson.

Last month, the government stated that it is set to release a billion peso fund for medicine that will be distributed by the Department of Health (DOH) for far provinces.
This is included in the country that he has been considered by the Palace in a secluded area, in Masbate.
King-mother, squid oy, a remote area, Masbate!
In fact, if the Aquino government would really want to give other aid to my province, the trip will be just one hour in the airplane.
But because the Masbate is in a secluded area, those inhumane who carry the medicines for my province have no cure for my province.
We know, make sure how much you get sick so that the small income that is earning is not enough to buy medicine every time they get sick.
In fact, my fellow countrymen have been used to a piece of paper that I am writing to, the only solution to them every time they can join the Masbate Provincial Hospital!
Because the local government cannot give any free medicine to blame the local government because of the small funds given to the 20 towns and one city.
Of course, after the help will be lessened for the many poor people who are Masinloc and a few pieces of projects, what else will be left for medicine?
This will also be done for you to get ill-tempered. "
That is why we are one of us, to be happy when the Palace stated that at last, they will be brought with Masbate in the list of giving up the free medicine of the DOH.

"Hopefully the president loves it, he is not" good "
Hopefully the president really loves, this medicine will be given immediately for Masbate!
Even if DILG Sec. Mar Roxas went to Masbate, the people of DOH are going to carry out the said medicine allocated to us.
Even if we know that Mar is just going to use it to the politicking of Mar, he gives them the medicine to us.
Anyway, we will not vote for him!

Up to now the prevalence of illegal gambling dens which is a friend of Vice President Jojo Binay is still ongoing.
In fact, according to our Avena, there are no police who may just meddle with it, based on Lacson in Bangkal, Makati.
