
History of the Supreme Court of the Philippines.

History of the Supreme Court of the Philippines.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

(My articles flooded when the Pang-Masa ,-8-8, issue from January 16, February 15, 2012, along the height of the impeachment against Chief Justice Renato Corona).

The court also built a court, and judge who has no heart and all are chosen.

To those who are fond of talking, the person who is always the basis of the decision of decision is the basis of the decision.

There are laws that violate the law.

The ones who are guilty will bring a corresponding punishment.

A, hand of boils in Hala: A branch of the old justice.

They are always late and jailed.

It is not a vampire.

It is said that it is a nuisance to Muog of type, Amado V. Hernandez.

"And the justice is just for the rich" - from the brightness.

It seems that justice is really for the rich?

Is there a need for the Supreme Court to focus on the rich and for the rich the justice that has been bought by the Supreme Court (Chief Justice) and 14 of the Supreme Court (Chief Justice (Chief Justice), who is also known by the Supreme Court (Chief Justice (Chief Justice), who is also known by the Supreme Court last June 11, 1901.

Time, Pritil.

Before the Spaniards arrived in the country, the leaders of the balut, such as rebellion and Datu, are the authorities in the initial time of the Spaniards, this power was in the hands of Miguel Lopez de Legaspi, which is currently in the hands of Miguel Lopez.

It's the time of the Spaniards.

Rodiano also founded on May 5, 1583, which is composed of the president, four judge and one fiscal.

The infrastructure and duty of Rodiano also has changed, to 1815 when the judge who comprise it was and called as a pure branch of justice, although its decisions can be submitted to the Supreme Court of Spain, which is in Madrid.

It is the time of the Americans.

Sanga-1898.

The present.

Although a Filipino is given the pet magistrate from 1901 until 1935, majority of the members of the Supreme Court have grown up to the Saligang Batas of the supreme court, and in general, the members of the Supreme Court will grow up to the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution, and in general, it is being divided in the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution, and in general, he is divided into the Constitution by the Supreme Court.

All the members of the Supreme Court were able to take care of the president of the Philippines, that based on the list that the Judicial and Bar Council (Article VIII, SDU9 of the Saligang Batas of 1987), the orders of the Commission on Human Rights is prepared.

Kind.

If we notice the type of the Barangay magistrates of the Philippines, almost all of them came from the type of horseshoe, "an avid follower of the Philippine Supreme Court," OPLAN), "

Because all the Supreme Court can determine, how can the citizens ensure that the judges will become an ally of the Supreme Court, and not in choosing the magistrates, for justice, for justice, for justice, this should not be taken off in one side.
