
It is a disrespect of sovereignty and sovereignty that the warship of US and Japan will anchor in the country.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
September 18, 2013.
Disbursement Acceleration Program (Sevidal and Examination of the US, Japanese, Are Hafloat on the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency).

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) presented the consecutive warship of US and Japan in the dock of the Philippines this past few days as a disrespect of sovereignty and sovereignty of the Philippines. "

The purpose of this anchor, the PKP has added that the ehek of the US in the Asia-Pacific, will build a bigger chance of ending the arguments in South China Sea and make it a bigger sum from a peaceful resolution for the Spratly Islands.

The KP has released this statement in relation to the arrival of two ships of the US in Subic Bay to join the war games by the troops of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), which is a part of Box Ammunition) and has the ability to launch of operations in South China Sea.

Before this, the arrival will anchor last Sunday to the two warship of Japan in Manila Bay if JS-108) and JS-108) and JO 2-155) are under the Escort-71) in the so-called "state of supply, rest and leisure)."

"What will be more important and continue the presence of the warship of the US and those who are allies of the Philippines, and now, even the forces of Japan which are allies of the Philippines, and those who are allies of the Philippines to have an insult towards the Philippines to have a defense of wealth," said the KP.

"In accepting the military of the US, his forces in the Philippines have a permanent cure for the Philippines, the Marcos regime submitted the freedom of the Philippines and tied the physical appearance of the Philippines in the US."

"The et Family of the Marcos regime should be held accountable for the continuing Winter territory of the Philippines," declaration of the PKP, "after the three years, the Marcos regime was fully dismissed by the Philippines while it is fully placed under the physical appearance of the government budget."
