
Pega

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 18, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) testified for the questionable peace talks between the Philippines and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and said that he does not have a hard time.
"The Aquino administration has an active peace talks about the first day of his seat," said PKP, "said the PKP," said that it is the outline of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that is the cause of abuse of human rights and widespread terrorism. "

For the very first speech of the administration of the Congress, Aquino insisted that the ceasefire forces are going to stop the bush, that there is no ceasefire with the fact that there is no ceasefire, when the mayor had no ceasefire, when the mayor made the agreement between the NDFP members of the United Nations in the past twenty years. "

"But, as a show of good intention, and to celebrate the partners again of the peace talks, the Supreme Court has declared that a 19-year-old attack was declared by the recent agreement in 1986, of the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and of Joint Task Agreement (CAAP) and of Joint Task Agreement (PHHumalig) and of Joint Task Agreement (PHHumalig) and of Joint Task Agreement (CAAP) and of Joint Task Agreement (PHHRO).

However, on December 17, 2010, during the time of the ceasefire, the armed forces of Gideon IOS in Mindanao, which is not only a violation of ceasefire, but also JAG G that should have been under the scope, "said the KP.

It is going out that the arrest of Cousins will be released from the series of arrest to be implemented against the Philippine Amusement and NDFP), only a few days before the continuation of the formal peace talks, "said PKP, a few days before the eve of formal agreement they've been arrested last February 14.

"In the next two years, the armed forces of Aquino implemented the arrest and arrest of some of the Philippine Amusement and Eduardo Sarmiento," added to the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office including Eduardo Serdan and Eduardo Sarmiento, "according to declaration of reading materials and materials for writing."

"Aquino, as the president of GUnited States, also refused to take responsibility for the kidnapping and disappearance during the previous administration of the Marcos regime by the Philippine Amusement and NDFP), Rogelio Calinao, and relatives," said the KP.

"The Marcos regime is very clear and the armed forces have done the arrest and arrest of the Philippine Amusement and NDFP members who knows that the kidnapping talks will continue to prevent the kidnapping, arrest and the tension of the Philippine Amusement and NDFP).

"

"They are being harassed, arrested, kidnapped and locked up the children in this situation where their rights are being destroyed by armed forces of the state and the inventor of the armed forces of the state, more than 400 prisoners who were arrested under the Aquino administration."

"On the back of Aquino's alleged peace and human rights, the record for violation of human rights to Arroyo and the past administrations were not too different," said the KP.

"If it will be said that Aquino himself will attack about the anomalous discussion of the NDFP-Golovkin, he does not have a serious intention to face the crack on the peace talks," according to Aquino, they can use the bush in order to face the revolutionary force and lead the public service. "

"Aquino will take care of the peace talks that it is clear in his Oplan Galugad, who said that it is an initiative to leave its own peace and security of the AFP to leave its strength and eventually enter the peace talks in the government budget."
