Taking advantage of the narco-judges and police judge.
By Fortun, August 26, 2016, it is not surprising that the revelation of President Rodrigo Duterte for those who called "narco-judges are not surprising because the anti-drug operatives of the Philippine National Police (PNP) has long known that the anti-drug operatives of the Philippine National Police (PNP) has long been known by the drug lords in exchange for the trash of their case in some technicality.
Eight narco-judges were named by President Rody Duterte including Judge Mecy of Dasmariñas City, Cavite; Judge Reyes, Baguio City; Judge Casiple, Kalibo, Aklan; Judge Casiple, RTC-1090451.
To my knowledge, it is one of the eight narco-judges who filed a case to the Supreme Court but it is said that there is a judge who was fired by the Supreme Court and told them that there is a judge who was fired from him by a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision, particularly in civil cases.
The SC Regional Office of the Supreme Court Administrator Fr. The complaint to a judge at the Makati Regional Trial Court because of his alleged extortion of 15 million pesos to favor his decision in the case related to some companies that they have failed to pay for its insurance for an attempt to pay its insurance.
Chairman and CEO of the Sibol, Abejod was filed with a complaint against Judge Orino Subia, Makati RTC Branch 138 which was said to have received seven million pesos as the initial payment for a favorable decision in the case of SCP against five insurance.
Based on the record, March 30, 2015 was when the SIA filed the case for five insurance so it went to the living room of Judge Subia, last April 2015, the camp of its insurance instead to pay its insurance.
While the case was still on, a Rolando Nana, of the Philippine Drug Group of Commisies, assigned to Uy, and said to be a relative of his wife, Judge Luisito ia, and she was allegedly offered to deny the motion to deny its insurance so he will give 15 million pesos.
In the fear of Uy, the case was junked, he went along with his palm but he was able to give the P7 million ransom that he can give to Subia, and then he will give the balance of eight million pesos.
Uy said in his 7-page agreement that was given to the seven million pesos of palm inside a car parked in the parking area of Smokey Mountain.

Just like what was expected, Judge Luisito ia dismissed the motion to remove its insurance last January 18 but the lawyer of SCP said the said order last January 26 of the current year.
It was immediately filed by a motion for Reccaccam, and motion for an insurance so that the company of an insurance will be dismissed by Subia last March 21, but his insurance was once again filed in Mr last April 19.
The direction of the wind has changed when he had released an order last April 26 who would inhibit on himself on the case and immediately asked to be transferred to all the record of the case in the Office of the Executive Director for the legislative chamber.
The SC justices now is in the hands of the SC justices with what will be their decision in the complaint of Skakel and the former state prosecutor in the Department of Justice (DOJ) or maybe the SC will wait for President Rody to release names of police judges.
