
It was Marcos that Aquino arrested the violation of human rights.

Editorial Department.
The country.
November 7, 2012.

Aquino asked for an answer recently of the right complaints of the human rights to the armed agents of the state, he ignored the continuing number of cases of violence against the people and to declare this is a propaganda of the Lef. "

He even managed to destroy the people who are violating the human rights of the military and police as well as an example made by the poor people of the military and police as an example of the demolition of armed men who were armed with a gun, live-up, gas and baton.

It has been shown in the appearance of Aquino's statements and against the citizens who do not care about the feelings of the families of the victims of killing, kidnapping and other violation of the state of human rights.

Aquino did not allow the worsening of the abuse of the forces of the state of the state of a few days after the massacre of the soldiers of the 27th IB, of Capion in Davao del Sur.

The statements of Auto, which is rampant in the widespread lies of the former dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who did not stop the political prisoners in the country, when it reached 70,000 to join under martial law.

Like Marcos before, Aquino is convinced now to have the political opponents in the country in fact, the prisoners who are jailed and missing for more than two years of the cities of poor cities in order to give way to the projects which are being implemented by the foreigners.

In the neglect of Aquino in the sake of human rights as a propaganda, he is challenging the incessant use of violence of military and police against the people, the truth is, Aquino, and his regime, are conducting a propaganda. "

Anzon is threatened by Aquino, that he could not make up for the violation of human rights under the Oplan Tokhang of his regime, students, students, poor cities, students and other people who are proud and supported by the anti-citizens, who will be guarded and anti-worthy policy of the regime.

Aquino called more than the Filipino people even though he further added that he is a victim of abuse of the law while he is the same with the former dictator in the use of propaganda, he will be an expert of the international community in the hope that he will believe in the national community.

Aquino made the hundreds of pesos from the public funds to make salt on his campaign period, hunger, lack of livelihood, hunger, lack of houses and lack of livelihood, which was exposed by Aquino, which did not ride in the funeral parlor that he has been running for.

Aquino is different from his own lies, becoming more arrogant and being proud of his criticism and dismay on her.

On the other hand, he is fully supported by his Arab boss in implementing his campaign of deceit and domination.

There is no one else to do with the huge masses of the public but to expose and strongly object to the abuse of human rights and the anti-people and the anti-ranking rules of the Marcos US-Aquino.
