The big "scandal is being faced by the church, according to father.

Last June 2003, or ten years have passed, Filipino Identice, who has a big scandal involving some groups of the Catholic Church, has also emphasized that there is a big scandal that he / she was fighting over by many religious groups in the duty of the church to serve the poor and being raped in society.
Father passed away last November 4.
Here is a few parts of the interview with Father Joe Burgos in 2003.

Meow, why are you said that there is a bigger scandal inside the church?
Father. Dizon: "What I am saying is a bigger scandal, the lack of church in fulfilling the church, he was born to the poor parents - most of them, most of them, most of them, most of them, most of them, are poor, fishermen.
"It is said to be the role of who will enter the kingdom of God and who will not be the basis of the kingdom of God and who is not the basis of defending me," when I got hungry, do you released me? "
But after 10 years, in 2001, "of the nuns, all of the nuns, all of the priests," we cannot handle the pain that you embrace the poor. "
But what the church is doing now, for example, to the desire of the workers for a higher salary, "those who are killed in the jurisdiction of the church, and what are those who are killed by the church, and what are those who are killed by the church, for some rich, to those who are rich, for those who are rich, for those who are rich.
That's why this is a bigger scandal if there are a lot who are able to save the latest SWS (Social Weather Station) survey, those who are saying that the priest or the priest, or one priest, or one priest, but majority of them are not doing this.
Meow, is the credibility of the church because of the sex scandal?
Father. Dizon: If the credibility of the church will decrease, this is because he is not going to meet the poor for the poor.
Wow, is there hope for the church to disappear for women?
Father. Dizon: The opinion of the church as an ally, that's wrong (in low treatment of women) should be wrong, all of our fellow citizens are saying that the Lord is saying not to be the address of the man, but also for women.
Meow, "those who went to priesthood?
Father. Dizon: I, I am a love, I am having a love, and I am going to change the I will give up to the country, which is why she is one of the first 1,000 years of Church, he can still change, until he / she can review, until he / she can be removed.
