Mindanao will progress with PNoy.

The good future of Mindanao is clearly seen due to the sincerity of President Noynoy Aquino to commemorate the region of all aspects of progress.
This is what we see in a positive event after hearing the peace agreement between the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the government that will give way to the construction of Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) which will replace ARNC.
The help shown by PNoy is not a joke that in just a few hours only the Bangsamoro will be called Bangsamoro because he is the only leader of the country who is concerned on this part of the Philippines.
Blessings and help are given and it will be given by President Noynoy to ARMM or Bangsamoro will be given to ARMM or Bangsamoro will be given to the actions and programs of the government in Mindanao.
As proof, a new P21 billion that will be placed in the government will be put in by the government with ARNC and this is where the citizens of the area are happy because they can see the blessing from the government.
The said amount is a suspicion for the construction of school, hearing or money for the new teachers, construction of road and bridge and possible construction of airports in Mindanao.
"That is the reason for the people to be realistic and can be seen by the people because if before they are full of classrooms and corrupt, now it is not good because the current leader, Gov. Genard Hataman) is not good and honest.
A lot of projects is done and it is already finished through Hataman, which is why the removal of ARhea is obvious from the honest public service.
In a short word, the tandem of PNoy and Hataman from Mindanao will be right, particularly ARMM), because they have both listened to and out of the country.
There are still many beautiful things that will happen at ARMM or Bangsamoro which is why we have a relationship with President Aquino and Hataman from the new chapter in Mindanao which is the most awaited by the people.
"That is the true path to peace of Mindanao because projects and change are the only solution to become peaceful in the said region of the country.
