
"Between and investigate the public for the public.

On this day, the senators of caucuses are going to do this day to investigate the more than 16 senators that Janet Lim-Napoles is saying to be involved in his P10 billion dollars in the PDAF and Malhmm.
Let us organize it, Bro, the release of the decision of the senators, particularly the members of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee (BRP), if they are investigating or not.
Prepare them.
If they are not investigating, they are about to investigate.
The majority of the people will be angry because it seems that they are just being carried away by the mud of the three senators.
If they are investigating, they are going crazy.
They are always pitiful because Napoles himself / she and Napoles themselves are going to face each other in front of him.
And the people will still be angry because majority are saying that the Senate should be clean in corruption, they are also corrupt.
That's why they are ready for the anger of the people.
Customers.
The excuse of the senators in the investigation or reopening of the investigation of the Napoles scam is still nothing more because the basis for making the proposal for the amendment of the current law in corruption and corruption is complete, and release a new law.
The corrupt senators are already known and recommended to be recommended that they will be charged with the appropriate charges.
If there is no one left by the senators who are involved in congress, the Department of Justice is going to take care of them and will continue the clings of the case for Second, third, fourth, and others.
The image of the Senate should not be destroyed because of the list of Napoles which may have no strong evidence.
The question: Will the people allow this excuse?
Members of the committee.
We tried to confess to the name of Bugnay, and they are here.
Boom: Teofila Guingona III and Vice Chairperson: Sergio Osmeña said.
Members from the majority of Grace Poe, Bam Aquino, Antonio Trillanes IV, Miriam Defensor Santiago, Lito Lapid, Francis Escudero, Pia Cayetano, Pia Cayetano, Pia Cayetano, Jr. and Loren Legarda.
Meanwhile, Nancy Binay, JV Ejercito, Jinggoy Estrada and Gregorio Honasan are members of the mines.
Former President Pro Tempore Ralph Recto admitted that Senate President Pro Tempore Ralph Recto, Majority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano and Minority Juan Ponce Enrile.
Senate President Franklin Drilon, Sonny Angara, Vicente Sotto III and Bong Revilla, Jr.
24 senators are all these senators and three of them have been used to make them clean that they should be fired.
But to the "Ipit Gang" to call, who else are more than 13 thieves also?
Or each has their own journal, Bro, of your favorite award.
Hahaha!
Who among the senators will complain about the continuation of the investigation?
"That is what we should know on this day.
Whoever does not want the investigation and the agreement will just go on the executive session, we should know.
Use, Bro, the executive session to hide on the eyes and hearing to the public the corrupt and corrupt senators.
They are the only senators who are talking, together with Napoles, and they are prohibited to release any results of the agreement.
On the other hand, BCG should also release those who want to continue the investigation, release the list of Napoles and will be pushed to find evidence.
The senators should not depend on what the Department of Justice will say.
If they are the hard work in searching for evidence against Enrile, Jinggoy and Revilla, this should also be what they will do to the things that Napoles can teach.
Who is big?
Ex-Senator Ping Lacson said, he is wondering why a senator did not give a father who he knows is corrupt or a plunderer.
There are more corrupt politicians who are accused now.
Now, who are these now?
Is it possible for Bables as vice Ping to get to know them?
He is from the Palace, from the palace.
According to whispers, there are also those from the palace and there are also congressmen.
We should also be guarded.
Will the investigation be compared to mental disorder, even if Napoles will be talkative for example?
In the side of mental disability, Bro, the people of the Palace and from the legislative chamber will not allow the Senate to go to the Senate in relation to the investigation because it is equal to the Senate.
If they will lead to the Palace and from the legislative chamber, there is progressive.
But it is likely that they should let it be.
And this may also be experienced again for the attempt of the Palace to avoid being grilled by its personnel, just like what Miss Gloria has done before, like Miss Gloria.
What will happen in the coming days?
Let us watch, Bro, and surely, something will happen.
