
The indigenous people in the movie.

By Rolando B. Tolentino, May 13, 2012.

He sighed with a businessman (audience gretchenbarretto), 2011.

A productive day to the entry of indie films which movement is the lower part of his own identity, the grandmother of the murdered and killed, and some of the Aetas who went to the air (2011), about the Aetas who went to the air (2011), about the UV Expresses in life and the community of Tantangan.

The unusual made of AOIL.

It is said that a successful "epal" is said to be successful "in the film" the businessman. "

Etau.

Alyas de Rossi's movie "a businessman"

Even if the native of this world is getting stronger, the entry of the country terrorism, country and global warming which is growing up, has been set to be buried in the initial world of Palawan and until the current world of Palapal.

Because of the course of tourism and vacation house, mining and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Palawan was the victim of the entry and improvement of the municipal hall in fact, who is looking for someone to go ahead, along with the needs of a native knowledge and culture.

In a businessman, what is beautiful is that the actors will be cut off, and study the actions, and study the actions of the four male staff (Rodrigo Duterte who wants to show to him at Walter Armada, Dax Alejandro, and Cerezo Valle), an example.

But it will be exposed that it will be hit because it is emphasis that the indigenous people who are going to reflect to fetch him (PCCO) is going to swim towards his healing, even the ownership of the voice of the first and future towards the usual closure of movies.

This is different from the injection of the natives of the indigenous people in the movie, in Manobo tribe and riding the wind, there is a natural competition of the indigenous people to share to the actor, even if they are still modern for the director.

It seems that even if it is the indigenous people and protector, the problem is still in the country and global warming.

In the aware director, the Metropolitan part of the country and global warming which can be charged as a case on the future of the indigenous people in the middle of the indigenous people who can save the indigenous people in the middle of their community as language in the country and state of global warming and capitalized.

In a businessman, the natives are going to file a case against the indigenous people and his community in the ranks of the indigenous people.

The businessman committed suicide at the first masterpiece of Solsona (Ang who took care of Basit Usman and the documentary on his head as Basar / holy) as an important movie.
