
Womb of Letriro is an ally in the number Milk in Pega.

By Cutud, Kevin Arguna.
October 7, 2013.

On August 26, leader of thousands of people will go to Luneta, crowded and almost "you will not find the one who wants to be an ally, in order to join in number Milk in Pega, March March against the system of pork barrel and corruption in the country.
A few days before the protest, because the government will depend on the wall in the issue, President Aquino wants to face the wall of the citizens to send a cold water for the citizens to pour cold water, and even more, the people lost faith in the sincerity of the President.
That's why in success of the protest, those who are riding the church became confused, because they were amazed by the president who attended the "traslacion" and to be more effective, in the issue that he owns and causes trouble using the flawless, coconut milk, and Naty.
The news thrown at the Lefur is old and it is not yet famous in the plea to scrap the pork barrel scam, most of those who love the country, and how many of those who live in the city are already active in the plea to dismiss the pork barrel scam, which is why it would be said to be a program in the scheduled place, and it can be considered as the gate of the country.
After August 26, the Pambansang Kamao led the fact that there will be something going to happen after the protest and they will not forget the headquarters of the thieves in Mendiola, and the headquarters of the thieves in Mendiola.
And it is like the start of a typhoon for a huge crisis being thrown in the country, there is the continuation of the major schism that happened during the pork barrel of the 2014 national budget, and this is the present time that pushed through the national politics, which is also limited and limited to be held at the national politics.
When October 4 was filled with Ayala and Paseo de Roxas, on the side of rape, the program is organized, for the people who are brave because the people are very angry, and there is a clear fight against the Aquino administration.
Yes, even if it is not bigger that they arrive at Luneta, it seems that those who went on this fight are still determined and serious, and not the symbol of protest, that is why it ended up to the war, and not all who are in Luneta, go to Ayala. "
"What?
Compared to the first, the protest in Ayala takes more successful because there are many who have learned how to fight, and the groups who are supporting the symbol and proof that the Filipinos who are supporting the system will increase and proof that the Filipinos, who are supporting the pork barrel, corruption ,-age politics, and lying by Aquino, will increase.
But if this is a greater success, Malacañang will be more aggressive in order to discredit the protest, who else should be blamed by the Lefancy?
It is shallow that these accusations to the Lefur will be a shallow reason?
Yes, although the spokesperson of Aquino and the money they collected from the administration of Aquino in this issue are very angry because if you are also poor people who are living in the city, they might not be able to study in the high tuition fee, farmers who have not paid money for corruption but not for the future and benefit of the citizens.
It is hard to expect from those who do not experience this kind of difficulty, especially in the internet, and not begging in the internet, but it needs to be a part of the program, and they should have been used to suffer in life, and they have been used to endure the fight for a good future?
And how will he not be implicated by the Lefur while it is still clear on the sun that he is really part of this, how can we become an ally of DAP for the higher pork barrel, he does not want to give up his own pork barrel, and even caught up the protest?
"The Letriro," said, "said by an writers, said that it is not only Napoles or the opposition, if Aquino won't be safe from it, it is not safe from this.
At the end, there is only one question that should be answered, why is there a need to answer the Leflawless, and he will need to ruin it, and make it up to the pork barrel which was also led by the Lefancy?
Because the haunt from helping the President is right and Malacañang knows that this is the only millions that can be lost from the congressmen and senators, but trillions of peso might be lost from Aquino including the Senate and funds for the election in 2016.
The text message of my friend to me which is part of "Communications," but it will be hard for us to become a propaganda, team of Aquino, "we will have a hard time when the president has become aware, that is why the President (Andrea, DAP) is getting involved, which is why there's no need to push through or not go through."
Which is why I am intriguing, only one win and the pork barrel scam, Aquino, is happy to save his criticism, but all of us becomes the barbells.
