Protest against the movie.

It has been just a few months ago when he was just woken up by the newly held workers of the Pentagon Corporation, but it was only last July when the violence that resulted in the death of a guard last July 13, this will not be given attention by the patient she took.
Even though it is common in the country that protest is a disadvantage or weapon of the workers against the abuse of the basic commodities in the television or in the cinema, if there is a case, violation, or an unusual story, protest movement and movies will only lead to it.

He can be considered a unique movie "Sister Salvacion," Mike de Leon, who gave the face of the Filipino-law for their rights as one of the oldest who went through de Leon, Jose F. Baguiran, in the reality in the society when Sister Salvacion L. "in 1984, a few years before being attacked by Sister Salvacion Legaspi (Vilma Santos) in the reality in the society.
Although what is being used by the film is the sanctity of a nun that came from a conservative world of the convent, in a deep predicament that we will do, who will make it right now, "when we do not take action," when we are to go out of the said school of Philippine Cologne last decades, "that's the first time?"
They also described the different kinds of harassment from the workers such as use of French kisses, harassment of the workers and in-tandem in order to separate the abduction and murder of Republic Act Labor Law, Ka Dencio (Tony Santos) and to the call to give justice to his death.

A few decades after the downfall of the Marcos regime was the return of democracy, this is still the situation of the community leaders who were killed during the time of Gloria Arroyo and even Noynoy Aquino.
Sister Salvacion L. "made a tragic condition of the tragic condition of the filipino people, most of, he also feature the importance of education as a strong weapon of the workers against the story of Sister Salvacion and Ka Dencio because of the legitimate action of the workers in order to fight for their rights.
And this is the content of "Sister Salvacion L." who was unable to finish the time.
