Currently, Malaca単ang versus Czech Republic.

The troops of Malaca単ang were armed with bullets against Czech Republic Electric Suppliers (ALS) because of the issue of buying MRT 3 Emilio Abaya, Jr. of the lawyers of the agency, in the House of Representatives until the Senate.
Justice Department of Leila de Lima also does not act here except for saying "they are waiting for the result of the investigation done by the National Bureau of Investigation.
It's embarrassing to you!
It has an allegation to Ambassador Marcichained who is going around the media to revive the MRT head, Al Vitangcol and his friends, along with some personnel of DOTC, there are criminals who admit in the case he is facing?
The extortion is not a secret to many agencies of the government, like a few times that the local government and foreigners who are victims of corrupt officials of the country are not a secret.
It is natural for him to face the mass social media because she is asking him and being harassed by some corrupt sectors that are contrary to the accusations of the allies of Malaca単ang, I can see the truth.
He knows that he is a foreigner and he knows the attitude of the officials of the country if he gets annoyed, "riding-in-tandem" he is in front of him!
Instead of suspending the Czech Republic, it would be better for the NBI to release the results of the investigation of the attempt to send the MRT, why is it that time?
The Marcos regime has already been fed up and trying to say that she has used the media for the 2016 election? "What does he do with it?
If it is the basis of those who are behind YOG-Malaca単ang, they have no signature in the affidavit of Recctar and the Ichs Group who was given to the House of Representatives and NBI, it is not enough to bury the issue of the PL) group.
There is no doubt that we are talking about other countries about this and probably, the Philippines will come out on the International Space Station, "the Philippines is leading corruption!"
The DOTC-MRT should face this issue on the proper perspective, you should stop the defamation and threats of the Ib-Group, especially to Ammute Respiratory Syndrome) that you will be treated as "Tuwid na Daan" that is one of the clouds, "that is one of the clouds.
If you do that, the accusations are true: Those who are still guilty!
