
The PKP is calling for the big advancement of the armed fight and fighting for the masses in 2013.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 31, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) appealed to the Filipino people and the revolutionary force of the masses in 2013 as a response to the rules of the Aquino administration and the approval of the country the filipino masses and the local government budget for the country and foreign contacts.

"The continuing use of the Marcos regime can no longer be hidden in deceit, action and half-laws, release false information to the Filipino people or let the sake of the changes in the life of the people," said the KP.

"After almost three years, the Marcos regime failed to face the problems of lack of livelihood, lack of houses, low wages, lack of houses, hunger and poverty, the price of goods, hunger and poverty.

This launched the campaign of domination and causes of violation of human rights, especially in the countryside where the AFP attacked the community of farmers active in fighting for reform the land, and fighting operations in the mining and plantation. "

"It is clear that there are no other people who are opposing the Filipino people but to intensify the revolutionary movement of the masses and the armed fight," said the KP.

"In the coming year, the Filipino people should improve the level of their fight against the increase of oil price, in the implementation of the community public service, in the implementation of the community public service, in the Constitution by the Philippines and other countries in the Philippines and other countries," said the KP.

"Those who arrive in the masses will push through and a deep system of the current anti-governmental organization, anti-governmental organization, anti-governmental organization," said PKP, "said the Holy KP," said the Holy KP, "said the Holy KP," said the Holy KP, "said the Holy Spirit."

"In the past few years, they will gather enough strength and support of the masses to strengthen the Bagong Hagdan in order to strengthen its initiative to strengthen the proliferation of the struggle," said the KP.

"In the coming of one or two years, the BAN," emphasized by the PKP, "said that there will be a lot of shortage of offensive and campaign against the Oplan Galugad conducted in the field, Inter-region and the national level of military which can cause hindrances from their enemies."
