About many other kinds of students, that is why the education does not need to escape, that is why there's no one who will study in college as long as it is only now in Quezon City.
Our countrymen were talking about how much they use for a student in elementary.
He was taking on top of the evening when his studies were finished; he / she wasn't able to finish school diploma that you will be able to stop from their schooling.
Unfortunately, it's just here.
Stay here.
Just entering my studies, I am not surprised with myself if he has changed his self from studying, when he has changed his studies for a year, but within a year of one thousand pesos, this is one thousand pesos that will be one thousand pesos.
20 pesos for each other.
It turns out for free food in the public that he arrived for ten thousand pesos for the roof of four thousand pesos.
Two have been victimized by the Philippines for me, because it is still there.
!
The government is still open in every one to have school.
Almost four o'clock.
What I am going to do is that my daughter is from college, one thing that they are spending for for a year, we only have two calamansis, which is why there's only two elementary; that's why they have no need of rice who borrowed money from each other in studying.
It is more cheap for elementary school but it can be recalled that up to a private school year is what reached the eighty pesos of many more for the child of Butig in Baby.
They saved up here and my parents should have resigned from each other's education.
I am having a big contribution to the people who have loved ones under 95th in Uno in the evening.
It is said that no matter how good the part of my father's education is not good for my parents who are giving up to my parents' education for public places.
It is free.
The occasion's right to laugh is the occasion, that is why it is included in your two of March 20 pesos to the crying of two years only for two years.
There will not be a good news about college because only a little bit, that's just a little bit more.
It will be counted before being a couple who will call your family little by little so that there will be a chance to improve the state that they are familiar to America.
There was no reason for children to be able to study.
We have a big program here in the Philippines.
You are like this.
He went to other countries to go to other countries so that he can go to the Philippines because it comes to the Philippines.
Both of us are still on duty, they are still on duty; he / she still didn't have mercy on his hands, but there are no idea that what happened now is that I have something to look at, "he said," he said yes.
Like that, there are roads in the university in America.
They will pay you drinking first until the end.
College so you can't pay anything that you have been working or not, you can still get up and get tired of Two percent only because we have a helper in the program here on me.
You will have a good step to ensure that there is no budget.
There is a need that nothing is not in college even if you want to go to college even if you want to go to school, he does not need to enter anything.
Because there is a news in Manila to go to Manila, to be able to help the needs in the middle of the path that can be helped in accordance to the road when I am just near which is better.
The government in the decision.
Thank you very much.
