Temyong is known to be famous in English.

Contrary to the belief of the people and some lawmakers in the Congress that the car is severe on the Cagayan Economic Cooperation (CEZA), Ports of Cebu and Davao, some businessmen have said that the taxes that the known car being paid for in the country will be examined.
The businessmen questioned the tax that was paid last 2012 by a Toyota Rav-Philippines Corporation, Mitsubishi Montero in Philippines, Honda Camb, Philippines Corporation and others who were selling new vehicles in the country.
In the document they have in the document, the Toyota Innova was released from the entire country by almost a 45 billion pesos and only paid the tax that costs P125 million while the Mitsubishi Lancer car which is selling $30,000 pesos is just paid for almost P75,000 pesos.
The undersea region has sales for more than 7 billion but only paid 16 million pesos.
The businessmen said, that the taxes paid is just an equivalent to 0.28 billion pesos from the Toyota Innova.
The Mitsubishi Mirage (equivalent is 830 while the Isuzu elegantly is just equivalent to 0.23 percent, according to them, it's a big question for BIR Chief Kim Henares which is too full of taxes.
A businessman said, even if the Bureau of Internal Revenue said, even if the Bureau of Internal Revenue, all kinds of tax will be removed from the foreign businessmen, including the ad of tax which is needed to be imposed on the proper taxes based on the Value Added Tax.
"If the BIR and BOC will correct, they will go to the mentioned car waiting like a Toyota Innova, their taxes should be more than five billion pesos.
They also pointed at the condition of the car being shown in CEZA who was only able to buy P410 million in the whole year of 2012 but they paid taxes for P120 million.
Aside from them, for the high tax that will be paid, they passed through the strict process of importation from Customs, BIR, and local government offices in Cagayan, including the arteries and strawberries.
The businessmen are pleading President Benigno Aquino III to investigate the cheating in payment for the tax of big car being important, and they said that not less than 330,000 pesos are missing in colorums.
