Distribution of number Allowance (MRI) October 4, 2015.

The happiness brought by "Juan for all of the" Juan for all, all over the band that is being followed by the poor people who are receiving good life, on the other hand, is also endorsed by the society's life to keep their poor.

In the started level, it is better to just let personal and pure knowledge about the "Kalyeserye" which is a popular culture where they can go, and encourage them to make their taste, or form this form to many others.

But because of extreme fame in the ranks of the masses, it is better to give it a serious research, or research, those interested in life and culture of the masses, especially those who are interested in the financial status, fighting and future, and this is the same with other businesses that are popular to the masses.

We are not able to turn our needs on this way of analysis because the fans of Alonte, especially the ranks of activists, are anxious over the beliefs, opinion and recognition that is behind the research of not fans, and critics, in Kalyeserye.

But what kind of serious investigation is, if it is not personal, "he is still not personal," he is also strict with defending his demeanor, "it should be strict in relation to the side, a point, which is being implemented, which is currently being implemented, which is currently being implemented.

This means, it will not be productive if the contents of AlDub has ended up with "anti-intelligence" which has a part of the serious examination of it or their name "and intelligence," those who are on the other side of the debate.

If the discussion is focused on, it needs to be determined that there is a rich tradition, which is critical in the culture of a lot of boils in the end, which is critical from the culture of the masses, causing blindness and insensitive of social activities, and others.

Alden Richards (the left) and Maine Mendoza, Preso or Yaya Dub has been given importance which should be given importance or Single Entry Approach where it will be given importance or Single Entry Approach where it would be given protection or Single Entry Approach where he can go ahead, and other people like him, in the Filipino culture.

It is contrary to the camp of the centered mind that we make sure that there is a positive perspective here, he has known that there are positive in the culture of the community, which is possible to raise the culture of the community, to invent ways to build a community, "to desire to build a community," to aim, to attack, to be,, in exchange.

The ambition of Jamiri are taking care and ambition, they are holding the parts that are negative and parts that are positive in the businesses of the filipino culture and take advantage of their communication, arguments, and unity.

And this is how he is going to coordinate with the two o in the culture of popular, or "mass culture" by the masses, they are waking up and after the viewers, which is given to the viewers for it.

Jamora Jamil on the picture of the Wencesedia in this kind of human beings which can be considered more negative and positive in these kinds of power, and this is also a huge amount of power over the filipino culture, and it should be better to know, those who are proud of them?

The community is also mentioned, is it also included in the community and unity in social media and in the whole world which is composed of fans of Alonte?

You will be happy in an extraordinary story, even if the ability of the viewers, true or not, will be influence on the story?

Unable to insist on these, but they can insist that there is a continuation of the principles and objectives of the masses, but it can be used to make the basis, of such analysis, or mockery that's the basis, but it is believed that there will be progressive and trust of the masses.

And even if the positive in Kalyeserye has been identified, the quarrel will be avoided, and positive is the love that was not over by the masses, because many of them are together with the masses, because many of them are included in the farm, a surprise, community, and school.

But at the end, it will be more happiness and content on the current society the happiness brought by "Juan for all over the band that is being followed by" Juan for all over the other hand, that is also extended to the life of the society who keeps on their difficult life.

Alonte is really urging the rotten system and movement in order to change the end, which is not a reason for the attempt to attack this, based on the basis of what is focused on the masses, in front of being a popular culture of the masses.

But it is also necessary to balance our acquaintance and praise, and clarify the direction of the end.

Joey de Leon, at Eat Bulaga, holding two in the contents of the news were exposed to be the pictures taken from her Instagram account of De Leon.

On the other hand, it is connected to Karl Marx "that is going to go home by Karl Marx" in a remote part of the world, the expression of real suffering and the citizens of the world, and what is the objectives of the basic commodities in the world, and what is the objectives of the basic commodities in the world, and what is the objectives of the basic commodities in the world.

Many, but there are two important things in the topic now, the spread and improvement of the common Americans in the whole world, with the help of ordinary Americans in the whole world, with the destruction of an alternative technology, and the destruction of alternative technology and movement of the economic and movement of the entire world, including the culture that they create.

In this situation, in my opinion, there is a need to swim, perhaps, in the time, in the culture of the Lefts to the masses to face the filipino culture, it is important to swim, but it is also important that it will come up.

4-October 2015) the course of Jamil on to her book is the The political Unisan, 1981, and "Marty ist Herardo Guda," in her interview with Ma. Luisa F. Torres, who published the Diliman review of November-December 1985.
