The water is being pushed.

The government of PNoy does not want anyone to fight against him.
Even if they are going to argue, they will make a way to mend and crush him.
They are using all the power to get what they want, even if it's the people who complain.
Isn't it clear that this is a clear indication that there is no abuse... that there is an abuse?
Let us watch it.
Among those who were able to get it, the government was crushed by its first opponent in politics, Aling Gloria.
This is covered by cases then so there will be a reason for them not to go out of the country.
He used the COMELEC in the entire night to make a decision about cheating last 2014 elections so that Aling Gloria gave his departure order and arrest for other reasons.
Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez was forced to resign before to resign from his duty because it is against the Constitution the Midnight Cabinet given to him.
Here is it, the congressmen and senators were watering the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program so that ex-CJ Renato Corona will not be impeached.
The three eggs are made to drink with the people through the Senate until they look guilty for the accusations of corruption and corruption.
He was pissed at the SC.
Everyone knows how the Aquino government made the two but separate cases.
14-0 or unanimous vote of the judges against PDAF last 2013.
Their votes against the DAP last July were unanimous.
The child of tofu, we cannot understand why this government's love for PDAF and DAP was just like that.
But it is clear that he is using the two to be a puppy to all dogs and local government on his tasks against his enemies and for the status of his self in power.
And this is also a source of anomalies in the contracts of the government at present from the MRT and LRT extension, up to the CAAP project which is worth billion pesos.
The government called the SC for his decision to step down from the things of the former for politicking and staying in their posts, and enriching them in position for those in power.
SC.
According to the said decision of the Aquino administration, the SC's vote was like no use for him and it seems that it is hard to accept that even the three judge, including CJ Ma. Lourdes Sereno, is not his ally or a puppy.
She is extremely embarrassed of different words.
Now he will use the congressmen and senators as "traslacion" in the possible severe fight of the SC and the Palace... it is possible.
And the only meaning of the ballots are the congressmen and senators who will be impeached, all the judges, to finally be replaced with all these.
... At, to have the judges, as a puppy to the majority of senators and congressmen to monopolize the Palace all the power, including the free play in public funds?
Get rid of the Lord.
Before the history that will be given in one or a few people will be given to one or few people, it would be good if the Lord will meddle with the Lord.
If Lord took all the bad things or disrespect of the people, there is no chaos in the mind and life of the Filipinos.
Let's advice, Bro, when a storm has arrived as the strength of Yolanda, Glenda, Sendong, Santi, Ondoy, Milano and others, which attacks all the fights in the government and to end up all from the sea.
Those who save them are living together with the Lord and let us accept that they are the leader of us.
It is the child of tool, we thought of this because there was no one who was able to stay away from the calamities and they are still alive.
What are they, all evil spirits, but there are no bad grasses for the Lord.
"If he took these, they will not work for power and money money.
Pray.
It is not prohibited to pray to Lord.
"He said," when you knocked, he would try to open it, "if you ask, he will be allowed."
Question: Can the Lord make up and ask for help from them?
Hey, they can be allowed.
Because Lord is the Lord of life and the dead.
He showed his Lord for the case of Lazaro and on her very execution of her being taken back on the third day, on all Souls' day again, hehehe!
After this, his reindeers have been executed first by one by one.
And the treacherous and kings such as Hermann von Helmets will also die in terms of prayer.
Hehehe!
Lord and calamity.
"When the force of the Lord and the typhoon and calamities come in giving importance to the government, anyone can stop.
The Tuwid na Daan "will be removed from the map even the Tuwid na Daan" that seems to be twisted.
That is why, we pray that the Lord will have the Lord to get them or order the typhoon and calamity to pass through their homes and steal them... there is time.
