Election as a limited space.

The election is over and poverty is still ongoing.
If examined by those who are leading the counting, it can be said that all names are elected in many positions in the local and national level, the same family is getting familiar with power, the same family is changing the position, the election that happened last May 13, served as an occasion for their return to the public.
Are we going to be surprised why the suffering of many people still continue, even if the responsibility of many people in our society is still deep, they are ready to spend millions in the time of their service, they are ready to spend millions in the time of their service, "they are ready to spend millions in the time of their service, that is why we are still in power," that's why we are in power? "
Despite the laws that prohibits stealing from the country's funds, there are still other ways to corrupt and strengthen the price of the materials that should be given to the public so that they can be able to give importance to the public ghosts and projects (Ghost that's why the Ghost does not pay attention to.
Is it possible that those who are greedy are not able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to get the abuse of the millions of their families and to make sure that it is the primary protection of a politician in whatever case will be filed against him or any member of his family, and to make sure that they will continue to become rich so that they will have money to give to their supporters.
The poverty of the majority of citizens is the primary reason for them to be sure if the "support" from them will not be blamed if they are ready to sell his votes, including the selling of his principles because there is a practical saying that they are hungry, "will we eat the principle?"
It is easy to judge those people who are ready to sell the votes, and sometimes they are calling their own standard like this, it is better to find the source of the votes which are not needed to sell, especially the poor people who continue to buy the votes.
But in spite of this situation, it cannot be denied that there is a space in the government so that the party-list representative, which started in 1998, had a goal of giving space to the agricultural sector such as ACT-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list and ACT party-list.
But it is noticeable that there is a space given for them at the House of Representatives (Humalig), they remain in the coast of Representatives next to fact, they remain to pass the rules just like Devera due to the farmers, but they do not have a limited law compared to those who should have been able to finish his studies.
Here the politics comes in our current democracy as a limited space in our current democracy because it is not enough for the representatives of the poor to go down, as well as the party-list election is being used by those in power to increase especially those who are in power to increase especially those who are in power.
There will be a change brought by the real representative of the poor in party-list or even in the local level, it cannot be denied that all that they want to achieve are against the interest of rich people in power by the end of the election, remember, no meaningful change in the situation of a limited space.
