
Love team of Coco Martin and Julia Montes is the first to separate them.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 22, 2015.
In showbiz.

Vony GROs), Peter Ledesma.

After the other hand, they were able to go to Wansapanataym-Special, "Yammam, Teng, who was temporarily released by ABS-CBN for the love team of Coco Martin and Julia Montes, who was watched in some Top Rank Promotions of Dreamscape Entertainment Television.
So in the new TV series of Coco, the TV series of film that was late Fernando Poe Jr., who is from the province is Bela Padilla and Angeline Quinto and the two are going to go to Edgar Allan Guzman, that there are also a project that they will go to Edgar Allan Guzman, to accept the team-up with Julia and Edgar Motabato in the same time.
Upon the arrival of Coco, whoever will be partnered with a good actor is accepted by his fans and punching each other, which is why it is definite that a new series will be released with the wife of FPJ, Susan Roces, Albert Martinez, Arinoli, and many others.
Let us support this.
Young angel when made by Cong.
Just like what they've reported for their advocacy, their advocacy is going to be brought to God for the people who will be imposed on the said television series, especially now that the Kapamilya network had no idea of stopping him, especially now that the angels who are taking advantage of their house will continue to be used today, especially now that the angels who are looking for him are in front of their house.
Meanwhile, what could be helped by Nathaniel was her mother-in-law where it seems that it has been dead for a long time, but because of the long time that her daughter was already dead, she was already dead, which was the reason why she was able to get back together with the former couple that was why she could possibly get back together with the former couple?
But it seems that the girlfriend of Paul who is Atty. Freidrick Lu will not allow it to happen especially since he does not want to release his life, which is why he does not want to release his life.
Follow the next mission of our acting cute, Angel, who was watched over Prudon, which is being watched by the Kapamilya network after TV Patrol.
