TV Patrol, September 29, 2012.

A good relationship is needed.

In life, you will just add more than what you give, that is why if you want to have it, add to what you give.

Do you believe that 80 percent of the source of the life comes from the mold of their relationship?

Is this true and it really needs to be done?

Do you want to have a good relationship with your partner or partner, to your family, friends, to your leader and colleagues at work, or even in the community?

She will be forgiven.

Principle.

100 / 0.

This is just a simple action.

But this is the holiness and powerful in everything.

Here is a burden.

You are the only one and nothing else.

The entire responsibility has the whole responsibility.

In 100.

And nothing is expected or waiting.

No one can do anything and return.

In 0 pesos.

Step 1:

This is a sign that you will take notice of it.

And I am very lonely.

He is a different person even if he is worthy to be or not.

Step 2:

Do not rely on anything in exchange.

OMG you are proud of, Green, Ubers, no idea.

Step 3:

Do not let anything happen.

What other people are saying or doing.

(Even if it is annoying or he can be irritating.

That you will be affected by easy words.

Do not accept the offer being offered.

Or make a bait, because this will be to his detriment.
Step 4:

Continue and advise me to get married.

Your partner will be affectionate and thoughtful.

And their goodness is often, we can easily be easy.

Losing hope and does not stop our sympathy.

Especially when others do not respond and take advantage.

To our concern for them.

Just like old age, do not rely on anything that happens, and continue to make a big difference.

There are times and it's only rare, that your relationship becomes a challenge, even if you do not know what to do, "I know, this is the right thing to understand," I know, this is the only thing to understand, "I know, this is the only thing to understand," what is important is to understand what is right, "you should know what is right," you should know what is right, "you should learn how to understand your destination if meaningful or useless."

There are things that we do not want to happen but we need to accept it and there are also things that we do not want to know, but we need to avoid it, but we need to avoid it.

In a relationship.

Love without being reckless.

Believe that there is no trace of fear.

Happy, without care and all he can.

You need no condition and wishes.

Get carried away with no movement and quick action.

Hoping that no one is worried or worrying.

Believe that there are no questions and brook in the glory.

It is important that you need to have a good relationship with yourself before you make your relationship with others first before you need to feel the importance and acceptance of your self, so that you will be able to feel the appreciation of others and can be able to love them.

What are you waiting for?

Start and it will be easy to follow.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
