It is the heart of corruption.

Because the blood does not want to pour, the forehead of President Joseph Estrada was taken off from his post when the citizens who were headed by the People Power 2 were held by the People Power 2.
In other words, the current mayor of Manila is loving with peace and peace, that is why his family wants to surrender a peaceful and orderly, Senator Jinggoy Estrada.
Earlier, Manila Mayor Erap urged that his nephew ER Ejercito is peaceful, as the governor of Laguna that the Commission on Elections is going to research because of extreme spending in the election.
Mayor Estrada is always making a heart and he is ready to give way for the welfare of the people like what he is doing in Manila.
Only, with his desire to give the Manileños, there is a chance for some "crocodile" to his administration.
The surrounding of the mayor are taking advantage of money which will add up to their own pocket using the position that was given to them.
An example of these are the caretakers of Divisoria, those who are taking advantage of money because of the three times the collection of the businessmen in the said place.
The collector of Dennis Alcoreza and CBoromeo, who is Boy Gaviola, Ferdinand weak or, both assigned to the Department of Public Works and Lamar Odom, are pointing fingers to Divisoria, as well as Oliver de Guzman and alias Jojo.
Even the "Lawin" in the term of 15-30), who is the police, Jimmy Soriano, is said to be collecting those who are selling the place.
And it was a part of it, it was proven that he was the one assigned by the city hall.
This is a bit scared now because there is a spreading news from one of the vendors that he is saying that he is giving birth to Mayor Estrada's office.
That's why it's as if Soriano seems to have a sharp nose in studying the officials of the city hall.
He is doing this to get an ally who will defend and hit him with the anger of the mayor for saying that he is being carried away.
But this is already the news that Soriano is the former child of former Mayor Alfredo Lim, who is still a child who has no own staff except for the collector of Borromeo.
