
Those who are useless barangay officials and guards.

There are many abusive barangay watchmen and barangay official and one of these is the Barangay East Kamias, in the city of Quezon where it was said that Mayor Bistek was allegedly a typhoon of Barangay Chairman Arnold Gadda.
That is why the barangay wardens are not saying that because they are strong in the Mayor so no matter what they do, it's okay.
Last December 24, just a few minutes before 12: 00 in the evening, a man was beaten by a man just a few steps from the Barangay Hall in East Gracepark,.
Looking forward to the barangay watchmen, the incident was drinking, but one of the guards on him was able to stand and even helped to get married.
The police and police who were assigned to the said barangay saw the beating of a bottle on the head of the man but was just being watched by the police and barangay watchmen.
Broken head and face of the man was broken but he still forced to board the car to go home and report to the station of Aniban, Police Station 9 of the Quezon City Police District (QCPD).
After a few minutes have passed, the armed police came from Presinto 9, even when there was a commotion because the accused were fighting and fighting the accused, the barangay watchmen and officials of Barangay East Kamias passed away.
DILG Secretary Mar Roxas, is this straight path, like a few barangays in the whole country, there are many barangays in the whole country who are useless and lazy barangay watchmen like those in Barangay East Kamias?
Shouldn't it be new to be a barangay watchman for them to be training first, because aside from the police, the barangay watchman is the first to respond?
If this is like this, barangay wardens are like this, but it is better that the barangay will only be able to ish the barangays.
What can you say here, DILG Secretary Mar Roxas?
It's a waste for the people's money that was given to their barangay watchmen, there is no matter to those who are stupid, you would be embarrassed.
Lily's Calvento File are open for your complaints, suggestions and comments, just text 09155680s or 0905-836 or 0905-836 or 0905-536.
