The eve of SOA, featured on the celebration of the Fisheries ers and Fotoplay.

There is 25, 2016.

In the city of Manila, May 25 (Pia) - in relation to the annual celebration of the FFF) and Fisheries Code of Aviation Security System (ARL), the end of the farmers including the program School in the program.
Up to 219 farmers from the six municipalities of Maguindanao and a municipal hall in Lanao del Sur were successful to finish the said program.
It was four months of education by the farmers in relation to listening to listening to the program Executive and AMM) near DXT-NDF) and said to be sent to five stations in the radio at ARNC every week 6: 00 in the morning.
The program was made to be implemented by Agri-Filipino Catediting.
The Provincial Bureau of Maguindanao Provincial Office of Maguindanao who is Hambi Daus also expressed joy to conduct a program for the farmers of the region.
"The program is able to give additional knowledge to our farmers and it is also a big help to protect their harvest," added Lagasi.
According to him, the new skills, experience and knowledge that they learned from the four months of SOA program is the way for them to be successful in their respective provinces.
Lagasi encouraged the Agriculture Extension workers to continue those who are pushing for programs and advocacy for farmers to improve their livelihood.
On the total of 219 farmers who was able to graduate, 28 were from the municipal hall of Datu Paglas, Datu OSinnott and (29), General SK Pendatun (27), Barangay SK Pendatun (27), Barangay SK Pendatun (27), and Pagudpud (26) in the province of Maguindanao and 21 in Balaura, Lanao del Sur.
Based on the data of the Utah Jazz-AMM, more than 40-SOA program, who had a lesson regarding the Dahong Palay, Anti-Added Tax, Production, High School and Rice and Disability were taken from 1975.
The celebration of the month of Fisheries ers and FMM came from ARMM) based on the Production of Nogu.33, signed by former President Corazon C. Aquino last March 21, 1989.
