Editing in a race, a country for our territory!
July 14, 2016 whole country celebrated the favorable decision of the Personal Economic Cooperation of UN saying there is no "human rights" China in the territory at sea, island, and all their natural resources are conquered by the declared "tanim-bust operation."
In a simple word, illegal drug line of China will be illegal, especially the military implemented, especially the military troops that were declared to be declared by the The Humalig) that they should not be removed by China, they should be removed.
It should also be cut off the harassment and coast guard of the Filipino fishermen and other race who want to fish in this part of South China Sea, especially in the West Philippine Sea (WPS), especially in the West Philippine Sea (WPS), especially in the West Philippine Sea (WPS), especially in the West Philippine Sea (WPS).

They do not recognize WPS.
We Filipinos!

"The Philippines is in the Philippines!" This is the words of former President Aquino in 2013 that the Philippine delegation of the Philippine delegation about the legal process.
The international coalition favored the case of the Philippines to China so it is not true that no one recognize WPS because we won in the case.

That is clear!
If China will be recognized or not by China, it is their problem, "the UN is their enemy because the Supreme Court Tribunal will speak.
We do not need to be brave to compete with China.

Let us attack this in legal way, which is the best thing we have done, it is right now that we are spreading the international budget and every time we are bullied by China on the disputed territory, the UN is their enemy.
This is against our race against the whole country, we should not share to China or any country the territory that we are fighting for us.
We remain pushing for an immediate solution on this issue but it should not be just because of the huge and fineness of China, we are still the brightened up to follow the UN's decision.

Remember, the decision of the UN is our ally in this fight and there are still a lot of big countries ready to support us if China will oppose the decision.
WPS should not share and share the territory that they are fighting for!
