Warning of dirty.

In the eyes of any person who is thinking a sensible, it is hard to deny the responsibility of the Aquino government for the death of the two-year-old infant, Diona, on May 18, and her mother was arrested and jailed in the womb.
Which should not be, or legal, the accusations of the military and the government against Andrea Rosal are the leader of the New People's Army, but he was arrested in Caloocan City, but he was arrested in Caloocan City, but he did not listen to the special medical attention in his pregnancy, but he was still confused with it.
It is clear that the anomalous organization and individuals on social communications are clear, the only fault of Andrea Roger "Rosal, which when his mother was still alive is the face of NPA and spokesperson of NPA rebels in the arrest of the military and the government.
Now, there is no propaganda in the military and the government to clean the blood of the baby in their hands after they expressed their condolences, which was considered as an insult to the law, they even said that his time with his dead child was very clear.
There were a lot of 20-year-old teacher in the public school who was killed by the military last March 4, 2009 for the police who kidnapped him when he was on his way home, before he left his corpse in a motorcycle pipes.
And there is still a lot of things that should be remembered, not only the last year, the government and unknown activists, and more armed activists' rights are dirty because they don't recognize the rights of the NPA rebels.
It can be remembered that a lot of victims of the kidnapping and kidnapping of the kidnapping and kidnapping of the bandits who were arrested and imprisoned were arrested in the hands of the military, both were arrested and killed in the peace talks.
There are still many who can remember that the human rights worker who was killed was killed by the person who was killed in the said incident of theft by a female NPA who was raped first before being killed, and a lot of others were hurt in the process of shouting.
It is shown by the murder of Diona, that Noynoy Aquino is still investigating the dirty coconut husk, he is saying that he is making a fight against corruption, but it is shown that the country is going to progress in front of the rising poverty and hunger that he gives more than the NPA and activists.
And continued to be seen under Aquino, as to who is launched by the US who has given a right to build the land and business in the Philippines, and how long is the corrupt and businesses in the Philippines, for the corrupt government that he is protecting or are just for show.
They all, and their genitals, are talkative on death of Diona?
