
Nico and Rochelle, aspire to return immediately.

Postanes and Bonoan, Bonoan.
On February 7, 2016.
In showbiz.
Take a leave.

Where is JM De Guzman, now, when will he be active again in showbiz?
This is almost the speed of some of the comrades in the tandem of Scuon last Tuesday that was held in Quezon City Sports Complex.
"We asked Jun Nardo, where, at the side of JM," there is still no, you cannot talk to him, right? "Do you know where?" Asked to us.
At nightfall, JM Atsuko Iris is too much because he does not feel bad that is why he regrets many things because he is very good for an actress.
That is why he has won for winning actor in the past 2015 Metro Manila Film Festival for the New Wtch.
Siblings were identified by JM and Nico Antonio, and they are really a tandem in all kinds of livelihood, which is their source of livelihood.
The story of the tandem is parked now because this is really what is happening in the civic works.
When Nico was allegedly doing the tandem, they did not experience any problem with JM International that's why they were surprised.
"
JM is said to be careful because she often talks about his ex-girlfriend, Jessy Mendiola.
Nico said, "she is very eager to go with his good upbringing by his personal interests, Jessy Mendiola."
Nico was not able to step down because of their conversation with the actor because he was personal.
And Rochelle Pangilinan, who is the lady in the tandem, was really surprised, "I was surprised, now I really knew it, it was sad if what happened was really like that.
"And I know I also pray for him to get up and return to him immediately," the young lady said.
The director of the tandem, King Palapal oc has also no problem with JM when they shot the movie on March 2015.
"It is far from us to be far from what we are doing when we are doing the film (to rumors).
"He tried to adjust or he had a canum, not in fact, I noticed that he had a shot, every time we take a shot, he always asked if what he did was okay.
"But in the side of the house," the personalities are so okay, he might be fine, he will avoid being beaten-off of the fate, "story of the director.
Director King added that he was able to talk to director Antoinette Jadi one of the director of Thand Teng fate which is currently taking a shot before without any issue.
"Prize or a shooting" tandem, "I am also a friend of Direk Tonette, I am just asked by JM.
"They said that they were already working at JM International.
"The reason, when you entered the shooting of the" tandem, "it was too fine with our relationship.
"
She said that Director King and her daddy of JM De la and she reported that the child has won for the New Wtch this last MMFF.
"Of course we were happy because we were together," we did not get to talk to JM.
"According to him, it's too much help to us that no matter how, he still has a child.
"Because, since it comes from the" tandem, "this is the most beautiful scenery that I think is done by JM," said Director King's story.
The tandem had Premiere-night in MonShariff al, Canada last September 1, 2015, and will be shown here in the Philippines on February 17 kilometers in Quaura and Buyun Peñablanca, Tumagay and Buyat Avenue and a Grades A.
Aside from JM and Nico, they are also included in the tandem as Elora Pablo or, Allan Pauline, Paolo or Hala, BJ Forbes, Karl Medina, and Dennis Marasigan.
