"The hearing in jueteng is still not needed.

It looks like Senator Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel III got an ally in the character of Senator Ping Lacson in his plan to conduct a hearing regarding the wide operation of jueteng, and whoever is the operators and its leaders.
In an interview, Ping directly said that the Small Town Lottery (STL) is being used in the PCSO games which is being taken by PCSO into their illegal operation.
This is by using the brimming of STL so that they will be the ones to collect taxes for jueteng.
The jueteng operators are really good, think about that?
The legal thing they can do is illegal and their illegal acts!
What I am thinking is, if many people know that there are many people and even Senator Lacson knows the modus operandi of the jueteng operators, why is there a need for another hearing?
The truth is, Koko "does not need to call for another Senate hearing to know how big the operation of jueteng is.
He hit and be friends with the corporals and collector of her bet, he will bet for those who need to know about jueteng.
Where did he come from and said that he does not know that the problem with jueteng has been a long time?
Some of the President already had the way and a few hearing that they have done in the Legislative Chamber and the Senate about illegal gambling but all have happened.
What's painful is that, there are no cases where they charged and punished even one of the suspects and those who are confirmed running and giving protection to illegal gambling.
I still remember that it is said that the most popular and most big corporals in the hearing in the Senate but nothing has happened.
Afterwards, the issue on the newspaper io is said to have voluntarily forgotten the issue.
Anyway, the election is near and he can use the hearing so that he can be used for free and for his campaign to be elected in the Senate.
That is if he is always handsome and he is not really interested to get up with a solution to the problem of jueteng.
Anyway, that is really what is always happening, who are the good officials of the government and police who will agree to lose jueteng?
So they earn a big amount for illegal gambling!
