"Oil Deregal Law, 14 years of suffering for the country.

By P2,500.
February 12, 2012.

The Bayan reminisced the 14-year implementation of Oil Dermovate Law by protest in front of the station of oil in the corner of E. Rodriguez and Araneta Avenue in Quezon City.
The price increase of oil continues.
This is caused by Republic Act 8479, or Doods (WBC) of 1998, or better known as Oil Dermovate) (ODL), 14 years after it will be implemented, according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
In a protest in front of Petron, in the corner of E. Rodriguez and Araneta Avenue in Quezon City, the law was criticized by different sectors of the leadership of the Bayan, which caused the incessant price of oil.
According to Bayan, almost 462 percent are raised by the price of diesel today compared in 1998, when ODL. (PL.
"We did not give a competition in oil and it caused a low price because of the industry of high oil companies, which is why there is no more relief for the citizens," according to Renato Reyes Jr., general secret of the Bayan.
In its protest, the Bayan showed the huge distance of the price of oil before the airing of ODL and its current price.
It passed last February 10, 1998, during the administration of Fidel Ramos's administration, they have promised the free competition in the companies of the oil that will attack the decrease of the price of the said product, but it is clear that it did not happen.
According to Bayan, instead of having sex to the price of petroleum last 14 years, it cannot be stopped and questionable price hike.
For example, in February 1998, the price of diesel is 82,000, 33 per liter, while P10.50 pesos per liter, and P140 per kilo of LPG exploded.
Now, diesel is at P4.8 per liter or almost 462 percent, which was raised before ODL. Meanwhile, P58,000 pesos, or a higher than P3 billion pesos before the ODL.
"Contrary to what the government wants to believe in us before, the ODL) will not do anything to lower the price of oil anymore, instead, the price of oil has been revealed which is said to be a hero," said Jimboy Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela, militant group of women.
According to Reyes, the monopoly of global warming, oil companies such as Rodriquez, Shell, Chevron, and Total is making artificial price increase.
The exchange of Gabriela from the public is a part of the said protest against a petition against the high price of oil, killing, a burden to the price of expanded Value Added Tax or EpiPen in oil and other goods, and high level of electricity.
It is said that the said campaign of Gabriela, which aims to collect one million signatures or during March 8, is the international day of women.
A member of Gabriela who is a driver of a jeep in his petition against the high price of oil and goods. (P2,500.
Meanwhile, the Bayan said that it will conduct a series of campaign in Congress to push the lawmakers to act on the problem on the high price of oil and dismiss the OL.
"There is now that there will be less than seven house bills and other resolution in ODL and high price of oil, there is an alternative that can make the entire economy and the citizens," said Reyes.
There are a lot of filing of the dining table in different members of the Congress but it is still not an action of the energy of the Legislative Chamber.
The Bayan said that he is going to be forced with the implementation of the House Bill 4355, which was passed by Bayan Muna and other sweetened bosity party-list, which aims to dismiss RA 8479 and an effective regulations on the industry of oil.
