Cornes.

The senators will vote for the impeachment case against Chief Justice Renato Corona that the citizens should be vigilant and critical, contrary to the story of the Aquino administration to be a simple fight for the impeachment and the Aquino administration is not all bad to fight him.
At first, the support of Corona is wide, his role for attempted escape from the country - and for responsibility to the crime - former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo last November.
But with the impeachment case, the case was taken from him in relation to the attempted escape of Arroyo when he was focused on his Severe Actor, Livni after he did not declare his bill from the government that was why he was mad at him by the Ombudsman that's why he testified against him.
At the beginning of the impeachment, the failure of the prosecution and weakness of its case has been exposed, many are worried about the impeachment case that has been filed against the congressmen, in the midst of the failure and threats of the administration, which is a big reason for the government's movement, and also a huge reason for the government's movements.
What's clear to run for the impeachment was that, but instead of imprisoned, but instead of imprisoned, the hospital arrest was allowed to leave the country last November and was not allowed to leave the country last November.
It can be recalled that more than 500 days passed by Aquino before he charged a case against Arroyo before he charged the Aquino administration in spite of his sweet promises of the country - not in the controversial case of the people when the former President escaped.
With the action of the Aquino administration, it is clear that this is not serious in making promises to Arroyo, he still has not listened to the large cases of corruption and violation of human rights, which has been given a promotion, the high officials of the military who benefited from human rights before and now.
In the removal of Corona, it is sure that Aquino will have control on all branches of the government, including the judiciary when it cannot be denied that the administration of the Supreme Court will not be denied to put all the policies of the government against Corona, which is more effective for the regime of the government against Corona.
In the past impeachment trial, he has seen being rude and barb with the government, aside from the accusation of bribery and threats in the Congress, there is also a accusation against Corona from the anti-year-law Council (AMLC) that will be exposed that the decision of the Supreme Court in relation to Hacienda Luisita, is expected to be implemented.
As a result of desperation, the use of the regime came to the documents from AMLC.
In his fight with the Marcos regime, it is certain that Corona also fought his system from his leadership, he challenged 188 congressmen and Senator Franklin Drilon to reveal their bank accounts and documents to the earth.
When they refused, he showed his being a hypocrite because the prosecution and the Aquino administration could not be able to clarify his bank accounts, which is why they agreed to preserve the bank accounts from the administration, which is why they want to preserve the system of the administration, which is why he is just being treated.
It is true that the guilty here should be held accountable for the people who should be held accountable, if it can be proven that he was able to steal from wealth of the country, or it was clear that he was able to steal from the impeachment trial, which is why the citizens of a government - and an extensive corruption that he helped Arroyo, who almost escaped.
The Aquino administration is busy with the impeachment while they are just trying to shoulder the non-ranking price of oil and high goods, until the wage increase of human rights and abuse, from extrajudicial killings and kidnapping, until violence of women and children.
It is clear that there is much more reason for the administration to answer this administration, and Aquino himself, to the citizens, if we want the corrupt people in power to fight, not only the people like Corona - but also those who are benefiting from the current administration.
The citizens should be vigilant and observant if we want to hold accountable those who are living in the town, but along with this, it should be guarded in danger if Corona is removed.
