House is needed and "a new airport.

The new airport is worth $12 billion that is wanted by PNoy in the province of Leyte.
Okay, isn't it that there is a big airport in the city of Tacloban.
You are right there, but he wants to remove the airports in Tacloban City, why is it that because they are against the airports in Tacloban, why is it that because they are his enemy in politics, it's not just this kind of government to go back to politics, right?
"Is it not that politics is the root of the plan, it can be recalled that it has been an argument and the presidential candidate of PNoy in 2016, and Mayor Romualdez has an argument in helping those affected by Yolanda last November 8, 2013 - the statement," remember, and the President is Aquino. "
"Could it be denied that the fight of the two is done so it seems that the Philippine government has something to do with the National government of Tacloban?
My goodness, whatever it is, the Palace should not involve the citizens of Tacloban, but did the government of PNoy neglect the city?
Not only, the progress of helping here is not a long time, so there, the citizens of Tacloban has been comments about it because that is when he is taking a bath.
According to the Palace, there is really no movement in politics but isn't it not even peeked from Tacloban to commemorate the release of Yolanda last Friday? "What happened was not the first part of Yolanda but the devastation of the storm.
It is good for the reason even in Tacloban, your intelligence, PNoy, and even those who are applying to live!
You are really a different kind of president.
But what is the true reason for his visit to the citizens of Tacloban? The truth is, it probably is to hide in the world that the government does not do anything for the housing projects, while different souvenirs for the victims.
Now, what the government wants is for 12 billion pesos in exchange for the airport in Tacloban.
What kind of government is we have a wise government, which is really different where the millions of donations are going to different countries in our country which is for the Yolanda victims.
