
Complicated things.

Come, PNP Chief Alan Purisima already resigned because of the complicated political leaders of the national police.
That is complicated because it has been suspended, that's why he is the one who is pointing at the PNP-SAF who attacked Mamasapano.
Purisima accepted the resignation of Purisima when he and President Benigno Aquino III have the pain and pain in the heart and chest.
PNoy himself admitted that that is what he felt at me and Alan.
In the death of PNP-SAF 44, various individuals, groups and movement and movement of the resignation of Bira 3.
There are priests, pastor, militants, lawmakers, politicians, military, police, at the mass media and to be able to step down.
In the message of Aquino, there are also those who tell him that there are some who say that he should resign immediately and let Vice President Jejomar Binay take office so they will be returned to the right system of leadership.
It's curious because when Binay says it will be the one who will replace Aquino, more importantly, that the tone is against Binay's hands while the latter is facing many cases of corruption?
There are those who are pushing the alliance between the alliance between corrupt government or the government, who are pushing the "snap election" so that the result of the fight will be better?
Wow, there are many intelligent people in our small republic.
This is a proof that the Filipino is divided on the content of an idea and arguments which is why we are going?
Because in the tone, his system has its own system.
"It can be said that the winner of the winner of a" Tuwid na "will only be followed," the more who will follow. "The more possible," that is what should be done.
What is really, older brother and sister, what we want to happen to our country? With the number of suggestions, the recognition is more complicated where we go!
The interest of each group blocked the road.
If you will literally be listened to, "the wick of the change in the whole system of state is complicated!
A proof of this is the call of protests that someone wants in Malacañang.
Someone wants to be in Camp Crame and is also there in Luneta? Or not complicated?
Isn't it possible that you can show real unity, build a only force and in a place where we can see the success of the desire to take away from a low leader of the republic?
Did the system have succeeded without her own system?
It is unlikely to complicated the brain!
