Solenn Heussaff has been deceived by the inventor of the audience giddy,... there is a classic escence from Director Ellen.

The third time that Dennis Trillo and Solenn Heussaff has been together with Less 2Love of Erlinda Films that's why it's no longer new to the two of each other, especially that they are very busy in the movie.
The two were first together in a TV passenger and was followed by a family member, Yoyo, Toi, the film row, at Larang at 2Love, carrying a little bit of deep hole on the way of taking care of the surroundings.
A close range er and the victim, Dennis-R, was identified as Jay-R, while Jihadist were assigned to be the biggest part of climate change.
It was found out that Dennis had a dream to have a victim in the film that's why he / she said that his happiness was just like that when he was handed to him by the director / teller, which was only nine years old when Dennis was stabbed.
"I really like a bike when I usually do" when there is a lot of time, even if I have a lot of Work and with a movie, I am the one-time time to go home, "said Dennis.
There is no other actor who is thinking that Direk Ellen is thinking about to do Jay-R but Dennis. "
It is also considered by the director because it is not in the shape that he showed even if it has not to shape into the sun and rain and it is said that his real interest is coming out, as well as the present, as well as the sake of the victims.
Solenn Heussaff said that he / she was able to ask for the character of Lianne Calment who loves to ask where she will go. "I'll be the youngest," Chuwariwa-Tropas.
It is said that Solenn Heussaff has made a sign of honor, Director Ellen Adarna, "Solenn Heussaff has been discontentment with Can-M-in" krrrik, hacienda, Naytono, Naytono, Naytono. "
In an additional action against the L2L.
Direk Ellen already released a movie, the cat poo (Sevidal), who won the Eker's First FFF), which was also part of some international film festival, and the second are their voices (Vehicles), which is still being revealed now that it's being linked to them.
