The 40-year-old habits of the NPA will be successful in order to push through the democratic revolution.

There will be a social health (MSP).
There is 13, 2013.

The Local Government (MSP) of the National Democratic Front (NDF) is salads in pushing a democratic country (DRB) within 40 years from the outline of a civilized nation in order to achieve success.

The National Democratic Front is the ones who are fighting in front of the filipino masses, the root of the poverty of the Filipino people continue to increase and strengthening the poverty of the Filipino citizens, which is under the leadership of the senior citizens of the Philippines, the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
In the countryside, the implementation and strengthening of the Saligang Batas of the farmers and workers are ongoing, the primary force of the country will continue to save and restore the power of the local government to save and restore the power of the local government to save and restore the power of the local government to save and restore the power of the local government.

The constitution Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan which determines high level, depth and a total level of the filipino masses, is fruitful, the construction of the public service, health, education and culture of the masses; and for sure to implement the revolutionary justice through the armed country.

The revolutionary solution is already launched by the alliance with the foul-control of the kind of Lord of the Lord, and the filipino masses will be freed in taking advantage of it.

In the middle of this, widening, show-show-raising organization of the National Democratic Front in the ranks of the workers, health workers, teachers, students, poor people, students, students, students, poor people and other groups of those who are addicted to their own skills, skills and knowledge.

It has become creative which has launched the fight in the state of the state such as a widespread violation of human rights and for the implementation of the economy of the citizens and the corruption of the country, and it's natural for the implementation of the economy of the citizens and the economic growth of the citizens and the approval of the Aquino administration for the budget of the citizens and the legality of the Aquino administration.

The National Democratic Front is coordinating with the movement of anti-IBIG outside the Philippines for those who are opposing to help in battle the international plague.

The peace talks is the issue of the National Democratic Front in the process that the anti-Filipino Workers and the opposition of the United States will be revealed by the United States of the United States at the implementation of peace talks and the implementation of the United States at the approval of the United States against the revolutionary movement.

However, they will be disappointed with the full force and strength of the National Democratic Front in using our strength, unity and dream to cut the nails of the filipino people's poverty.

Remove the Marcos regime!
We will push forward to any project until success!
Asphalted, grumming, feasted on - the root of poverty, bring them to!
It was the US President Aquino, a puppy of a score, bring them to!
Digaynon, answer to poverty!
It is approved by the US-Aquino and the Oplan LS!
Revolution, not election!
Long live the National Democratic Front!
