Books "Hay," 2013 "Propaganda of Danilo Arao, will be launched in August 26.

On the occasion of the celebration of the month of language, a teacher and Joe Burgos will be launched in the filipino language in August 26 (Tuesday), 2: 00 in the afternoon at the 20th Infantry Batallion of the Philippines (CMC) Plaridel Hall in the university of the Philippines (UP) Diliman, Quezon City.

The book related to the market of HE is "2013: 2013 when a Perelejos family has been written by Danilo Arana, Arao.

The book is published by Pinky Media Center (PMC) that have been suspended for the length of New Year Weeker.

According to Production. Jose Maria Sison, the chairman of the International League of Peoples' Group (ILP), Arao has patriotic and reasonable perspective, "it is good that the father of the professor Arao has a strong history as a strong history as his weekly articles for the kind of report."

Production. Luis Teodoro, a former deport of UP CMC, "said that this works will prove that the teacher and acosa needs to step down in the fields of their political agenda to progress."

Meanwhile, Propaganda of Rogelio Oratiated to the department of the Filipinization of the Philippines (PUP) in the entirety of the book of the Philippines (PUP), the testament of those who love the truth and growing freedom. "

Arao committed suicide by Filipino Identice, the professor was the professor of your ex-worker (assistant) of UP CMC) where she is also working as a meaning of a sound of insult.

The Hala Bira! 2013 is his fourth book written in the filipino language, the three of his books are the Kon (SWS), HRO), Buhay partylist (UST)) the meaning of the relationship between nations (UST Publishing back in the House).

The book will have an additional price of P175 percent after the concert, the book will be sold at the amount of P250 pesos for disorders, to contact PMC to Hacademia or lemon juice.

The length of book will go to the selling of books will go to the treatment of Lordee weak, a student of UP Diliman, who became a victim of a stabbing inside his bed in February 2012.
