The return of the Filipino Action Force.

B!

It can be said that the release of the movie on the Job Fair of Erik Matti will be said to be successful if there is no official record in the social media, even if there is still no official record for the movies of the movie, it can also be considered as a success in the cinemas the past week release.
The concern from OTJ is different from the movies Filipinos who are usually hit in the box office during this time of Comedy King, Enteng at Agimat, which is usually covered by viewers, after the time of having a new fight or action, the people supported this kind of movie again.

It became the center of improvement of the social media for some of those who attended the movie, but for some who attended the movie, the usual styles of the industry in the country, but for some opposing films which have been done in the country's crisis, many are not noticed by many of the viewers.
The strength of OTJ as production compared to the independent films or indie films will be put under the system of indie films which are usually made to make movies in making a movie in making a movie in making a movie in making a movie for the success of OTJ.

In order not to fulfill his television for the OTJ that she has long been full of the project, he went with the rich company of the company for those who will talk about it, including the biggest companies of the company in the country.
Although there are a few compromise (like the use of the main leaders of Star Ngayon), Matti maintained the loyalty of the movie on his television for this, this is the lack of other attempt to raise the movie battle in the current time.
In the successful release of OTJ, the hope of supporting the filipino movies in the return of the movies in our cinemas, there are also many important aspects of the movie in our cinemas, there are also many important aspect of the movie that is not in OTJ), which is also a morale of the movie such as FPJ in his movies.
The big potential of a Filipino in the box office can be made an inspiration to create more meaningful and harder to make movies, indie films or irritable.
