Editions to be responsible!
It is September 3, 2016 when the Philippines rose from the zika virus that started to spread in the countries in Asia, this is needed, especially when many Filipinos are passengers and working in different parts of the world.
As of now, the Philippines is zika virus, which was recorded before, but it was found out that these two-two-two-two-two-year-old countries were found out and there are cases related to other nearby countries that is why there is really a need to monitor the virus, especially in airports.
The Department of Health (DOH) stressed that for the poor Filipinos who are going home to the country, do not forget to keep the health card or yellow card that is important and it will be submitted to the airport personnel, especially when they lived in the Philippines, including the Contact signal number.
It is not necessary to hide if there is a fever or other symptoms of the disease because the DOH is sure that the virus can be easy to cure because it is just mild to distress.
The first thing that passengers should think is the "ones who should be responsible and thinking of the welfare of others, especially those who have a loved ones.
If ever there are still no symptoms of the arrival at the airport of the Philippines, passengers still need to get to meet the hotness of the DOH to immediately respond to his needs for the succeeding days.
Even the responsible sex must be used for Filipinos to travel or come from zika virus, even if there is no fever, it needs to be a lot of sex or protect anyone who step down from the country with zika cases.
What is dangerous to all is that a woman who is pregnant or with complete baby in a zika virus may cause sex.
This may not be with the effect of the parents who will become a member of the virus, but the child who will be born will have an abomination.

Do not put in danger the people you will mingle with, especially your loved ones to respond to the zika alert and do what is right in order not to infect other virus.
