
The widespread offensive and.

The widespread offensive and.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
6 January 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) made the Marcos regime in the launch of the widespread offensive and to.

Based on the reports from the victims of the Bagong Hagdan in the provinces, there is a sign that this is an initial payment for the troops of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and by special forces of the police that is clear in the end of the agreement with the ceasefire on January 15.

The KP has been criticized by the Malacañang and the AFP that they say that they are honest the agreement they follow for the temporary ceasefire, and they know the violent operation conducted in the middle of the said operation of the BHB) in the launch of the illegal operation in the launch of the temporary agreement of the ceasefire.

The continued operations in line with.

It is very different from the inventor of the AFP from the temporary suspension of the ceasefire, the discommerce of the Bagong Hagdan in the declaration of the ceasefire of the Pukan in the declaration of the ceasefire of the Poverty.

On the report of the initial investigation of the AFP, which is a violation of the agreement with the ceasefire.

1.

2 members of the soldiers appointed three million pesos to each barangay between the forest up to the ship of the ship, Lanticse, Riverside, and in Pandian, all of Police District, Davao City.

3.

4 - the elements of 69th Infantry Battalion and 88th IB, are residents of Purok Isnain, Barangay Dukhovnaia, in Calinan, Davao City to force them to report the condition of the local units of BHB).

5 people were arrested by the elements of 78th IB, the five local farmers last December 21 in Mulanay, Quezon and they were accused of members of the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB).

6.

7 people were arrested by the elements of Cagayan Valley Regional Office last December 28 in Bagumbayan, Tuguegarao City, Rene Esmondo Abaca, who was also accused by the military which was said to be the strongest leader.

8.

9: A few hours before December 16, in the start of the declaration of the ceasefire of the Marcos regime, he was secretly entered by a 31st Infantry Battalion of Barangay Hamog awon, Bulan, Sorsogon.

10% of the elements of the PNP Regional Trial Court (former Regional Training and RMG) in Barangay Mackay, San Pascual, Masbate last December 28 and 25, which was suspected to be active at the revolutionary movement.

11.

12: 00 last January 2, the elements of 2nd Infantry Battalion in Barangay Sta. Cruz, Donsol, Sorsogon and launched an operation against Bagong Hala Bayan and the Israelites before in the area.

13 people are continuously launched by the so-called "peace talks" by the AFP about the implementation and operation of war on more or less than 40 barangays in Bicol.
