
The violence of the state against the children should be stopped.

The country.
March 21, 2012.
He is stopping the ongoing violence of the state against the children due to the Oplan Galugad of the Philippines (AFP), who were suspected to have been killed in the island of the Philippines (AFP), who was suspected to have been victims of the Philippine Army in Barangay Tacloban City, which was suspected to be a grenade in an island in Barangay Tacloban City.

According to Julian Aguirre, the grandfather of the victims, inside the house when he heard a strong explosion, he heard a loud explosion that caused his immediate death while Roda was severely wounded and he was brought to a hospital in Calanoga, Iloilo.

To be covered up with their relation to the crime, he immediately released a statement from the attempt to have been released by the owner Maj. General Jose Mabingnay, chief of the 3rd Infantry Division who was based in Camp Jamindan, Capiz and was accused by the Bagong Humalig) that is behind the said explosion.

However, all the evidences and testimony of those behind bars are responsible for the bloody incident which was responsible for the bloody incident that was criticized by the rights of Panay and playing with the said violence and the military is just protecting their violence and accusations that they are fighting for it.

Before the bloody incident, it was reported that there are four children who were killed in separate operations in Laguna and Camarines Norte, according to Jacqueline Ruiz, leader of CXL, they experienced severe trauma and avoided in socializing with children who were victimized by military operations and their normal lives were disrupted.

Since Benigno Aquino III has recorded five cases of murder, 17 failed murder, two cases of realization comes, 10 more attacks in schools and eight cases where the children, "young soldiers, are being attacked.

Last February 25, the two children were killed with their father in Labo, Camarines Norte when the soldiers quickly fired at the house of the Mancera where a member of the Bastes.

Last February 16, a 15-year-old boy and his older companion were shot until he was killed in Magdalena, Laguna after they were fooled by the rebels.

Meanwhile, Jimmy Lahi, 36, in Barangay Dao, San Fernando, Bukidnon by the members of the group operators based in Bukidnon.

According to the witnesses, Longon was shot by one named Aldy Salusad, son of Ben Salusad, chairman of San Fernando Matos), a group who will cheat on the agreement entered by New People's Army (RES), one of the group Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan which is under the 8th IB.

LRO has been fighting for a long time with the attempt to sell their ancestors against foreign companies in the past 2011, he is threatened to kill the mining in the area.
