"Where is the popsicle?

I am cheap when driving while driving on the other night, the traffic in the City of Manila is severe because of the sudden downpour of strong rain, in the afternoon.
The speed of flooding in front of the Manila City Hall and even the newly built road in Lawton in front of bus terminals, was flooded, and not.
If you are getting flooded, at the side of the area, but yesterday, the said place was just like sea, and of course at España, there is still no change in this road when the rain suddenly changed.
I am cheap, not because of traffic, traffic is already normal in Manila, especially when the rain is sudden, we are angry because we do not see a person who is going crazy in order to fix the boils of vehicles.
When there is no rain, there are those who are seen by the Manila Traffic and Parking Bureau (MTPB) before they had an underpass in front of the Manila City Hall in Taft Avenue.
But the other day, those bastards are not like that, those who are arrogant when driving to vote for them when they need motorists, because it is too much traffic, because there is so much traffic.
This is painful to the customers, the customers, who are hoping to reach the authorities.
They are like a crocodile who is waiting for what they are waiting for, those who are waiting for the ice covetous, those who are waiting for a color coats, they are sure that they will be Kotong or if it will be captured, there is still a commission.
The saying is true that the reason why there is a traffic in the corner where there is a police in the corner, it means, the police are making traffic because he is not really being rude.
He is just waiting for those who will be caught and will be able to recover.
So he removed the traffic in the street when he was given to the civilians similar to MTPB.
But there is no change, as well as the appointment of the fools, more than the police are worse than the police, there are many people who have no idea, taking advantage of the coins, you will be defeated by the coins.
We do not ask for those who are pointing out to commit suicide in fixing the flow of vehicles.
Our wish, in the time of danger, during times when there is a sudden flooding and they can see that the roads get narrower are the streets, especially, they should be alert.
That's because we really need that.
Service first before Kovalev!
