Tourism of Coron and Bira are really being choked.

In the previous SONA of President Bo 3, he encouraged the foreign and local government to sympathize with their businesses here in the country, which is why he gave the construction of BCG Airport for them not to suffer, including the tourists.
What is surprising is, why is the call of Bo'clock in the middle of their capital here when he did not pay attention to the foreigner and local government, who have grown up here, especially in tourism.
Just an example is the group of Northern Palawan which is headed by Doctor Orlando aboard.
If you think about it, Baba 3 will no longer borrow money, particularly in tourism because there are many people who sympathize with the problem the President himself is under the National Commission on InFilipino-governmental organization or IP).
It is said that the PPEP is the obstacle or obstacles to the country to continue their destroyed development in Coron and Baba which is owned by the investor.
According to him, it was allegedly used by some of the American Filipino-New People's group to claim the ownership of their damaged land through taking advantage of Cerge of Ancattle, Domain title (CAIDT).
While the CAIDs was not yet taken out by the UP-CBN, the ownership of the IP in the said land was not yet given to the said land that was why the price hike which was released by Coron and Bira will not push through because of the LINTEL.
There are many who want to turn around in the Philippines but if this is happening, our development and project are coming, I am, even how many of my money are, I do not waste anymore and make a waste of time here.
Does Bieber just know what the PIP is doing, under the Office of the President? Or just pretending to be blind because it is his friend who is seated here.
"That is what is difficult with our government now, if you are friends, Kabarilan, relatives or friends, they just let it be wrong if what you are doing is wrong.
And this is the statement of IP, you should place themselves, whatever you think is the improvement of the majority, that is what you should do, "your follow the few.
Just like what was done by the IP to Two people only because in the middle of its height, it was in the middle of its construction, it was forced by the owner to recover his lower island every year and 2 percent of their sales.
The question: Where the PPEP was brought about the amount that was said to have been accepted by 30 pesos, this was only accepted by 30 people who worked for P500.00 per cent) so that there would be something coming from the Aquino government of lily's Calvento Files, lily.
