Altaserv paid, the wedding, By Allan Den, October 24, 2016.
It seems that Alden Richards has a hangover when Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza have a hangover yesterday on Sunday.
Maine spoke again to SPS as DJ Mae, who was jealous of Mocha Bae, who was jealous of Mrs. Bae.
There was an argument and the two on the radio, which was able to pass by, was able to pass by a heated argument of Magat a ice cream, and the two were still wearing a ice cream, which also showed Alden in the camera.
When Jose Manalo and AiAi delas Alas look at them, after their wedding, both "Masaya," the answer of the two.
"Tyo," Iba, Iba, "
Alungani, Maire made a fight against Saydresses, who won't be able to win because Thea is not able to make his own song, Wish, May.
"The wife won, husband loses!" AiAi delas Alas, who is always teasing Alden.
The Commission on Human Rights is trying to make sure that those who are sentenced to 6.8M for using number Allowance (M as well as those in the day, "like that."
Let us watch out for what will happen to the story of Kalyeserye after getting married and an official, even Mister and Mrs. Richards, Tere and Mabog.
It seems that Jake Ejercito is sudden again in the eyes of the netizens after the release of Jake in Saturday at Eat Bulaga.
There is a lot who is positive in social media to know that Jake is handsome and it seems that they have forgotten Andi Eigenmann and the child of Jake, Ellie.
It's because the guides that the son of Manila Mayor Erap Estrada is really the son of Manila Mayor Erap Estrada about the shack that he is wearing in Kalyeserye.
It seems that the Canglement of the Bayan of Jake, sponsored Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza at the Christ the King Church.
"Congratulations to again, Mister and Mrs. Richards!
In the inventor of the EB by EB from the church, Jake is reduced in the church with Jake and she seems to have been able to go home and go home to the group.
Ryzza Mae Dizon purchased a photo with her, who seems to be giddy.
Jake is just acting cute, with a cuishment of Baste and Baste and Samsuraji.
There was a IG post on the mommy of Baste and Sampaguita Pictures, thank you for her help to guard the two rooms in the wedding.
It looks like Jake is very fond of taking care of the young men because of her shock from her daughter Ellie.
After he attended Alonte, it looks like Jake is talking with Ellie again because she maintained her tweet that she is with his ranch there.
"
It is possible that Andi will also get along with Andi because they do not want to and what they want, they are both parents of Ellie.
