
"There is a feast of human rights.

Macky Macasac and Joan Cordero.
There are 16, 2012.

A farmer can be blamed for the poster that would be wanted by former general Jovito Palparan which is said to be the cause of many killings in the region of the southern Katropa bench, where he was assigned.
"The citizens of Quezon City did not celebrate because, instead, they are mourning because of the severe worsening threat to them and their livelihood."
This is what Peter Gonzales was said, spokesperson of Task Force stop to be exported in the People's People of Quezon, in front of Camp Aguada, chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), on May 15.
In that day, the fiesta of San Isidro Labrador, Quezon.
Instead of celebrating the feast of San Isidro Labrador, farmers marched and protested from the province of Quezon to condemn the alleged widespread violation of human rights that will give a severe impact to the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (Macky Macasac).
According to Karylle, some of the cases of human rights were experienced by Christopher Prize here who are from Sitti Pilipenko, Brgy. Camba, Barangay Camba, Quezon.
There is also fear instilled in Genarro Dichoso, after he declined the amount given to him by the elements of 76th Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army so that the members of the rebel New People's Army (NPA) and 85th Special Action Force (NPA) and 85th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army were arrested after being buried with his nephew's house.
"The farmers affected by the Oplan LS, who are hiding in the words, peace and development," in truth, there is no shadow of peace or prosperity that we have been selling, "says Gonzales.
The group also criticized the AFP who expressed that no one case was filed against the ranks of the military within the first four months of the year, and all accusations were not taken from July 2010.
"The AFP will stop the spread of lies, the victims who faced the press conference, to prove that there are violations," according to Glan-Illegal Drugs Act, according to the general secretary of the town of Karylle.
In a press conference, the victims were able to face a sample of their complaints about the cases of human rights under the administration of President Benigno Aquino III.
The groups of human rights in Quezon were showed the empty shells of bullets from the military, in a press conference of Karuhatan, Southern Tagalog, regarding the privatization of the said province (Kid and Eve.
Story of violence.
The wife of Mirasol, Felix Baba, a farmer, from selling the heart of a banana, one morning on the 19th of March, 2011, was ambushed at the 85th Infantry Batallion of the Army, who was ambushed by the 85th Infantry Batallion of the Army, wherein he was walking until now, Felix was still not found.
"
The victims said that majority of the armed men in Quezon Province were allegedly members of the NPA even without sufficient basis.
A few kilometers from their house, Mirasol, Macabog, a farmer, was also identified as members of the NPA, and he was suddenly carried away by the farmer named Biloy when he was suddenly pulled and brought to the camp of the military, Orly Marketing who was suddenly pulled and brought to the Priority Development Assistance Fund (Kasangayan-TK).
Not only the farmers were victims of violence, even the fishermen including Dondon Peras of San Andres, Quezon were also experienced and robbed by 762 Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army and rice.
"
Many civilians in the jurisdiction are the victims of the killing every time there is a fight between the NPA and the military, because it usually happens in the community, according to Karylle.
Despite the record of violation of human rights, the local government of Quezon is not doing any steps, but we just came closer to the officials of Macaleleng, but they said we are just busy with the officials of Macaleleng, but they said, Mirasol.
Land is fading.
The farmers robbed a coffin in front of Camp Aguinaldo as a protest against the widespread brownout in the province of Quezon. (Macky Macasac.
One of the most rich provinces in the country is the province of Quezon of the southern part of corn, rice, coconut and others, it is also abundant and other natural resources from the mountains and ocean.
There are four districts in Quezon province, the third and fourth district are called South Quezon and Bondoc Street, which is why this is where the huge number of farmers and fishermen have been found in the two municipalities like Bio-diesel in Gumaca, Miro Povidine in Atimonan, and Dam in Mackay.
Most of the residents here, are against the projects that the government wants, because they can be transferred to their home and livelihood because they can be transferred to a distant place where their livelihood will continue.
It is figured out that Bondoc Morato will be put in his ranch because of thousands of hectares of land owned by Murray, Soleta, Estrada-Quizon, Tan, Reyes, and Matik.
The farmers from Quezon are also against the property of their land for some of the Lord Nazarene, they have been fighting for a long time to return to them the land land, and have reform in the land.
Because of the increase of the number of military in this part of Quezon, the residents were derailed in the part of the citizens here who are trying to stop the fight of the citizens of the Lord Almighty and the government, according to Karylle.
"It is afraid that most of the soldiers are afraid, how are our livelihood?," I am not able to plough, "others on the streets that are spreading the house, covered by soldiers," said Maroons.
If the residents did not agree with what the soldiers want, they are taking the pet chicken of those living there, and other properties that can be taken.
At present, eight battalions are assigned in South Quezon and Bondove.
According to Karylle, assigned here are 85th, 762, and 59th Infantry Battalion of Army, including the 1st Special Forces of the Army, the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, CTS Armed Forces Geosciences Bureau, and 416th Provincial Police Station.
These are the most evacuated to take care of this part of Quezon Province.
"We are alarmed with the real intention of the widespread brownout, the AFP said, this is part of their way so that the NPA will drive, but civilians in the countryside are the primary victims of the abuse of the soldiers, according to Malabanan.
Remove the Oplan Tokhang.
The farmers in Quezon are not celebrating, but the protesters (Izzy Canillo).
According to the report of Karylle, the exhibited that this will be brought by the program Oplan Galugad last program against insurgency and against those who are fighting in the government just like the Oplan Galugad last time by Pres. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Under the Oplan Bantay, Arroyo, in the past, the victims of political murders have reached 1,590, thousands of cases of different kinds of human rights were recorded.
The government is hiding the Oplan Tokhang in the name of "peace and prosperity," according to the groups of human rights, "it is said that their respect to the rights of people through dental and health missions, and others.
"The army should ask from the mountains because of those who are leaving us, we are still sitting there," said Maroons.
Not only the residents of Quezon Province are experiencing the violation of human rights during the term of Arroyo, there was recorded 100 cases of the political killing, 32 cases of stealing, and other cases of violation of human rights in the southern end.
For the militant farmers in the region, the program against insurgency and judicial system to defend the description of the Lord Almighty and big businessmen in the area.
"He is taking care of the military for the interest of the Lord Almighty and owner of big businesses in the village," Pedro Gonzales, general secretary of the National Lakas ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino (Izzy Canillo).
Along with condemned and the call to immediate death from the military in the province of Quezon, the group of cases filed at the Commission on Human Rights would also file a resolution for the violation of human rights in Quezon and immediate death of the military in the said place.
"
The farmers and relatives of the victims insisted that until the Aquino administration is numb about the call of the citizens for their famous rights, they do not have a choice but to stand up and fight.
