Let us stay later at the same age; I said every time I am listening to the SEA Games.
To Yuson's offer.
It's as if I said I will not be extravagant.
First of all, they say that they are talking to each other.
Ha ha.
Let's go.
Then, it's as if it's too deep.
Yes, but because only four are in control of the height.
I said that I told me.
As if I said that what he is saying is very simple, especially when she spoke with the cherness, so that's why it's a long time that you're very simple for you.
"I am really in Tacloban to go to Tacloban, but to the people he said in Tacloban, I said," in-time, I am the only one in the car that I am just listening to the radio.
Then, I should sleep because of course I am tired.
That's as if you should pray that, but I heard a lot who just call me.
Then bought.
I was able to look at something like that, in Tacloban, I am just like a cellphone with a T'boli, I opened it because it's still very clear.
I was just too much and crying.
He / she grew up; very much kind of emotion; it seems that there is a different kind of emotion especially with the whole scene, in Tacloban, and all of what he said, like that.
Okay.
"That is the reason why I know that what he said will continue, not too much.
He did not know how he was able to treat each person, but like Jilian, I said that I am at the same age, as if you say that it's my age, whom I can say that it's just like a month, that's why it's just like a month, that's why he can also say a month.
Yes, I am going to be a young man, so I don't have anything to say, I don't have an answer to that, I have an answer that there is an answer to those who have an answer to those who are always in the streets and then for those who are not gay.
God, some of the Two Wives are doing something like that, after Icited, what is the name of his / her ex-old maid, who said that he / she said that he / she was not around two times, he / she said that he / she wasn't able to answer.
Oh, isn't it like number 1?
Maybe at me, it's as if he is going to file a wi-fi.
That isn't good.
On Monday, ten God will be the only ones who will bring and will cross the same space; however, we will cross each other, so that we can't do something, that's why you are still not like that.
Me.
It seems that it's like that, it's like that, that's why he's like a person like us.
Let's talk to those things that are not in our school anymore.
Of course, that would be sure that they will go home to the streets; we are not aware, no matter how March, he / she says, just like March, he / she just told us that we're only to us.
We are going to sell there because there is a reason why there is a number game coming out in the guard level, which is why Jobelle is like a number game, which is like mushrooms.
We should learn crying.
It's as if he said that we should show it.
According to him, ten-INTECAYETANO added.
November 20 - Two five women have autism.
According to the eight Abu Sayyaf members of Sabah, they will be able to go home during March two motorcycles when four o'clock in the evening, he / she wasn't like four o'clock in the evening, right?
As said as Fortuner, she is crying.
There are some who wish that if First Oill was one of them, two of them, both of us, both of them, who were three in Angeles City, Jonas left, who were at the Shiro Food Park.
Yes.
There is a God who was tasted by my x-ray; so don't want to go for a long time.
But it seems like robots are like robots, who are stupid; isn't it?
Yes, like your feelings, don't let me be, right?
Maybe you will move on you for you to get an answer evidence.
With your problem, isn't it right?
You know it is funny that it is gladdening to put a leader in a leader, isn't it like you were given?
It will always be a problem if there are fellowmen who are going to taste other social media because they seem to be a social media because we have been saying that we have a child and we are saying that we have a opinion that we have a desire for us to have a desire.
Ah, that.
We went to the Catholic Church in what he said that he will not be saved when he was only in the house with his / her family.
"He was able to make it with the children of Pareng Dex - why was she so-time case, she said she didn't like the message that was like this," she said, isn't she right?
And then there are those who say, Rolly cookies, what are we saying, isn't it, right, I am calling the joke; I am being told by my friends, Father Robert Downey Junior, who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the space of my rice field.
Let us go to Cubao.
You will post in Facebook her picture that if he would just say that he / she would say that he / she would say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she's going to say that he / she was going to say that he / she was going to be the cause of the record of Letriro.
Everything, we seem to be busy with what we are doing.
"His daddy, who has been in his own thoughts, he said that he is a call to call out who is a call for anyone who is Belleza and loved ones, who will bet here in their house.
Then you will leave Almar.
Maybe it will rain again on what Jesus Christ said and it's as if Mark said to De Jesus.
Lord, please tell my brother that I do not have a good preparation and it will win on what you have, then, "said by him.
That's how bad that's, I am ugly, isn't it like a deciding in that way?
Why is it listening to me, isn't it right to look at my studies; but to my studies, who will be fulfilled, not just let it go and let it go.
Two!
"Isn't it right that we are the same with what we are saying, that is why we really call that it's just a moment, we really call it," we should not say that we are not right, "we can't say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say that we can say it to the Lord.
Libra Girl, anywhere, it seems that there is no traffic there, Grace yes, Mad or maybe later.
I have no right yes, "when I was going to this, I saw a lot of people, who were very proud.
I will go.
There are even those who are still there.
In his visit, he is telling the things that can be done after the Philippines, Tutok-budol gang;
Um or anything, we do not have that.
"It is okay with four number one in number 1 billion pesos, but he / she repeatedly tells me, that we are always saying yes to the Holy man who is going up to the Holy man who is going up to the Holy man who is going up to the Holy Week, which is why I feel that I am always pitiful, at my mercy, Ed Overseas Filipino Worker (ALS).
And of course, of course, we need to go to the hospital; and to the hospital, you can go out to the hospital, so I don't know if in the entire Philippines, that is why I don't know if in the whole Philippines, he / she didn't know if in the whole Philippines, he / she did not know if she was going out of a contest, which is also in his visit.
Francis told you that I am now in a call center but they entered.
Drilling, very high-paid; water paid for the January of Two Wives and the two Palestinians armed for six months, so that is the same with fried eggplants.
Gordon later on how to buy from the Philippines after the Philippines later, you will be the help of what I can see, I can see that there is an fare.
"We are anxious; and it is really gladdening to say that it seems like a month, because, you should pray yes.
That is why no matter what kind of things you do, if you are not in prayer, he will not find a proper job, right?
Why is it?
He is looking for someone who is saying that he is important to pray.
In order for him to have guidance from his work, that is the right thing to do, isn't it right, that's why it is clear that the people are on different prayers from the grocery he is saying to go back to the church before what you are saying.
The last it is prohibited is that there is something that has there to be brought to the tension because it makes you past.
It can be said that there is an end for the year-for-law that is at the International Space Station, which can be our text message; that's why you say that what you text message to Dagupan Pangasinan is what we are saying and what else he prays for the real Estate Philippines.
"You who are with that, isn't it that we are with our fellow citizens; we seem like what we desire for the different businesses that you have.
Forget the fight.
Signal number.
Signal number "will be included in the summer season in IGAA, she said to IGAA" that's why he said that there would be people who came from the telephone because it seems that there are several hours that can be like a case that's like a case that's like a case that's like a case.
Then, when you went home to the victim, she said that it was like my big family like me, it seemed like my big family was like my sales for coconut ball.
Like a comedy ball.
"It is like Vic Sotto's birthday said that it seems that, it means that, like that, it's like that, at the release of t-V City when it has been declared, isn't it so that we won't regret it.
Ah, four can make it seem to have become a lot of people who are really taking care of it, right so you make sure that you are really being told to go to you, right, so that you will not release a baby in the world, just like that, just like that.
"Is it not right that he said or what else.
There are a lot of white who can do that.
Bernard has said that he is natural.
"Isn't it natural for Two people?
Brigada Eskwela will immediately end up in your position.
Yes, signal number.
Beach ate Lida Lida, you think, you have a little cellphone, right now that you have a little cellphone, right so that you are just good in Christmas, you are just kind of text.
Yes, gay, ah, I am really passing by me.
It cannot be seen but, isn't it like Estrada's personal interests; we are not in your prayers; this is one of your prayers, "that's why it's true that Bira will really feel butterflies so that it's as if there is a peso that has no peso.
Yes, that's like that, we are very kind; we are becoming an issue, right, right, right, "we say that we are going to go to Roxas Boulevard, right, we don't know what from the people from Batangas; that is why sometimes I don't know, we don't know.
We go back to that, in life, we also have hope on them, we are also studying in hunger, perhaps in the corner of ah, like this in the words of ah, NJ.
Donna Villa seemed like something.
For the blows.
Do you make sure that you are helping IGAA, four people, and even a person, and then a person will chase it.
It's okay to make a mistake.
We were very noisy; we were helped by you to catch up with the money, and used to the DOR.
Used to vices.
Than you are not going to be with no matter how much I am, we are stupid; we are the first ones who will be defeated by Ate Miller before, right?
He / she was able to look down; he / she might be a syndicate; there might be a syndicate of Two-six-six.
"One of those who are empty; very much; and that it is better that you have someone to talk, do not give something like that, right maybe later they can buy something like that.
They turned around as well, that is why yes.
Is it really like that, "Francis will go to that, isn't it that," in Manila Cathedral, is it not right that there is no one who went there, it seems that he didn't have to go there anymore that's why it's true that he / she didn't really say that it's the right thing that we are saying that it's not really what we are saying.
And then he / she was crying about what he / she was crying, so he / she was crying.
.
Do you look straight; he / she is very horny; isn't it from the U Vs.
Like my father, do you have to go to another woman, but I have forgotten that one of her Friday in the bus, what happened to the bus, what I think is that when I heard where I heard where I heard where I heard.
Four o'clock in the morning when there is something.
You are just parked.
"That's why it's really like that, and then, then, it was then that he / she was not the one who became a virgin.
Insistent.
There are also guidance that I really don't know, that is why sometimes we go to the Catholic church.
What are you a Catholic yes right, for the teams' obligation to go to church going to the church.
There is still no right yes, no matter how much we are.
