Maine, the heart jumped into their wedding with Alden.
Yaya Dub has already started the summer season of Allan DCon October 23, 2016.
Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza have married in Kalyeserye of Eat Bulaga!
The TV Patrol of Alden and Maine, which was held at the Christ the King Church in E. Rodriguez Sr. Avenue, QC.
In the said church, grandmother and Maine are going to go to church, including Alden and Maine, which is why they are chosen by Lola Nidora, (Wally Bayola, and Lola Babor (AiAi delas Alas).
Lola Nidora said about the call that Meng said to the Philippines, not "the wedding was not able to push through but the person who would not push through but the one who goes on top moon.
It is said that it should be in Hong Kong on the new wedding, but not there but in Europe.
Around 1: 30 pesos was the start of March March.
Vice president who is Rodjun Cruz first joined again, which was followed by the ID, ah, ah, of the room.
Lola Babah brought her grandchild to the front of the altar.
The principal was one of those who walked to the principal, Miss Deaf Bicolandia (who was able to be accompanied by Allyxon.
Next was godfather Joey de Leon together with Miss Margot Torres (of a lucky Donald's), and then, Ninang Helen Gamboa-Sotto) attacked by godfather Mike Enriquez.
Medical team has travelled to US while Jake Ejercito and Aaahelle Santos (GAS), Kenneth Medrano and Toni Aquino (Dr. Love) and Maggy Tolentino and Tety).
The deport of Sprentourage of Enterovirus-tubig (Bible bearer, Laro Sotto (coercress and Tito Sotto) and Baiji was the grandchild of Tito Senator) and Baiji.
Cuya was also possessed by the toll fee, Ryzza Mae Dizon, Scaress and MFi (MG) and Olivia (MG) and Olivia Milan.
The Gideon IOS and Joel Palimpinon, and Joel Palmenco, Kim Laza, Kim Lalakay, Jony eva, and Jon Patrimonio, Katrina, and Katrina Halili.
Coleen's brother Benito was already late for a long time.
Kuh Ledesma, at the balcony of the church of WILLIE, Doctor Love, then they joined the Tres Marias.
Let's wait for the grandmother to be able to wear it with daddy Dodong (Vic Sotto) who is wearing a Barong but she is still a long taste.
In the opinion of God Gelli de Guzman, it is then the grand subdivisions held in Her, dela Rosa, Clara and goatee.
The sweetness of the smile of Trisha Mosle is seen to be seen by Lola NJ and Daddy Doren who brought Meng to Alden.
"This is the start of their Christmas season," grandmother's shock while watching Alden and Maine while sitting next in front of the altar.
It seems like a real wedding can be considered even if it is not true priest that we met.
There was the strength of those from the church when he answered "yes, Father," and when told them to talk to them, "I did!"
Lola Nidora always looks like a "I am" I am "I am" Maine, while OA was the call of Lola Tidora (Paolo Ballesteros) when she was "I"
There are those who are worried inside the church, especially when we are making a ring and harassment of a ring before they read what they are saying.
According to Alden, "Maine," when I saw Lola Nidora, first seen on TV with Lola Nidora, the first time I saw how to be ill-tempered, and then, your face cannot be measured.
"Watching me, I am thinking what you will do, when you saw me, that is why I am just so big with my happiness when you are fond of writing to me.
"Even if you are often wearing a flawless face, while driving backwards, good looks like I am still beautiful than you," since then, I became aware of me. "
"Whatever comes to us, I do not surrender because I know we are two for each other.
"And I promised that in every wake of your wake, until you sleep, I will hold your hands, it is annoying for your heart.
"I want to know Maine, that I am thankful because I met him and starting this day, I promised that I will make sure that I will make sure," that's the most beautiful events in our life, "that's the most beautiful events in our life.
Maine, "Alden," Alden, I will not forget it, with a sermon that everyone has started when it is Tantk V Lerio Bompat.
"I thought you did not notice me, because who am I," right?
"But you smile.
"Since then, I waited for the day that we meet and get married.
"You know, now, my heart fell from happiness and happiness that you want to do?
"There are more hours and it can be seen and the truth is, I am really not even asked.
Thank you, Alden, because you were taught me to love and have no fear, thank you because you are against your love for me.
"Expect that I will fight for my love for you" until the end.
"Promised to take care of you until we have grown old, I will not neglect a promise that you will always be accompanied by promises, I will never leave you.
"I will love all of you completely, I will love without equal to forever," said goodbye to Meng.
Alden hugged Meng after they told her to talk.
After the priest declared that they were an official of Mister Alden and Mrs. Maine Mendoza, they already told them to be alone.
Lola Nidora, who talked to the phone, suddenly screamed, "Maine!!" And then lost consciousness, that's why the size of the ATM card was disrupted!
Altareros was really left behind and they were suddenly irritated with grandmother who got this form of Commercial Center!
After the call, Lola Nidora, is silent.
She was able to get dizzy, but thank you, "thank you," thank you, Alden, on the other hand, Alden Richards was able to push through with the lips of the two... that they have been in a long time in the lips of the two... that they have been in a long time.
In the inside of the church, Alminda Islamabad started to stay at the church, "one more!" Lola Tinidora (Jose Manalo).
Alden granted the doctor, but in his forehead, Meng was able to finish Meng and not to be able to return to a new wedding.
Lucy howled in the scene where Coleen held the hand of the room, so remembered that he was pushed by Metgay away from Alden!
Maine's dress "Cataltanghap" is the same dress of Maine, Catalina "who is from 2017 by dela Rosa, that's why it is new and it is not cowardice.
The ID, Lang Leav is for the idol of Maine to be able to make a text message that is entitled, Our Dr. Love, for Alonte.
Jake Ejercito is very horny but Jake Ejercito is happy and Jake is very happy for him to be named Maine.
This is the First field of Jake after the revelation of the true father of Andi Eigenmann, Ellie.
There was a point that different parts of the members and members of Alminda Islamabad started to undergo an illusion for an iguana.
The lucky fans who were invited to be invited to the church already changed his / her favorite songs.
From 1 trending news, Altaserv paid yesterday on Twitter.
In 1992, in 2007, live in GMA was seen to be seen in GMA because of the protagonist Marian Rivera and Dingdong Dantes because of the imepisode.
Sevidal later on the real character of Dog Yan.
AlDub has forgiven that something that happens to Alden and Maine after their Kalyeserye!
