The wife of the OFW, got her own child.

A text message was received by Bantay, meow, from the wife of our OFW who is in Saudi Arabia.
My husband has been in Saudi for three years and he has not yet returned to the Philippines when she admitted that her husband already had a live in partner in Saudi, she was accepted by his wife, who continued to send a regular support to the mother and child.
The big problem of the wife, she got her own child, 41-year-old, while her child was 20 years old.
In the tone of the message of the wife, they have been doing it for a long time and she did not expect that she would be pregnant.
He plans to raise the child because he is afraid to rebel his child because she was very happy when she was surprised when the wife was confused by what he should do with the abuse he did.
Another thing he is worried about is that the husband knows the real incident, can he file a case against his wife?
Or maybe they will finally support them anymore.
According to Atty. Elvin AVillanueva, who was given books "guidance to the fellow citizen of the OFW," the OFW might file a case against the wife of the OFW, and he can file annulment.
Villanueva also added that under the law of the Philippines, there is no legal issue on the case in the chest. "
According to him, this is not a criminal case for a criminal case that's why the family member of the family or the youngest relative or "family relative or" they are together in the same house.
It is related to the support of the husband, only the court will decide if husband should stop his support to the family.
Anyway, 21 years old, the law is being told by the law which is the majority of children who should be supported.
Although he is not obliged to support, there is still no law which prohibits the parents to continue the care of their family.
What's sad about the case of this family, what the mother and mother did was in a serious crime, now, it will have additional fault if it will use the child to lose in his womb and thinking that he can still be covered up by their sins.
