"People's power, released the implementation of cybercrime law.

Different groups, people and netizens celebrated the declaration of 120-day temporary restraining order (TRO) of the Supreme Court against the implementation of Republic Act 10175 or cybercrime in the midst of the Republic Act 7175 or cybercrime.
But they are all united when the victory is just temporary.
In the statement of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), one of the groups who led the protest and petition to the Supreme Court, he said "


The Bayan and other groups led the second protest of hundreds of people in Padre Faura, Manila against cybercrime law on the day of the Supreme Court, October 9.
Members of the citizens against RA 10175 were united, including the Filipino Weeker and Pinky MedelCenter, of Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Noguera who also served as rainy season in social media.
Reyes described the actions of the citizens of Padre Faura and had a program in front of the Supreme Court, but there were also t-shirt that happened in the leadership of the Supreme Court, but there were also statements between the Supreme Court, but it was signature in the survey and Street.
The movement of Occupy technology is the movement of improvement of public space which started at Wall Street, New York last year.
Meanwhile, the other New media chates and media groups like the Philippine internet Islamic Freedom Fighters, National Union of Jihadist were taken by the Philippines, Center for media Freedom Fighters (KABAKA) and many others.
Also included in the protest and filing the petition is different lawyers and groups of lawyers including the Integrated Bar of the Philippines, National Union of People's lawyers, and other lawyers including Atty. Harry Roque.
Also joined by the group of youth, together with the Anakbayan, League of Filipino Students, which was Edmundo Guillena, National Union of Students, the Philippines, and students from different university.
The Filipino Weeker, Pinky ia Center, Bulaytono, Kautao, Maypajo and other New media practitioners, alternative routes in order to go out of the statement against cybercrime law, is headed.
Try to observe more.
Meanwhile, Reyes said that the fight will continue under the proposed law until the case gets junked.
According to Commercial Center (CPU), it is a group of professionals regarding the Communications Sec. ICT), people like them and other groups fighting against the rights of the citizens on the internet.
They also appealed to the Aquino administration to just focus on the suspension of the bill that will respond to a prosperous needs and rights of the citizens.
"We Are, the Aquino administration is stop to stop the proposed bill that was called on by the Islamic State of Information Bill which is the amount of bills that will be given to the country," said CPU.
According to NUJP, the Supreme Court is calling to dismiss the RA 10175.
"A call on the Supreme Court will be a call on the Supreme Court to be the final decision of the martial law to be a call on the Pambansang Kamao in the legislative chamber that can be passed by a libel case," the group stated.
For the human rights flag, a national group of human rights, the Congress needs to make sure that it will give laws in relation to the internet that will not violate the rights of the citizens.
"Congress, if Fight IT led to a martial law of online libel, to ensure a law will be given an apology to a civil wedding, human rights, the Constitution, the Philippines's case to be under the international law," said Brad Adosto, Asia director of HE.
Militant workers are calling out under SOCOTECO May Uno to the public to continue to use the internet to express the criticisms and accusations of the Aquino administration.
"We Are, to the Filipino Workers who use the internet with the internet to the streets of the Philippine government's case," says Roger Soliba, the general secretary of reaches out to it.
DOJ Representative Raymond Palino said that the ball will also be in Congress to finally dismiss the cybercrime law.
"The resolution of a TRO of a TRO for the Congress which was to a text message of the meat processing.
