NCRPO NU S.

Just like the defense of President Benigno Aquino 3rd of PNP Chief Alan Purisima, the chief needs his partner in his leadership who are active and productive.
In my long time in the Police District, we have a lot of friends from PO 1 to PNP Chief, who are hardworking and stayed silent in resolving the crimes in the local and the whole country, here in Quezon City Police District (QCPD), we are living alone because from 1990.
With the number of past district believes that almost all of them became my friend, some of them had a fight with their profession as media against police, if they are right, we have a lot of praises until they get from service, right, PNP Chief Alan Purisima?
Though you are back for a little when you are assigned here in QCPD who have been assigned here in QCPD, that is why they are only CPDC.
We are closed-out before, even your boyfriend, but hopefully, now, we have no questions to NCRPO Chief Director General Valmoria, because, aside from what is really strong with PNoy, he should be brought to Camp Crame, which is why, he should be brought to Camp Crame, which is why he should be brought to an administrative case in the whole of PNP.
It is not for us to run for PNoy and Director General Purisima, but if you will just choose a new leader of the NCRPO, I help and older brother to the troops of QCPD District Director Richard Albano.
In a short time, but it is already long, since he sat in Manila until he was seated as District Director Albano of QCPD, they are condemning his style of leadership and leadership, that is why the operatives of QCPD are hoping for them to treat them as their family.
Several big crimes have been solved in a short time and most of them are low in the 72-hour each other, some of them are the mayor of Isabela. "The Model Shop has killed his friend himself.
"He / she said, the leader of the carelf is the leader of the carp to be the biggest syndicate, mixed with it.
"The murder of the car model, Enzo Pineda, the tons of almost illegal drugs compared to other members of illegal drugs, the deceased and innocent civilians, perfect for a short time!
President PNoy and Chief Alan, I know that you can see all the proof that the QCPD have done under P / CSuperintendent Richard A. Albano, it will surely be lessened in your headache to suppressing crimes in Metro Manila if it will be lessened in your headache to suppressing crimes in Metro Manila.
Yes, sir, sir, NCRPO NU S / she Albano, lily's 09198972854 / lily.
