Ruffa passed the 5 minutes By Allan Diones July 19, 2016, aunt Annabelle Rama yesterday in the Scud z TBe-A, and she mentioned that Ruffa Gutierrez was waiting for 5 years and was only alive again.
Before what he / she said, "Tita Annabelle said that even if she and Ruffa had a fight, she cannot say it," those whom he doesn't want to die because he is afraid to die with a decision on her.
The next scene was greatly shocked because Tita Annabelle was crying and seemed to be the pain in her crying because it was in a sack of white vinegar which was the one who talked for her crying husband.
According to Tito Eddie, they should not talk about what happened to Ruffa there in the Scud "that"
Just, there are events in their life that Cardiente is involved.
So, Tito Ed said, just watch out for their last show of Fight IT.
While Tita Annabelle was continuing to shout, she will ask for the side of Tito Eddie, Ruffa Gutierrez, "I, so thank you, my mom, thank you, thank you.
"Even if he / she was crying, Tita Annabelle was able to answer it," I was so happy! "
It is prohibited to give details on what happened, but Tita Annabelle said, if she is always taking care of Ruffa, Taba, she's taking care of it because the thing happened, "the thing happened."
According to him, maybe during his time, Ruffa will help me as well and he will not accept it because it will disappear in his life.
Once they watched the new season of mercury TIDs, they say that what he wants to say is perfect.
Mamang strongly believes that, he knows that his mommy is taking care of him, but they do not see him crying.
It was so long time when he saw her alone when ah, he had a fight and Tito Eddie 18 years old.
He saw his mother crying because of the stairs.
Even if they are sick, when there is a sickness, Tita Annabelle was crying there, it's only there that the heart of his conscience is to always be brave, ill-tempered and angry.
They rarely see his soft heart because it did not show them.
That's why it is gladdening that she was crying when he / she was crying.
When we tried to look at Tita Annabelle, what was the funny incident that happened to Ruffa, Tita Annabelle once again cried and he could no longer speak with the microphone.
Richard Gutierrez answered our question.
Chard explained, what happened was a medical contribution to Ruffa that she needs to call an ambulance to the Philippines.
It's a bit scary, "what happened, good thing that's why she's like that, as Lorenza and Venice, to help.
"This is a little highlight in the one of the episodes of season.
It seems that what happened was really bad for Tita Annabelle, because she is still cratic and cannot speak.
"Well, if what happened to me, it is an excuse that I cannot say it, because I have not seen him, I don't know what is happening" that happens.
"At nightfall, he / she was able to go back to his / her godmother, Venice, and Venice.
According to Lorbes, "Fight IT.
"He / she was able to take care of its bottom.
"So, Fight IT led-Her (Ruffa), of this kind of concerned people, but she could not avoid being an actress.
"So, I was the one to be the one to call for a call for a call to be a call to Her in the hospital.
"Buyo, ah, Fight IT.
Teves says, he was first wearing this situation at 7 years August or "in 2009.
And then, this was only last week.
Aunt Annabelle was hoping that Ruffa can't handle the world upside down, even if she and her mother fought with each other.
Why is it that Ruffa can also be rude to the pension that he has been going through with?
"According to him, I am still being entertained until now that we were we we were able to confront each other, but we still haven't killed anyone else.
"But.
"Oh, thank you, a love of a person, thank you, with the Pambansang Kamao, I know, thank you for a love affair with a person named thank you, PCan.
On Monday (July 25) for 8: 30 pesos, the season for 8: 30 pesos, the season.
