The town was ruined with the people who are the only ones who are the only ones.

I admit, I am senior citizen, I witnessed the beauty of the Philippines, that time, all of the youth, stories and pictures just to know why it became Peras of the Middle East.
It is unlikely to bring back the good deeds, while the rotten system implemented in our state, if we want it to be returned, the whole system needs to change and to cut the power of greedy, greedy politicians!
First, I am still young, I can still hear in the Congress in making a coconut milk in the market. "
If it was true that politicians really did the road, the farmers are rich already.
"The bridge, railway and roads have also been full of funds then and now, the new bridge was destroyed, why the new bridge was destroyed, why are you just going out of the city?
It is really true that they are doing it, because of the severe commission, the poor contractor is needed to cheat on the expenses so that the project will be finished, fat, and was left immediately even just a little rain.
Education said that education is important, most of them are owner of the school, which is why NLEX's toll fee is very important.
But our students in far places, 2-3 hours, are just going to go to almost different schools when the children in the river will just go to the province of Rizal and how the community will stay on the mountains even if the community will still stay on the mountains?
The space is not enough if we claim the defective projects for the people in the hands of corrupt politicians - then, especially now.
The system will be stolen if the Lintang politicians will be protected from the pork barrel.
"The pork barrel scam is being prepared by the pork barrel scam, 2015 budget is said to have no pork barrel from PDAF and DAP, it's pus! We cut the tongue of that person?
If President Benigno Aquino III wants to take it up, what will you do is to go directly to the funds of each agency and let them implement the implementation of your programs.
Remove the funds from the hands of the smooth politicians, there is no doubt, you do not have a hard work!
