
Lacson for President.

It looks like former Senator Ping Lacson is the only thing we can say in all politicians in the country.
This is what the public can see now because Lacson became aware of his not taking the pork or DAP.
It's because the former senator has a different belief on the pork barrel that's why he did not do anything to his PDAF since he was elected as a member of his pet dog and Congress.
Even during the impeachment of former Chief Justice Renato Corona, Lacson is not shaken in spite of the good news of Malacanang that PNoy will be charged by PNoy.
If Ping voted for the impeachment of Corona, it is not because of the Palace's bribe to the appearance of PDAF or DAP that is why the public has proven that Lacson has a unique creature.
This is where the lawmaker who is from Cavite rose from the perspective of the public because this is where he saw his resolve and principle especially on the issue on the care of the people's money.
Even former Senator Joker Arroyo who is anti-PDAF also gave in temptation and this is clear in the statement of DBM Secretary Butch Abad after he revealed that the former lawmaker from Makati with pork barrel is also clear.
Even though Mister Ping is having it not because of money or money, it is clear that his cases are related to the arrest of the state.
Because of the acceptance of Ping by the pork barrel, it will be clear to the people that Ping is different from all politicians in the country that is why the angle of Ping Lacson for President is coming out.
This is not just the story because many of the sectors of our society are pushing him to the Presidential election in 2016 because it is not traditional politicians because he does not have any idea, even his friend or party mates.
What is wrong is wrong because this is his principle.
It is a bit serious in this way by Ping's path but because it does not take advantage of the events, it is clear that people will not believe the traditional politicians and politicians because they have seen the greed of these.
