Loved, does not expect a electricity, because of the cruelty.

Macabog, Compostela Valley, Philippines - a private oil price hike), which is called Power Barazole, Tabag-TMI), can be found in Macabog, Compostela Valley, but the electricity in Macabog, Compostela Valley is expensive.
"We also killed our light in the evening, to lessen the electricity supply is more expensive, but even if there is a few meters away from Davao City, he said that they could not do anything but to pay the power of the electricity that they do.
The condition of the legal family is similar to people who are living near the power of our country, just near, but it is not for them the community in Kidapawan City, North Cotabato and Iligan City, Lanao del Norte, who are all victims of a long time and is numb about power everyday.
To whom is the benefits?

The government built the Macor Power Barge 188 in 1994 through the National Power Plant (ALS), after 15 years, it was bought by MPS 117 in Nasipit, Agusan del Norte.
The businesses that were bought by the leading company were brought by the leading company in the leading company in May of the last year, but the residents like Mahogany, were not given cheap and negative supply of electricity.
If this will be implemented in all community, you can get a bad vice?
"However, even if you are doing something like that, we are not," Gordon even added that it is difficult for them to maintain a different store store which is full of electricity.
When the Mindanao energy Summit is expected to be attended by 300 power industry on April 13, it is not good for President Benigno Aquino III to sell it because it is better for the government to sell it, "it is better for the government to sell it," it is better for the government to sell it, "it is better for the government to be able to hold it properly.
If the remaining properties of the government in Mindanao will be allowed to buy, expect that the bills are going to increase just like what happened in Maculot.
For an ordinary citizens like the legal family, it will be an additional burden to them the privatization of the privatization of their small business.
