
Be careful with the visit of Obama on October.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
September 19, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Rise in the mass filed against Obama.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling the Filipino people and to the Filipino people and to conduct a clear stand and launch a corresponding agreement to allow the military of the US to fully use the Philippines as based on military.
The PKP has called for the Filipino people that they will hear their voices from the opposition of the Philippines as declaration of the government of the Philippines to protest against the local government of the Philippines as support to the political leaders of the Philippines as their support to the political leaders of the Philippines.
Since the declaration of the sound of the last part of 2011, different ordinances are composed of the US to the Marcos regime, Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, Singapore, Australia, India, India, India, Singapore, Australia, India, Indonesia, which can anchor in these countries and have a connection to the facilities of the air and regulations.

In the past few years, the military forces are successful with the agreement between the US government in Australia and Singapore, and it is still in the process of the US government in Singapore to raise the facilities in the East Asia, Central Asia and up to Africa.

The US continues to progress in the operation of military in Japan which is being pushed by the military in Okinawa and other places where it was allowed to build the equipment and destruction by the US, which is believed to be taken away from the service of the US government.

Under the outline of "tanim-ing in Asia" of the US, it is strictly coordinating with the Philippine government of the US to build the US Embassy in the shore of the Philippines to build the US Pacific Command to build the US Pacific Command to build the US Pacific Command to build the US Embassy in the coast of Zamboanga and where it will be allowed by the American troops in the facilities in Zamboanga and anywhere.

In following the command of the US, China and the Marcos regime can take advantage of the Spratly Islands and other pieces of information on the South China Sea, the US wants to implement the arguments in relation to the route of trade in South China Sea, the US wants to implement the higher rules in relation to the current US and construction of petroleum products like China.

In the visit of Barrack Obama of the US, the new rules in relation to the relationship between the Philippine government and military to complete the final copy of the new agreement that will return to the military forces in the Philippines is being rushed to the Philippines.

The government budget of US and the Philippines already agreed in the exclusive interview of the US to the facilities in the Philippines that last January 2012, the US is busy with the facilities in the next two thousand or thirty years, the US is busy with the facilities in the US and will be used by the military by the government of the Philippines.

Obama's visit will be a sign of a new chapter with the US in the Philippines that would be hidden by the Americans in the Philippines, and the current truth that the Philippines is the victim of colorums in the Philippines from the start of the 120th century, and the US is continuously being victimized by the US for more than half a century.

Use the visit of Obama on October to ensure the truth that the Philippines is in the issue of economists, politics, culture and military.
