He was surprised, Senator Bong.

It is true that Boy Noguera, Boy Abunda, and Boy Abunda, has no doubt because that is one of their work in life while he is seated in power.
Look for an ally or an ally in the time of need, you have agreed and are being used as well and you are one of the things that you are using.
The first speech of Senator Ramon Revilla, Jr. against Senator Bong recently confirmed it on the same issue, it only confirmed the only matter of the impeachment of the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.
It was also helped in his statement that the leadership of President Benigno Aquino III will be confirmed, that it is not a secret, especially for the political administration!
My question to you, Senator Bong, why did you say now about the impeachment of CJ Corona?, why did you not mention how much was your reward from Noynoy's hand, and why did you not mention how much was your reward from the hands of Noynoy?
"You said that Aquino already told you," I am looking to me, Corona, "your answer to me," I will decide what is right. "Mister Bong Revilla, be true.
Is it right that CJ Corona will not be impeached by the effects of actions and magical evidence?
In what you do not want and what you want, you are buried in the minds of people who are involved in the anomalous pork barrel that Miss Janet Lim-Napoles is accomplice.
The evidence of your friendship is showed in many occasions and you have a picture that can't be denied, Senator Bong.
The lawyer is telling the allegations to Benhur Luy and his companions who are on the lower part of the fake signatures, it is right that Benhur and how the other documents are not yet taken out of the strength?
Prepare for that.
I hope that when he / she did the truth, you did the truth, what you know about the rules and management of the regime of Noynoy Aquino, Sen. Bong, your bomb that has been tainted by the issue of pork barrel, so that you are not a politician, anyway.
Thank you to all that the real National Bureau of Aquino's anti-Laban has been full of all over the welfare of the Aquino's anti-Laban, PGAPAMORE by the political boss, thank you, you will never be able to take back, Senator Bong. Inc. is even more effective in the quicksand of a corruption like corruption.
Toor late, Senator Bong Revilla and if you really want to make it up to the defamation to you by Malacanang, he will be able to show up with the Philippines and release the truth!
