
To bring the rotten system, the Filipino people will push forward to the new level of new level of filipino masses, Ka Roger Flores is still very healthy in case!

Maria Lira!
Youth!
March 29, 2013.

It is the highest tribute that will be provided by the youth Nationalist Alliance in our red assets, the red Commander of the 144 celebration of our Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB).

In all kinds of inlet canals, neighboring mountains, and the celebration of all parts of the islands, we recognize the love of the Pambansang Kamao in our country, they are also an inspiration in our every step to take the revolution for a higher level.

We are congratulating our armed people for the violent and equal Oplan Galugad conducted by the Philippine US-Aquino II and the continue to be supported by the Black Nazarene with the guidance of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), we will have faith that our armed forces will get stronger and to launch a new enemy.

In the strengthening of our BHB) that's why the biggest message for change will continue, it continues to give inspiration to a bigger citizens to fight the strengthening of the armed fight, which is never approved by the armed forces of the military and police.

It is the Bables as our unique organization that has the ability to protect them, and the armed forces of the anti-Filipino people will fix the state.

It is our Bables as well, together with the masses anymore in the countryside, it also has a direct concern for the Lord of the Lord in pushing the revolutionary solution.

In every time that is given by the Botchok (HB), an opium of the production of animals and foreign mines that are miraculous, to continue to call the citizens of our natural resources, a burden to the lives of the people when there is a calamity like typhoon Sendong and Pablo in Mindanao.

With each bullying of the horrible offensive like this, the race of the foreigner who survived the interest of the foreigner and big businessmen and the Lord Nazarene has no interest to push through what the national sovereignty and Pambansang Kamao has no interest to push forward as a long-term answer to the poverty of the citizens.

There is no other way and there is no other way and there is no other strength for the Filipino people who have been fighting for the revolutionary changes, just to prevent it and fight the freezing and opportunist system of society.

In the fervent economic growth, the crisis of colorums will become worse, because it will be passed on to the progressive countries with the citizens of local countries and those who will continue to gather from the economic system and will continue to push through the economic system which is also the cause of the international system which is also the cause of the annual system of the current administration.

The youth and the citizens of the current US-Aquino II is not expecting the truth about the continuing hope that the poverty of Filipinos will not surrender to the fact that the covetousness of the said growth of economists are not expected.

All of the relatives and a big businessmen are in favor of their relatives and a big businessmen, CCT (EAMC), while the deductions of social activities like education, high wages are continuously being done by lack of work, low wages, contractualization.

What is dirty, violent and violent, in the political political family, students of big capitalist countries, voters, and anti-Filipino policy and the anti-Filipino policy and the anti-Filipino policy and the law enforcers. "

The good future for the youth will be a source of good future for the youth if the current understanding of society. Millions of Filipinos will remain to make hope that this is a lack of hope for the youth and the poor people who have rights in education is the improvement of our rights in education.

The right to the education of the current Marcos regime is denied through his rules in education like the program K-12, with the widespread tuition and bills, the widespread tuition and regulations, that will be approved by the previous administration in order to maintain and put the rotten system of colorums in the advancement of our community.

That's why we are calling out to all Filipino youth who are expecting to report the mind and right information to expose the anti-youth and anti-Filipino laws to expose the anti-youth and most of the poor Filipinos through fighting for our human rights.

The youth Nationalist Alliance, the revolutionary movement of the youth in the entire Philippines is open to all those who want to give time, intelligence and strength for the real change of the citizens for the real change of the citizens for the real change of the country, and most of all armed forces in the country.

We are calling out to all those who are carried by the kilometers of 80 percent and students who contributed to the armed fight in the countryside, or the program when they goes to the legislative chamber's path or similar to the campaign together with Ka Roger Ong in relation to the campaign period of Ka Roger International in accordance with the campaign together with Ka Roger Ong.
It is needed to raise the Oplan Tokhang and the youth and the youth to give a lot of the movement of the masses to the top of the rules of the leadership of the Marcos US-Aquino II, and put it through wounds or improving it in politics.

The kilometers of people's issues should be allowed to push forward, the campaign against the local government of the US, the issues of poor people, similar to the rights of the youth similar to the rights of the youth similar to the rights of the youth similar to the economy of the country, to be sure of the dissupport of the national under democratic governance, the citizens.

It is the responsibility of the kilometers of education, education, along with the campaign and for the masses, this should capture the millions of youth and people to become aware of the real situation of our society and being just to the Filipino people who have fallen laboratory in the countryside.

There is also a unique role of kilometers in order to raise the stronger propaganda and culture of the entire country and even in the entire country, and even in the entire country, and even in the entire country, and even in the entire country, and even in the whole country, to hug the call of the youth, serve the nation! "

Through the offer of intelligence and time with no covetousness, those who contributed a different kind and honest level of a new shape, the youth Nationalist Alliance are on the side of our Filipino country in a higher level until success.

Bring down the rotten system under the cauldron, bureaucracy.

Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Long live the CPP-NPA-NDF!
Increase in the increase in the level of Filipino people!
Youth, serve the people!
Join the New Hala Bayan!
