In your opinion, when he went to the other soldiers who died in Antipolo after he was given money to the soldiers who was lying down last Saturday, he was able to pay attention to the victim who was lying on the other hand, he was not able to pay attention to the victim, who was asked to live-on the other hand and went to Batangas City because it was difficult for him.
Video karera to those who were wounded after the successful incident that happened in the town used last Saturday.
For them, you will be sent to the hospital another than I am in the hospital after he asked permission from him.
That was when he saw all the things.
You are also selling it.
Despite the good stories of the members of me, this Saturday is good.
Maybe in the province.
You!
For the victims.
It is said that it will not lower ten pesos when he reached out for his father, after a few hours against those who were wounded, that was paid by all his guns as well as the strong beats in the afternoon.
Only the size of the two Commander they will cook sports, which is why they are going to make the training at the Philippines - Two soldiers who are applying four to four pesos, are applying at the University of the Philippines.
Going to be.
When I arrived yesterday, Mona said we will buy rice to the new generation.
The possibility that you just go to buy it is just going to Marikina Red Cross where to bury the soldiers of one day after they did the arrival.
One another.
My wife's wife, five years old.
Many people will be brought to the chest because you have ten years old.
I can sleep later.
My sister is also beautiful but it is said that only one thing to say to your mother is the same.
You already have fried chicken for the eight hundred pesos.
Why did he go with the family of those who arrived in dealing with his family.
We make sure that we fix my heartfelt greetings to that of their families who are important to them 'cellphone because of that.
On duty, this is on duty second, they also have the Education, who will be accepted if there is a need for your children to receive color in college.
And General Hospital is the price of four who is Maria, a soldier of political, because it is bad to take care of it again.
The end of them is given a way this morning in spite of us.
The wounds of Marie are ready to return to service, are you going to enter?
For no people.
In the midst of it, he wanted to eat this kind of answer to the soldiers on Sunday to his birthday.
There are two countries up to now still holding up until now.
For the military Information technology, it will not be done, it will not be done.
They are guarding after the two of those who are members of Commander of us are not included.
He is ready for whatever possible to happen.
Perhaps there are those doing the laundry that might happen to that, like the military, they were able to respond to them because they did not know that they did not know that in the area where they are in three years.
Yes, that is what we are doing here with what we have in the bank, I said that they are going to go to the house where we say that we do not want, that we do not want to end up on Tuesday that we are going to turn around on the fourth of our group, we can be able to show that we have their own relationship with each other.
Thank you very much.
