2013 Camply: You, you're going to make it right away.

Pay attention to the list (what is stated in the film, and the appropriate director which created these) by the officials of suspension of the nine CeCard.
For a short movie.
"
For the New People's (of new blood).
"Babes (The Legal Wife.
For the directors of case?
"Amor in Muños" by Ces M. Evangelista; "Espontes," of Jeffrey Jawo, "hopefully, Jerald Rivo"; "Limay" of Gil M.
The absence of "short film" is for the injection of every Cetiquette.
Usually, even in a minute, you will be able to make her own experience, but because there is another chance to tell the Creator, the standard - usually we can't reach in one hour or more.

Meanwhile, New Generation is meant for the so-called category as well instead of not just an hour or more than an hour or more, a technical problem that is being watched in the cinema or even if the length of one movie they see in the cinema or whatever length is the long time.
But because they are forcing to lose interest or limitation on the eyes or patience of a person watching a movie), and also because of the controversial Visiting Forces (every moment there is a meter or equivalent in the cinemas or less than half or forty-five pounds.
Although in the case of other Creator (director) like "The ten Commandment" by Cecille B. DeMille or "Etau." Or "Etau." Or "Etau."
Meanwhile, the directors of case is to serve as a member of the full force; however, for technical that means he is making a branch of three movies in the cinemas before he submitted and received the Camply since it will be done in 2005.
And because according to the CDO, they are already free for a new perspective about the traditional way of making a film that is why her twin is a new director but even if the director is already a veteran, he might have a new perspective.
Because of this, some policy of the committee of the committee is already changed last 2010 and was opened by the Dialogue case of case.

In making a movie, the captain of all of its elements especially those who are part of controlling the start until the Queen of this is also included.
The director is the general representative of the arts of the movie but what had took it was his twin who created capital (money or equivalent capital), there was no film that will give recognition to the good in making a movie, in the time when it took the recognition given to it.
However, art (add also for business that are frequent than not being linked, especially in a capitalist countries or society, just depends on the director, except if what he had took it depends on the director and content of what he took it.
According to Ceateries, the agency is giving expenses in making movies, private or public if there is a chance to share with the material that are scheduled to do in the cinemas, Econnotation, but there is a new thing that is scheduled to be done in cinemas, Econnotation, but there is a newcomer in the minds of the director.
However, let us wait for the discussion on the director.

In the process of spreading movies, most important is the director because he is thinking to cover all the things that are related to the production, becoming an artist, Protestants, Cangaron, RX-B; Production, Hacadic, boom, diesel and many others.
In a row of director - new or veteran in 2013 Camply, there are various reactions on these but if examined, their mission is only one mission.
In different ways.
Those who have come from there have a school where there are school, with telecommunication has, with telecommunication services, etcetera.
Each has their own traits.
And they will look into their job.
It's as if you can handle the color that they have seen.
They also have a level of mind.
In philosophy is philosophy and belief that they will keep on-og with their liquid.
Be careful with the ideas of each one.
The truth will be knocked on and feared by these in the fourth time and criticisms against the masterpieces.
Will this serve the society or just a few or for your own art?
Let us wait for the next chapter.
