What is curious about the TV Patrol.

Even if I won't be able to finish Jango or Persist back because of the modern entrance and theater, we have learned a lot and understood in the field of your chest, online news, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Instagram, Instagram, Instagram, Instagram, Instagram and many others.
The briefing in any branch of the media is important ingredients in the daily lives of people, of Filipinos, in the whole world.
Especially now that it is important now and there are so many watching TV news because of the masses, or the masses, or they made a popular view on the news, and that is more meaningful from the news and the meaning of these in our daily life.
One of the ones who was able to make it a trend and was able to make the news of the news is that, he / she feels the fhearted of the events or other things, which is why they are taking advantage of the traditional ways of a movie on television and radio.

Yes, even if the traits of the news are timely, close to the lives of a place, different and other standard for a report should be drooling or even in the second line or importance of dollars or to the following days or to the following days.
There are still a lot of consideration as to why there is a news even if not following those who are not following the briefing, it is important and needed.
What's sad is that it seems that the style and content of the news on television on the present is no change.
It is like a period of Mahilum, the size of what is the right thing to do and what should not be.

If there is a typhoon, Oh, there is a typhoon in relation to the stories.
It does not mean it is not important for the typhoon and its effects on one or more places or more or more than other people or things, you have a life or not.
But there are still a lot of news from the citizens who have not been given time or space in TV or radio or even in proper focus and discussion.
For example, will just laugh and move for the improvement of the rules of every Filipino.
If you truly consider the national condition, it is important for the national situation to find a good news, to his loved ones, to his loved ones, to those who want to leave the national interest but the volume of reports on factories, shrimp or any factory or places of making a bad or good thing.

If there is a living way of living, through making and harvest income from here for the livelihood or strolling by the people and the national condition, the ranks of work is a bronchitis and healthy field of locations and rape by the news on TV.
But all sorts of things that are being reported due to the station of the television are also hoping for the companies that are connected to the factory which is related to those who are involved in a small salary or lack of human rights in work, for sure, the story will not be suppressed even if they are legitimate news.
So how can they say that the news on TV is fair or useless?

The news about the storm, fire, flooding, flood, flood and others are important, it is important that the news will be more important to those affected by calamity or other crisis.
Just like most of the movies, soap operation on television and other art of arts, the briefing in the Philippines is usually cooked as well as the form of making a business in running the business of the media.
