AFP attack helicopter, second, manual?

His staff, President Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3), will be pitiful or deliberately being blamed by the press conference of Malacañang, well, all of a Grab er is what they are saying.
Second, a ship has been used for half a billion to look for half a billion to look for half a billion to look like before, there is no capital, no capital, no capital, and many agencies of Bira 3 that are all corruption.
Recently, the Department of National Defense (DND) can be considered a few officials (DND) because they thought it's true modernization that they can do under the Aquino administration but he is still doing anything.
In the press and video of the Malacañang, it is full of modern and strong weapons, illegal numbers, and other things from the Mamasapano massacre, the residents of PNP-SAF, "the residents of PNP-SAF, were said to have been bought or given to their operation.
Sure, it is the investigation again and for the knowledge of the Senate and the legislative chamber, try to act and investigate this in the last shopping of the votes of the National Defense. Maybe instead of not able to take action against terrorism, the soldiers should die.
According to the person we talked to, they were involved in the preparation, research and choosing the DND-the AFP Attack File, three suspects, which passed, but a high-ranking official of DND was the accomplice of some of his fellow officials.
In short, "the abortion" of the two video machines has been tainted by the violent reason, he invited "the Pambansang Kamao" the DND team to see the attack helicopter.
Zomumm and they arrived in America.
The next day, it is set to be seen in "Tulay na" that should be in parking of the airplane that should be held at the airport field, "isn't it, but they are not at the airport or luckily to be disappointed with the personnel of DND project.
There's so there in a warehouse or storage room and when they entered, there is an extravagant but old attack helicopter that they would say, not new to the Philippines, to send their contractor, to be sent back to the Philippines.
The problem except for the corrupt candidates, we have no losses because when the DND-the AFP attack happened, they have long been used for it for a long time before they can fix all the lacking expenses of DND!
