Disappeared like a trace of accident.

The government should have long been deep in the field of public service that they should be together with the citizens not only in the comfort but to the accident.
In relation to this, its distribution, to the complaints of the citizens that they do not see any of the people who helped them when it rains and flooded with fear in Metro Manila this past Tuesday.
Starting at the time of strong rain in the afternoon until evening of flood and traffic, a mother-and-mother did not see any traffic enforcer, police, councilor of Metro Manila Development Authority or rescue group to support the million citizens who were involved in traffic and floods.
And even if there are no vendors, those who showed up in order to know the people what they can help to the citizens.
All of these do not care about the middle of traffic and flood, there are those who ran in hospitals, there are people and children who need help to go home and go to their needs to go home and have important things to do to go to and to go to their lives and death.
It is better for the bystanders and people who are waiting for even though they are waiting for anyone who are waiting by the citizens, they are involved in the flood, cold, pain and others just to help others.
This is not a good picture of the government that is currently happening every time there is traffic and flood, especially in Manila.
And it is also not good to think that if they see them having a lot of conformity to make money or extort people in different ways.
It will be more beautiful to look at the politicians who are going to be a loving of the citizens in times related to the election.
... At if they have money to make money in times even if life, death of the people are being discussed.
Hopefully, in the coming days like an unexpected event, we have seen the body and soul of the government so that people can feel the real government.
If there is no change here, it's a mother, where is our loved town going to all our country?
