
Bullying by the Senate.

It's ugly in the eyes of many who are observing the hearing of the Senate Blue Ribbon Sr. what was done to Makati Mayor Junjun Binay last Thursday.
Binay was arrested because of his continued refusal to attend the two hearing of the subcommittee last October.
But can they blame the mayor if he will be taken away?
Last August, Binay attended the hearing but many were disappointed because it appears that the senators spent the questions that they were thrown at.
There are those who have noticed that even before the investigation is still in the process of investigation, it seems that their treatment here is guilty.
Binay's camp asked several times to give them a copy of the questions before he attended, but also ignored it by the senators.
Last Thursday, the mayor voluntarily went to the Senate to arrest and bring them to the Senate but they were forcibly joined in the conducted hearing related to the irregularities that happened in Makati.
Binay was wounded in the arm when he was dragged to the session hall with a boo, shouting and crying about the supporters of the mayor when he saw that he was using the force while they were placed inside the session hall.
Even if unable to visit the veteran lawmakers and lawyer Joker Arroyo and Rene Sarmiento, who are both allies of the father of the mayor, Vice President Jejomar Binay, even during martial law.
According to Arroyo, they fear that there are violations against the Constitution and human rights to what the senators are doing.
Saguisag's comment is that the law in the Senate is existing.
The two, which will be part of the legal team of the younger Binay, was called the hearing which stated in the hearing aid and solution to the election. "
This is not surprising because many have noticed that what the Binay camp is saying is true, that the goal of the hearing is to destroy Vice President Jejomar Binay's character and his family, to destroy his chance to run for President in 2016.
The senators are taking advantage of the opportunity to search for evidences that will decrease the Binay's eyes, to make them look good in the eyes of the people for the upcoming election.
But the younger Binay doesn't have anything to be ashamed of, if there is nothing else to worry, this is nothing else if the senators are not seeing the rough attitude of the prosecution to the Binay family.
Because they do not have a big answer from the mayor, even if they want to know, they also released Binay.
What happened is that it is just showing the force that can be used by the subcommittee for the time they want, and for whoever they want?
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
