The coconut farmers, Coco, is going to be returned to them by Coco, to be returned to them.

Mendiola attacked Mendiola yesterday the coconut farmers who came from the province of Quezon to registered their dismay in fulfilling the Aquino administration with Coco, the Aquino administration.
According to Coco alert, Funbird returned to Amin (WHO), they are against the plan to put the P72 billion pesos, based on the content of the executive order of President Aquino.
Nestor Villanueva said, spokesperson of Mahogany, they are not the farmers who will benefit from the act of Aquino, even the proposed law in the Legislative Chamber and Senate, but the businessmen.
"What is needed to be provided by Coco, the farmers and not the private sector, and not the private sector and the businessmen who are famous and lazy to join the funds," said Villanueva.
Asukal will also say that at present, there are other proposed bill that is under the Senate and Legislative Chamber, but only one is being prepared for them to be alone except for farmers.
"It is dangerous to declare the crook, P72-B fund, because it may go to the funds of General Appropriations Act or Disbursement Acceleration Program of the government," said HE.
The lawmaker is alarmed because the fund will lead to corruption in the time that Aquino and other lawmakers are going to fulfill them.
Some of the proposals of the Aquino government are:
1.08 pesos and selling of Coco, a lot of inherited properties from funds.
2 - it will be the form of Red FFF) and Industry (KABAKA).
3 - the Department of Council or committee are going to direct the Office of the President, and, to form the trust fund.
What is worried about is that there are no farmers who are direct with them, "an example of their plan to be put under the committee, Aquino will choose the former representative of the farmers based on the recommendation of the Philippine Constabulary Authority and other government agencies," he said.
HE added, there is no assurance that Aquino can choose Aquino.

Villanueva warned President Aquino not to meddle with the Coco's fund "if he plans to use it in the coming election, we will not agree," he said.
There have been a separate proposed bill from the use of funds that will directly benefit from the farmers, according to the group, it is part of planting coconut coconut and additional livelihood, including the development of planting coconut coconut and some of the coconut meat.
"They are the real owner of the fund, that's why it's only right to bring back the Coco's fund," said Hala.
