Using the AFP to the civilians so that the surrender will be criticized by PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
Maeso 31, 2014.
Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) criticized the use of civilians, including a few minors, including a few minors in the show that the public ceremony was held in Cagayan de Oro City.

"It is a big inconvenience for the surrender of the AFP, the PKP, said that it is desperate to cover up his defeat in the field of fight and in the continuous decrease of the New Hala Bayan, especially in the areas where the New Year in Caraga will continue.

Last Saturday, the chief of AFP himself asked the "ceremony of the surrender, wherein the children and elements of the force to escape from the area of Bukidnon, Surigao del Sur, Misamis Oriental and Agusan del Norte.

"The AFP is doing what is the ceremony of the 'hulidap' on the time of the Marcos dictatorship," the AFP insisted.

"The military was able to give up to the Pad to give them up and to the anomalous goal of the Oplan Galugad last 2011 to make the Bibot Domingo on 2011 and which is the so-called operation against local governments in the police," said the KP.

Just like what is revealed by a captain of the barangay in Police District, Davao City, the members of the AFP were going around to go around the houses and take advantage of a document which is expected to be revealed that they are the ones who have surrendered.

"The huge amount that they surrendered is one of the biggest source of corruption because of the biggest source of corruption due to alleged weapons given to him," added PKP, "said the military released by the military from using their hiding place."

The AFP can advise the AFP about the kidnapping of a 14-year-old boy in Magalang, North Cotabato on March 24, and it was known that he was kidnapped by the troops of the 59th Infantry Battalion while it was known that he was kidnapped by the troops of the Bastes.

It was also dismissed by the KP, the declared winner of the chief of Staff last day that it will be one of the first generals of AFP, including the current chief of the AFP, including the current chief of AFP, including the former chief of AFP, including the former chief of AFP, General Emmanuel Bautista, the declaration of their responsibility in case they are widespread.
