"Selfies" was chosen as the word of the year in SMAS.

The "selfies" in Sevidal is said to have been chosen by "selfies" in Sevidal), the Philippines Institute of Fire Protection (what's a close friend, which is owned by the citizens in the third year of September of Manila, Bulawan Rizal in college, and Literba, University of the Philippines - Diliman.
The words uttered by Jose P Reyes, professor in De La Salle University, and Noel Ferrer, professor in Ateneo De Manila University, in their role that was given a "selfie-selfie" Pag-selfie "of selfies, the selfies of the Filipino culture."
Selfies is called by a person beside him in front of the mirror in front of the mirror or through a smartphone is it will be given protection ("tiktiks" in a social media website.
Even though it was first mentioned by the word of 2002, before it had Facebook, there was a popular distribution of their own footage of the picture in Myth.
According to Reyes, this is a big use of technology for the improvement of the word of selfies when they want to invent the applications like her Instagram and a Visayan supply.
"The show to the market of the smartphones that was connected to camera was intentionally being raised in selfies with fame, he said.
I was disgusted.
On the other hand, they have been given a "Queen of diversion which is the people to share what they have to share to their mission of human rights to others through selfies.
"The selfies as a contest is giving control of the person who took selfies because he has the ability to choose the pictures he wants to share and choose his appearance on the pictures he chosen," said Ferrer.
On the other hand, it can be considered a foolish opportunity for the concept of selfies because along with giving to the public through social media, the disconcerns to the public of the people involved in selfies.
"He usually does not care who gets his own picture of the people he is with or with the events in his surrounding," said Reyes and Ferrer.
In addition to this, Reyes laid out a cauldron containing goods, which is too much of admiration for his own traits that was being stepped on by Bishop Teodoro Bacani that's why he was fooled by Bishop Teodoro Bacani that's why the culture of those who are pushing him will be reversed.
"The powerful culture of every work and relationship is based on those who are needy who are needy who are needy of the symbol of wealth and power in this society, the competition is no end," said Reyes.
Despite this, there is also a big contribution of the selfie together in the inventor of the profession and business, in a place, and in the advancement of the particular issues or movements of the country on the help of social media.
"Selfies"!
According to a article released by time Magazine last March, the Philippines is leading in the field of selfies.
The country has the highest number of selfies in the whole world, which reached Php155, of selfies with 2,915, people who use gadgets such as camera, smartphone and others.
Ferrer's explanation, the spread of human rights on television in the strengthening of the culture of selfie.
"Perhaps, all of us dreamed of becoming an artist or star of their own lives.
He also reminded the Filipinos to understand the concept of selfies especially the fruit of its character.
"Although selfies is insinuating with the undesirable culture of our generation - being a member of our generation, which is much better to understand and claim the words to have a critical awareness, damage and promises, and possibility of this word," said Reyes.
Dinh!
It is said that the SMAS.
What's being pointed out and KWF can assure that the launch of Sawking every two years is a creative and effective way to attract the filipino language.
It is possible to dominate the words of the New People's words, new borrowed from the indigenous people or foreign language, it is old but there is a new meaning or dead word that will return.
According to Virgilio Mendez, Pambansang Kamao of KWF, even if you are not a pure Filipino, it can be considered that these kinds of words are allowed to be considered only among the events affecting the consciousness of the Filipinos.
"Many of the nominated words are the result of the event that our country is too affected," he said.
Some of the words included in the words uttered by David Michael San Juan and John Kelsey, which led the second reward for the third reward of the word "Philippines, Rebecca Roca Ima, Cuba.
It was also included in the nominated people the "Bossing" Frederick Perez, "CCTV" of Chrismas, "Ayoy" Chavit "Chavit" Chavit "Chavit" Chavit "Atong" and "Waje," Waje, "Waje," Whishan and "Whisticated"
