TV Patrol, April 24, 2012.

You will be protected.

Like a candle that will not get hurt if there is no fire.

A person cannot be peaceful if there is no spiritual knowledge.

You only need a meaningful idea to change your perspective.

A classic, with the flow of abuse, discussion, or even if he is going to be equal to the course of your thoughts, you will do it, and let life prevail in your spirit that will participate in your whole character: What you want.

In the morning, we are used to go to church in the house, when my wife told him that he was fixing the sofa and opening the Bible, he handed it to the Bible, "I asked him to forget him, and I tried to forget him, and I was getting angry."

Here is his narration in his statement; Ang will take care of yourself, no matter what is not coming from him.

In all of each of each other, this is the person who is in the front of your house.

He is the depths of you, he is the one that you want to do this, who really happened to yourself.

No matter how much more than him, he is the Supreme Court. "

"He is your mind.

He is your awareness.

Now, you are everywhere.

He is your weakness and truth.

He is your happiness.

He is your peace.

.

He is the scheduled glory of yourself. "

"You are all of these, P2,500, you will be jailed!"

"If it is possible, my Father's Day, let me know more about who will be protected from me."

"I want to straighten out whatever I am thinking.

I want to see each moment.

I need to know what is right for me.

See the realistic, in things and events.

To get a taste of me and be happy.

Remain peaceful and everyone is hoping for it.

Oh, my Day, help me I can see my scheduled events and I want to experience this glory!

"

"Yes, my beloved child, I will do it," said Bira.

Understand everything that I have expressed all my will to you. "

The Barangay.
"You cut the vein of the tree and it's mixed in it.

But it is continuing to live in Tabsalt on the top of this tree!

This will also be mixed in it, but in the same time, the tree will be forced to cover-off the tree, which is why it remains a strong and strong feeling that the tree will die from the tree, which is why the tree will die in a tree, which is why it is going to be cooked in a little bit.

If a branch of the tree will have broken and removed, the branch if it is tainted.

Remove all the leaves of the tree, and the whole tree will die.

The truth is, I love my child, when death comes and this child came out from the body, the body will die.

But this person will not die or never changed. "

"Nothing came from him.

In all each thing, he is the depths of yourself.

She is distressed as the truth is, he is the one that you'll take care of.

It is up to you to take care of your body, Pad, you. "

"You are not in this world to look for this world to look for it and it is one of your speeding body used in traveling to fulfill your glory."

"Oh," Oh, my beloved Father, should be blamed and let us know more about this person. "

"Yes, my ex-year-old child, tried to know," the promise of Baba.

"You will bring me ripe grain."

"Here is the cold of mango," my beloved, "

"You will make it a habit, and what can you see?"

"The yellow abdomen and ill bones, and no one else."

"Smell," Bastes.

"It smells good, he is able to share with him / her," said Piat, "it seems like it is very delicious."

"Let's taste it," the mom's response was.

"

"The smell that you smelled is not seen, my beloved child.

The bothers that you have experienced will not be seen.

All of these came from your wallet.

"If you want a mango; that is what you want, you will be able to think about it when your mind is bothering you.

"There is no thing that you didn't come from IOS.

.

This only has the truth to the truth, that is what you can show that this is happening to you.

You have been saving all of these, if you do not have something to have been placed under your eyes, you will lose consciousness, and if he will not be able to return to your consciousness, your body will die. "

"You, it's you, Pad, you yourself have your own bangs.

"In your depths, in your brain, there are those who send a message to this, and you need to know that this is your brain, and this is what you want to see this; and this is what you want to see this; and this is what you want to see this; and this is what you want to see this, okay?
"Sure, with my beloved Father, I have to add up what I know so that I will be able to know what I want to know, that's why it's being given to myself."

"Oh," I put my child, you did not need to ask me to wake him up and just wake him up all the time and send it to you to introduce.

It has been hidden in your heart for a long time, it is always slow to open your heart to get away, when you sleep, he is asking for your attention to those who feel bad and sometimes, he is getting angry with the bad things. "

"In your prayers, you think that he is not answering, he cannot do it for you, with the challenge and confusion that is happening to you, so that you are with your ability to know Him.

"He did not give it to you so that you can't give you anymore, you have not even given you, my father has a lot of doors on you, and I also try to get to know my daughter," I am also excited to know what to know, "the healthy request of Poverty."

"" You will bring me a handfuls of salt, my beloved child, "the command of Baba," also bring you in the said water. "

"Here is the salt of salt and the field of water."

"What can you see in the water?

"I do not see anything," the only answer of the child, "the water has no color."

"When you pour salt in the field of water," the father's command, "mix it well."

"I am terrified."

"" Are you still seeing you?

"The same thing is, it is still clear and there is no color in the water," the answer of Pukan in the office of the Day.

"Now, you can taste the water in the side of a washbasin," the command of the Day, "what will you expect?"

"Salty."

"Here you are fond of obsequious with the water level," the next order, "what will you expect?

"It's also like that," the response of Punta, "the water is still salty."

"There, in the middle of the water, you are in the middle of the water," the father ordered, "what is the taste of?"

"There is no change," the explanation of Piat, "this water has just been salty which is why even if I will be tasted, my beloved Father,"

"That is why, my beloved child, all things that you cannot see is just there for you.

Like the wind, you cannot see this, but outside your body.

Even if you are alive in your whole life, all things that you cannot see is the most important and complicated truth in everything, love, and understanding, you need to give you the things that you have not given to you. "

"In all things, events, these are there, they are there, he is the salt of the water; he is the wind in life, and they are pointing out all of these for your real events."

"There is no thing not from him.

To all of each things that you will think about, you will be able to think about it, follow it, let yourself be happy, and will be peaceful; and all of these are the glory of your pen pal.

"He is your weakness and truth, he is the one you'll take care of.

"What is most important of all is that she will give you a secret that most of us have a secret that most of us are being considered as the key, and he is the only one who takes care of us, and he is the only one who knows more and knows everything."

"And do you know, I love no one to choose, you, your IOS and our Great God, do you understand that this is the Father, the child, and the Holy Week that is only one?

Do you know that if you catch your mind, your mind, body, and this person will have a soul? "

"From the eateries, you will be diligent in making a hard work, so that you have to be an expert in your mind, your mind, you can hear this because you are closed your soul on this because you wake up your soul for this."

"My beloved Father, just let me know of my name, right," my Father, "

"Yes, I have chosen a child, it is my duty to you," the clear promise of Balled.
"There is one man in the province of Bataan and fried in the eyes to not see anything.

She was carried by and brought him to a quiet microwave.

Able to be put in front of the north, able to face the southern end, and in the end, the west-northwest direction and left, let it be alone in where he was standing.

A lot of moments have passed in this situation, impatient for the man, "Hoy, I am still here when someone approached and removed the eyes of his eyes," there, your eyes opened and removed from your eyes, and follow the path that you want. "

"That is why, my beloved child, if there is no doubt in your eyes, you will wake up your mind, you will wake up, you will wake up to your mind that it will lead to your mind and will directly happen in your scheduled glory.

Do not let others keep your affection to others.

Later on, this is the time that you feel that they are taking advantage of you, avoid making salt on your principles that will become an analysis of you to look for your light and for a long time.

It is up to you to make a bath; and the light from the fire here is where they would suffer if you want to go to school.

You will never fail.

"There is no thing that does not come from Him.

No matter how much each thing that is not coming from your own farm.

He is the truth, he is the one that you want to be with.

We are pointing out and made it by our Great Britain.

You are all of these, I love to choose from you, you and our Great God.

"Thank you very much, I really love," I will always follow everything that you left, according to your will. "

Lawyer!

I will not discover the Lord to myself and myself in Him, as long as I do not have to face myself, we are not able to face myself, instead of knowing the power of God for the death of God for the death of God for the death of God for the death of Christ, "Efeso 2: 22.

Let us stay in front of this 4, that is why, I am the prisoners of the Lord, you are taking care of you and are going to be exported when you are called.

2 that has a hard work and calm, make sure to be free from each of your love.

3 crowding in order to maintain unity for them to spend peace.

4 has one body, and this is one of these, even if you are called in a long time call for you.

5 one Lord, a belief, a baptism.

6 of God and Father's Day, he will prevail in everything, and those who are traveling to everything, and inside all who are in you.

Efeso 4: 1 to 6 Kotong.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
