
Binay and Mar to continue the straight path.

Vice President Jejomar Binay and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas said that it seems like Carbon Corporation, "I will continue the straight Tuwid na Daan (of President Benigno Aquino III."
If you did not use it, what can we call?
"In the last statement of President Aquino because, he said," we need to vote the 2016 elections, "that is just going to continue my straight path."
There, it's then that Binay and Roxas are calling the press of what they are saying.
They themselves!
The president of the country cannot be allowed.
So who can Binay and Roxas make the blessings received by PNoy in 2016 elections.
In the political party of the Cocho Family, Aquino III, it cannot be hidden that VP Jojo B is not hidden anymore.
They have the loyalty of the Binays at their clan.
Didn't the siblings of Aquino already spoke with Binay?
We know President Noynoy who is too honest with his party mates, allies, his pet followers and allies of his tongue.
He was even the speaker and lawyer of them in the moment they were caught up in the case.
The defense of his defense against PNP Chief Alan Purisima, Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala, Dinky Soliman, is said to be in critical condition.
If this is the basis, Roxas is more important to him because of his posture of their party that he is the only "wangwang." In the presidency.
Why is the system of choosing the leader?
Binay and Roxas are very lucky to become the president of 100-million Filipinos.
But VP Jojo is up, if Roxas will only run against Roxas because of all the survey, it is like Mar, even if Mar can still fight? "
And if it is true that both of them are in continuing the "straight path," it does not mean that they do not do anything if they are seated at them?
What did Aquino do in his straight path, "?
Is there something?
Let us think about that.
Even if it is Binay and Roxas, we can't do anything if the path that they are going to do is the path of leadership.
PNoy's term is almost over, until now, the people are still looking for the whereabouts of the crooked path of lack of loss.
The United Nations himself said that we will be removed as a member of the UN if Aquino's regime does not stop in the super-prone corruption!
Ichine, founding chairman of UN, will be removed just because of his "Daang Matuwid" Tuwid na Daan "in the corruption?" AOIL, Ed AZOPLAN).
