Eldest among knowledge in language.

By Tomas, Santos-August 21, 2014.

Even though, in general, it is surprising that the filipino language is confusing the power of our country, when they are serving as an instrument for them to think, and to be able to think about it, they will be able to understand each other when they are not able to think about it because of the destruction of foreign language.
This is the argument that became the center of beauty of Roberto T. Añonuevo, descent, in his work, Filipino in selecting the power "(UST Publishing back in the House, 2010).
This is a broken vase and piece of course related to issues being faced not only by the Filipino language if not even the agencies, department, and authorities who are involved in it.
According to him, "the book is opened by this book from the level of national rules and programs until the level of the national rules and programs until the level of individual who will fall, but what's good is for them to pay attention to each part of a thorough implementation, and put writing on the side of the author"
Included in those assigned in his book are the history of the Supreme Court (KWF); the proposed laws and policies of language; policy and changes in the systems in the schools, court; and the use of Filipino in school, court, business, and other doms of power.
Several times, Añonuevo gave importance to the importance of Filipino language on the scale and misunderstanding for him, this is the bridge and improvement of the native language in the Philippines.
He used an example to the statement of President Manuel L. Quezon of First Asentice, on October 27, 1936, where he said he should not explain, that the citizens who have an intensive care and a state should have been used and understand. "
For Añonuevo, the children will only be faster if Filipinos will be used to use the Filipino or any relation to this province because there are programs in their hearts and places.
According to him, "Ang Filipino is a unique way of running away in the world, but it is also a way how the Filipino people will see himself and his country."
It can be said that Añonuevo saw his point and argument because he showed them in a way that his readers are sure.
This is one proof that the call of the author which is not only based on the depth of language is not only based on the depth of language, through choosing the authors of the words, he has more understanding to the readers the feelings and thinking that they want to inform.
It can be seen in this way, there is a big possibility that the majority have the ability to encourage the Filipino language to make a nap in different aspect of society such as agriculture, technology, technology, and health, which is why there will be a lot of information that will receive any information.
According to the author, "Ang Filipino is to know the holiness of those with other language that there are enough numbers that can be used by each province to communication with the colonizers."
Añonuevo explained that there is a basis for the efforts of acons to use Filipinos as language of teaching in all schools.
"Economic growth failed because they thought that it cannot be used properly like Mathematics and technology, and add also the materials that are lacking in Filipino," he said.
In addition to this, he stated that it is time for the Philippines to fix the heart system about the publication of the publication of the publication of the publication of the book.
"It is time to help the writers, private sector of the writers when they can create good books for the future of Filipinos, and probably, for the sake of the world now and in the coming century," he explained.
For Añonuevo, under the boundary of the province and the country, the Filipinos should have the ability to use politicians from Batanes, education, budget, trade, medicine, technology, tourism, from the streets until school to the local and local government.
In total, the author believes that it will be better to meet the KWF, the possible agency that has a mandate about corruption, development, and improvement of the Filipino language and other language in the region and the responsibility and responsibility to the people included.
According to Añonuevo, "take part of the program and projects of KWF, because this crows should serve the country, instead of serving it."
