Let us go back to the back to school?

"It is a joke, they are asking about the shopping center of you to school, Totoy and Nene, just like you are being paid for you?
So, why is it so?
It turns out that Shoyna was the height of a high-coloured house, just to send a pilot's high tuition fee.
Don't be surprised, right, the Palace in Malacanang himself said that it is okay for you to suffer, that is why you'll just endure.
Here, okay, what I am worried, is to collect it for a few weeks.
The government has approved the increase of tuition in private schools for the school, elementary and school school and even the Commission on Higher Education are approved by the increase in tuition in college.
Because many complained and through the media (print, TV and radio), together with the internet, the complaint reached the Palace in the palace.
The Palace's answer through Communications Secretary Sonny Coloma has to be fine, that's why it's just okay for the increase in the increase in power of the school.
If parents can't do the additional expenses, they will just wait for the public funds!
The child of the shark, is a tactic that is why there is no solution?
So that is it that, we have to endure, we have to endure "when there is time?, but we have a lot of time like this, right?
What is the promise when he ran in 4 years August?
"Isn't it said, that the country will change, straight path to be plentiful and safe, what is this?
Including the High School and a high level.
Another promise of the Department of Trade Center is one of the monitoring of goods.
It's okay, they said the truth and they even did the two of the DTI that they deliberately have to monitor.
But what's painful, is to collect it up to the monitor.
They cannot stop the businessman for the increase in price.
Some will be arrested and there will be too late.
Because the price is still high.
The child of the cat, crook, is it going to be crushed?
The price of role is high and high level of paper, softdrinks, bag, shoes, and even the book.
But the answer to us is to endure when there is time.
