Honorable taxi driver and Kotong policemen.

Denver is able to submit his P2 million monthly payment for boxing.
But we need to give attention to a taxi driver from a study in elementary school, "to the best policy."
The taxi driver, Pepito, take care of Cuisa, Bro, is the one who wants to return university.
It's a good thing that it was not a different passenger that was placed inside the bag.
And because of this, it is not the only one who did not pay attention but returned to Sucare and take care of it.
Disrespectful!
No one proof of the taxi was remembered by Cueto when she went down from the taxi of Sucare.
He did not remember the face of the driver, she was not wondering that the vehicle was being raped and it was enough for Cuisa to go back which he was able to go back together with whoever has been taken off.
It did not last long, Sutake care of a media station to return Aling Tasya?
Don't fool you.
It does not know how to take care for two days since it is just for more than two days in the news of diologists, radio and television, along with the internet.
It does not even know how to take care, with expensive stones, like gold, which is being destroyed by gold.
And if he knows, he does not thought of being rude to the gold and other steel that are being placed under gold and above.
What he did was, after Cueto got out of his passenger, he went away and was far away when he noticed the bag that was left behind.
And he hid it and take care of it.
But he did not let the days pass so that he would bring the trip to the hands of the real owner.
Pepito Salas.
Let us look at all, Bro, the name Pepito and care.
If all of us are like this, I am sure that many problems will be solved.
Included in problems will be solved in having illness.
Just like idol Pepito, care, she avoided having a heart disease from being a famous driver.
She was able to avoid having a grudge between her conscience.
He also avoided to treat the law as a thief.
Because whoever gives a missing thing is considered by a law.
It is a big thing for us to be healthy everyday.
And it is a big thing for us not to rob the properties of others.
When they lost their lives in life, they are watching the sweat of many hours, they cut off and others.
Kotong police.
Can we ask this Pepito: How long was he in driving?
It is an important question if we introduce what he did to the task of scalawag cops and traffic enforcers.
And there are many scalawag cops.
These are the return of what they're picking up on the streets.
My question to you: Do you have heard a police or traffic enforcer who has returned them on the streets?
It was an amount of P2M which was opened by Pepito from Cuello, but he returned it.
These cops and enforcers who carry P2 million to 20 pesos to jeepney drivers, are they going to return?
Where are the police and enforcers who hang out of line up to 6,000 pesos, a fine and other traffic congestion, is something guilty for them?
Pepito will not let him be charged by his conscience for the last day.
God bless.
What we can say for the Pepito, care for him is our fervent prayer to continue his good attitude and relationships.
And if they believe in God, our prayer is with him.
Even if we do not know how to pray like what others are doing.

Please, my Lord.
