
Impeachment as a series.

By Rolando B.
January 29, 2012.

During the first seven episodes of addition, Chief Justice Renato Corona impeachment.
The opportunity is unique, no one is watching politics, no one watching politics, Senate, Cabinet meeting, press conference, and others in fact, many are watching in politics, and also a simple action from the political process, and if the box of course of the investigation is a simple action.
But for the impeachment trial, this afternoon, this afternoon, it means that this is the content of the news on the television and radio, even in newspapers the following day, and even the newspapers, this is also the contents of the discussion of those in the office which is also in a gimmick, including the gimmick of discrimination in a big gathering.
As a television series, there is only one purpose that should be witnessed, in the investigation of Chief Justice Renato Corona of the supreme court, and to share about it, the cast of your heart, uncle, uncle, uncle, uncle, uncle, uncle, uncle and others.
What happened on the first two weeks of the impeachment trial in television is to be done on alert: 00 in the television, there is a small resolution, and there are still several delayed details, and there is still no chance to wait for the next chapter in order to watch again.
If politics in the country is under the format yet in the television, what he wants to cause the media to be spread of the media so that politics can be spread in the media so that politics will be appropriate for the trend of the news on the impeachment.
The impeachment case is still an intensive action of politics, and through being a media, there will be a ratification of the media that the first Chief Justice who will be impeached by the Congress is historical, and going through the investigation of the Senate.
And because it became a social media, it became a National Capital Region which is becoming part (even if it is not yet as part (even if there are not yet to be watched, be cleared and resolve the audience favorite, which is also the citizens of the country.
Funny, because like what happened during the initial impeachment of Joseph Estrada, the events), the events that should be complete, and resolve to give importance to being judgemental, and resolve to give importance to human rights that is not proven guilty, the success of evil in evil.
If it is not just, why did they be watched over and became a favorite television series in the afternoon, why did he give a lot of time and perseverance to see the national politics's statements as a television series, to be watched and may be understood.
Because politics is the featured story, those who want to be buried in the trial, but what we need for the impeachment, but what we are saying is not really the impeachment case, but what we are saying is not the impeachment case, even the Malacañang, the Malacañang, that's why the Malacanang is getting politics.
And if we are watching, what we are watching is our everyday grief and interest, how will the audience just watch, not really part, in an exclusive interview with the national politics of the few.
