
The people showed anger towards the increase in price of oil.

By Filipino Weeker.
March 15, 2012.

From 7: 00 in the morning, up to 7: 00 in the evening, the groups of poor cities, workers, women, drivers, employees of the government, youth, and others to registered their anger towards the incessant increase in oil price.
They announced to the Aquino government the immediate increase in the price of oil, the increase in the price of oil, garbage in Oil Derna Law, and removed from the Value-Added Tax of oil.
From those who went down to Noguised, up to the barbells, there are different kinds of protest in the 30 evacuation centers in the entire Manila, and the mayors in the region such as Southern Tagalog, Hala, Davao, and correct space.
But instead of taking action on different call to stop the nonstop price increase in the price of oil, an information and the response of the Aquino administration.
This was stated by the petition of the Protempore Mangguray, citizens (KMM), one of the multimillion fund which led the leading country.
"Malacanang just wants to avoid the issue and leave his responsibility through spreading confusion and fear, instead of supporting the issues of oil price," says Larry Tan, spokesperson of KMM).
It was initially clarified by the group Meton (Pagkakaisa ng mga Bayani (Pagkakaisa ng Pelikulang Pilipino (Pagudpud) that their protest did not Transport, and part of the huge protest of the citizens from different sectors.
However, this is the one forced by Malacanang and Metro Manila Development Authority.
"It is clear that not only the Transport sector was affected by OUnited States but it was also criticized by (Edwin) Lacierda because we salute all drivers who join protests to show the effect of the government and the increase of oil, according to Tan.
Here are a few photos of the leading country.
Around 7: 00 in the morning, different sectors of Elsee, Rddy.
The members of roasted pig are also preparing the jeepneys that will join the Transport caraving going to the office of Chevron in Makati City (PPETion.
It is one thing that Filipino workers get the weight of this! This is the result of the heat being implemented by oil.
According to serve as a call to the new form of the mining which was led by students: 00 in the seat, just like what President Aquino is doing in the issue of Ocasio (PPHP.
The leaders of different groups that resulted to the Philcoa (PPHP.
But the police and the guards blocked the caraving in Ayala Avenue, where there was a little fighting between (PPHP.
The driver insisted to get closer to the office of Chevron, but the guards did not stop them.
According to the protesters, the price of petroleum products was formed which costs 113 million pesos per liter (PPHP.
The Transport caraving will go to the office of Shell and Valero Street (PPETion.
Here, the driver of Bayton (PPETion.
In a memorial center in Commonwealth Avenue, QC (Macky Macasac.
Women of Gabriela who are calling for trash from Oil Derna Law and removing the E-nosed in oil. (Macky Macasac).
The members of Batasan Tramo, operators Association of Batcountry, are the biggest tricycle terminal in Manila (Macky Macasac).
Noguessed to the Elsee, Rain and employees of the government under the Calaguas, who takes care of their respective office (Macky Macasac).
He drew close to the poster of this FX, that the driver is not alone in the protest.
The children are also going to the streets together with their parents who can't encourage the price of goods due to the Philippine Constabulary (Izzy Canillo).
Removed from the oil in oil, one of the mayor called the protest (Macky Macasac.
Students and teachers in the evacuation center at the Philosophy a, QC (P2,500.
In North Triangle, QC, hundreds of policemen were stuck to the poor protesters around 4: 30 in the afternoon, the group, Kadamay, and as a response of the police, identified the needy.
According to the poor, Oil Deregal Law and E in oil can be considered as a burden to them.
Until 7: 00 in the evening, they continued the protest even if the police was closed by the police.
