Who really is guilty?

Yuan Calata.
Last week, the whole of Metro Manila is just like an expert because we are living in a high and safe place when we were living in a high and safe place, and I did not lose electricity, or lost their homes and things, they are still confident with the victims.
I watched the entire Metro Manila on the internet and television but I cannot do anything or ask for help because even if we are living in a high place, the sea will be met in the internet, meddling and reading things that may help you.
For the not surprising time, I ended up in Facebook, I was met by the successive waves in the street or overpass, those who are involved in the storm, those who are going to have something to do with the storm, those who are from relief goods, and having snacks.
In all the things I saw, I noticed that many of those who are guilty in the flood in Metro Manila are saying that the government is the one who has fault.
But why is it that there is a landslide here, we are still young, we are talking that the tree is important for nature, not only because he is trying to feed the land, which can cause flooding and damages.
If you notice, there is no more tree here in the city that's why it is quickly flooded, instead of putting up the space in the park, school, and other public places so that the government allowed them to buy it and raise the constricted malls and others.
Aside from that, the government does not allow the businessmen to join the forest so there will be a lot of malls so that it will also be avoided for the increase in malls and shopping centers, that is why there are increasing number of garbage stuck in water pipes.
One of the reasons why it floods in the city is an unorderly system that should be one of the responsibility of the government to stop the projects which are connected to the projects which should have been led by the previous President.
There are also some who blame the illegal settlers affected by the creek or the flood caused them to be the only victims, because they were forced to live there because they were forced to stay there in a proper house, because they were forced to stay in a proper home, the government allowed them to stay in the congested and stinky place.
To what happened, it can be said that we have not learned from those that happened when the typhoon Ondoy hit and let us just let the things that we are driving and until there is no change, we will disappear and they would steal a waves.
