I am just a person.

Natural is the reaction shown by the people who did not agree with the face of Mayor Herbert Bautista in the caught drug pushers.
And if there are people in favor, many also expressed that what the mayor of QC did was right.
Some say that although it is wrong with the law - it should have been a slap, but they were killed, according to them, they said that the said drug coercion.
Even your servant does not believe what happened because in our acquaintance with the mayor, this is "I do not know how to be angry.
We understand the mayor.
"He probably does not want to hurt the drug addict but in the sudden outbursts of feelings, what happened should not happen.
Bistek was only a person who is also mistaken.
Nevertheless, admitted that what he did was wrong and asked for apology to the mayor, "said the Chinese was slapped hard but to the people.
Mayor Herbert probably prevailed for a pity for those who become victims of plague of drugs so the Chinese cannot help but give a complaint to the Chinese.
Many lives were destroyed because of drugs.
Drugs is the reason for many killings, rape, robbery and various crimes happening in the country.
If it will be eradicated in the spread of drugs, it is certain that the crime will be gone and the result is the convenience and good tomorrow to all.
But because of the big money from the operation of the drug pusher, "the authorities are not true about their own responsibility.
And because of a huge amount of bribe from illegal drugs, instead of catching them, becoming extra dler and with a lot of law enforcers.
When will the authorities believe their promised "service to the public" against the glitter of the money of drug lords?
That's the challenge to General Alan Purisima, National Bureau of Investigation and other agencies of the government, be true to stop the drug pusher.
Meanwhile, we want to send our greeting and "I did not hide my admiration to General Richard Albano and the entire QCPD.
Good elements, general, in the successful drug-bust operation (chickenT-T-T).
