
Who won, the Filipinos or PNoy?

Just a few more moments from today, the current year will finally know the current year, while we will go to the year 2013.
May we face the coming New Year with a positive outlook, and a strong faith, "we should not stop working so many times when our boredom is called.
Perhaps this is also the time to be thankful for the blessings we received.
May our trust return and there will still be a morning that will bring enthusiasm and hope.
He / she was very weak.
It is considered that this is the most successful year of the current administration since he was elected in Malacanang starting last 2010.
From the removal of the former Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, Renato Corona last May, until the approval of the controversial laws like the Sin Tax Bill which is the palace to win all of these.
Of course, the Aquino administration boasted about the historical signature of the initial act of putting on a initial peace between the government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
Let us also include the increase of Graft Capricorn (GDP) of the country of 7.1 billion pesos, the second highest recorded by any country in Asia in the third period, we still got surprised even if the disclosure of the country in Asia in the third period.
That's why he / she was able to step down.
Many are saying the political will "the current president is the reason for all of these to be brave and have the own leader that can ruin anyone, for the sake of the people.
He is supposedly one of the principle, which is not sarcastic, even from any kinds of money and temptation.
On the other hand, there are also those who allegedly have been treated as a dictator "and"
According to them, the palace is said to have allegedly witnessed the Palace in other branches of the government, this is just what he wants, to be a good race "depends on the power of the agency that he is not in the jurisdiction.
He / she was very weak.
Well, whatever is the means of both sides, hope and prayer of your servant that in total of all these, may the real and no doubt that won the events that happened this year, not only PNoy.
