Louise, fought for the family and work of April 22, 2016.
During the moment we went with Louise de los Reyes yesterday, and she admitted that she felt too much with them by Allyxon.
"Fight IT led to the point that it is too late in the university.
"I will not allow to involve the whole family, and" my beloved job, "Louise." He said, "Parang Road," an example, "an actress."
"He / she said that whatever I get is right now, for me, as long as there's a doctor, I cannot accept it," that.
"Even in my opinion, my mom is going to help me, that should not be."
Louise cannot say that their friendship with Alden is affected, they have not seen each other for a long time and talk.
"In the last time he spoke with the former Meking, she said she was talking to him not to pay attention to him.
She said she is really hurt with the first, and she cried about it.
But now he has been used to it and he learned how he / she ignores.
Derrick Monasterio into Alden Richards is still not able to help but take care of self-law that will release Derrick Monasterio into GMA Network.
Yesterday, in the press of this, he was asked if there was a blood pressure on her that he might not beat up 5-year-time which was released by Alden.
"It was the answer of a young actor," I said, my success was started when I received the release.
"Having said that he is not like that, even if she is not like that, Alden does not like that, as long as I, I said what I want to say to my songs.
"Just to earn a little bit, I was able to give me a little bit more, one of my bosses to have issued its release."
Even to Maine, the alleged courting of this is still limited, but Derrick closed that issue because it was better for him to first step on his career for a long time.
He was affected when being linked to Maine, and it was good to be silent now.
"" I was able to go out, but of course with bashers, it's because that's also not a joke, that's why he has given self-discipline, "ask Derrick.
It is out that self-release will be released by Derrick, and in the press of this yesterday, he was asked by some songs.
He reads the original bet of Ginger Conejected Chance "we liked him when we liked him when we wrote at him when we wrote at Hannah, Nony Villon.
There is also a bonus that has been released this day, Julie Anne San Jose in the song, my column.
