Impeachment in UP Manila: Record of high blood pressure.

By Cutud, Kevin Arguna.
October 22, 2013.

Aside from politicking, the role of the administration of UP Manila is noticeable, the role of the administration of UP Manila is noticeable in the actions of the administration of UP Manila due to the removal of the resolution for the removal of the University Regional Council (USC) Chairperson UP Manila, Mariz City.
If examined the resolution, a big part of the allegation has something to do with it directly or not, in dealing with the administration, in relation to the complaints of students in university and society.
For example, one of the accusations is not deserving to serve as the SC Chair because according to the shouting of a member of the Office of the Student Affairs (OPLAN), after he did not allow the policy of an employee of the Office of the Student Affairs (OPLAN), after he did not allow the policy of the government of the Office of the Student Affairs (OPLAN) after he did not allow a lawsuit, and threatened to file a lawsuit, and attempted to give protection.
Why won't it be that this is not the reason to file a case against the Student Doods (ST) if it is not just a pro-Filipino leader, similar to the anti-Filipino leader, like Mariz, to anti-students who would make the administration being endorsed by the administration?
"What the word" says is that, the reason why your administration lost a place! "In a meeting with OPLAN), is it not true that the policy of the administration is going to be used against him, and is it not true that the policies of the country are true, and isn't it that the leaders of the country are true?
But it is not new for the record and story of the administration's meddling and attempt to discredit the anomalous leaders of the community of UP.
In UP, how the administration attempted to oust the Student Regent (000), which is firm for the scholar of the country against the increase of funds and organizations which are not surprising because this is proven that the administration will be able to confront the leaders of the country, and even if it is proven that the administration will be able to catch the interests and rights of the students.
It is clear that the resolve of Mariz as a leader - the anti-students that will be submitted to the Aquino administration is clear, but to the higher budget from the Aquino administration, to stop the pork barrel of the Congress and Aquino, and also a lot of others.
This is what the administration wants to avoid - a leader whose resolve is clear in having a private of UP as a university of the country.
The administration's responsibility is different and will lead the responsibility of the councils, who often agree with the administration's goals towards the students and there is only a primary role that will serve as a bridge between the two.
From the information gathered by the information about the enrollment or day suspension of its projects, this is the only part seen by the administration of the schools on the role of a councils that is why it is not surprising that even in the orders of Mariz by those who will attend a project of the administration, it is being used for the removal of the administration.
For the progressive countries, this is not the primary responsibility of the council, if not a voice, representative, and lead the fight of the students.
Even in these kinds of policies, the administration cannot see the part of the councils of its own government as a representative of the new policy and if it's just a part of the administration's Lapian ng mga Bayani, which is even more than a gathering of a decision to criticize the administration's performance and being a part of the administration's formation.
That's why it's sad, that if the administration can't take advantage, the administration's toll fee is centered on the high blood pressure against the anomalous leader of the university which is serving as a personal interest and the administration who are pushing the anti-students who are pushing the anti-students.
In the midst of the worsening crisis in stealing the issues of theft from the government of the country, murder of the earthquake in Visayas, and the continuous poverty of the earthquake in Visayas, and the continuous poverty of the earthquake in Visayas, and the continued poverty of the leaders of the students to be close to the fight of the youth and the citizens.
There is still only one hundred pieces of advice that will be provided by a scholar of the country, serve the people!
