The OFW Family in the Legislative Chamber got nominated in the controversies, accused by Gascon.

Amnesty International was criticized as Roy Seneres Senior of the OFW's Liberal Party-list of the said "traslacion" in a shopping center to meet the vacant position, and.
This issue is serious, stated by Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International, and became the first Dugong Bombo party-list last election, because of the irregularities in the said race.
"We arrived at the questions that who really is behind the party-list (OFW Family).
The position on the second to the fifth position of the OFW's Liberal Party-list was delayed because of the resignation "of the two Palestinians, the Commission on Elections (Comelec) said that the Commission on Elections (Comelec) has not allowed the position as the second representative in the legislative chamber.
Jo is the son of Janet Lim Napoles of JLRTMC, who is currently being questioned in the controversy about "fake NGO" which led the P10 billion pork barrel of the congressmen, the children of Seneres, the children of Seneres, Jango or Napoles.
"This five are not included in the original list submitted by Seneres when they first applied for COMELEC (Commission on party-list," Martinez defended.

Former Ambassador Roy Seneres, Senior, is his son Seneres, Jr., another woman who is Hannah Seneres-Francisco, and Melchor Rosales, who is a seaman who formed a original list of party-list, to replace Juan "Johnny" Revilla and Napoles.
After the election, Seneres Revilla removed Revilla because of his US citizenship, and said Napoles is the one who will replace Revilla to the second position but it did not happen that Napoles goes to his position because of the ruling of the Comelec that he was not included in the official list of Spanish party-list.
It can be recalled that Revilla is the manager of Placena Manpower, one Recruitment agency, which is said to be sent by the COMELEC, which is responsible for the contract that won the contract from Smartmatic and Tim to put P100 for the three companies that were responsible in running around 82,000 pesos, which is responsible in running around 82,000 pesos.
Martinez added that they are trying to conduct the said amount of case due to the number of cases of illegal Recruitment, contract which is a contract on the contract against the OFW.
The COMELEC also needs to explain it to submitting a name and the sudden transfer of terrorist party-list last election because it appears that this is the party-list of relatives and friends, "added to illegal immigrants."
Martinez continues to question if the OFW's party-list as a representative of the OFW's representative, how can it be said that he is being given the OFW's interest is contrary to the interest of OFWs, and voters? "
