TV Patrol, April 23, 2012.

Are you nosy about others?

Until I do not have anything to do or not.

For any thing, I do not have a right.

It will reach if it is over.

My daughter, Karlo, told me that sometimes, we are talking about a kind of Filipino customs, if you are always looking at someone else, and not on the road, and not on the road, and not on the road, he is now a big possibility that you will be hit. "I am here with his story.

The Plevel of Moises May is a old level of living in the top of the mountain of Mariveles, Bataan.

According to many known in the Plevel, BE is published in the glory of one of Balanga, Harold Moises, Barangay Karin, which is also diligent in order to ask for advice and guidance from the Plevel.

Moises is not able to follow the bush, and told her motive, "I did not want to follow your attitude," I did not want to trust the old man, "and made sure to trust the old man, but he did not get back down and just standing up at the sofa.

The old man is talking again, "how can you understand what I am doing," if you really want to follow me, especially to what I am saying, "if you really want to follow me," if you really want to talk to me, it is clear that I do not talk to him about it, right?

"The whole heart, and the tear of the crystals, I will follow you!" I promised that! "The strong answer of Moises.

Japanese, in the morning, is it early that they got out of the mountain and went to the shores of Mariveles, "I did not believe what I was doing," what I did was to ask, "what I did was to ask," what I did was to ask, "what if possible, he left me," what if possible, he left me, "if possible, he left me."

Because I am annoying, easily forget, and it is not right for you to be with it. "

Malinta who survived the head of the Plevel and continued his head in walking, however, there was a lot of tourists who asked them to follow the old community, but according to the tourists who asked them, instead, there was a lot of tourists who asked to see him, instead, they were able to find a lot of tourists to see him.

Moises is catching her breath, after they brought the tourists.

"We will be filled with anger," hopefully you desire it, you can ask for payment, like the commandments (tourist guides) who is here in the Korean national, "that is why we feel the comments on the elderly."

At this point of Moises, the old age is very sad and when we talked about it, I arrived at the moment that we need to separate from us, "first why when they want to recover the boat that brought them to recover and use it to get him and use it from bringing bad drugs in Bataan.

Second: Why did I kill the man?

He has killed a lot of people in Manila, and two of them were killed in the town of Mariveles.

Third, why do I let the tourists leave for what they are looking for, because I have seen that these are members of the youth who are befriending them, they can't do it to the police, it is not just from me, who can do it to me, who can just do it, according to His will.

And it is true, in my knowledge, you need to continue to continue your self, get to know who you are, and understand him completely, before going through the mysterious events around you. "And after that, the old age is turned around.

Lawyer!

Even in reading the articles that you are in-minded people here, if you are anxious, it is not easy for you to wake up, and if you are not able to understand them, you are still sleeping, sleeping, and trying to sleep on.

Thank you.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
