Is there a violation of the Social Weather C?

Congratulations!

Recently, the policy being implemented by Icon Residences has been discussed in the social media, which is prohibited for the house-helpers, driver and command to use the use of their lobby.
This is after the bothers security guards of BGC also spread in social media that even the use of the board-board camera in the vehicle is prohibited.
These events are disconcerted because it seems that the administrator of BGC is being carried away by the administrator of BGC.
In the opinion of these people, there are more powerful rules in the laws of our country.
What are the residents of BGC really think, is there a Republic of BGC that they can do their own rules even if it is against our existing law?
It is clear that it has a violation on our Saligang Batas to the Constitution.
What's worse is that they are insisting the manager of said condominium that Katherine Morrell who does not have anything wrong with their policy.
"Tyo's for the World Health Organization for the World Health Organization for the building of Fight IT.
My goodness! The thick and gum bleeds.
"That is the problem of some of our countrymen who are able to study and have learned to be in English, because you think they are the king and queen, if they have given a little power and territory it's the socket of their arrogance.
First, it should be better for him / she should be known to have a equal rights in a thing, place or belief is a kind of human rights that is even made by our Constitution.
Even if Garabat is still being said, the condominium that he / she works as the orders should not implement the policy that is being stepped on by a person's rights, or a carp.
Maybe it is also necessary to force your brains, Gardolia, never, the policies made by him and his colleagues in Icon may not be more powerful in what the Constitution has led.
If the smell and hair of the house helper and driver lost their concern, it is not bad if they set a dress code when they use an elevator and instead of being treated as if there is an unusual disease.
