Manila, the PCP chief lit up with each other.

Although there are many problems that inherited from the former administration of the Manila City Hall, which is the cause of headache, Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" JV Estrada and Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" DoMoreno and Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" will be brave.
That is why, the request of the two officials continues to help them in programs implemented in the city in order to bring back Manila to his former fame in a progressive city and not just this down in debt.
In his report to the masses in relation to the first 100 days of his service, Estrada said that although there are many jobs in the future because of the problems left by the former leaders, he still does not regret why he ran mayor here.
Why is it that?
There are many changes in the city, especially on the progress of the economy that became slow due to the flow of traffic, which is why the exchange of business has been affected by the motorists, which is why there's a few private parts of Manila which was the start of the capital in his jurisdiction.
Although what happened at the Quirino Grandstand siege under the former administration of Manila, Estrada still urged them to remove from Hong Kong their said ban on and it seems that the former President of the country will not fail.

Mayor Estrada's message to the Manila Police District is clear in relation to his campaign against illegal gambling that is why there are the police station commanders with his post because of the failure to follow his account.
Included in those who were removed from his position were Inspector Edward Samonte, Gagalangin PCP; Chief Insp. Jovie Espenido, PCP PCP; Senior Inspector Patrick de Leon, San Andres PCP; Senior Inspector Patrick de Leon, Zamora PCP and Chief Inspector Louie Guda, of San Andres PCP and Chief Inspector Louie Guda.
Estrada challenged the police to the leadership of Chief Supt. Isagani Genabe Jr., MPD director, to restore the "Manila's Finest" and get to know it as "Country's Finest" who follow the law and taking care of the rights of the Manileños.
