Marwan was terrorist under the MILF-US.

There are some documents obtained by Senator Alan Peter Cayetano from the court of the United States that proves that the alleged killed international terrorist Zulkifli Bin Hala alias "Marwan" and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) has a relationship.
In the part of the evidence, the exchange of email of Marwan and his brother Rabmat, Pr, who is detained in America, was showed up.
On the opinion of Marwan, what is happening in the Philippines, his being close and communicating with the Commander of MILF is asking for money from his fellow international terrorist to buy guns.
Marwan was said to only be experts in making bombs but also to his chin, which is why most of the Fallen SAF 44 are right in the head.
Marwan, one Malaysian, is an engineer who is used to America for four years in Mindanao.
In the intelligence report of the PNP and AFP, Marwan, which is owned by 300 people from the MILF, MNLF, BIFF and Abu Sayyaf groups in making bombs.
He was the primary target of the PNP-SAF operation in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25, 44 commandos were killed and 15 were wounded; while 18 MILF died in the combat that lasted 11 hours.
Marwan was said to have been killed in the operation after his thumb was taken by the FBI for DNA who was immediately examined in America.
One of the target of the SAF 44 is Abdul Basit Usman, a local terrorism ist who were Commander of BIFF and said that the back of Marwan in Mamasapano, was wounded and allegedly escaped from the said bloody operation.
Because of the evidences gathered by Marwan and MILF, Senator Cayetano insisted that the government will just talk to other groups for the proposed Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL).
Even me, Marwan believes that Marwan was really being attacked by the MILF because it is in their territory when the SAF was operated by the SAF.
That's why it is very hard to believe what spokesman of MILF, Iqbal Singh that they will not protect Marwan and against terrorism.
Even the Marines does not believe Iqbal Singh Pramis!
