
A drone that is being used by the Tropang Texters held in Masbate: No covetousness of the country, he said in the country.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
He is the spokesperson of NDFP).
January 7, 2013.

It was a drone that was used by the US and Armed Forces of the Philippines, which was used by the US and Armed Forces of the Philippines, a measurement of 348 pesos and 11 inches (12 billion pesos and 11 inches (12 inches) and 11 inches (7.5 inches and other details.

The et Family of the Marcos regime should be held accountable for the coming of the US and accepting this that the national sovereignty that will serve as President Benigno Aquino III is not unknown to the public that those who are going to fly into the territory of the Philippines any time they want.

The government troops were directly able to join the US troops who were directly involved in the operation of the AFP through the proliferation of the military forces against the revolutionary movement and use of the ports and ports in different parts of the country.

Just this January 2014, the warship of the US USS Guarton (UPP-698) believed to have carrying weapons from the newspaper last year are 80 times the warship of the US will anchor in the dock of the country.

Last 2009, the crash of a drone of US is reported in the town of Pio V. Corpuz in the province of Masbate in the time of Balikatan Examination of the US and AFP from the west-0 pesos.

The lives of many civilians in using the drone of US will be put in a big danger but with the direct use of this for the bombing, many civilians, including children, women and elderly are victims of the bombing of the US in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other parts of the world.

The Filipino people should continue to expose and fight for the armed forces that were presented by the armed US in the country to prepare for the discretion of the next US next year.

Email, hmmmp!
Facebook, there is not an estimation of Hacadversary, Robbie.
On the site at around 1: 00, Pad, Preso, Depcom Ariel Nepomuceno, who is still unknown.
