
On the blind hand, the punishment is wrong?

Misuari is getting mad at Misuari for the situation of our country.
Wait, do you remember what he did before that resulted to the death of many people in 2007?
Why did the Security Group allow Misuari to post bail in his imprisonment?
He was there because of what he did to revolt after ARhea governor last 2001.
Even if you are from the barism, where will the billions of funds went to in the development of the places which are part of AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao?
There are even those who were ordered to dismiss the funds of ARhea, but he did not prove it.
This is what he is now, causing trouble again.
Some have died.
There is still a member of our Navy Seal.
What about that?
Who will be liable there?
Misuari himself denied that Misuari and other officials of MNLF have started the conflict.
They say, the military only wants to have trouble so that the issue of pork barrel will be buried.
It's because you are you, you are always being fooled and would be deceived by what you are talking to!
The government explained that there is an issue on the issues that Misuari has committed against the agreement of MNLF and our government.
How ten years passed by ARMM, but did something happen?
And now, just because they have lost for several times in the election, they will just make the protests like a child easily?
What will happen here is that it seems that the Abu Sayyaf members are surrounded by Abu Sayyaf, but they are still able to escape.
It was said to be strong.
The Filipino is really pitiful.
He is always feasts in front of the violent actions and threats of other forces.
Bishops again in China, is still a chair from the MNLF?
Isn't it that those released by Misuari will not be held accountable then?
There, in the whole country, you will be swayed by some thousands of families evacuated because of this tire and some businesses are affected in this new conflict.
Too much!
The people who are guilty will finally be held accountable for whoever they are!
You are very much fooled by the Filipinos!
