Editions in the new start.
June 30, 2016 when the newly-elected President and the second President of the country will take advantage of his position because the leadership from the past six-years will decrease.
Tomorrow, before those who want to serve the country, before the policies and regulations, before the style of leadership, especially that the character of the leader is different is different.
Even though the majority of Filipinos want to maintain and continue the beautiful foundation of the Aquino administration, there is no guarantee that this will happen to the administration of PNoy and if the majority wants, his chicken, Mar Roxas, said that this will not continue in the start of Daang Matuwid. "
Waking up tomorrow, it can be seen that the true face of the Duterte administration will be seen even if the plans and programs were already heard and there were also a lot who has been presented by the people starting tomorrow.
After President Duterte's words, the strategy of his cabinet will be tested, the strategy of his cabinet will be tested, and the direction of the direction will really come.
It is important for the people to be critical of who will deal with different transactions and projects of the new administration?
If there are former faces that have a stain of corruption, it is also not impossible that before the name of a transaction, but it is still not impossible that before the name of a transaction but the former individuals who are known to be corrupt, "it is important that it will be exposed immediately.
If the people will be observant and vigilant, help the Duterte administration in the right direction that we want to go to.
Just do not be a passenger but we have a obligation to help or driving in the country.

Every step, should be for people and not personal benefits, not friends, sponsored family members and even the people who once had a traitor, made it hard and become an enemy of the people and democracy.
For President Rodrigo Duterte and Vice President Leni Robredo, ten of the entire cabinet and the newly-elected lawmakers and local officials will may be blessed with your service to the people!
