1040Bde Leon, a protector of Danding Cojuangco in Malita, Davao del Sur.

The country.
March 7, 2012.
The 10-2nd Brigade of the Philippine Army is the protector of a big pusher as Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco in the town of Malita, Davao del Sur.

Hundreds of hectares of plantation of banana are owned by Cojuangco in Malita and also the Bautista continues to build their plantation through deceit or it is possible that they are taking advantage of the land of farmers and the primary instruments used by the farmers.

Violence was the mark of Cojuangco and Bautista about the death of the land of seven who were killed and hundreds injured in Tarlac when they were shot by armed men in Tarlac when they were shot by armed men with the Bautista last year in the town of Malita.

The mountains of Malita and nearby towns are the target of mining and one of the companies that has a application to the mining which is owned by Cojuangco.

Through the thick and peace talks, the development being implemented by the AFP, Malita is just like a limited time of work and a lot of food of the farmers going to their farm, patrolling, opening of criticisms and violence of civilians.

Last 2011, four were killed by 39th IB, and two of the victims were killed in a brutal way, they were killed in a brutal way, hacked, stabbed and hit by a bullet in the international law and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP).

Along with violence and fraud in the outline of the Oplan Galugad (OPB), under the OPB), which was held on February 25-27 from this, those who surrendered are the civilians collected by the military from the five-elected town of Malita.

Bautista and the 100Bde Lima also gave up to 200,000 pesos and some goats by survey results as a reward for their return to the government budget.

The citizens of Malita, with the sweet steps of the local government budget for the local government budget for the local government fund, violence and lack of democracy in the town of Malita, which is why the citizens here are stronger to join and support the Filipino people.
