"There is no one named" martial law (yellow) "

The employees of the Judiciary as a force to protest against the said alleged rape "of Malacanang on the 13-0 decision of the Supreme Court that a few parts of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) declared that it is against the Constitution.
As a symbol of their protest, it came out in front of the Supreme Court and Court of Investigation and was found out in front of the Supreme Court of July 21, Monday, and put red and black using their fight and grief for the Aquino administration.
Some of the Ipit Gang "No.
"
They also condemned the declaration of President Aquino to the Supreme Court when he made his speech to defend the DAP last July 15.
According to them, it is not just possible that the Commission on Elections (JDF), a fund inside the judiciary which is the source of benefits for employees of the said branch of the government.
"His departure from JDF is owned by the legitimate benefits of more than 30,000 employees of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeals, Sandiganbayan, Court of Tax which was found and a trial case," said Judees.

There is a difference in DAP.
Amanda de Vera explained, the chairman of the Association of Court of Appeals believes that up to 80 percent of JDF is going to go to the benefits received by Top Rank Promotions.
Not like the DAP, the transfer of funds from a agency where it was allocated by the Congress is going to another agency which is one of the traits of the DAP that was declared by the Supreme Court that is against the Constitution.
The lawyer, Rene Dualos cila said, the chairman of Supreme Court lawyers that does not know that JDF is from the money coming from the cases and not in taxes.
Nene Rafael, chairman of the Manila Metropolitan Trial Court that believes that there is still no more than 1 percent of the Judiciary as the national budget which is composed of the Executive, that is why they are obliged to take off the small budget.
"Compared to the thousands of workers received from here on the millions received by the few from DAP," Rafael added.
JudeO also said that DAP and JDF, because the DAP are removed from the benefits of employees but to the country's benefits that are allocated for the benefits of the employees but to the very high fund of the Judiciary as a huge fund for the government employees.
They are not alone in this fight, because the government employees are also united in different branches of the government, Guerrero even explained.

Additional tax to the employees.
It is also in line with Judees and ConFootball Federation for Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of organization that does not care of Number 23-2014 in the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
It is connected to said memorandum to impose an tax on the employees of the government, that reached 30 to 32 percent, which was implemented since July 7.
The employees of the government are preparing to file a petition, including the employees of the Judiciary, to stop the implementation of the said memorandum in order to stop the implementation of the said memorandum, which according to them, they will strengthen their ranks.
The employees said, they are also included in the authorities going to the Sandiganbayan next Monday, July 28, day of the State of the Nation Address of President Aquino, to criticized the Aquino administration's harassment against the employees and other "against the citizens.
