
Bigger with 3 eggs, meow!

Slowly, the truth is slowly being shown on the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
There are more corrupt or plunderer, than three eggs in the opposition who are being harassed by those who are holding their posts.
Complaint of our Usahay, it is said that it has reached the destruction of peace with some of the broken lower ranks.
How are this true?
2 famous on the Wtch.
Some of the bosses that have been mentioned are famous as well.
"One, was given peace because of those from the Legislative Chamber, and one of them is given peace because of the Senate's from the Senate.
It is the child of tofu, I thought, you want to clean the House and Senate!
So that the two houses of congress will not be destroyed in the eyes of the citizens!
13-19.
We do not want to give up what the pet pigs are saying about 13 to 19 senators who are involved in different corruption.
Included in the senators are three not seated.
If there are three eggs that the senators want to remove from the Senate, who will be the most of the most corrupt senators who are the most corrupt and corrupt cops with three eggs?
Are they the one who wants to silence their pet dog?
200 senators.
In the legislative chamber, the corrupt and corrupt are also 200 congressmen, according to the Commission on Audit.
There are times that the COA spread.
But "those who are grown up and broken by the residents of the Senate and from Malacañang have already left their names in the reports of COA.
And they are also the ones who wants to be silent for the lower post?
Ready to be charged.
The residents of Malacanang said, they are ready to file a case against the mentioned allies who are included in the orders of Napoles or have their own post.
But it is suspicious that the people in Malacanang cannot see anything.
Unlike their actions against three eggs are the actions of their allies.
In every gathering, those from Malacanang have evidence against three eggs.
Now that their allies are anxious, there is nothing.
They just talk to them about the important programs of the government.
Or talking to them about this, for example, for the arrival of US President Barack Obama or about the illness like the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome).
When to be?
The citizens of the government are waiting, especially the Malacanang through the Department of Justice, against corrupt and corrupt congressmen who are allies of the palace.
But it is not just about P10 billion worth of Janet Lim-Napoles about the discussion here, Bro.
The 15 billion dollars should also be brought up at the 15 billion pesos worth of pork barrel scam.
If the controversy in ACEF is evil in defending PDAF and Malhmm, the pig that is an ally of Malacañang should be sent away.
Now, when Malacanang will start corruption and corruption, these pigs are widespread?
Prepare.
But despite the consequence of the cases involving senators and congressmen who are allies of Malacanang, it seems that there is a looming mind of the citizens here.
In the survey that is done about the possible senator that will come out for 2016, it is surprising that it is impossible for 24-senator "TG Guingona.
"That's the reason for him to act as if the three eggs are guilty.
This is being talkative, issued a report about three eggs even if the senators are not seeing and get carried out by other senators on the result of the investigation of his committee.
Hey, it's as if it is an indication not only for Senator Guingona but to the bark of those in the palace.
Challenge!
There will be a big lesson from the survey, Bro.
It is clear that the citizens want that it is not just for three senators who should be charged with corruption.
According to the committee of Guingona to be investigated about 9 to 16 senators who are included in the Napoles scam, and other scam, now that the public needs to be charged and they should also be charged.
If this desire of the citizens will be fulfilled, it might be up to Guingona.
Going crazy!
What was the latest news in the Senate?
We was hesitant to call the Senate investigation about the Napoles scam.
Reason of the inhumane who there, it is possible that there will be no more lesson for making the law about corruption and corruption.
"Is that really the reason? Or maybe the senators are afraid that they will be treated by Napoles.
Well, that is too much embarrassment.
Those who are investigating the corruption in PDAF and Malita are inmates of three eggs in corruption and corruption, and there are more big than three eggs.
It is really the child of tofu!
