The American soldier who is a suspect in the murder of the Filipino was given birth.

By P2,500.
October 13, 2014.

Amphibious Lship, Pelagile, wherein the US Navy said that the US Navy is saying that the US Navy does not want to surrender the said suspect in the local authorities in the local authorities.
The Supreme Court requested the Aquino administration to insist on the government of the US, especially in the US Navy, to surrender the American soldier suspect in killing a Filipino who is in custody.
"The government government needs to insist on the national and Criminal Court to the American soldier because he should not allow the country to leave the country and should immediately surrender him to the Filipino authorities for enough investigation and jail," Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
A Filipino transgender was found dead in Toyota Hilux, Olongapo City after he was last seen with a "foreigner," who was found out to be a US model, on Saturday, October 11.
The local police of the city launched an investigation, but according to reports, it was stopped by the US Navy to enter the warship which cannot anchor in the kingdom, Olongapo City.
The line of Land Corps is confirmed, based on the "Internal Navy having snacks," who was imprisoned in the warship of the US Navy, Pelagerba, who is currently being investigated by the US National Transformation Council (Service for the incident.
R and R of the soldier.
According to the witnesses, the victim entered a hotel, together with an American soldier who was known in a bar in Magsaysay Drive in the said city.
But after a few minutes, the foreigner came out from the hotel where a foreigner discovered the remains of the victim in the roof of the victim in the roof of the victim in Olongapo City where the American soldier was killed by the American soldier because of the man's gender.
Marine Corps are reported from the "2nd Infantry Battalion, 9th Marines" who is based in Camp Letriro, North Carolina, USA, the suspect, in the Philippines as part of the exercises of military under the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA).
Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman is worried that the justice caused by the VFA is possible to happen again because the Americans were raped and killed by the American soldiers because they entrust the culprits in the hands of the armed forces of the US.
"And especially now, under the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA), the gift of Noynoy (Aquino) to US President (Barack Obama) will be returned to US President (Barack Obama, that is why the military and human rights are widespread in the whole country," according to De Jesus.
Warship, do not leave.
The group of youth JIM is calling the government to stop the departure of the UPelagerness in the Philippines to be investigated and immediately arrest the American soldiers who are involved in killing.
"The American soldiers should not be allowed to escape and, the EDCA and all the operations of the US in the country should immediately stop," according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
It was held by Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, who said that the government should not lead to the government, especially by the Department of Foreign Affairs that can anchor in Olongapo while the case is being investigated.
For de Jesus, the bitter experience of the victim "Nicole" (not real name) should not be repeated again, when they were able to escape from the US Lance Corporal Daniel Smith even if he was convicted of rape last 2009.
"Hopefully, President Aquino will have your own journal and insist on facing the court of the Philippines, and let us not allow the VFA between our sovereignty," according to De Jesus.
Hly crime?
The Commission on Human Rights is united with the members of the sectors of LGBT to condemn the crime.
"We are calling for a thorough investigation and quick justice, and is being warned by the government (because we will be observant on the steps in order to cover up the truth of the case and give up the truth to the suspect who was identified as an American soldier," said Corayrayan, spokesperson of Masanbantayan.
Florez also said that the case of severe discrimination and bullying of members of LGBT, especially in the ranks of military used to be used in "culture of patriotism, and monggo."
"This will continue to be the lack of distress) as long as they are continuously tolerating the normal treatment of TTs.
It is estimated that up to 4,000 US Navy personnel are in the country because of the annual "PHIBLEX-Navy, from September 29 to October 10.
According to Gabriela, the R and R are usually happening in the bar and other similar places in Olongapo City, Zambales and Angeles City, Pampanga on these places, many women have to join prostitution because of poverty, the group said.
