Bait by Mayor Lim, rape case of Alcides.

The criticisms received by Manila Mayor Fred Lim reached us in relation to his decision to prohibit the bike for the main roads.
Our argument before, if the motorcycles are already prohibited, it should be through the "ordinance" and not in the "executive order, or it is time to pass by.
Mayor!
In the ordinance, make sure that it is better to study it carefully, there are public hearing that can help what the government will help with the affected citizens.
But Mayor Lim's behavior in the back of Mayor Lim is the stubbornness of one "Dawking Harry"!
But now that Lim is feeling that he will lose in the coming election, the poor people who are going to get closer to the mind of Lim are going to return to his mind, they, the poor, will go easily.
Which is why the former being raped by Dr Harry Roque, is now being given by motorcycles!
It's because before, it is prohibited for the stomach and the future of the poor are at stake, but now that his political life is at stake, huh!

If it will be used for politics or it is really justice for a victim, who is hidden under the name Mila, our point is why the RTC and DSWD is trying to hide the record of the case.
Five years have passed, no pity is allegedly raped by former Brgy. Chairman Oscar Malapitan and his uncle was raped before, which is the reason why the court received the case because he was not allowed by the DSWD.
According to Atty. Trixie Angeles Cruz, lawyer of the victim, the case of the said case should be released to investigate if it is true that there is a miracle!
The victim is pitiful and humiliated by the DSWD if it is true that he use the influence!
The question is, why is it that now, the residents of Caloocan are looking for a while, perhaps it is just right for the people from Caloocan to even ask the kind of character of the person that they will be when they will be a medical representative in congress!
This is also the right time that the Sandiganbayan cleared his name!
