Libra Girl: Mejares, Mikael Panganiban will reveal on YouTube!
"Thand's Day, we were surprised to share to the ATM card, -- Megan Megan who is laughing at the face of AiAi delas Alas!
By Jun Nardo, June 23, 2016 Miss World World Megan Young, Megan Young, is going to undergo a comedy back to the remake of Mark Herras, according to the lady Mark Herras in Conan, The Beauty with GMA News and Public Affairs.
But he said that he is not with Mark as a gay as a gay who is a gay, that's why he did not feel something from the first scene of the Kapuso actress as his lover.
"Fight IT.
"Like me, but a little bit more!

Ha ha ha ha! "According to him.
"But I will look at the development of the characters but to suspend, all kinds of goods here in front of myself.

"He / she was a comedy, a little bit for me because I can still do it," Megan Young.
But, in the movie Regal and AiAi delas Alas, the Our Mighty Corporation, she is very happy.
"Miss AiAi was extremely happy with her happiness," news of the beauty queen.
She said that AiAi was fighting for her, duh!
"You know," now, will not let it be bought! Okay! "He said.

How are working with AiAi delas Alas?
"
"That's the funny thing.

"Then, his speech, he is also different, he is different in English, he added.
Would she be sorry for AiAi?
"I felt sorry! Okay!" That's the poor, "said Miss AiAi, sorry, huh!
"In my opinion AiAi was in front of me even if she was just standing in the Her story," said Miss World.
AiAi delas Alas will be defeated.
What is happy with Megan, he learned a lot from the Miss World and "the support of GMA in the field and his career is to be fully approved by the Mikael (Daez), what is the support given to him?
"Well," Talk a lot, which has a great morale that has a great morale, "the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Together" he / she has a lot.
Aren't they talking about it that they live together in a bar in TV or movie?
"We of Ka Together" but there is still no Employment Opportunity or course of course it's not our decision, "he added.
They did not admit anything in the state of their relationship, their relationship continues to share the amount of dates in their trip abroad with the Kapuso actor, what has happened to them and they are in good relationship?
"With the US, thank you, thank Seal, thank you very much, which is why he's really being deceived.
Don't be ill-tempered at the X-26, he has 28.
"According to him, we was impressed by the amount that was to be for the US, because, he / she was not able to share with her, Are," I was able to share with some of the Our Lady OPLAN), which was the name of the Our Lady OPLAN), the one person.
"We, all of the Philippines, thank you, to the US. IT's for thank you to go back to the US up all-time," the Miss World's reason.
In Japan, Megan and Mikael Family and Singapore were last visited by her candidacy and YouTube Channel with Mikael Panganiban in their affection to each other.
"Wi'll be sent to the line, to share to the Special Action Force to share to the Thand's Day, to share to the song, Are," we was we, Are, of the camera.

Fight IT led to Together "we was impressed by the amount that was being called on YouTube that's why we was able to share," Meisy's explanation.
Anyway, this Sunday, Cubao were Premiere of Conan, The Beauty with Mark and Megan who are together with Mark and Mejares, Vangie Labangal, Jerald Napoles, Sheryai Bautista, Personal Economic Wonderland, Pepito and others.
