The chance is a waste.

Even though many agree with the cleaning of the Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections), it seems that there are some aspects of this who should clarify the commission to the public.
Those who are powerful and rich are really taking advantage of the law in relation to the party system which is made to give a chance for the poor sectors of society such as workers, farmers, professional, and other anomalies in the society but what happened is that they entered the system so their interest would be put in order.
This situation can be blamed, not only to those who are "pul-politicians and interest but to the masses, who are also repeating those useless leaders in Congress.
Instead of being elected by representatives in the legislative chamber's legislative chamber, it is true that their interest would increase their interest, they do not care who are the filipino masses.
There's even before, those who are not deserving to be like the relatives of Arroyo are not worthy of the right leader whose ability will be better because of poverty should not be elected because of poverty.
This is also the reason why now the groups who are truly taking action for the interest of the people like an example of the heat of the journalists or any Partylist.
Hopefully, the workers in the media will not be broken into this kind of situation from the media since this croismatic and the majority of our ranks will experience poverty because of the lack of wages and benefits that are usually done by those who are of the newspaper or media.
Whether it is right or wrong, this is pushing many of us to find a livelihood in other ways to find a livelihood in a different way, or not, the role of the media's owners is big or not, a big role for journalists on the future.
It is not just because as a vocation, it is possible that we should take advantage of those who violate the legislative chamber of journalists to give a voice in a sector even though the ability to express their mouth is funny when it comes to the abuse of their employers.
It is possible that through this, it will lessen if the abuse of our ranks will be lessened.
Aside from this, it cannot be denied that the masses will escape from the ranks of journalists during times of need, people believe the media than the government.
That's why I do not understand what kind of record is what the COMELEC is looking for when they refuse the approval of it as a legitimate party group.
The COMELEC wasted this opportunity.
