"The new SC suspension of the party, is in favor of the rich and powerful.

Mary Joy Viado.
Members of the Liberal Party (SC) criticized the new decision of the Supreme Court (SC) criticized the new decision of the Supreme Court (SC), who works not only from "marginalized" and "tanim-" sector of the society who can join the election of party-list (PL).
Aside from the legislative chamber's appointed party, the national and region groups may also join the election of PL and regions that even if they are not being used by crooks, according to the 70-page of the SC on the 19th of April.
It can also be joined in the PL elections even if there are big party, like Liberal Party and Liberal Party, through their "Midnight Cabinet."
"The regional anniversary of the PL. System is required to be under the PL) system to the" marginalized.
The Alyansang Makabayan expressed their decision, because he allegedly will give the rich and powerful politicians to get more positions in Congress.
"Mamondiong, in the end of the 2009-graft case versus the COMELEC (COMELEC (Comelec), of the party-list election, the SC), the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino-list representative, which is being rude to less than 100 party-list.
"It is okay for the marginalized.
The SC released the said decision as a response to the petition of the 54 in 193 which was initially announced by the Commission on Elections (Comelec) on the participation in the upcoming election.
On the effects of the new standard, the COMELEC is again reminding the hearing for the qualifications of 41 to identify if they may join in the coming election based on the new ruling of the SC.
The COMELEC is also scheduled to study the qualifications of left 13 to the filed PL, although these cannot be joined in the next election.
On the 13 magistrates of the SC, 10 people voted in favor of said decision, while the majority of Chief Justice Ma. Lourdes Sereno and Justice Bienvenido Reyes are not included in the majority.
"In the midst of the midst of the majority's decision, the influx of Tanim-Kidnapping Group (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Higher Education," Sereno, stated in his separate opinions.
Based on the rules of the COMELEC in implementing Republic Act 7941 or Partylist System Act of 1995, 20-year-old student of their positions in the Minority Floor of the Congress was allocated for the marginalized sectors such as farmers, fishermen, workers, youth, indigenous people, and women.
"The ruling of the ruling of the immune system, which can be owned by the party-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for.
"Harassment of the Priority Development Assistance Fund"
Meanwhile, the impending qualifications prevail in the Sangguniang Partylist and Pinutin and one member of Ng driver Alum and Bar) Partylist, who are both facing charges of violation of rules regarding the campaign season.
It was immediately released by the Sangguniang Kabataan and Meton for the said illegal poster billing, after receiving a message from COMELEC, Supreme Court Terry Ridon, in an interview.
"Comelec's being harassed in the Office of the Commission on Human Rights is being harassed in the commission of the elections in the Commission on Elections)," said Bai Ali Indye, leader of the youth Moro and Special Action ee of the Sangguniang Partylist.
The COMELEC is scheduled to decide on the said cases last April 16, but the official has not yet given the commission until present in the said day, a widespread protest was launched by the youth at the office of Comelec and different regions of the country.
"The Youth is, an intensive care of the political agenda to solution to the race we was we, Are, who is a model in Little the space we can make," said Candido.
