
Thursday, March 7, 2013.

Father.

Father who is loving (JO 2: 1-41) is your father good?

I was only once hit by my father when we were three siblings, and my youngest child is working in DILG.

Since then, he was also able to make it with her and she was not able to think that we were fighting that he has been fighting for a long time, but when I found out that I have already learned that it was too late, but when I arrived home with my father, I was able to see me at the side of the neck and he was the one who took him inside.

He just told me not to wake up with my father, "it was said that she did not scolded me with my father," Ang a loving father, "Ang a loving father," Ang a loving father, "Ang a loving father," Ang a loving father, "Ang a loving father."

My youngest child is the one who is with her father and asked to give him his father's father and she is not ordinary because his father is already dead when she inherited her eldest child.

When he saw the family in the party of the family because of the return of his son, he was sulking because he did not want to join the return of his brother, the attitude shown by his father, his decision to get his inheritance.

If we will use our imagination, it is possible that she is always at the dancers, which is why she is always waiting when her youngest child is far, and that is what she is waiting for her child to go back when she ran for the long time that she is waiting for a long time.

Confronted by the question of an oxygen tank that does not get mad when she did not go to him, but when we were not waiting for him, she was the one who jumped from him, and when we left her, she told her that she was not waiting for him, but when we left her, she asked him to jump off from the house.

There was a man who arrived and ordered the child to jump off.

Just one order and jumped out the child, how can we let the child be swayed by the child and let us believe that it is my father, he is a loving of God, he is a good and loving father.
