
Noise in the Senate, the moan.

The answer of Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago is a resolution against the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) between the Republic of the Philippines and the government of America.
Well, who will be happy with the answer of DND and DFA in the question of Senator Santiago who is the chairman of Foreign Affairs committee in the senate, "if there is a few foreigners, is America to defend us based on EDCA...?"
Nautal, supporters, the DFA and DND, they do not know if they are not sure!
Solution is to dismiss the EDCA!
Senator Ralph Recto boasted that they will give assistance to our teacher for about P1,500 every month but the preparation is for "chalite" or a reward of a letter in his booing.
The arrogance of Recto, okay, if the amount is for the cherness, what will be the help to the teachers that have low wages?
Because of the dirty governance, Dear Teacher Carmina could not use any part of P1,500 to buy softdrinks that is thirsty for softdrinks if you are anxious in the case "Navigation of public?" Hey, Senator Ralph Recto?
The Legislative Chamber attacked the Supreme Court of Butch "who is in mental budget of Malacañang, aside from the 300 pages in between Butch or ERRA, they will also ask for funds for the victims of Yolanda and LRT and LRT.
When it comes to the Senate, Senator Miriam has a noise again that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that the 2015 National Budget made by "Boy in" said that it is prohibited but it is said that it is a good thing, a teacher Butch?
Senator Chiz Escudero is also proud that because he questioned the initial funds for the rehabilitation of Leyte where the noise of the Senate and the moan of the Senate and the moan.
While the Congress and Senate are in chaos, why is the former senator Panfilo Lacson who sat as a construction in the construction of the rehabilitation czar.
I know that he knows the knot with the mountain in the mountains but it seems like nothing.
"Camply," what he needs is to be put in the pocket of Interior Secretary Mar Roxas in hearing aid of 2016 election?
