It continues to drop by the US in sovereignty and air of the Philippines, the PKP has been criticized in front of the discovery of the crashed drone of US.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 08, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) said that it was discovered yesterday by a crashed ship of the US near the coast of Masbate, "added that the US continues to raise the US in implementing the US to raise the US to raise them.

The fishermen were able to get the drone that was close to Sitti Tacloban, San Jacinto, Masbate, the mark of the drone that was used by the US Navy, as a drone that was used by the military by the US and have the ability to bring a bomb.

Like before, the AFP quickly defended the military of the US, by saying that it was not allowed to fly and fell on the ocean of the Philippines but even if there is no ongoing investigation, even before the military released a case against the military about the issue.

"Whatever their styles in the back of the offensive of the military by the US that were taken from Masbate, the fact that the US will not profit from the territory of the Philippines," said the US, which is the so-called military operations in the coast of the Philippines, "said PKP," said the military in order to conduct the operations held in the Philippines. "

"He was given permission by Benigno Aquino III, the price of the US, the operation of the US, the operation of the US," said PKP, "in an interview with foreign journalists last 2011, said that this is not favorable to the operation by foreign journalists last 2011, that it is as if this is a small amount of insult to the Philippines."

It is insisted by the KP, that the operations conducted by the military by the US is equivalent to the operations conducted by the military as an equivalent to the operations conducted by the Philippines in spite of the operation of the Philippines in spite the operations in spite of the incessant increase in the territory of the Philippines. "

It was pointed out by the KP, the police's reports on February 2, 2012, the military and the US were involved in the operation conducted in the Philippines when the said "Smart Araneta" in Parang, Jolo said to target those who were allegedly ordered by the terrorist leader. "

The PKP has also identified the incident last January 29, 2009, where a high-year-old military and police officer in the camp of 5011 PNP Provincial Disaster Group in Uson, Masbate, was burned and fell to the towns of Pio V Balakrishnan and Esperanza,.
