The statement on the mountain in the barangay was identified to have been identified to the mountain in the barangay back here, does Bobquin.
"They said that they are just an ordinary person but it's not good to look like that, there are all my children there in the place where we have talked to, but only four of us are going to return to another unit, right?
This is not enough for him to push through a Conejero, that's why I do not have to push through, that's why it's only here that I admire other people and other communication for those who want to live like this.
The reward to a new artist of the local artist of the Villa Family was released.
It was said that it has been an inspiration from Sherylou and many of this, it is not difficult to say, but it's not right, but it's not equal to those who have a hindrance to the tubes, that is why I will report it to me.
February started the payment for two hundred houses to the hut with the challenge to the name of three videos which was still in the place of wooden pincers which is good.
You will be a new generation of project.
We caught up with some residents.
Some houses are also busy selling and are not yet finished.
We can see each other again, we have seen each other; we have learned something good.
We are very noisy; we are close to people; we are already close to the people.
For those who have left the house for free, my mother-in-law's house is also in order to serve as communication but for being restless.
It is free to paint one thing so that it is not too long time because their place is clear as a painter, how much to protect the house that is happening here in the rain yes.
Ten.
Last Thursday Formal has been observing the low card of Ash!
So that there will be more who will still hurt other people.
They are planning to put it on duty.
It is also plans for the next sleep that some of the typhoons five in the area seem to be exported in the area as an additional wage to those who are not good in this kind of house that will arrive on Thursday third next month.
Our house is very happy about this and then.
Free.
It seems that there is really a little bit of little by all teenagers.
Color color.
