Editorously, not all want is right!
July 22, 2016.
91 percent are true are the rating of President Rodrigo Duterte right now, "he said," this is because of all the president of the Philippines.
Trust!

It is a very important thing for a government to prepare for his service to the people.
It is also true that the trust of the people will really be a good partner, so if this kind of relationship between the people and the government will continue, it can be said that the country will continue the interpretation of Davao City Representative Karlo City, that is why the people are happy with the interpretation of Davao City Representative Karlo City, that is why the people are happy with the interpretation of Davao City Representative Karlo City, that is why the people are happy with the interpretation of Davao City Representative Karlo City, that is why the people are happy with the interpretation of Davao City Representative Karlo City, that is why the people are happy in fulfilling his campaign against illegal drugs, in criminality and corruption.
Despite the criticisms and criticism on the left incidents of fighting against criminality and campaign against illegal drugs, they are now experiencing the survey and high trust of the people that they want what is happening because the people are disappointed with the bloody war against drugs.
Maybe the congressman's interpretation was right.

91 percent of Filipinos are happy in the fulfilment of President Duterte for his campaign period.
He said before that the campaign against crime and illegal drugs will become bloody, it is already happening despite the criticisms and criticisms, it seems that those are alarmed in the bloodshed of the blood and neglect of the called "epal."
If based on the survey, it looks like the people is very excited of a leader, right action, especially since there is a impression before during the previous administration of Aquino to get off and wait a sec. "
President Duterte also proved that he is also a hard fist that he liked the 16 million voters that's why he elected the candidate of PNoy who was called "epal."
But hopefully, in the fulfilment of President Duterte to his promises, in making things and programs he wants and applauding the people, hopefully he will be held accountable and what is wrong and what is wrong.

Like a father who loves her child, not all she wants is given because there are things that would not be good for the child.
The child might be angry that he did not give him what he wants but the time that her son will see is coming, especially in his growing up, that his father will be able to support the right instead of making what he wants.
