
5-year plan.

(This work was published on the issue of 29-30 in the Philippine Cologne last 26 year 2013.
Maroons Tucuran.
I remember the first time that I climbed the fourth floor of Vinzons, five years ago, and it was only the third year of June that time, it was still fresh - all people were still fresh, the people, and culture.
After afternoon classes in English 1, I was forcefully dragged by one of my classmates from a caliber Building going up, Vinzons, I did not know what to go to her mind and I think I did not know what to go to her mind and I think she did not know what to go to her mind and I think she did not know what to go to her mind and I think she did not know what to go to her mind and in her opinion, I finished, end up, I said to myself.
That is when my five-year-old stay was started, I was also able to pass through the writers, getting a lot, and afterwards, a huge checkpoint of the military on the dark road of Quezon City, was the one who passed through a huge checkpoint in Quezon City, the one to talk to a hiding payment from a safehouse.
Even if ever I have learned a lot of things - it is a habit to analyze the situation of the country, to make a habit out from the proposed budget of the country, the form of understanding among children who have written on jeepneys until it is scrutinizing the status of public hospitals.
In the span of five years, I witnessed how the arguments was always there, from the collision inside the academy, until he was known to have been able to talk to the factory of her panties and bra from the fugitives, Jovito Palparan in various stories, all sorts of memories.
Even if ever, I learned how to go down and fight back and fight back to the rally until I visit the US Secretary of State Hilary Clinton, I learned that the data of data will be more than the equivalent of agreement to the current system.
It has been five years passed, and I do not regret one day there, there is no equivalent to the knowledge brought to me by joining if even if it will be free, the memories of the places and people involved in different kinds of arguments.
Many of those that are at the end will have a different path that is currently being put now - with other countries, there are some who want to continue the fight with the masses, and of course, there are ways to choose a new path that will push me, and I am sure where it is going.
Many might happen inside a short time, but we should not just go against it in the future, let us be active in fulfilling the future, because it might be in the case that our most delicate, in the next five years will happen.
No offense to be known to Maysilo, and on his masterpieces.
