When he became a person.

John Toledo.
First, asking for your face, your hair is very short, the black eyes that you have a wide forehead, your thin lips, your neck, and your mole on the nape, all very weak.
After, my hands are traveling to your shoulders, to your hard bones in your chest, on the bones of your breast that can be seen on your chest, and on your hands like your chest, elegant, courageous, and hard while your whole body is gradually cut off.
The down from your severed head is slippery, without revenge on the dark walls to the depths of your whole, your hands are overflowing towards the hip until your thighs which will attract.
The flow of my hand down from your own knee and on your smooth knee which are filled with small legs are filled with two fingers to your feet with the length of your arms, and look at the fingers of the infant.
If you turn your back your back, the back of your back is that it is as if you were doused in coconut milk and coconut milk, you are a big manneatly folded.
I will give back my fingers going up to the very full of your whole, the stem is the one who gives his life when it is connected to the corners of the corners of your body when he has tons of your eyes due to the sleepiness experienced from your body.
In that way, it is a peaceful way to implement a peaceful, a peaceful.
Look at the floor and looking at the floor and looking at your body, you have nothing to be ashamed of about your body the word that I have wanted to say to the people that is why the Creator has also be lost.
My sharp gazes are set on the ceiling, the lifeless body of your body is laid down on the floor, I was about to lie down on your side and I can catch your hair on how one knee is alive?
I will be forced to wipe my palm in your chest, I am slowly getting out of your body until I feel your heat going to your lips, and on the moment of the touch, you will also cook my kisses.
We will take each other on that floor for a long time, I will ask that we are not going to be apart because you are the one who is attracted to people, lived in order to join the world of "unexpected words.
