
The cooperation of Needle is a message of the panel when NDFP will be held in the gathering and are fighting for peace in September 2, 2013.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.
September 1, 2013.
Disbursement Acceleration Program (NDFP Neediting in our panel when the caraving for peace on 2 SSeptember 2013 will be held manually.

The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) allowed the warm greetings of its cooperation to Kathers and Caravan for peace) from Quezon City Memorial to Plaza Miranda, PO2 September 2013.

We strongly supported the initiative of just an operation of a Filipino Worker (JRRMC) and other sentiments of peace in the whole country for an effective treatment of a fair and long-lasting peace.

Just a simple and long-lasting peace, just like what you declared, is in need of facing the veins of the 44-year-old conflict between the Philippines, this means that this is needed by our national freedom and sovereignty that this means the national military troops, military troops, military troops, military troops, military troops, and drones of the US.

The advancement of the filipino community is very violent, due to the anti-citizens and the anomalous policies of the regime, the crisis in politics brought to the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights where the Martial Law caused by the Oplan Galugad conducted in the Comprehensive Final Agreement (chickent-Human Rights (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (CAAP).

Duterte is open in the continuation of the peace talks with the Supreme Court in spite of the declaration of the regime's declaration that he will kill the peace talks by Joint Agreement on Human Rights) that aims to kill the recognition given by the Liberal Party which aims to end the agreement.

Duterte is firm for an intensive peace talks in the basis of the The Hala Jovinal Baja, of Joint Agreement on Human Rights), of the CAAP), of the CAAP) and other existing peace talks.

It is only right to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the The Hala Jovinal Baja, which is signed on 1 tablespoon of agreement that gave way to the same Liberal Party which gave way to the same Liberal Party and the constitutional process and the implementation of the force and the final goal of the forces.

Duterte stressed the release of 430 prisoners with political prisoners, including more than 100 members in the Philippine Amusement and NDFP members who are arrested and imprisoned by the government government officials who were arrested and imprisoned by the local government of Manila.

In the Philippines it was in the Philippines on July 2013, Ka Fidel Agcajada, vice chairman and Spokesperson of the Neediting of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement), the mayor, whose objective is to make sure that the true intention of President Aquino of Golovkin in relation to the peace talks in NDFP) is in the Philippines.

In the following days, Agcac will visit the consultant of Duterte who is in Camp Crame and a sign of tension in Bicutan.

We know that included in your campaign for a just and long peace talks is the call for the release of political prisoners and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and those who are in Mindanao, Visayas and the issues of the national mines that are in Baguio City.

We hope for the complete success of your creative initiative to make peace in the time of your Gathers, Caravan for the Peace Agreement (Caravan for the Peace Agreement (September 2013, expect and other sentiments of our cooperation and cooperation to our cooperation and cooperation in our country.

For a fair and long-lasting peace of the Filipino people!
