Law is useless.

The 10-year-old girl is sad about the hands of a private Butuan Doctors Hospital in Agusan del Norte.
He died after he did not accept him because of the lack of his parents about the money that the money paid and excuse the lack of emergency in his case.
Jawary "Yanna" Chan in the heart disease, diabetes and loneliness last July 16.
Yagit, San Francisco Doctors Hospital in Agusan del Sur, was transferred to San Francisco Doctors Hospital in Agusan del Sur but he was transferred, together with the two nurses in the ambulance, the medical certificate of ambulance, and a call from Butuan Doctors Hospital who have a tiny stuff.
It is here that the burden of the mother of Yulu, Salomda were worse when they entered, they were not able to enter because of 10,000 pesos, they will not be able to give up to 30,000 pesos worth of policy because the hospital is private.
The doctor ignored the call of the doctor from San Francisco and she didn't listen to her daughter, Ysrael, to accept her daughter and the start of her child which makes it hard to fill because there was no bank in the evening.
The mother of the child insisted that he will get money money and when he can get the money to pay, and when he was not able to lay down, the patient finally declined to tell him that the child's case was not emergency.
An hour or the 70 kilometer trip of the victims lost its meaning and they needed to run in Davao Hospital which is almost 300 kilometers away and out of 4-5 hours of travel.
Just on the road, Yugoslavia was passed away.
This is where we remember, the law which prohibits a doctor or hospital who refused a patient with no cowards.
Republic Act Number 8344 said that the start of 1997 is prohibited to collect payment before accepting the patient in the emergency case.
The hospital official will be jailed for 6 months, doctor or employee who will violate this and if rules of the hospital were brought with 4-6 years.
King-mother, in truth, there are many cases like this but most of the victims have no ability to file a case, especially when they have paid the trial, aside from the big expenses in the hearing and his lawyer who came from the Public Attorney's Office.
It seems that the disease of the government is severe and emergency in implementing this law.
