The data presented by the accusations of the haunting of Golovkin because of the peace talks.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.
May 3, 2013.

In the suspension of the data that happened in the meeting on February 25-26 at Amsterdam, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), chairman of the Philippine National Football Federation of OPAPP, Alexander Padilla, chairman of the president of the President, Edwin Lacierda.

In the morning of February 26, there is an expert in the dining table of the United States, 2013. IOS and the Pambansang Kamao declared the reform in the land, and the Pambansang Kamao has declared the reform the land, and the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, then left the room of the Gumba.

Ambassador Trisha Lundh, Rodiano also called on to talk to Secretary Ronald Lailbo, to talk with Secretary General Maria Sison to talk to the side of the NDFP members who may go back to their meeting with the writ of NDFP) to fix the general Dequia of NDFP).

However, Secretary Ronald Longon was said that he wants to bury his principal, when Ambassador Lundh said that she also wants to get rid of the Pambansang Kamao and TSETC), which was said to be a copy of the Supreme Court and Tzipi Lund h), which was said to be a copy of the Supreme Court and Trisha Mosley), that will be the dates of February 26, 2012.

There was no effect that happened about the peace talks about the peace talks as well, there was no conversation between the taking of a surprise attack on the way.

Contrary to the data, the Spokesperson of the President, Edwin Lacierda, Gonda said that the suspension of the peace talks will not be given to the provisions of the Enhanced Defense Agreement on Human Rights) that stated that he should give an award in the provisions of the NDFP members who should have given a direct notice of his term.
