"Love (very high school child), always has feelings.

By Marc Logan.
March 20, 2015.

"The fight of the youth and students are still not yet finished in the price hike which is being implemented in the increase in the increase in the price hike which continues to be expulsion.
The students strongly disagreed in the whole country in the past week that the youth showed their "unexpected agreement with one of the high level of bills in college and university.
In the opinion of RL-Education (R4E), there are 400 locations and college in the whole country will increase the toll fee, millions of students will increase in a difficult time or stop going to school because of the increase of bills in school.
Recently, there was another student who committed suicide because he could not pay for his own life because he could not pay his own life because he could not be able to pay his own life because he could not be able to give his own life to their studies.
Just like those who have been abducted by the University of the Philippines, two years have passed, Rosanna Roces is also a victim of "unexpected policy of the Aquino administration who has a huge policy and to make it to the private sector that will result to higher bills.
Meanwhile, in the previous meeting of the Board of Regulations of Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP), the scholar of the town was stopped to pass the thousands' tuition fee in PUP Diliman, not yet included here is the most low tuition in the entire country with P12 per hour.
President Emmanuel de Guzman said that the students who blocked the meeting with no high charge for PUP arrived but it was clear that there is no high charge for the senior High School which will be received by the senior high school which will be received by PUP in the next school year.
In the continuous implementation of the policy like the Education Act of 1982 and Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (EPD), the Commission on Higher Education (PRC) continues to suspend the Commission on Higher Education (PRC) in order to increase the price increase of bills because it is on the policy of the state of funds to increase the tuition and other bills.
Also experienced the suffering of students in state Universities (Colleges (COC) because of the Education Act of 1982, the power to decide on bills that have no appropriate consultation to the students.
Usually, inside the board of board, a student who is a student, who is the majority of the students who will be affected by the students who will be affected by the price, we should just think about what happened to PUP wherein we just think about what happened to PUP where the administration have no representative and those assigned by the government.
Due to the continuous increase of education, their children can no longer study for ordinary families who have desire to finish the value of education, even if we say that they are working students, it is still difficult because of the many and expensive bills.
In the continuous release of the policies of the Aquino administration to continue to collect payment for students and parents, there are youth who continue to fight and fight.
The youth launched a national agreement on the 25th of March. Thousands of students in the entire islands have launched to request for the education and justice and the decrease in the position of Noynoy Aquino due to his multiple sins and crime in the youth and the people.
In the series of action of the youth, there is also a violation of their democratic rights in a free speech, improvement of one and a peaceful gathering, up to more than 100 schools will continue to be held accountable for more than 100 schools.
In the University of Santo Tomas (UST), the administration formed a program against Plaza Mayor where the students of the firemen were planning to conduct a program in the toll fee, and there were also a trucks of students who are against the toll fee in UST).
In other university and college in the country, the violation of democratic rights in the National Capital College was continued to build a formal complaint in front of their Toyota Innova at Amao Road in the University of the Middle East, which is proven to have formally filed a formal complaint against the RL) in the Commission on Human Rights and Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Human Rights and Commission on Human Rights.
Filipino youth will never be defeated by their rights in education and under democratic rights but we should not just accept that education is a right to reach any citizens, rich or poor.
Continue to destroy the youth and people to insist on their rights for the quality and affordable education and hold the rules that are forcefully taken out by our rights to education.
