
Are you honorable?

There is one of those who have known that the book is entitled, ALL. NEED to know, you have learned when you are still young and one of those who taught us is telling the truth and here, most of our senators-judge in the removal of Chief Justice Renato Corona is based on the removal of Chief Justice Renato Corona.
Even if the majority admitted that the evidence set by the victim was weak, he was still not able to hide the truth with a billion account and peso account, he has not declared his SALN.
Many of the senators and judge are not convinced of the defense of Corona who was a huge amount of peso and peso account, and you did not declare a SALN in accordance with the Constitution.
And what you did not obedience to the Saligang Batas, he has no senator who said that Corona is guilty in the country and not for the issue, the issue is simple, and not the declaration of his money from the SALN.
But Corona is really real or true that his "excuse" is true that he is protected by a "non-governmental organization" in the law, because according to the explanation of the senator-judge, two are obvious in my mind.
The first is Senator Judge Ralph Recto's simple thing to Senator Judge Recto, it's just simple for Senator Judge Recto, that the evidence of the government should have a failure and he believes that an official of the government should have a failure so that you should not be declared especially by the Chairman of you.
That's why it is guilty that, if there are thousands of people, he might believe that Chief Justice or just like other officials did not really serious the SALN of them but to one Chief Justice, there is a need for a higher morale.
The mystery is for Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago as well as well as she confronted his name and for him not to be a member of Corona.
If Corona is a member of Corona, he should not have used it to him his dollar account like what many congressmen do not have their own names if they are not in the names of the people you trust.
For Miriam - according to Miriam - all of these are all of these because people of the prosecutor have their own wealth, no congressman or Senator will have no congressman or judge or judge Chief Justice or not even in the impeachment trial.
In my perspective, is it right that we lose the Barangay magistrate just because of his not declaration the SALN of his wealth, my answer is no.
But the question is, is it right to oust the Barangay magistrate because of his commentary on his SALN that is against the mandate of the Constitution, yes, he is guilty here.
But the more important question is that only Corona is the only one whom he knows - what he knows is true and truth that it is wrong for him to pass judgement for him but and the end of the Philippines, it is possible that we are wrong in searching for him, and the end of the Philippines - its morale really is wrong for us.
