The NPA rebels that is near - AFP.

Joy Cantos (Filipino Star Ngayon), PO 2 44; UPP-March 30, 2014 - 12: 00am.

Manila, Philippines - because there was a simultaneous fire in the arrest of the high leaders of the CPP-New People's Army, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) will be seen in the upcoming fall of rebel groups in the country.
This is the statement of AFP Chief of Staff Gen. Ricardo Bautista that the CPP-NPA rebels that should have been stopped by the CPP-NPA rebels that the war should be stopped and chosen a peace of salt after signing the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro (CAB).
According to Bautista, the NPA rebels were able to find the end of the latter Benito and Wilma Tiamzon, Top 1 and Top 2 Leaders' Summit.
The couple Tiamzon was arrested last March 22 in Auto, Cebu where they were caught with various explosives, guns and bullets, as well as two puppies and a cat.
Five days after the husband and wife were caught in the operation of the NBI and the intelligence operatives of the AFP in Caloocan City, the leader of the NPA in Southern Tagalog, Andrea Rosal, son of Gregorio "Ka Roger" Rosal, the deceased Spokesman of CPP-NPA last 2011.
According to Bautista, it is not easy for the damaged rebels because they are high powered weapons because of the movement.

Aside from this, the surrender of the NPA rebels, in the end is the day before yesterday that around 72 are wounded in Cagayan de Oro City.
According to Bautista, the AFP trusts that it will not last, peace and end of the NPA rebels like the desire of the administration of President Aquino will be achieved.
Bautista added that the NPA rebels who are living in exchange of war or for them can also think that the youth should also think that they should not join the said movement that does not inherit the said movement.
In the record of the AFP, the number of NPA rebels in its own territory in the country from the former newsreader, 80.
The AFP Chief is calling on the remaining rebels in the mountains to stop the armed fight and surrender to the government.
