Population is not the economy of the economy.

The World Bank said recently that the implementation of our economy was wrong for this person after it was discovered that the data they are reading is wrong.
It is out that the basis of their wrong case is the growing population of the Philippines and not our economy.
In this point of the World Bank, the Aquino administration should be prudent in the continuous abuse that the economy is growing.
It is clear not only to the people but to the foreign businessmen who have experienced said economic growth, 40 families who have control of the 76 percent of wealth of the country.
Because in this kind of wealth that they are tolerating this administration, more than 25 million to our countrymen are living on the P40 for one day.
Aside from being greedy for those who have received the family, the poverty of the people are made of stealing and taking advantage in the care of the "pul-politicians and high officials of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III.
Some of those who will lead by the Linmei are the Priority Development Assistance Fund which is better known in the foul smell of pork barrel and the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Aside from this, this is aside from the lot of money that has passed, which is why the high officials of the government and corporation have made a state of state.
I repeat, the worsening crisis in our country is the population and the pocket of the shameless "pul-politicians and capitalists have, not the economy of the country or the ordinary livelihood of Juan dela Cruz.

We should not forget the issue of PDAF even if the issue about DAP continues now is clear now that it is clear in all the lack of the righteous path of pork barrel because this is a clear temptation to make the cruelty of a "pul-politician.
The DAP on the other hand, we need to get into the other hand, we need to get into it even though they have given attention to the PDAF.
As they say, let us fix the case that we can fix now before we get another way to fix.

In this instance, Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago was right again when she said that the medical mission of the Iglesia ni Cristo recently did not mean that he loses his thousands of countrymen in Metro Manila, because Malacanang said, there was no trace of politics what the INC has done.
"Thea is very old, to the INC, to be a politician, thank you, becoming a politician, thank you, thank Are a," stated by Santiago.
There are those who said that this made a prosperous race that they've done is a statement of PNoy to fix their dealings with their members because they can handle Metro Manila.
