Frankly said it is good in the country to be with the list of those being investigated by the ICC?
By Ellen (Oct. 24, 2016) it cannot be said that President Duterte does not want to tell President Duterte that he may be sent to the International Criminal Court (ICC) for many killings that are happening in relation to his campaign against illegal drugs.
His ally, Representative Harry Roque said that he does not want to come from Senator.

Leila de Lima also said that he should not share his immunity for the Saligang Batas of the Philippines because he is not immune or protected from the incessant killing of the country now by the suspects in illegal drugs.
There are also a lot of columnist who graduated from the ICC's up to 3,000 were killed in the campaign of the Duterte administration against illegal drugs.
Last Thursday, the prosecutor of ICC was himself who expressed worry about what is happening in the Philippines and he said it is in accordance with their obligation in Rome Sumang, the agreement that is happening in the Philippines so they can decide on what will happen in the Philippines so they can decide on what would be their next step.
Benadda said, "I was worried about this killings and what is being said to the public by high officials of the government that the government and the civilians who worked with the people who were working with no strength."
Benexplained that killing that is not appropriate with the law will also be under the ICC if that is part of wide and planned attacks on the civilians, and that is part of the policy of the government.
Presidential communication Secretary Martin Andanar said that the President is open in any investigation.
Benz said that the Philippines is part of the ICC's which is why the country is part of the cases of "Ipit Gang which happened in the country or against the Filipino people from 1 November 2011, when the agreement in the Philippines became effective.
Benstressed that anyone in the Philippines will take care of anyone in the Philippines to attract the widespread violence which will be held at the ICC: "Let.

There were those who were talkative on ICC: The president of Suden, Kuya Germs', Bashr and the president of Kenya, UPP-Muzon.
Benz said that they will take a bath now in Uganda; the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Darna Lupa, Sudan, Kenya; Libya; Caano, Mali and Georgia.
They have already started to be exported in the situation in Afghanistan; Burce, and Cambodia, Colombia; Gabon; Guinea; Iraq, UK; Palestina, Nigeria and Ukraine.
Is it good for the Filipino people to join the Philippines on the list "that?
