Those who are hungry and suffering and beautiful surveys.

If there is still a survey which says the lives of Filipinos have become better, that is made by the disconcerting of the government.
One of the big lies "that should break and be returned to the surface of the said creatures.
What's needed to take care of the government is to address the needs of those who are hungry and poor people and not the owners of the heavens for the Philippines even if they are to hell.
Damage.
Extreme damage was reached by all people who were affected by the consecutive calamities in the Philippines that I love.
Last in the calamity, a week calamity has been happening now while we are still on a huge part of Mindanao and Visayas because of the low pressure area and of typhoon Agaton.
Prior to this are the calamities from the typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas, Errol ta in northern Luzon, Santi in Middle Luzon, earthquake in Bohol and Cebu and war in Zamboanga City.
All those who run in the evacuation centers are hungry and suffering from places of calamity, stay in places and a bad houses, land, and crops and many others.
Different colors.
Aside from the calamity, the weakness of the Lord, the weakness of the life made by the people is also there.
One of the last was the love of rice because of the corruption and corruption and the government that can stop it and give the production of food in the country, especially the rice.
There is still a lack of worry about all of these kinds of oil companies, electricity, the highway, train, LRT and MRT, water and other low products and services.
What is painful, is that, while money is earning a lot of money, this is a lot of money that can be shown on a long time because it is a business or an accomplice of the company for the people to make a lot of money.
Accusation against him.
They are worried about what's going to happen to destroy what needs to be a long term job and livelihood of millions of workers.
Who can live comfortably and normal in the five months of work and after this is being compared to a long time?
The person who has a actual interest in the factory, agriculture and services that have a low salary, those who have a low salary, those who are not being referred to by the Social Security System and PhilHealth, who are also not being referred to the said agency, including real PAG-IBIG.
Calamities in the government.
Still, the end of the people is already difficult, that the government is becoming a burden to them.
Aside from stealing a huge amount of income from the small income and salary of the citizens of tax and contribution to the SSS, PhilHealth and other agencies, children of tofu, there is still a lot of excessive increase in government officials, even in the said agency.
The Commission on Audit himself said that this is the reason why the huge bonus will be released, which is why the huge benefits received by them without a strong basis and in the middle of the poverty of the people they are monitoring.
COA also said that the lawmakers are also giving millions of pesos even in their travel and gimmicks inside and outside of the country.
It was also not removed but their pork barrel in the appearance of the P19 billion pesos for Local Government unit was even larger after the Supreme Court removed their Priority Development Assistance Fund.
It is also there in the handling of the 300 million Presidential Social Assistance Fund, P300.3800 billion pesos, which will be exuded from corruption.
It is also necessary for Ping Lacson to monitor the expected anomalies, even up to 300 billion pesos worth of cash fund from the typhoon and earthquake.
Month, week.
This will crush the will of many people, especially those affected by calamity.
Many of those who were devastated from the moon and years before these go back to normal lives.
For the millions of the coconut farmers who are only destroyed by typhoon Yolanda, they will reach seven years before they can harvest a new coconut plantation.
The fishermen were lucky to have been given free boat, motorcycle, caught and avoid binge from the sea and fish.
But many of them will get buried in debt so that they have to have this kind of products to go back to normal.
The farmers and fishermen are in the fishpond or Antiqua, there are many months that they need to complete the preparation of their land and planting before they gathered.
Back to survey.
Now do those inhumane who waste time to release a "beautiful scenery" of the citizens in the government and in their lives which is full of crisis.
Who will be blamed or will be cheated on, especially the people behind the surveys, "that?
