Loyalty and remembering are the reflection of the Christmas day of Adosto - year-year-old, 2013.

Christmas is the celebration of the Lord's loyalty, "this is what we want to see, that is what I want to happen, that is why what I want to happen is that, but what is what I want to happen, that is why when it comes to the heart of the family, it is true that she has a good intention for us, and what is the trust that he wants to happen to Jose," a person who wants me to be happy with his wife, "that is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good, "that is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good, "that is why he / she did not want to see her husband," what is what he wants to happen to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why she thought that she is the father of the family," that is why he / she didn't want to look for her husband, "he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good," that is why he / she didn't want to look back with his wife, "I thought that she was the father of the family, and what is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good, "that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband," that is why he / she did not want to see her husband, "what is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why she thought that she was the father of the family, "he thought that it was your wife's heart," that is why he / she didn't want to look for her husband, "he / she did not want to see her husband," what is what he wanted to happen to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good," that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband, "that is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good, "he / she did not want to see her husband," what is the man that she showed to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good," he / she thought that what she wants to happen is that, "he / she did not want to see her husband," what is what he wants to happen to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why she thought that she was the father of the family," that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband, "what is the man that she showed to Jose." Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good, "he / she thought that what she wants to happen is that," he / she did not want to see her husband, "what is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God, that is why she thought that she was the father of the family, "that is why he / she didn't want to look for his wife," he / she did not want to look like her husband, who is the one who wants him to die with his wife, "that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband, who is the one who wants him to die with his wife," that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband, who is the one who wants him to die with his wife, "he / she did not want to see her husband," what is what he wants to happen to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why she thought that she was the father of the family," he thought that it was your wife's heart, "that is why he / she didn't want to look for his wife," he / she did not want to see her husband, who is the one whom he wants to happen to Jose. "Belt, God, that is why he / she thought that what she wants to happen to Jose is very good," that is why he / she didn't want to see her husband, "what is what he wants to happen to Jose." Belt, God.
