That is a text message, let us not go on Sunday.
Very small; we are preparing to gather; we continue to gather in order to end our new knowledge in text.
In life because of the 16th television.
Where are you in the past few months; we can't do not let my eyes go to the Contact Policy ".
At least, I am still in Isabela; I am currently in Isabela when we continue to go to Manila; we have no signal that there is no signal from each of our communication with only one communication from the corner.
Okay, in the past few years, they are calling me and I have money to look at and I have money to talk to, so I am important to what to say in the 'ayes; we are not annoying or those who are annoying for you.
Yes, I want to send me to Isabela this morning because I am ready to gather; we are ready to gather tomorrow because of the mentioned story of Kuya Jun who is in a contest here in Valenzuela.
I do not want that, it is focused on where they will build.
The farmers were asked to be fired from what we will start, and then we will start going to Section, this is where I went to Manila, Cagayan this day and then.
Fuck, deport; my fruits such as banana.
Ah, yes.
Yes, Dr. Love, we are here in the implementation of our government if you still do not have a record that your rice will be recorded in the rice that you brought there by the rice that are being used.
I asked us to us in Isabela - to go to us in Isabela, because we end up because we are here in the last light.
The land is proud but here in the Bangkal, it is also clear that we learn how to learn from each other and after that, we are scattered here in the evening, we are talking to, "we have been talking to," we have been talking to.
Fuck, fog; and pitiful.
Covetous, fur.
Very small; we are also a lot of farmers, who are also farmers, who are both farmers, who are very small; unciation; Rayton; and Natanglement; both of my crops, will come up to their crops.
That's why there's a lot of people who are proud and deport; shrimp paste, fruits, fruits, and vegetables.
The disposal of those who are part of Agriculture here in the Norte are those who are about five percent of this because it's not slow to look for our farmers, and they might get tired only during the target of each enemy of each enemy, but the truth is, and not.
Covetous, fur, "that is really yes.
A high level of our countrymen is high, and then you will leave after using a lot of creative or a lot of doubt, those who have a lot of doubt, are proud of.
Yes because it is a child.
Thank you and that is the only time we had a communication and we have the same goal for us to have a lesson because I want to write.
Price.
"We are old here in Isabela, you think that there is Santa in your opinion that we reveal there and can even be heard by the year-year-year-law and then," Francis "
Something about the farmers.
What are the people, who are at the same age, are already at the same age; we are already at the same age; we are very derogatory so we have no mass at or a lot of people.
Where are you, "I am angry at the truth.
As a dog, if he does not cook an unusual taste, you will mention any unusual taste.
A fire here is like the rice field, what is in the house is Aziza in the house.
Like what Angelica said, that is why it's as if you're going crazy about it and then, you have not been doing it anymore even if it is not right for me, "Francis" that's why I have not been used to it so that we are going to be in front of it, that's why he / she came from the same age, which is being used to.
We have been used today in grade and then Erfe of us being used by wasps.
Covetous, deport; and here in this.
Because of where I am, I have not seen him like a Red Marinas well, and then that's the same way to look down.
What is the call here in the barangay?
Yes, the jeans.
Do you have something to do with that.
Very small; our assurance is the assurance that it is Mercado and we also have something to do with us, we have already known each other in our place.
But my social gatherings continue to serve our Agriculture (who, Ma'am, you will just be tall to me so that we can help us here because we are going to live here.
Fuck, fog; and pitiful.
You already have to play with a fire that can be seen by fire; he / she can be distressed as his assistant.
Yes, i'll wait, i'll take care; so thank you, thank you for the sake of the government Secretary and after they are after the farmers, it is still early because of the farmers if we love them.
You know it's good that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said, "Are, or a lot of Susan.
Of Isabela, because we are one of the yellow party that we can see, we can see each other; that's why the only reason for him to go home right now is that I will go home to me, I will just go home to me.
Reporting, Jasper.
Help those who help or help us.
Fittest; he / she grew up; "Francis Saranggani; and deport; this is a big honor that I have been saying here to us for us.
It turns out within the help of Annabelle, those who are going to implement the program are going to be forwarded to Japan, "Francis" to my face, "Francis" that has already been stated in Japan which has been said that Ma'am Pilar can have been saying.
That is where we responded and our coffee is cut off.
Covetous, deport; we are also a lot of seven who are seven-seven who say what they said.
"We are anxious; our godchildren, who are my godchildren there in the station and after tomorrow I am trying to bring me there to my aunt, I can really bring me on my aunt, that's why we can see what that is.
The eight-year-old maid was five.
Very short; he / she was also one liter of German mother Jojo Estrada, this is the high blood of Papa Joseph Estrada for his high blood pressure; he / she was very high-tempered; he / she grew up.
I have a project title, which is why in the school of Isabela, the farmers from their products have reached there, isn't I replaced it?
Very small; we are okay, okay, very pitiful; we can call us to our farmers, co-minded; and I said that you are going to ask our agreement that you are from form.
So much; the farmers are bitten, we bit how we see each other tomorrow and I will force to experience our own chapel, we are helped by us.
They left it so that they will renew the proper and in Holding because you have already accepted.
Isn't it right that my Father will taste me once.
I agree because that is sure that it is okay that Jobelle is okay.
