On board: The reports on the 116th meeting of horny.

Julian Bato.
In spite of the protest outside the Executive House last July 31, the UP Board of Regulations (LR) dismissed the recommendation of the Student Regent Neill, while he passed the Master Development Assistance (NT P) and was established by UP Prize Manila Reproductive Health Office (PHAPI).
There is no decrease in the tuition fee.
Pascual immediately dismissed the proposal of Maclon, which led to the tuition fee.
In the advice of Maceda, the tuition fee of UP can be brought back in 1989 the public character of the university which is also according to a study which was confiscated by Pascual in order to evaluate the mandate which is imposed in the university.
But Pascual insisted that Macolos should not have used his education in the issue of tuition because he made it in order to study the adversary of the university.
"What they can't understand is that even before the student of UP arrived, they were able to go to school because they love him," said Mackay.
The UP arrived for three times a tuition since he implemented the financial Assistance Program in 1989.
"Master Development Plan"
A boR passed the rules of Master Development Authority which is said to be used by the university to attract the path of land using its land.
Included in the regulations of P P is "Dugo-NUCD-1090451, which is ready to be sure in identifying the places of each UP unit where the university can earn.
Under the SONA, included in the rules of making "pul-NUCD-chan is included in the rules of making places in every UP units that can profit from a university.
"We are worried about what is stated in some standards of its standard that may be a form of the privatization of our university," said Mackay.
According to Macolos, one of the projects in these kinds of monasteries that we salute is a parking lot which will be built in the College of Science.
Aside from the lack of consultation to the community, there is also no Environment and social belief that the projects are under the legislative chamber.
"According to him, the passing of Mount Athos is what we are seeing the issues we see, but they went straight in making decisions," said Mackay.
Shower in the controversial hospital in PGH.
Meanwhile, boR is approved by the UP Manila (UPM PRE)) in the Philippine General Hospital (PGH) that will become the medical training center of UP ine, College of Nursing, and School for Health Organization.
From the donation of the couple Jorge's toll fee Ortoll fee Ortoll fee is built by the Pukan in the amount of P21 million to make the too much patient in PGH.
Although UP Diliman will be the one responsible in the operation of PCCO, price of private hospitals is set to be paid by patients for using facilities.
The motion of Staff Regis Anna Ramirez filed a motion to postpone the making of the decision regarding Captain RNC but ignored it with boR.
"
Maceda added that he should not use high bills because it is still under a public hospital.
