Malicboy, May 4, 2012.

They are choosing and is scrutinizing the relationship.

It is the duty of a meaningful group to distribute.

Each task, and success is increase.

More effective treatment to the success of 7 will never be able to do all your work in a project, so you can make sure that you can do something from others, and even in the right time, and even inside your own family, and always on your side, in any time and needs.

What is the meaning of a meaningful group?

In my grass hand; your own group, to be a leader that include yourself and close friends, there is a strong belief that is under unity and cooperation of each other, in order to fix the movement of each other for the success of all.

What is the meaning of a group?

It is the team of Social Work and making decisions that will be put in and make sure that there will be only one part of duty to succeed at each other and all of his part is making a limit to each other, but all are following the rules of the group, even if it is personal or a organization.

There is good and there is something bad.

The people you are with are two kinds of people who will succeed, or those who are going to succeed, you will fail.

There are those who enjoy and have disliked, the fares that you choose is in your power and this depends on your success and failure to your life and death.

You will be together with helping and when you are going to help you, it is not the barbells that you can ask, to ask for your attention because you can help all the real success if you have your own group that helps you.

Anyone can't be able to do each other, those who approach you are always going to help you, there is a group who can tell you, there are people who can tell you, there is a group who can tell you, you have a big help to hasten the improvement of your loyalty and the belief that you will be able to restore the strong relationship and support of this group.

The quality of your close friend or painful to become a father: A burden, will you be able to help or make it a burden?

Will he voluntarily go to work even if they do not ask him to ask him?

Are they trust?

Are they able to decide, criticizing, and attempted to berate people?

Do you know how to listen, unlike the person speaking and waiting for the details to explain?

Should they always be there if you need to request and convince her to often?

Do you have the ability and has responsibility in the task? Are you paying if there is a debt?

Is it worthy to be in front of those who are pointing at first, for his mother, to be cooked, instigation, and challenge?

Do you have the ability to secret the secret? And I am defending you in front of others when you are not in front?

Do you know how to accept defeat, to their weaknesses, of their mistakes?

Are they put their benefit from others? Do you like to ask and if you cannot accommodate it, you are at fault and do not care?

Will you ask and go to others during times of need, so there is no requested payment?

... there are still many other people like them, and if you are asleep, blind, and silent to the people around you, you will never create a meaningful group, you have a lot to endure and just accept your companion.

Start looking for people who can help you, when you also help others.

The true leader in any group, like the club, or organization, has a trust to lead to the heavens, they have the courage to give heavy fares, rather than a chicken, who is under the lower part, one who is under the lower part, one taste, and above.

Together "stand.

Together "

Together "Walis.
The ones being killed (ALL! - Rain and EVARA, clear, Incorporated, Dallas, Texas

Here is the right allies!

Are you a friend, do you have a doctor?

2 you have a friend, do you have a friend, education is intelligence.

3, do you have a lawyer? "Justice is peace.

Like 4, do you have a carefree?

5, do you have a mechanic relationship?

Are you a pastor, who is a pastor, faith and happiness.

7, do you have a friend like you?

If there are questions, there are answers.

1 doctor: The health is a treasure.

Giving care for the care of the body and things that you will take care of this is your best friend in medicine, a big percentage of your health, work, and family.

2 Maestries, education is intelligence.

Those who can give attention to those who are going to give information are the teachers, teachers, books, and watch) while having a life is continuing to study, to add their traits and to advise the ability.

3 Abogado / justice is peace.

The peace of your mind is being pushed, if you are not expecting the unexpected problems in your personal and your business, you are sure that you will not buy justice, you are ready for you to achieve justice, you should understand the law for your welfare.

4 caro'clock in the community convened.

He admires the things you do, you can do it and take a plan for the foundation, shopping of materials, fixing of materials, fixing of the community, and the cooperation of the progressive community in the time of personal needs.

5 mechanic: The vehicle is prosperity.

It is also being trained what the experts need in his field; such as shopping, computer, cellphones or personal utensils when you do not have to run to you for this, a lot of moments will be wasted and expenses that are not in the plan.

6 Pastor: A faith in happiness.

This becomes the spiritual people who can explain to you by your own IOS and not the religious groups that they say will be the payment of their minds and livelihood; to serve the needy and not for the continuing needs of the church.

7: You are the events and glory.

Find out and discover the depths of your self, because the kingdom of God is here, and waiting for you to wake up your own Ib, and we are just waiting for your own IOS and in our Great God.

Just (nosy hope for our Great principle of Buhay, 07 last December / 11).

Coming Together.
KeemTogether.
Working in Together.

CAYETANO, Education Director, Coling-Negro, New York, New York, New York, New York.

Consider this: If a person is not able to help, he / she is certain that he / she was able to follow.

In an organization, if it is not a solution, which of the two is that he does not need or be a problem if there is a problem that you need to give and make a relationship with one of each other, you will run over and have a relationship with one of each other and the success will be visited by you.

Others have their own meaningful group, you have a lot of opportunities and you need to succeed in life.

Jesse Guda.
City of Balanga, Bataan.
