Bomb around?

I am deeply wondering about the consecutive establishments in Mindanao, my suspicion is that this ghastly activity would be intentional, those committing them seem to have been saying, "stone-stone in heaven, will not be angry."
The weather is already long and there is no bombing in Mindanao, Malacañang said, at the end of the complicated fight and bombing there because of the peace talks with the rebels, there will be close to finalize the issue between the Marcos Aquino and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
Aside from the shooting of the troops when separated from the MILF, the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Izzy Canillo), the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (Desiree), no one is getting carried away and explosion but these past few days, and there, and there.
Many were killed who were unconscious and many were wounded after the latter was the camp of the soldier he got hit.
I have a strong suspicion that the consecutive shots on what the America says are related.
Believe and not for me, I have read a book about the role of Martial Law in making trouble so that they will remain a leader of all countries in our planet.
It was just recently, President Barack Obama spoke about the wide threat of Al Qaeda in America as proof that there was an advice from their embassy in the entire Middle East, which was followed by the advice of the ally countries like the Philippines to be careful of terrorism brought by Al Qaeda?
Pay attention and let us go back to the history of America when President Obama was not even trying to face the television and mass media before the death of the military by Al Qaeda who was the leader of Al Qaeda who has been over the threat of the new leader of Al Qaeda?
Does this mean that the group is cruel now than the time of Bin Laden?
What's worse, is that because they are allies of us, it is possible that we get involved in terrorism brought by Al Qaeda in a few days since then, and because Mindanao is a famous region with our Muslim brothers, it seems that they are given color to the threat of Holy Week!
It is good that our investigators and authorities in Mindanao are good, they are not riding the issue of terrorism although there are some individuals who are trying to put it in a part of the new terrorism.
As I have said, I have the right suspicion that the bombing in Mindanao will be a right reason to give clarity on the brain of the Americans in the issue of terrorism that is why America wants to dirty the Muslims in the eyes of the people of the world.
I might be wrong but my hunch is strong at me!
