Rice, oil, China, MNLF, CTECAAP?

What we have is a different country.
China forcefully took the Philippines, sea or island.
The citizens of the Moro National Liberation Front of Chairman Nur Misuari went wild.
But the Moro Islamic Liberation Front is feasting by the food that they will eat and will serve Japan and the special viand of Malaysia.
While the whole service that ordinary employees are paying taxes, the cheating of big corporals, businessmen and famous capitalists have in paying taxes.
Include the high-caliber lawyers, doctor, an accountant made a peso worth of pesos in the government.
Hohum, the BIR is doing their job.
The truth is, even the dead will also be investigated.
During the rainy season, they have not received any help.
Even if they have not seen him and felt the concern of President Benigno Aquino III.
If the mass was not able to make noise yet, he will not be forced to go out of his den, but he became rude to the leaders of the local government, but he is not an ally because he is not an ally.
Those from Ilocos Region, Zambales and Southern Luzon will not be able to fish in their former savings, "that is at Bajo de Masinloc or Panatag Shoal or Scarborough Shoal.
China is prohibited with no reaction or actions even if Noynoy is still surprised at Lorena Drilon, will he just laugh at him?
The robbery of pork barrel is revealed instead of charged and jailed those involved in stealing the money of the people under the leadership of Janet Lim-Napoles, there, they chose to make the case to cover the corruption in this Marcos regime.
Just in just two weeks of Napoles, the attention of the people, there, four times has increased the price of gasoline and similar products in the consecutive price hike of the basic products, especially rice, which reached 6 per kilo.
And with the problem in Zamboanga brought by the MNLF, it seems that Noynoy has hid in the eyes of the public, right, brother, but we can't see you or hear from the issues happening in the country.
As told by Marc Logan, as a result, "that's why it's easy to play with PS or 5 station that's why, it's easy to play with the real situation, 09051090451, and problems have been called by the eastern part of the eastern part of our country.
Mister President, if you are not able to solve the unfortunate country and our citizens who are trying to go through the straight path, "do the desire to go back to the straight path,"
