Vice President Leni Robredo (Enhanced Defense) June 30, 2016.
Leni Robredo was formally appointed as vice president this Thursday morning in Quezon City Executive House.
In his exclusive interview, this was done in front of Barangay Captain Ronaldo Coner of Brgy.
In his speech: My loved ones, there are moments in our life that was smaller than others when we met by Jesse.

When I saw each other for the first time, the face of our children was last time, we are here in a important chapter with me, I am here in a important chapter with you in this time.

Join me in my new journey if this moment is not just about me, this is a big blessing for us to serve as a big blessing for us to serve as a big blessing for us to serve as a big blessing for us to serve as a big blessing for our fellowmen, and we will not allow the opportunity to strengthen our fight.

Let us focus on this responsibility, with all being humble, gratitude, and hard work hard for the dreams of our President and our plans for the country to give true prosperity to our countrymen, especially those who will leave.

There are many things that have been started but many are still needed to meet, that is why we should not allow us to stop our unity, not only for our personal interests, not only for our personal interests, we are aware of this kind of service and we are aware of this kind of service and let us continue.

The door of the Tibagan, vice president is open to everyone - whatever status in life, belief, or parties will be the office that is always listening to the voices of the people.
We hope that the government and private sector are partners in change, for those who are in the bottom of the society that we should serve.
Our cooperation is our most effective capital, we have proven that whatever is lacking in our office is not a hindrance to help our countrymen, that is why we are ready to attend to our campaign, but because we are ready to attend to our campaign, it is as if we are ready to win in our campaign, but because we are ready to win the difficulty in our campaign.
For the first one hundred days, we plan to go to distant places and small barangays in the country, to know the things that you want to meet in our district in the province of Camarines Sur - where we have started to do to our district in the province of Camarines Sur - where we have started to do to our district in the province of Camarines Sur - where we have started to do to our district in the province of Camarines Sur - what we have started to do to our district in the province of Camarines Sur - what we have started to do is to find a good solution to poverty.

We are hoping that when we bring Vice President to your barangay, you will feel that the government is still alive, and when we are united, we will have an inspiration to start the progress of our country, and when we were united, we will have a lot of hope for all of you and to all of you and to live the Philippines.
