The man in Davao a while ago for Mindanao, who is known to have a friend, is known to have a friend after they were able to wear the guidance of Davao City Rodrigo Duterte.
These are just vacationing in the end of four four who are applying.
Just in just one week, he said there were recorded incidents here in Mindanao that you are not here in Davao City and you are not in that place, Neri, who are very lucky when he is in a signal.
Within two weeks, I went to the old student of a challenge in another place in Mindanao first to answer to him that I am not focusing on-six-six-six to finish Cotabato City and respect of father.
Before yesterday, a strong pull on the road was that he was not looking at the door in Mindanao, and then the bridge was cut off, it was only then that we talked with another one who talked with him while he was with his problem with Boracay.
To Emy Peter de los Reyes.
Here in the river, maybe you are lonely and you will find it hard to go there to the former.
You will do something.
A feast was made of stone, while the one is wounded in the chin earlier this morning between us here in the altar, that is why it is not believed that my blood will be used to me in a different kind of chance for the students to take care of whom they love.
The fact that I am texting is a bomb in a resort when there is no one.
You will be very weak.
You there in a debate with you quickly ran in that way.
Mikey and Jordan was stunned for a while ago, Pauleen, who was in the evening when ten years passed by her, according to Mindanao.
On Saturday, I am coffee in the corner here in Davao City but we are near the city tomorrow and the start of the convenience it's because of freedom.
They are saying that in Pandacan, they will surely pay if they will pay attention to continue the celebration.
Order.
By Marco.
April ten.
Answer.
You are horny.
There is something.
I still continue to remember because, right on the roof he is with, it will only be put to peace with anyone.
Earnest greetings to you.
Just in the house.
They now.
There.
They got together.
Really t-shirt.
So that you will be able to show up, each one is able to speak up.
Jessica said that it will be a puzzle for Davao City so that I will not be able to pursue his companions here in Davao City in relation to the body because they might come up with it.
Jessica will start a car tomorrow but it's just a long ago that I have been waiting for a long time there in Oton, that is okay to say that it is okay to tell the situation a good thing.
Jessica is right, that's why they really don't want her father to do that, in the interview.
He is telling the positive day because there are many people nowadays here in Davao City, like that for a long time, they should be careful so that they will probably be careful.
For sure those who go there are the security of those who pass by the foreigners of course, all of his stories in Davao City.
On the road, so you don't want the grandchildren of our countrymen to go out of the hands of our countrymen at the same side, the same with each other in the side of the head.
On February five, nothing is not in my work there in Cagayan de Oro that happened in Cotabato City Work at work in Mindanao.
Jessica said, the residents here, who are five years old, went home to the places I looked for, that is why there are still a lot of living here in the restaurant, that's why there's still a lot of living here in the restaurant, that's why there's still a lot of living in the restaurant, that's why there's still a lot of living in the restaurant, that's why there's still a lot of living in the restaurant, that is why they do not want to go to you in order to just go to school.
You are the people here or people who will give you to that, in the area, you will get tired of it in the market and terminal at evacuation centers and terminal of cookies, Bernadette while you are busy.
They are out of different units what he is saying, the political are really behind the things that happened, which is why they said in different parts of Davao, which is the first day in Cotabato, there is still no place there.
But
I have been the president for a while ago because everyone is not going out of a sound in Hoy.
This is what happened, beauty here and after that.
J Mar, you are with you there, second, and then.
It is possible that you are doing a few kilos of electric post here in the two, he said that this day, he / she said that this day will be resolved by a few minutes so that at work, she said to the parents a while ago you are on a lot of things.
