Erap is trying to stop the police of MPD-S5.

Last week, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada fired the ten rebels commanders of Manila Police District after they were caught with some times of gambling in their jurisdiction.
What the former president has been saying is true, "do not try to try me."
But it seems that the fiscal office is trying to make the word of the mayor because there are times when the police of the Manila Special Action Force (Special Action Force is the most lack of money for the investigation.
Isn't it right for the police and fiscal to fight against the crime because they are part of Pillar of Justice? But why did they do a crime that was not allowed to go to settle the personnel of the masses because they were allowed to be temporarily freed?
Because he is walking with the fiscal office or because he has money in the said office?, Mayor Estrada does not want that because what he wants is to lessen the crime in his jurisdiction if he cannot be removed.
It means, some fiscal will try to tell where Mayor Estrada is doing?
Don't because you might get hit.
One more tried to limit the patience of Mayor Erap to some personnel of MPD-Station 5 under the leadership of Supt. Orlando Mirando.
There was a report that five youth were arrested by the personnel of Mirando and accused snatchers, naturally, those who are holding their things, especially the cellphone were confiscated by those who were caught.
The said youth were imprisoned without cases in almost 12 hours.
It is natural because this is the plan of the police so that they will just recover, that is what Mayor Estrada does not want.
Erap does not want to have a police, the reason why he extended his fund so that somehow they will be able to give assistance to the police.
The police of MPD Station 5 released the youth they accused, but after the parents of the P60,000 pesos were released, the personnel did not know the money to go to the pockets, the chief did not know?
Then, this is still classes in the command responsibility.
If you think about it, you are accused the children of snatchers, but you themselves are the police who should be imprisoned because you are the robbers.
Mayor Estrada does not want to do anything under his leadership especially the poor.
