
"The national budget in 2015," pork barrel budget "

By P2,500.
August 9, 2014.

The legislative chamber is hearing the proposed national budget for the year 2015.
The Aquino administration is bombarded with criticism from different parts of the Aquino administration due to his allies in Congress or even the former president in the kind of Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP).
But this did not stop from the entry of pork barrel that resulted to the 2015 national budget.
On the challenges of P2.6 billion 2015, the budget of Development Coordinating Council (DBRP) in the House Committee on Appropriations in congress, critics noticed that the Supreme Court has been declared by the Supreme Court when it is against the Constitution.
According to Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, the Supreme Court has changed the implementation of government services in 2015, national budget to prevent the decision of the Supreme Court that prohibits the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) and DAP.
Town Muna Representative Neri Colmenares is asking the Department of Budget Secretary Florencio Abad for the proposed budget for the 2015.
"First, (Budget Sec. Florencio Abad admitted that they changed the Supreme Court due to the decision of the Supreme Court in relation to DAP, and in the 2015-2015 budget, Colmenares, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Abad said that the decision of the Supreme Court against DAP was no longer needed if the Congress was replaced by Congress.
"The 1987 Constitution, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, will serve the Supreme Court," according to Abad, "we did not change.
The proposed budget shown that the Aquino administration has not wanted to remove the pork barrel which is allegedly showing that President Aquino is supporting the pork barrel, according to Colmenares.
In the studies of the Sangguniang Liberal Party-list, an estimation of P58,000 pesos is estimated to 35.68 billion pesos in the appearance of the Special Action Force that is being swept up by 3,000.6-B) and Special Action Force that was held in 2015, budget.
Department of Budget Secretary Florencio Abad confirmed while the questions about him related to the 2015-budget budget in the Legislative Chamber, P2,500.
"Pork barrel, this is still the same time and in the so-time election budget, it is still there for a huge sum of income, according to Colmenares.
Colmenares explained, it seems that there will be two budget coming in 2015: The first, that the Congress is going to approve the Congress; and after half of the year, the budget is going to approve the president from the "savings."
The ten leading department for the budget of 2015: Education (35.1-B), Philippine Amusement and Highways (P59-B), agriculture and communication (P59-B), Rules and technology (P21.3-B), Blumentritt and technology (P250-B), Blumentritt and technology (P19,58-B).
No additional salary.
The officials of the government cannot be expecting any increase in their salary, according to Abad when he was asked by ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio.
"Salomy, isn't it that what we are going to do is that, we, we, we, we, we," according to Abad.
Abad explained, it is supposedly not finished for the additional salary done in the whole country, particularly those who were hit by typhoon Yolanda last year, Abad also worried that the pension increase will be achieved by the retired people if the salary of the employees will be achieved.
Women and youth outside the legislative chamber are accompanied by the said hearing for the 2015 national budget, they insisted that those who are involved in the pork barrel should be held accountable for the pork barrel.
"It means, one year-year-old system has been implemented," Tinio explained, because there should be a increase in the salary of employees under the Salazole, the SSL).
APD and Fernando Poe questioned the growth of the poor Filipinos despite being said to have been said to have caused the budget to increase the budget for P2.6-B last 2014 to 64.7-B in 2015.
I will buy my debt.
Gabriela Women's Liberal Party Rep. Lumakil in Ilagan and Colmenares is the new leader of the Philippines that is at 781,000 pesos per B, while the government has not received any benefits.
According to DByan, the total debt of the Philippines in the year 2015 was expected to be the total of the debt of the Philippines in the year 2015, this means a debt of P62,856 per Filipino in 1040965, which will become the population in the 2015 using the 119th Independence Day, according to the data of Sangguniang Kabataan.
"This means, even if Filipinos are not yet headed by now, there will be a debt of debt that will almost be 63,000 pesos in 2015," according to UN Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.
Also included in those who will get the budget of DBM for P2.6-T budget in 2015 will come from the collection of tax, non-tax worth of taxes, for example, and price increase in service like the hospitals and transportation such as Metro Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail Transit and Light Rail
Meanwhile, it will remain in the control of Malacanang the huge sum of the new version of the presidential pork barrel.
