Child, a puppy to choosing Chief Justice.

There is a guarantee that it could not push through for choosing the new Chief Justice in exchange of ex-CJ Renato Corona.
But of course, the decision of the Supreme Court that there is only one who will come from the Congress who will come from the Congress which will be the sake of the applicants or candidates for the president of the Philippines that will be deployed in the president of the Philippines, which is why they will be deployed in the president of the Philippines.
The decision of the Court is wrong for the former work that one is from the House of Representatives and one of the Senate as a member of JBC.
In the end, Representative Edcel Lagman and Senator Chiz Escudero are part of it.
But because of the decision of the court, Senator Chiz came back down and only Representative Edcel Lagman was left behind.
The Senate.
Because of the incident, the Senate complained and said that the decision of the Court is against the Constitution.
We do not know if the court was shocked with the complaint of the Senate that is why they set a thorough investigation on the decision and will come from the Senate to explain that the separate representatives of the Chamber and the Senate have a need to explain.
The Senate also said that.
Prior to this, JBC said that DOJ Secretary Leila de Lima will voluntarily resign from JBC as a show of delicadeza because he was included in the nominated ee in order to become CJ.
De Lima also showed his desire to become CJ.
There was even a number of comments against de Lima as the nominated ee or applicants for the pending case of barment against him.
He was charged with barism or taking a lawyer because of his behavior who did not follow the decision of the Court in the midst of the decision of Miss Gloria to go out of the country in order to have a treatment on his illness to others.
We don't know what will be the decision of the Court after all of these.
No.
Here are the ingredients in choosing the new CJ.
Sen. Chiz said that it's as if there are no more applicants who are going to become CJ.
Although everyone is qualified to undergo an interview, there are not those who have tons of B or K to become a new CJ to what Senator Chiz said that they will not be ignored.
Especially if it comes to President Noynoy, he is impressed by this.
Because Senator Chiz's hunch is strong, you can remember the May B candidate of Senator Chiz then as the Vice President?
Vice President Jejomar Binay "that's the same thing that others thought, that Binay has a convulsion where that is Binay.
And he won against the unlucky DOTC Secretary Mar Roxas who is the enemy of Binay.
What we don't know is that Senator Chiz is still going to say that the applicants have been saying that the applicants who will get along with CJ will still come true.
"Isn't it, Senator Miriam?
Temporarily Chief Justice.
What Senator Chiz said might be true that if there is Chief Justice now, it is only temporary.
It's as if PNoy will be deployed in CJ but just to fulfill what the law sets.
It is said that it would be easy if you will come from the business associate of the court, the rape of CJ to those who chose to be the eldest of the position or the most part of all there, it's okay now.
The problem is there is politics or mixed with politics, which is old and before the mind of the magistrates there.
It's because ex-President Fidel Ramos is seated there and there are also those who asked Miss Gloria and PNoy to talk about it because there might be a Labo-Labo and a fight.
Judge.
Child, a puppy.
But what we are talking about is if there will be a puppy of a puppy and a child system with CJ and this is what they are fighting about.
Some say that this is the reason for the court to the two representatives of the Congress.
This is also the reason why some senators and congressmen complain.
What if the child is going to come from the Palace and a puppy to the Palace?
There will be more conflict.
Because the people of the Congress does not want, especially the Senate to break the nose of the palace.
The CJ is CJ.
OTIDTF!
What if PNoy has his own Pili who is not in the list of JBC and the elected associate of the Court?
Some say that it is acceptable because it has happened many times.
Will PNoy be a child or a puppy of PNoy?
After the act.
For us, the CJ is not right to be a child or a puppy of the Saligang Batas and he will follow the Constitution which is said to have been separated and equal in power is the Judiciary, Lehishan and Executive.
The new CJ is supposed to have a check in order to have a check in the abuse of power from said three branches of the government.
