Chavez Orena Drilon.

All honest statement of the life of Hugo Chavez, anti-graft President of Colombia, who died last March 5, is carrying a tight relationship with the poor of his country.
He came from their ranks, first of all, with the ranks of poor people in the combat that happened, he was composed of a dark kind of skin which is only open to the military which is the only path to people like him towards education and somehow progress.
He was known in the office that he led in 1992 against the government of following the orders of the International Monetary macaques, he said in the television that they will not achieve their goal - it is the right time for the right time.
He won as president in the elections that 1998, thank you for the support of most of the poor, despite this of the right defamation of those who have taken the Philippines in 1998 who introduced himself from the Philippines in 1998 who introduced himself from the Philippines in 1998.
Before this, the model of democracy as the model of democracy in Latin America, which is full of development, at first glance is a surprise for those who are not sure of the headache to the policies of the poor.
Immediately, he is preparing for the change in the Constitution of Colombia last 1999, the rights of the indigenous people and women and the nature, the President is right to remove the president through negative or alibis.
After this, the profit from the big corporation is lowered, that more than Saudi Arabia, which is more than Saudi Arabia, made up to 70 percent by the corporation, which led to 100 percent, the former 1 percent payment for a special oil in his country.
He has passed the law that determines lands but is not being sold, this is different for those who have no land, while the only land is being left in their nails and feet.
Because of his reforms, he would like to avoid the wealth and power of the rules, he was able to leave last April 2002, he was able to escape from Mirafloat, Malacañang, but he quickly attacked his return to his position but there was a mutiny.
Instead of putting on a mutiny, Chavez even became brave to the support of the masses, he said, he lost his own life for the poor, which is why for their sake of his welfare, especially that he is preparing and shook because of the amount of bullying of the masses.
It was December 2002, the corporation of the oil that was owned by the government of Venezuela will rise, "said that the US Secretary of State Henry KFRG that was being endorsed by US Secretary of State Warriors to overthrow Salvador Alico, and this is the goal of protest against Chavez.
In searching for a strong strength, he saw a poor mother who can take revenge on her at home. "Look at what I used in his bed, and then on the table, then the table is over, but do not give up, but do not surrender."
In the year 2006, Chavez was made a scene from General Assembly in the United Nations in the United Nations, he called "Dulyade" a businessman at the drama and spicy words, he said that he was wearing a businessman's fur.
The scene is popular with news, because of what he said, but also because of what he said, it is not for him to hear and fervent speech, not only because they are looking for his courage, but because they are looking for his bravery, that is needed in that kind of presentation.
His enemies are revealing the true colors of the attack against him, Colonel Roadmin son, an American, to kill him, since he said he is accused of the US who wants him to be killed and his race is no longer effective.
In his passing away, some awards have been funny, because the data of his countrymen is funny, how can he improve the status of his countrymen for the concrete development being mentioned, not just an intensive act of Graft domestic helper, not only an excuse to give alms from the government.
But Chavez was not able to convince the form of the organization of the poor and participation in the leaders of the government that he was recognized in the rules of the government that was known in the television which has no time, no movement and seems to have no flow.
During the time of the leaders that as if only a symbol, IMF and World Health is controlled by their own stand and thinking, with his own stand and thinking, while there are President who are addicted to computers games and the vice man, he became busy with integrity and idea.
It can be said that the citizens of Colombia were able to carry out and have received a huge amount of harvest from the death of Chavez, the barism that they saved up to further pursue the challenge that they have saved and put a bigger success.
It is sad that Chavez was passing away, we are being able to pay attention, not losing brakes, but also in the hopes to encourage, that there are more people like him that will appear in the continued fighting of the masses.
