He should be forced to force Secretary Leila de Lima that there have been list of officials of the government that will benefit from Corporation according to the vacation of Jumuad.
We can read here on the dried coconut wine, which is very entertained by the dwarf, which is why he was able to catch up with the Supreme Court.
Adelinquent one, I said, that in one morning, we should find a lot of thanks for me so that I am the only one to us, "a car when I talk to us.
Peter Mariano.
He was not able to finish the president's president who just kept on drinking Drilon.
What is your standing standing here in the cbo here in our conversation, I should not be able to talk to Diliman, because sometimes, we should have been waiting for the time of ManduMoore, Summit in Binangonan.
"I am in that situation for him to sleep, Teresa, I sure that he is going anywhere.
It has a human right to know that he has a cancer that we are always in.
A few-month-old child was finished.
This is also too much traffic in the Supreme Court.
That is also on the other hand that was included in the other cellphone at the Greening Program (that, in the edge of the Greening Program (Tantangan; this is Chris Algieri, which is the lower part of Chris Algieri.
Which is needed to be known by the third.
Ah, there is an eye of our sea but Zailon and Two four have been given to each other in front of that.
"I love that," I am saying that we are five years old.
Covetous, deport; so that they can go to school; he / she got married.
Probably the truth.
The case of April that is being hit by depression in this kind of depression.
That's why it's a reason why the training of six-six million pesos is that, on the outside, he / she was saying that he / she was talking to yourself, that's why he / she didn't see anything, that's why he / she didn't see anything, that's why he / she didn't see each other, that's why he / she didn't see each other, which is the reason why he / she didn't see each other, which is the reason why he / she didn't see the same reason.
Why does it not want to go out to one's own, because first, there are those who are involved in the party that are being involved in the party, whose legs are affected.
For the second time, the names were strolling at five years.
The third was really the corner of the Supreme Court Justice, what his friend said to the Fort gun in S / she said that all the businesses of those who are living with the telephone; we were all about to get to know the telephone; we will just be able to know the telephone; we will just be able to know the phone, to be able to look at the telephone.
This kind of conference, the hardship was five million.
I know if Janet Lim was not able to go to the public to whom he applied for the court third in the afternoon.
The court said to all of us.
To know the truth that the truth is about to talk about the mistake and went back to Mena, then it's because if there is something to laugh there.
He was speechless.
You are riding a motorcycle or will be promised by the footage, it will be promised by the CCTV who will give us any investigation that is why they already know that there are officials that are happening there.
Isn't it that you have something to do even with the principle that is called Malabar spinach despite of course, it is not right if a person is not really there.
What is it?
We are concerned; we are going to mention that they are not doing something like that, in the part that we have passed, I do not have any mistake to let me look at me again, that is why it has been long for him in Cubao.
It is not yet allowed to join the mother of Mama, why is it like a t-V or the people know how they are.
When it comes to Park to public service, it is not a public service that's why it's not a public service; we don't want public line to not be defeated, but now you are sitting on the final public tonight.
"Cup International Space Station is appropriate; we know that we know what is important to what we are saying, what we are saying is what we say to him, which is why we already talked to him by the constitution that we have written to him / her.
It's the time he fried and explained that we also explain to the-time favorite award which was called as a two-year-old when he said that he has a list of Fish Port.
I just want to know you.
Voted in.
As a petition, you know how you are waiting.
Agra.
Do you believe in what I have said yes to the letter that he is renting, which is being harassed by the Davies, which is part of the ocean near the sea of Two P) that will be held here in the sea of Two P-M for us to sit on the sea.
"You are receiving the room of what you are doing to, but I know he is a good lawyer in Split if he suddenly take it back then after he suddenly ran after the words, he / she wasn't able to take back then after he suddenly went after the words, he / she wasn't able to go after the word; he / she didn't go back to you; he / she suddenly came back to you.
The older sister of diabetes, a reserved reward for this.
That's why it's just a look like me, who is also the older brother of our fellow countrymen who are angry at the senate, they might even be mad at the senate so that he might be a video of anyone who are in front of the public in front of the public?
Very small; we were able to go back to our father that we are going to go back to each other than two hundred twenty four senators who have been busy with only two hundred twenty-four senators, that's why the power of this is too much, that's why it's too young that you will not go to the Star Ngayon that you will not go.
You are too much there.
He added that he knows that you are going to do with me, then his lawyers are over to know that he / she's the one with his companions who would get to know that he / she gets to know that you are going to meet someone once said by the people.
We do not cause trouble because there will be trouble inside the Congress which we are applying for in order.
Thank you very much to his wife and to sleep in front of me, are we going to talk to me, we are not talking to the list; we are not going to pay the list because it's not right now that the list of the entire body should be used to buy Tita Rema that's why I am the one who answered yes.
I will ensure that he is the one who said that he shouldn't force to force.
Maybe it would not be for a family for us to not just give you it clear in the head but you still feel butterflies and someone gets cut off in a noodle house.
Yes, how are you Ka Roger, who are the enemies of the government, Labo is shy and careful about mistakes.
It might help Secretary buy what you should have.
Before anyone can give it so that his name will not be destroyed.
But it is not the price of them that should be remembered.
I do not even know that I am not in my own siblings.
If you don't have a sibling in the list, they might immediately be able to act quickly at four o'clock in the list.
I just have to repeat, we do not have a problem if I really say that Sevilla answered, I should not allow them to answer.
But we need to save everything that I get married, right, "the Formal has been erased.
There was a chance to end Secretary buy a big chance and that I will again say again.
It is proven that they should be bo.
In effort to clean the caretaker of that is the government.
What we did to our fellow countrymen is that they have been caught for five years.
Do not allow it to be an insane man.
Be wise.
Let us see him.
Be observant.
Matanao, Ipit Gang, fur.
Ah, isn't it?
Ah, that.
Let us not save if we become a hero.
Who left him several times even if you are just in English, how can you believe in thinking about it.
But he will end up in my grades here, maybe he doesn't have to go to school; he should still do anything, he should not wait for his Uncle Mon.
Who told me that he is the only one who told me.
