Because of rape, diplomacy were encouraged by Gabriela to be filed by the DFA.

Militant groups also appealed to the Aquino administration to do everything so that the rape suspect and the passing diplomat, Erick Schks, will be under the justice of the country.
One of the things he can do is to file a case against the government of his father because of his refusal to revoke the immunity of Schweighart and immediate release of the suspect in the country.
"Instead of being sure of the welfare of our countrymen, it became a way for the rapist, Schcks," said Jimboy Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela.
Salvador explained, that if the Aquino administration can file diplomatic protest against North Korea, China, and others, it will be easy to file a fight against his father.
The problem, according to him, is that, it seems that the Aquino administration was forced to rape the 19-year-old Filipina, "Pamurayan."
Gabriela who is worried that up to now there is still no statement from Malacañang and President Benigno Aquino III about the case.
According to the DFA, it was stated in the VienConvention on International Space Station, one of the pirates of the Philippines, that the foreign diplomacy should not be given to them.
"I did not make sure that they get faster to escape.
Meanwhile, it seems that the government's departure from the country was further strengthened after the government of his father refused to revoke his immunity for him to declare the Department of Foreign Affairs that was declared by the Department of Foreign Affairs that was declared by the Department of Foreign Affairs that was declared by the Department of Foreign Affairs that was declared.
Senator Miro Miriam Defensor-Santiago also made the step as the stubbornness led by his father as the "friendly" against the country.
The prevalence of individuals or diplomat, which is declared not accepted in a country, according to Article 9 of Vienrollees, this may be passed on the diplomat that could not be taken to the laws of the country they visit.
According to Salvador, the departure of Scholastica, in the country was further strengthened after he was declared by the DFA.
Salvador said, they would like to call the passing of Ambassador Carlos Moreno because of his "helping" to escape the diplomat and showing any immunity to the court.
Moreno allegedly saw Schweighart from the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) and helped them to go out of the country.
According to Danielito Jimenez, lawyer of Madela, it can be faster to tell the complaints if it was proven that the Philippines and his father had a text message.
"Apolento."
According to Gabriela Women's Liberal Party Representative Lumakil in Ilagan, it seemed like Scholastica, the DFA, led to prove the diplomacy of Schweighart.
Ilagan City added that the embassy of his own father is the right to declare an immunity for the said diplomat because it is on them to be the "Tulay ng Pangulo" and not in the DFA.
"If our DFA himself became the" diologists, "he declared that it is not good to look at because we are not included in our countrymen who need justice," according to the congressman.
It was just about to be a part of staff Erick Shcks and not to be able to join or ambassador, which is why Gabriela who was hit by the suspect who got into an accident.
It is said that it is just right to return to the VienConvention Center and other agreement that have been hit on the interest of the countries, it is better to have reservations with the country, especially when it comes to heinous crimes such as rape and drugs.
In the chance that the government is running out of cruelty to Schweighart, statement of Salvador, the group will be forced to raise the complaint to the United Nations and the international community.
"If it is true that Shcks and contagious for two sides of what happened, is it not enough for a day to court to prove the level of his vice-innocent?" Asked Ilagan.
