
DepEd is also ready for the start of class?

The Department of Education are very ready in the opening of classes this June 2 which is estimated to be around 23 million pesos in the school year Year.
Even the Philippine National Police also expressed their readiness.
In fact, they are on alert in just one week before the class starts.
In a long time, it is good to listen to this statement because the two agencies are always saying this every time the opening of classes is approaching.
But why on the first day of school, the parents are facing a lot of problems and one of these are the bills?
Anthem, "what could not be able to enroll for children is not paid when they have not paid their past debt such as payment for security guard, red attack, Pharisees and various souvenirs for teachers, especially those in public school.
We might just be deceived by the government, because they are saying that the student will not pay anything if they are able to pay for it.
There are still incidents where the teachers will sell the teachers from their parents while they are able to enroll for students, and when the parents cannot buy, they make sure not to buy.
Why is there a need to say that the parents don't pay anything anymore, why is DepEd or Malacanang not to keep quiet about the bills so that there will be no problem and the parents cannot complain?
Anyway, you are going to school to send a child whose only money is money, and it is only his child's money, and because the mother is not carrying money, he will go home without able to enroll for their child.
Hopefully, DepEd will change their rotten system and there for the teachers, hopefully you should not be arrogant about the parents and students who will take advantage of the enrollment.
Thank you, extend your patience, sir, your patience if this kind of classes will not be afraid to you, especially those in elementary school.
On the part of the PNP, they are also saying they are ready, but why in the school year, there are a lot of crimes happening, especially the incident of snatching, a cellphone and holdup, especially in the university hall.
You will just see our police in the morning on the first day of school, but when it comes to noon, they are still missing, it is just all press of Malacañang and DepEd to stop just to just keep quiet.
