It is fair to be recognized!
By Rey Maryo, August 15, 2016.
In the right direction, the continuation of the agreement was left between the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the government - a very beautiful start of the Duterte administration for the launched of the Implementing Rules of Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front in Malaysia.
One of the most critical part is the Implementing Rules of Bangsamoro peace Expressway) and this will be known what will be done and if it is acceptable to each camp in the agreement.
The Bangsamoro Basic Law is separated from a race which is separated from the colonization and exploitation of this, it is very difficult to make him know the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL), which is why it cannot be denied that any member of former President Noynoy "PNoy" Aquino could not be denied to fulfill the first step towards the desired peace in Mindanao.
The hundreds made by the administration of PNoy were not easy, before the BBL was completed, how could they convince the leaders of the MILF; how the criticisms were released in the middle of the Mamasapano massacre.
PNoy showed through the BBL is having hope to fulfill peace and prosperity in Mindanao if one will help each other, like what the government did.
Trust is the capital of PNoy's administration to the MILF, which is why we've reached this part which is why we should also thank President Rodrigo Duterte because the hanging issue or agreement continued.
Because of this trust, the current administration has not had a hard time to reach the peace talks and serving as a strong foundation when launched by the Implementing Rules and placed under the fulfilment of Malaysia.
It reached 17 years of negotiation before the government and MILF had an agreement that's why it cannot believe that PNoy can do this short time the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro (CAB) last March 27, 2014.
Instead of defamation and criticisms, it is clear that those who are like former Presidential Adosto will be recognized for those who are similar to the former Presidential Adosto (Peace Process Sec. Miriam Defensor-Ferrer and other officials, because if the names of these people have not been discussed, the current administration might have no peace talks in Malaysia.
