Balarz issued a policy for the implementation of the project that was washed away by the projects which were poisoned.

June 19, 2016.

Manila, Philippines - June 19 -- it should be taken advantage by those going home overseas Filipino Workers who are going to take advantage of the department that is implemented by the department of the agriculture sector (DA) as part of the agriculture sector (DA) as part of the agriculture sector (DA).
This is the message of Secretary Rosalinda Dialogue, Baledz of making and Emano or after he shows the Administrative Order Number 253, 25th of 2016, that determines policy in the implementation of roasted pig.
"We want the OFWs and their families to be successful in our country through investment and livelihood, such as business in agriculture, this will give them a real reason for them not to go back to other countries," said Balarz.
The Gin Kings are tortured by the combined program between DOLE and DA, who gives training, racketeers, and knowledge in the product to collect salt on the knowledge of OFW and their families in the agricultural sector.
The Secretary added that the project is composed of three parts, or level of implementation, which can be achieved by regular OFW, and / her family.
In Phase two, he is calling for a point, "the contestants will conduct a Online visit to a Catholic farm where they will witness the actual management of the agricultural sector.
"After being able to complete the first part, the participants of Cerge of Parkinson) will receive from the DOLE-Ro owned by the DOLE Regional Director," the Secretary stated.
On Phase 2, the contestants will join the main training, which will serve as the skills of the project to serve the project.
After being able to complete the lower part and training, they'll target the last part, wherein the effective OFW, who can be included in the programs and livelihood of NRU), including Liverpool, Development Assistance (LDAP) and BGHMC) (BPBH) Program.
The program slaughtered were initially implemented on October March to Prime Minister Farm in Tagaytay, with 30 OFW, and their families were given benefits. (DOLE).
