The wish of LTO: License, registered to the tricycle.

The Land Transportation and Management Office is really useless on the monitor of the license of drivers, especially the "-for-hire and vehicles such as tricycle in all streets of Metro Manila, particularly in Quezon City.
Just in Quezon City, the drivers Association of Toda, which is estimated up to 90 centavos is the legal members of the embryo tricycle drivers, based on the data of QC-TraRegulatory Commission or TRU) but in my opinion, many are not registered which is why when they are an accident, the passengers and operators are pitiful.
What's funny is that the tricycle is already illegal, the drivers have no license, and even if they are repeating TRU, it is nothing to the drivers.
The tricycle drivers are neglect TRU S. a license because their reason, LTO is the only one who can stop them, just like the tricycle driver of the tricycle, just like TRU chief Senior Inspector Roberto dela Cruz?
But maybe it is not only LTO to monitor the license of the tricycle drivers but also the officials who are also the officials of different Toda.
As an official of Toda, it should also be looked well if they members of LTO are registered to the LTO not only for TRU, because of my observation, many tricycle have been registered to TRU but not in LTO.
Hopefully, the officials of Toda will also make sure that the license of tricycle drivers are professionals and not student, non-pro-pro-Grabs and for-hire.
The tricycle in Quezon City is more than 100 pesos, and it is only about 400 percent of the tricycle drivers that are not registered and around 20 percent of the tricycle drivers are not registered and there are almost 20 percent of the tricycle drivers that are not allowed to monitor TRU, with 60 personnel.
LTO - it is Charisine, Atty. Alfonso, Jr., whoa, please do not go to sleep in a noodle house, Sir, to monitor the vehicles for-helpers like a tricycle that are not registered and the drivers are not registered.
It is just that at the back of your office, there are many colorum tricycle and there is no other influential driver, you came out of the implemented tricycle and there is no legitimate tricycle and not in the influential driver but also with many fiers that surrounding your office.
