How are you going to be together?

Only a drop of time is alone, but when we are together with unity, we are one of the ocean.

And when he gets angry, the strength of strength is tsunami in these opportunist foreigners.

It is part of our attitude to mingle with, and this is a good tradition that we inherited from our ancestors against our ancestors who have no regard for others, and even if we do not care for others, we have no regard for others.

"If you do not know how to get along with us, we are not the only ones, and if you do not want to cooperate with them, we are sure that you are enemies in politics, and even in terms of religion where you need to follow what they follow.

Always there are quarrels, gadgets, and separation.

It is good to buy the tradition and culture of a tribe, we need to take care of the native of our ancestors, but when it comes to the goodness of each other, if there is no obstacle for each other, it depends on the chaos, killings, theft and unity of each other.

And at this point, those who take advantage of our society have been taking advantage of the foreign tourists coming and meddling in our country, and worse, the meddling and agreement with our religion in our politics so that it will continue to happen.

It is time for us to focus on our group's group, and even these religions, and with the general group's group, and joined the general group of their goals towards the progressive changes in our country.

"We should avoid what we are saying," we, "we," and "each of our citizens, all of these, all the people will benefit from, all the citizens will benefit, and progress will be the owners of our country.

What is the meaning of social interaction?

This is the first time for unity and join to help; as a sign of the desire and ability to run and help in helping the advancement of the organization; as cooperation, they are suffering together in order to fulfill the foolishness.

If we want to be returned and claim the true spirit of social interaction, here are some parts of good social interaction.

The goals of a am, truly the Papal.

Aside from socializing, in dealing with your real and natural attitude, it is their natural attitude that is in the depths of your heart or talking to someone who wants to explain when there are only truth and fulfilling promises to the relationship.

Avoid using words that are being thrown at you, or gossip to others who will ruin your reputation, instead of being loving with others, instead of having no obstacle if your relationship with others will be affectionate and free.

One thing that is amazing, having morality and strong integrity, it is rare now that you see it, because the standard for your heart is here, because this is what is what your real personality or personality in dealing with.

There is truth that you do not need any permission from anyone to make your feelings better.

2 districts in whatever task needs to be done, there is nothing for us to work, there is no more time for our consciousness to be able to help and make sure that it is impossible for a possible event that may happen to each other and be united in dealing with each other.

Be calm and affectionate to talking, sympathy, and unity for all the opportunities that we are asking for each other, instead of all those who are asking for each other, instead of all those who are taking advantage of it, instead of all those who are taking advantage of it or to cut anyone who are taking advantage of us.

Your social interaction is due to work or in your personal life, the level of your success, grades of promotion, and even salary is focused on how you know how to mingle with people who are known and positive in your dealings with them.

The best that is making and part of the group, those who are cheerful, honest and with wide understanding, and are ready to sympathize with companions, and are ready to sympathize with others.

It is there that we are able to serve or serve, we are trying to get along with them, and that's where we are leaving and you are getting the most.

3 - sometimes you will get tired and hesitate to benefit, be happy here so you can understand.

The Batangenos that your feelings are everywhere and when your feelings are here, this is the chance for you to have a fervent goal, because the addition of your knowledge is, the king, and the people who continue to become rich in life will become rich.

Read, the researchers, know the meaningful things that you have shown on your personal situation so that it can be used for prosperity of many and needs of the community, here is the key so that you will not wake up with the events and events in your surroundings, you will not be able to grant whatever is happening in your surroundings.

If you are going to be selfish and not meddling with your will, there will be no one in dealing with you and make sure that there will be changes that will happen in our country, first to change yourself.

Your success is based on what kind of social interaction is what you have been busy with.

The first question is where the priest and a line was asked.

"If I will not stop in order to help this person, what will happen to me?

But it is a good Samartino.

"If I will not stop again to help this person, what will happen to him?"
4.

Most of us, even if it is free to show their loved ones and working in other countries, there is a result, and there are those who are risking their lives because they are the modern heroes of our country.

Not everyone who is succeeding, there are also many who fail and go home in debt, even if others have succeeded, they failed in having a peaceful family, especially in the Middle East, especially in the Middle East.

Make your appreciation of giving thanks to whatever and each things that they have helped in our country to be with them; because of their help, our country is still standing.

To reach the dock, we need to sail at the dock, not to commit suicide, not to commit suicide, and wait to sail, not the initiative to increase and hope.

5 town-JO 4, Juan Ponce Enrile, said that he has changed only now, a burden and always waiting for the resignation of our country in the entire islands, and also waiting for supporting our products in the entire islands, and also for supporting our products and the form of supporting our products and a form of supporting our products.

"It is pounce on whatever thing that can help in our tourism," their exclusive interview with nine (9) million Filipinos are scattered in many countries, and for each other, it is a big help to our countrymen, it is a very big help to our progress.

It will be better if we help our fellow countrymen and even our country, if we want to be quick change, we'll get quick changes, we'll take away from our self.

Filipinos and our own countrymen are going to support our prosperity and keep our own skills in our country, especially instead of our own countrymen who are working hard to see the foreign countries, especially instead of our own countrymen who are working hard to see each other, strive to get along with your own countrymen.

Be vigilant in and out of the new islands in our islands, open the eyes, walk the feet, perspective of the beautiful flowers, mixed with the beautiful flowers, and they are also being guarded by our athletes.

Until there is still a breath, before everything becomes too late.

A 6 statue, let us not forget our history and heroes who risked their lives for our freedom, because there is no direction where it comes from sore and bitter history, if no one can speak again, it will be repeated again and more.

We have a lot of great art and exceptional culture that we can be proud of in other race but it is not being implemented and it is not being implemented on the Spanish colonizers.

Let us always remember that we have a right as a Filipino, we also have the right to fulfill our country, we have a Filipino, we need to prove it, not those who are left in the end of our death, we have not left the statue for it.

Make sure to be belittled, taking care, or even to our fellow countrymen, even if we are in front of our eyes, brown or black, we should avoid him in front of our own, even if we can avoid him in front of our own, and this is the only show that we will court anyone in any part of the world.

We can't do the bravery until we avoid small things that can help to have a big change in our community community, if there is no direct change in our community community, if there is no direct change in our community community.

The orders of a person in the conscience of a person is his ability to waste good things now for the next generation, which is why he will not hear anything.

7: 20 - be ready for changes and change in life, no one can come upon those waiting for others to do for your own benefit.

It is old and a burden to success is old and a burden to success, you can help others to succeed if you cannot help yourself, no one can help you.

You are in favor of what kind of appearance is what you want to happen in your life.

Do not take care of things to avoid your personality who is on top of your own reality, and you have no intention that you are brave and doing bad things, and the actions of others, you will not be victims with no meaning of nonsense.

Instead of having fun and criticizing, the attention and praise of the people on their clothing, decorations, good personality, and a female personality.

It gives a big trust and warm camaraderie.

A new appearance is the start of life that is not used to lack of poverty, rather, sympathize with and care in the entire world.

8: 00 to the side of where you are now, and where you want to reach it, you will have an advise, it is easy, and you are sure that your trip will be resolved, it is easy, and you are sure that your journey will pass through the use of proper words in your speech.

There is a need to have a new ability, opinions, abilities, skills and ways so that there is a need to use the foreign language that should be used to the Philippines, the Americans are not allowed to support and let the Americans do it for the country.

Do you have tried to become a student if you are in the country America? "If you are in Rome, do what you are in Rome, and if you are in the Philippines, do what you are in the Philippines, and if you are in the Philippines, it is better for you to be a real Filipino to each other, anything, and cheat on it!

It is in the outline of all; the natural knowledge and former ability can be used as time passes by, but also to learn how to learn from all the days in your life, but the actions that you need to read and study in your field and work is the key to ask and express your real feelings.

It is clear to coordinate with others, to avoid misunderstanding, passion, and conflicts happening in a fight until breakup, don't think that you will immediately think and make sure that the transformation in your life will be easy.

In dealing with each other, the people have expressed their agreement, praise the people from any awards, promotion or reward, even if they feel that they need to know the importance of others, what they feel is a part of solution and has a corresponding amount.

All of us are connected to each other and for all things that are on top of each other, each thing that a person did is destroying his mind, awareness, peace, and good things that you have done, you can see, and listen carefully to all that can be seen.

It has been 9 consecutive times that the illness is given a joke, instead of being serious and wasted time with failure, it will just go through a nagger and continue to joke.
So at least, the loneliness felt is to ease the loneliness felt, instead of surrendering, it can be avoided by depression; if you have seen reading and a hobby of jokes.

Together with the faith of people who do not want to get along with people who are fond of talking to them to eat and go away from the negative things, and if they have the ability to run, you quickly run and never look back at them.

If someone courted me, I just use it to joke, at saying that, I also noticed to give me happiness, "in this way, I give me a change, and no reaction just like what he is expecting from me.

At the bamboo container, this is the step that serves as the balance of the balance to avoid speeding water that are being thrown to you by others, that it is an effective solution to solve that bad anger that cannot be stopped.

Just avoid foolishness and getting angry, especially if they are able to put it through his eyes and put it on a joke that is why it is effective if there is a joke, but it is effective for the pain, but they are able to accept the pain and personal things.

The ability to be transferred or to the painful situation is a trait that is immeasurable.

On this day, be lively and laughed with three times from your heart, the heart of a happy relationship with illness, depression, and fragrance of various worry.

The person who does not have faith, does not want to laugh, and do not want to joke, it seems like a fish was removed from the water and take the initiative of his end.

10 Balanga, a way of dealing with the stomach, if you want to get along with your companions, you should not stop, if only one person is full of joy, and it's only time when a person is full of joy, and it is not yet included here, it is important for us to eat and snack, food is important in your life.

In my experience as members of the products in my business, part of my social interaction is part of my dealings with a lunch and dinner, I have not seen a celebration with a feast and we are going to find a feast and together for each other.

Even in love and courtship, food is the fastest to get sympathy to the heart of a man in his stomach; and in dealing with the heart of a man is in his stomach, "and in social interaction, you will finally give up with him.

As a show-show, this is the symbol of the presence of our city, Balanga, a film that is made of crystal meth, just like the dried viand of soup; just like the dried coconut milk, and fried foods.

This is not like the clay pot that is being used for cooking.

I am not eating to live, or.

Around 11: 00 in the truth that you are good and an expert in your work, it is not important that you are good in whatever you are doing, you need to get to know that you are going to know.

Because it is part of the people to know and see what you can do for them, and this is about what they are seeing and act on what they can see and act on how to get along with it.

There are language that, "the world is a nohness, and you are an actor who is taking your own drama," in the cycle of your self, you will not think of each other's movement and actions it seems like it is approved by the eyes of others.

Even if you are hardworking and not happy, let your best you know how to get along with you, this is your imagination that you should accept whatever your name is here, it is now your imagination that you should accept and what you are happy in dealing with you.

Your life is their source of gathering, always looking at you and getting closer to you, and you are getting along well with what you can do.

In your circle, always do the best of your ability to do what you know is best and good.

What you are doing is changing and it only looks like what the opportunity is asking for you, it is a big difference if you can avoid yourself, abuse and blame it if you become negligent of your tasks.

Continue to make the respect for others so that they can make the respect and trust in their self to make them feel their own good and importance to the people who always have victory, those who want to feel bad that are needed in dealing with the organization.

There is a high level of standing up, taking a lot, with truth that you are an extraordinary and grumbler, you do not need any permission from others to express your own bangs.

We are 12-October.

The deceptions have no meaning, or being a clad in dealing with you if in your dealings with you, you are lying on your head because you need to prove your words.

If what you are saying is true, you have no reason to explain.

Most of us do not want to get ahead of their lives - they are accepted what their fate is.

Although there is a flirt, it is published and it is published in all things, your destination is always right and righteous path.

Plant faith in your social interaction, where others are spreading anxiety.

Just let us remember that you have a gift of God for you and whatever you are doing to your potential, this is your gift to God.

Each one of us is part of one of us who has a life, and together with each other, we believe that each of us will learn how to get along with each other and for all of us, we believe that each other is the key to the success of yourself, our community community, and our beloved Philippines.

In social interaction, for unity and being together!
Long live all of us!
