
I am Kiko Kiko.

Last week, we became the topic of what is called "Quezon Cone," now on the foolishness of "Tuwid na Daan" which is the government of President Benigno Aquino III.
There was no other day, the leftist lawyer, Argear, which was held by the National Food Authority in the importation of the National Food Authority in the importation of 205,000 metric tons of rice from Vietnam were built.
NFA was headed by Administrator Orlan Calayag of a resident of Quezon and this was included in the announcement that he was carrying "Quezon Conejero, which is headed by the Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala.
The people behind the being done by NFA are deeply different because according to Guese, around P457 million money of the country were given to P457 million pesos in the country, they were able to taste their faces!
According to Guese, the cost of more than 2,000 S50 or more than 2,000 pesos or more than 2,000 pesos is those behind the important station that the government has done this April.
And here is what he's serious about to avoid that.
The participants of NFA are planning to import 70,000 MT in November.
Aside from what is being done now in rice, there are several kinds of nonsense being discovered now by the Department of Agriculture (it appears that there are many branches under the DA who have been used for the P10-billion "pork barrel scam, Alcala and immediately taught the past administration of Arroyo who has something to do with corruption in the DA.
What is more pitiful here is President Aquino because even though we know that this is serious with his campaign against corruption, he is just taking care of his classmates.
It is obvious that some of his personnel able to patrol to his personnel who are too famous in power and money.
And if I will be asked, it is the most cruel to everyone now when it comes to the foolishness, Alcala said, if you will make to make do with the Commission on Audit, if you will be able to make do with the Commission on Audit, it is certain that you will greet them the nonsense of what we are saying.
There is a need to cut the "connection and if it is true that President Aquino will have the political will to eradicate corruption in the government, it would be better if Alcala will be kicked out and brought him to Calayag.
What's good about this is that former Senator Kiko Pangilinan is not doing anything but to cultivate the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is probably a matter of the DA as partner of President Aquino in the Tuwid na Daan.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and complaint of the owner, it is just an email that gum bleeds.
