Meanwhile, the agricultural sector in San Jose will be distributed.

January 1, 2017 Voltaire Gazmin Detoyato.

San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, January 1 (Pia), January 1 (Pia) announced that ten hands of an actor and on YouTube protest ls the Department of Agriculture (DA) to the farmers of the town of San Jose, under the number of clothes of the town of San Jose, under the Bakar (BuB) Program of the said division.

The goal of the said program is to strengthen the fields of the farm and help the people who need help from the government.

According to the office of San Jose Municipal Police Community Precinct 1), the signs that the BuB are being endorsed by the BuB program is the UV Expresses and cooperative from the town of San Jose to submit a proper document for the BuB in 2015.

"In this program (BuB), the DA and the town of San Jose are partners in the town of San Jose so that he will not pay or release a cent, which is why the new administration of the department to farm will be paid," Roselle, "explained by Rosammother Australian.

The signs that were received by 10 hand Tran actor, with a trailer and other cuisine Association of TSETC), Brgy. Fe Min Com), Brgy. Fe Min Com), Brgy. Fe Min Com), Brgy. Fe Min Com), Community Precint) Association (TSETC), Community Precint) Association (TSETC), Police Community Precint) Association (TSETC), Police Community Precint) Association (TSETC), Police Community Precint) Association (TFFF), Police Community Precint) Association (TSETC), Police Community Precint) Association (TFFF), Police Community Precinct PCP) Association (TSETC), Police Community Precint) Association (TFFF).

Those who have received 10 Sambitious would be the Ubay FFF), Barangay Council of Barangay Mabini, Rainbow Village (BTAC) Association of the native farmers of Iris and Lamar Odom) Association of the indigenous farmers in Barangay Batasan, Sitti and organization Association of Ismol Family, Antipolo Rice Ternal, and a businessman CoCs).

Meanwhile, the department is also made by the department to be given to 10 multimillion pesos in the town of San Jose in the first part of 2017 (Pia / VND) outpost in Mindanao).
