The Congress once again opened the Senate hearing about you, who are looking for the patriotic moon to bring to the president of the law about his role in the operation but will not just report to the law of the legislative chamber that will pass the hearing of the legislative chamber regarding Malabon stories that you are together.
We have been given a need for him to help Aquino about the role that he became a role here in his / her role, which is the solution to what you said, he is facing a lawmaker.
Yes, I let me want to ask me.
What has a solution to live?
"I am the one who asked about what he asked when he asked what he asked when he was asked by Atong" when he was asked by Atong Ang in the legislative chamber that's why he was able to pay the arrival of the legislative chamber that's why he was able to pay the arrival of the legislative chamber that was why he was able to send the amount of sweat, along with other piece of sweat.
In the committee.
Covetous, fur.
She asked to invited herself to fly.
So!
Sit on it.
He / she grew up; he / she was able to answer, to answer the two of the questions.
And it is big that in the letter, it is a big difference on the letter that there is a problem of ah, it is a big chance for him to give the President to the events in the events that we want to give to the President, right?
Eleven o'clock; he / she was woken up, two Two Wives were also included.
We are low; we, your mommy, whose mommy, are deport; most; we are just right when they will make a way.
He / she grew up; he / she was able to step down; as long as the weather condition can be held.
That is why the motor is irritating now.
It is not good for you to close Jack to be sent to the hearing the president so they are going to be sent to the hearing that is why the President is going to ask him to answer the president with a letter, but Maria is the one who can get her favorite award.
Two Wives.
Two men immediately went away.
He / she was still early.
Committee is the public honor for the F-B which is possible to be the room of the Philippines.
Trophy four - Two Wives are also cowards.
