What is the "L-C-C" and its value to us?

The majority of our countrymen already know that the Philippines is going to place a productive part of the southern East Asia.
The majority of us also know that the Philippines and the big part of tea are full of islands and it is composed of a huge part of the ocean where hundreds of ships pass through every day.
As a result of this, the Philippines is involved in an accident involving the highway or the social gathering of the Saligang Batas.
This is what is called narco-communication.
It is important to take care of this because the SGC is the primary effect of the rules between the ports of different countries and where their homes were passing through everyday because of the international trade and for business.
This is the set to build the Philippines in a financial status quo, not only for tea but also in the whole world.
This is the position of the Philippines on the international level of security and economists depends on the ocean.
Because of this financial situation, the Philippine Navy, together with other branches of the government related to the ocean, are tasked to take care of the territory of the country which has a big part in the world.
Along with this, the Armed Forces of the Philippines, through the Putatan, it is possible to give a big role that will perform a huge role that will perform a big role to take care of the security of SavC that is part of the territory of the Philippines.
At this point, the importance of a strong and trustworthy Navy is invaluable, to take care of the security in the territory of the territory and the SavC that is part of it.
This duty will set to be assured that SavC will continue to continue for justice and improvement for business and trade.
So as well, we should not forget that a strong and blessed Navy will give an opportunity to everyone to have an effective care in our surroundings to cover the important and big part of SavC in the region of tea.
And with the help and support of every Filipino people for their Navy, it will be given benefits not only by us but our neighboring countries.
We can do that, Filipino!
