Murder of the indigenous Lumad in Bukidnon.

Macky Macasac March 31, 2015.

Members of the Tinanglement before the shooting of March 24, contribution) of the indigenous people were condemned by an organization of the indigenous people who were fighting the shooting of the police officer in San 24 when they were shot by armed men who were allegedly members of a Filipino tribe in Pulilan, Manobo tribe.

Tata Baiji was killed in the shooting incident, Pulanglement and member of Traura and member of Trauma Hospital), Jawooooooo, and Ricky Tumbaga, who both were also members of Tinambawan.

"This is the heinous shooting of the members of the Tinanglement that the rights of our ancestors should be held accountable in order to stop the spread of chaos in the community of the indigenous people," said by Philippine Task Force for InFilipino Workers (Human Rights).

According to what's being called P and Kalapati, Lumad, it was done by the "crispy stove" (construction of land for the passing of planting), more or less than 200 members of Tinambawan.

Baiji was on the way to the living room when they fired at them by the guards of one of the Lord who was named Pablo Lorenzo.

Since March 16, the indigenous people launched the wash area as a protest in the disputed Scarborough Shoal.

Seven native groups, including the Lord of the Lord who said that they have the right to the said land, the Kalawaan in Manobo tribe, "legitimate UV Expresses" said to be still part of their ancestries, "

"Is it a sin that you always keep your own land to feed and live your family?

He also said that the indigenous Lumad were done by the indigenous Lumad to fulfill the most important ingredients owned by their ancestors against them. "

It has been said that she has a application for Cerport of Ancunning and Domain title (CAIDT), the police officer in Manobo tribe in some areas of Renzo (UPP) of the ISAFP and Natural Resources just last 1983 until 2009.

The group declared Martial Law declared by the Marcos administration "the place, even though it is already controlled by the indigenous people, the indigenous people, the indigenous people, would have been controlled by the indigenous people to give them to the CAIDT last 2009.

"They tried to get it and give the message to the land in total, 623 hectares of all who were able to support the CADT," Beata "said.

But instead of giving up the native members of the native Police Community Precinct 1 and other clan of the native police officer in Manobo tribe and other clan of the native police officer in Manobo tribe and other clan of the province, they say anything.

"What's being told by the original application of the CADT, along with the land that Lorenzo is claiming, there were more than 600 hectares of Manila, including the eight hectares of police or clan of Pulanglement, together with a seven hectares of Manila (this)," said Beata.

What's being stressed out, those who are violating the main rights of the natives are violating the rights of the indigenous people and illegal gambling in the land ancestors of the police officer in Manobo tribe and other indigenous people.
