Violence against women, filing charges for women.

Dip in Purisima.
March 7, 2015.

One of the primary goal of the One billion pesos is what the One billion pesos woke the worst violence of women and children from the explore of the Philippines, those who are said to have power or authority in the society like policemen, military, officials of the government, politicians, politicians, others, politicians, politicians, others, politicians, politicians, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, politician, others, others, politician, others, others, politician, others, others, politician, others, others, politician, others, politician, and
Together with the slow crisis in the community is low for them, a lot of evidence against violence and taking advantage of women is a bigger problem.
Now, more than the past few days, the group of women are alarmed in the increase of cases of the case that was smooth and physical abuse of women due to the increase of cases involving the elements of military and those in power.
For Gabriela, one of the most worse violence of women is what has been heard from the Personal Economic Cooperation or agents of the state such as police, military, and officials of the government.
Abused by the military.
It was December 2014 when Jessa Lojo (not true name) of the rape fight against Private First Class Benjamin Magalong, and his two companions, the rape happened last November 17 at the house of the victim in Kitulaan, Bukidnon.
According to the 16-year-old victim, he was forced to enter the room in the room while she was taking advantage of the baby's face while she was raped by still unidentified soldiers in the house who served as well after the incident, he heard three more laughing.
"What I know is that, I am not the only one who is the only victim of Blancers," Jessa Lojo, "said Jessa Lojo, but he was threatened by others to not talk because he was calling the other victims to reveal himself to give justice to the crime.
He is said to be determined to hold accountable those who are guilty in order to serve as a warning to the members of the military, police or in power to continue to violation the rights of women.
In the record of the Philippine National Police (PNP), the reported cases of rape on the first 10 months of 2014 in this year has already reached 35 percent in the first 10 months of 2014 in this year, with 7,76 cases of rape and rape.
According to Odeth Montes, most of the cases reported to them were involved in the law of the law, rich, to influence and in power.
Another case of rape was reported by Gabriela last May 2013 from Palauan, Occidental Mindoro.
"When I saw the lamps, there were three soldiers and my child crying, one of the soldiers quickly ran away, but they knew that they were soldiers who were assigned in our place," Susan said.
According to Gabriela, the victim was no longer able to file a complaint because a few days after the incident, Susan lost his mind that she needed to be brought to the hospital for being driven away, Susan noticed that it was not the first time she was raped by Siay which was raped last December 2012.
"If the members of the institution of the government themselves wants to monitor the welfare of the people, how can we expect the state of indecency to these children, how can we depend on justice to the victims?," Untalan asked.
It will be taken away by an iguana.
Datuin further added that the increase in number of violence against women, which is alleged to be a normal thing in our society, should evacuate.
What is worse, a state of state of the state, the suspect), with this kind of violence, is said to have a bigger punishment by the law enforcers and those in position in the government who may face a rape case.
The whole world is recognized in the whole world with the intense violence of women, especially in the countries, the crisis in economy is getting stronger.
"The violence of women in every continents, country and culture is ongoing is that it affects the lives of women, to their families and even in society the whole, General Ban Ki-moon, general secretary of the United Nations (UN), in an interview.
UN is released by data that one of every four women have released violence or snake - being raped or hurt - one year in his life, which is why it's been three years since it was headed by V-Day), a real campaign against the violence against Women (VAH), by an international campaign against the violence against Women (VAH).
In the Philippines, it is also three years for Gabriela, together with Gabriela Women's Liberal Party and New Vangque which was held in Manila and other places in the country, but Gabriela who was held in Manila and other places in the country.
For Gabriela, it is starting to achieve justice whenever there are reports that women can be taxed by them based on their under democratic rights that will bring them to abuse that will achieve the desire to be given to the women.
