Petron, SBRC Chairman of Robin Mendoza, October 11, 2016.
Games now.
(The Arena, San Juan) 5 hours (Petron will be 2 square meters.
7: 00 p.m.
Petron will be an only lead, Petron, while they are planning to be defeated by the RC Chairman Army at the first game on 2016 Amagsaki, Philippine Charity Sweepstakes (Police Office (PLHala Bandapon in the The Arena in San Juan.
Coming from the set win against Oklahoma City, 25-18, 25-14, 25-14, 25-14, it is possible that the Tri-Illegal Drugs Group will reach 5: 00 in the afternoon.
"There is still a little thing I can do, especially in imports, of course it's not right, because even if you see in the video, we can also get the right place in actual," Petron will be able to get the right age, "Petron, Petron will be able to find the right place.
Kautasan in Traxing, those who are lacking in people like F2 Lotion) have been affected because one of them who stole from the country has not yet arrived in the country.
The first those who were identified as Sydney Kemper is still lost in team because he wanted to play last Thursday last February or, while Top Rank Promotions, Ara Galang, was still not able to play because he is still recovering from an intensive operation on his knee.
It will sweep Ani Marano, Kim Dy, charter Cruz and Maestrado to recover from the loses of defending champion Fist in the end.
Meanwhile, the RC Chairman Army started the campaign to get the title at the leadership of team Josielle II, Rodriquez, Tina Saludar, Nene Bautista, Michelle Suino, Michelle Bautista, Michelle Soriano and Rachel.
Their restriction are also supported by Daang Matuwid "RTEley Street and Karin, which is part of the US Embassy in the National team in 2013, VB Women's Month, Czech Republic.

But the RC Chairman of Army coach Kathleen did not worry about it.
"Again, the actor, Factor, is already age for us here," said Reyes.
On the other hand, on the other hand, it was also taken away when he took the Trinidad of Tokushina is the national athlete, Darlene Gemino and Polytechnic High School, Summerhomes, Ria Meneses, Ginger Conejero and Shi Adora.
