
The campaign will be set to prevent the campaign "which is led by US this year.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 12, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program was pulled out by the US-bala "traslacion" Ang "

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling for all your ability to prevent all the ability to prevent the campaign to block the US to push the 1987 Constitution by the Philippines.

The PKP has made the call because of the statement of House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte who are lined up to the priority of the administration of the Philippines in the election in May 2013, which is called by the KP, which is called the Liberal Party which is calling for the suspension of the "Tuwid na Daan" in the past few days of the so-called CXL. "

"The filipino people should be aggressive with the Filipino people and their flattery, the campaign against the US," said PKP, "the PKP," the PKP, "the Putatan," the PKP, "said that they need to fight to dismiss the policies of the Saligang Batas in the past 30 years and insist on their goals for the progressive and economists."

"They should focus on a broad-mannered family of the economists and corrupt businessmen, professionals, small and middle businessmen, for an effective fight and fail in the country's Constitution," said PKP, "said it can be celebrated this year by the Filipino people against it."

"They should reveal how to implement the policies of the implementation of agriculture, privatization of privatization of the International Airport Assistance Fund and by the World Bank which has been done by the human rights in exchange of funds from the foreigner," said the KP has done.

"In the past 30 years, the policies of the economic and taking advantage of the filipino people, of the heightened attack of the Filipinos' rights in mining and the huge properties of education, health, housing and other social service," said the KP, added.

"The policies of the local forces of the local government of the local government and of them gave up the sovereignty and destruction of economists in the Philippines and also drowned the mud at the mud and bronchitis, economists."
