Bad, used to love!
Who should be blamed?
I will not repeat the way how the barangay captain was addicted.
Wagerness to the other hand, I am not sure if it would be an identification of by an x-law, and the reason, the pictures and video of two young men, both young men, and my body can come out.
It is like you are used to love and play with the air conditioner if it is an oil price hike.
Champing said about banana A and banana B, for the offer of seven slaps (P7K) to go for gold and connotation.
Is it really true that the catch up to P300K (funds of Barangay) was tempted with Bad?
And their thing to happen is, that it seems that they will not be able to wait for the latest of cellphone?
Why are they able to reach for a point where, for a point, who should be blamed? Who should be blamed?
Are their parents?
Aren't they able to step down from his / her pet parrot, which is why they don't want to make their relationship?
Written Ib, Can ally use of the company, which is being beaten-up, is being provoked, which is being provoked, which can be considered to be an ally, which is the reason to be a model so that he / she was being treated like a creature?
With this event, can we still say that the youth are the hope of the country?
To the family of the murdered, I do not know what is the word that should be given to you to feel your feelings and feelings.
To the families of the young women with allegation that they have killed the captain, I do not know what to say to you.
How will you face him and you will accept and how you will accept the anger of the family of captain, may you accept the anger of the family of the captain, may thank you, Are-worth of steel will be given to you.
With banana A and banana B, you have a testimony that your repentance is always late.
If you will rot in prison, it is an only time Can ally, I will just let history and court judge him.
For the youth, do you really need to always remember the latest and batteries, your things?
"If you want to raise my cellphone, Jerrick IGAA, is it additional for the beauty and handsome points?
Is it becoming a popular reason for you to be popular if you are always the first to the group to pick the latest survey?
I am not saying that, I am sure that there are still youth, living and dreams.
Who knows how to be discontentment and give thanks to what they have and they know that all success should be felt and not being rushed.
That there are still many who have real love for God and following the advice and guidance of parents.
That there are still many who know how to light and avoid being reckless, being flirty and cannot be given to the call of the flesh.
You know that there is a right time for everyone, there are things that should not be rushed anymore and not all things that are beneficial.
