
What the COA and PDAF-DAP were horrible.

If the Commission on Audit is really serious and no one gets hurt, those who are fearless and stealing from the public funds are really serious, well, they need to work hard.
It's not only the horrible scene of stealing and theft in the year 2007, he should focus on attention but also the more horrible crime in the year 2010, 2013.
2007, 2009.
Based on the statement of COA in the media and in the Senate in the investigation on the pork barrel scam, it seems that the COA will not look for anything.
All horrible crimes have already been saved from the money that the country is doing in 2007, 2009.
But we do not believe, Bro.
As a sign, Jinggoy said that the COA wheelchair suddenly went away when the senators started to ask whoever was the senators and congressmen who were involved in the pork barrel scam, just to run away.
Why, is there something like the COA?
No until justice.
Most of the interest of the authorities about the P10 billion worth of Janet Lim-Napoles scam, many believe that there are a lot of big ones in order the COA will discover if this is really serious in implementing his duty.
"Is it a thing about the opposition before the 2007.
A guidance for COA, the law that is saying, does not have a "epal" or program after being caught by the government for the stolen wealth.
If the criminals are the faces of misuse and stealing from the country's funds, like plunder or corruption, the government is facing a case of taking advantage and the money that the country has been squandered.
The challenge now in COA is the shortage of misuse of and theft from February 1986 until in the year 2006.
But it should also be brought to those who take care of the people 2010 to 2013.
They are still watching.
The COA (PCG on the difficult time after being caught in the past years is allegedly because of those who stole the nose in record.
But because it is not just the record or document which is acceptable to the court and recognized by the law, there are people who are still alive in politics and the government.
If the COA will just look for the lower post and will give a reward to millions of millions, just like P15.M for Napoles, there is something that can be able to deceive.
There are also material evidence like the Ghost project, which has been cut off in the road, but it seems that the bridge was cut off in the road, hence, politicians from the companies that were hit by the electric posts, mining, and many others.
If the COA will not take action on them and only the 2007, it was only last 2009 when he saw the horrible scene, it was already doubting.
2010 straight.
Just like when we have carried out that we are now, Bro, there is no guarantee that the construction of the Tuwid na Daan is not a guarantee that the people will believe that the current government has no nutrients.
The campaign of Tuwid na Daan in the middle of 2010 has started.
Some were fired from his duty and was charged immediately.
But there are also those who were not fired but carried away by the position of the government in spite of corruption and corruption involving them in court and other followers.
Where are the foolishness of COA on these?
2011, 2012, Hong Kong.
Just to continue the Tuwid na Daan, they needed to destroy the big and strong wall between corrupt and corrupt.
And here there is movement so that Corona will not be impeached.
Corona will not be impeached in the legislative chamber of 188 congressmen on December 2011, but before it happened, the gossips about what happened were repeated.
Could it be that he had a step while Corona will be impeached?
Or COA, it is possible that you will notice it.
2012, 2013.
Upon arrival of January, the hearing of Corona started and it ended on May 29, 2012.
This is where we need to give bribe or iced on the way that Corona will be impeached.
From the sky, it is not in the law, Malacanang suddenly released the Disbursement Acceleration Program and it reached through CAVITEX until December.
The senators voted for P58,000 pesos to 113 million pesos and the congressmen who received P15.million pesos to 113 million pesos as bribe or hats.
The PDAF continued with corruption and corruption until the Napoles scam exploded.
And now, Malacañang himself is leading the Supreme Court to remove a temporary restraining order in throwing PDAF.
If the COA is really serious, it will fulfill himself to keep the misuse of corruption and corruption in the years of 2010 up to 2013.
There is an assurance but it is not enough.
If the COA (Commission on Audit) will not take action, it is a child of tofu, but it is even worse than them but we are lacking.
If the constitutional body can be held and they are willing to be accomplices in the dirty politicking and hiding of misuse of corruption and corruption, it is better to just separate them.
Noguera.
Million New Year.
If the COA does not want to act, even the other authorities, in order to know the whole truth of misuse of corruption and other objective, just let the people support the movement of the Reproductive Health Law, just let the people support the movement of the Reproductive Health Law.
The people should be the one to decide on what to do.
If PMM came to resign, all those who are involved in the misuse of misuse of violence, violence and other crimes they are surrounding the Congress and Malacanang, for Fight IT.
This is probably what is said to happen, "the The Office of the Philippines and the Office of God."
