The posture or a promotion is done by four victims who are in favor for their families because based on the salary of those who have died in Kuyang or what they will get.
In spite of this, the cry of their children is still unclear.
You are close to Quezon City with passports of all five years.
It is said that you were approved by the son of Bonifacio of a resolution which was a member of a positive promotion.
For four four who have already died, this means that this means, aside from those who showed them, it is also the right increase in their ranks and salary that will greet the additional benefit of money they were orphaned but the relatives.
Why is there a need for justice?
You are even over four days from the tragedy who went with what happened to be named by his relatives and then you are the one who has been waiting for a long time.
Amazing.
You are applying.
The family of the eyes.
They did not help them there.
You should look for it.
We are hardheaded.
There.
Four four teenagers.
That was a number of hurt or not answering.
Four teenagers.
For how much we are; we are very stupid; we are pitiful.
Foot-foot-ups, January supervisors.
The request for the Zurbano family is correct to correct.
We lost something like that.
There are a lot of cooking those who died here in your mother.
You are classmate's classmates.
Vigan.
We buy us in the car.
We will also ask.
A gift.
Body.
And that is the only way for them to be given to them the campaign.
I am in the medal that every member of the Pfour recently put out by the police commercial vehicles that you want to do, that is what they want to say, that they want to have a news from their ranks.
Four four o'clock.
Because they are ill-tempered; we are proud.
Rolly Nana!
In Mother's side.
I said the wound I said.
Or
Fine, it can also be bought but it can also be done with what it turns out that it is only one of their right benefits from the five-year salary in the span of five years until one of the salary is given to their former ranks because there is an additional benefit from their former ranks because there is an additional benefit from what they will get after being caught by the agency.
It was said that the benefits given by the relatives from the guidance of PNoy were first given to the attention of PNoy that the total benefits given was given by the PNoy government, based on the story of the story of their new ranks.
Yes, Jessica saw each other; the Department of the month of the cousin to do that, to those who were killed by the group of cousin to do that, about the effects of the people who died, and following Monday, you will be able to find out that every week, you are going to find out that each family knows how much.
They will be expecting it and when they can accept it, I can only remember that we will be able to go to school; we just remember that we have a date about this from other families especially those who are far from the province.
We are anxious; we are saying that we are talking; we are saying that we are loyal; we said to us, but we still do not have any reaction.
On duty, it is on duty to us slowly, because we still have not even asked the shoes they are on in benefits that can be said by the Pighty-71).
You are dismayed in the benefits of benefits and those who are buried here in the families.
The people who are in the topic of protests in every family have been focused on a thousand officer that will serve as a distance of number.
Stars who are wet and scattered in the government agencies that are part of giving benefits to an example of an example of an example, is it like he wants to be a priest.
This is immediately given attention to here in the height so that you can be able to get the benefits that you are receiving.
Which may lead, we still don't have fare, if we will report them?
For the relatives which have been raised up by the millions of Formanes.
We are anxious; the relative who is a member of the four four members of Police Officer four Zurbano family (P / P / P / P / P / she said that this is not the game for your family, which is why they say that this is based on the resolution that they have passed by, who passed away again at around four pesos.
Thank you very much to you.
