Two consecutive days in showbiz: Cesar Montano and Sunshine Cruz, ER Ejercito-Maita.

There are a lot of two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-year-old relationship with Sunshine Cruz and Cesar Montano and Maita Sanchez and ER Ejercito.
Both of Cesar and ER were both married to Montano, one of those who are from showbiz and Ejercito, a former model who is opposing the sweet, Emma Rose Mabaio.
The victim, Buboy and ER) both have children with the first, although the former and his former live-in life died on the second.
Meanwhile, both teenage girls would marry the two actors.

It is obvious that the first relationship of Cesar and ER did not become productive and happy that's why they found the person who is going to make a long time and easy.
The first social communications between Montano and Ejercito were both passed through the challenges and it led to a breakup.
As early as now, the relationship of the two partnership is not yet reduced but also covered with doubts and challenge.
As early as now, Sunni Cristo is here even though his gift of manager Alfie Lorenzo said that the actress came back to their house and the actress passed away, together with her three sons and temporarily lived in a condominium.
This is due to the entry of the private life of Buboy and Shine's private life named Krista Miller.

Who is Krista Miller?
Krista Miller is a new acquaintance with Cesar in making a masterpiece about the mayor of Manila, Alfredo Lim.
In the flow of the relationship of Krista and Cesar in the back and front of the camera, there is a common relationship between the two that if you think about it, it is common to those who live together in showbiz but when you think about the new entrance of information like Twitter and Instagram, her own gift to her husband goes to the said starlet.
It can solve these kinds of order in Sunshine's body and it's coming from another woman, Krista is the evidence of his doubts about Buboy.

Cesar and Sunshine are still alive in politics in life, politics and politics in politics.
Although he does not have an official declaration of the candidacy for any position, Sunshine's role was big as Sunshine's role, although it was only two times when Buboy arrived in his candidacy in the government.
If Binay won in the past elections, the largest wife of a politician is Viceral?
Perhaps, Buboy still has not yet paid his fate and I am considered to win in the election so he is still left behind in that field.

But here the ER and Maita were able to go back to the local government and to the governor of the province of Laguna, the man and the mayor of the province of Laguna are the former position that caused his immediate demise or politics.
Although Sanchez complained about the lack of time with each other as husband and wife, they are overflowing with power so they have to endure the physical difficulty in the time of their relationship even though they are still frequently seeing each other.
Ejercito, on the other hand, Ejercito said that the father of the province was touched by the father of the province in the capital of Laguna in Santa Cruz.
According to one of their flattery, "it was only a former warehouse in the time of Governor Migz Lazaro" but he was sent to ER Ejercito and it was then that he / she was terrified.
Maita has one office in the side of the building.
It is like the palace says the revelation of ER and Maita and the palace is also the statement of Sanchez, according to their friend Zeny who is the wife of the late action star and brother in the father of Fernando Poe, Junior, Conrad Poe.
If you will look at it, it's simple that the owner Sanchez and Ejercito are simple, but because the politics is low, its order in many views will still be wasted.
The sixth woman is Kita who is going to walk by his wife but the care is in need of the noblest administration like the management of the production of a person in order to be in the right time.
