Again progress!

By Tomas, Santos - June 24, 2014.

At times when everything is fast and in a hurry, a form of the ducks is going to blossom again.
According to Eyebank Foundation, the professor of the Filipino in the university, the rape or magistrate which started to spread in the first decades of the colonies and newspapers were published in a limited space because these are just a short space.
But the filing of this is not clear because it is possible in the appearance of the Editorial Department, news, commentary or a creative decision.
According to Rolando Tolentino, we were able to catch up in the mass goods in the university of the Philippines, the social media has something to do with the lack of interest of the majority of reading a lot of novels or any writing which needs a long time to read.
He added that the time spent by the people in reading will be less than reading so it needs to be certain if the burial of the author is certain. "
But Atalia insisted that we are in the time when all are in a hurry, this is not a reason for the people to read, especially that the current issues of society have just been determined.
"It is deliberately being teased about the challenge of the weather which is why for its progress, the theme is more challenge compared to those who have been writing a chance," he said.
In the crash site of books "Lumakil in 1903-1936, the professor of Filipino in Ateneo de Manila University, which contains the group of minors, from 1900 to 1940, discussed some of the kinds of deaths that are usually seen before.
First of this is the bad weather condition of love, which affects the love of a slave, or in front of the readers that will be with alias Apog.
When the second type of rape, which included the theme of the corruption, which is included in the theme of the corruption, the transition to newly grumpy, vices like gambling and other social issues that is widespread during the colonization of the Americans in the country.
It is said that there will be a goal of the third type of rape - the direct information that will be revealed in the minds and attack of colorums in the American, which became the primary reason why the fight was published by him.
"During the time of the Aquino administration, the government is strict about giving political issues," said Tolentino, "this is the reason why the placing of crystal meth on the newspaper."
Also because of the lack of readers, the local ducks are finally erased from the local economy.
According to Atalia, since then, there is no clear meaning of what is really being raped.
"He is only one fiber of a whole story, hiding," he said, "if the novels, there are many men and they have a single story and expression, all of them are one of them being beaten," he said.
While the beating is usually composed of more or less than thousands of words in other countries, a different meaning of being abused by the Philippines and remains not sure how much it is, or not long.
There is a usually "prepaid plate" which can be seen in a thunder, 30, in the middle or when the story is near; second, it creates a severe action, emotion and abuse, and in the end, it is always at the end.
Atalia also insisted that the hurt of other parts of the duck are different because it is left a impression to the readers and he himself are anxious of what was not mentioned to him.
"Usually," the readers are those who are not mentioned by strangulation, "he said," I am trusting the ability of the readers to meet what is not said in the explore. "
"If your readers are not able to get it, especially when they are good and they are not able to get the story, you failed to hide," said Atalia.
According to the book of Tolentino and Atienza, tuberculosis is the profit of being thrown away by the abuse and harassment done by the current product of the national government and the upcoming social media.
Tolentino also said that the weather has a big effect on the style or theme of any form of writing the duck meat.
"The rape or any style of the form of the form of the duck are spreading in politics in the time based on the political economy of the publication," he said.
Aside from books published by Tolentino and Atienza, another example of books collected by snatchers, "Walis" will not be finished, "Atalia, which contains one hundred gunshots.
Despite this, there is no assurance that the readers are going to patronize the hurt.
"It cannot be said that all of us do not say anything because there is no one who told us to write all over him," said Atalia.
He said that this is the beauty of the ducks which is why he has killed himself in order to give way to a new Hermes bag or a new form.
"If we do not want to or what we want, if he has his own (Maker) road, he will make a way to live even if it is difficult," he said.
