TV Patrol, May 14, 2012.

"He is going to burn it and it seems that you really don't really get a blind eye, not just a blind eye but the most hard to let him sleep, the best to let it go."

"At last, you will go out of the impeachment court, at last, you are going to be sexy," said the cross of the Rubicon, "according to the children of the defense?

"What is the drama" that is "of" I, "

Your boss Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo has long been able to finish this, together with your boss Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, and while you did not have any power over him, it was said that you were able to support this when your employer has not returned, that is why you did not make it back to the law that you can give it to him.

You have been able to finish the Rubica's for a long time, you have been able to make it a long time ago, you have been saying that there is no ego in the corruption, dead if dead.

But it turns out that there is nothing wrong with herself, is it still a report that you have no words, according to him, according to me, she is having a hard time when she gets hit by a lightning, because according to him, it is hard for me to get along with a lightning, or not, it is hard to swallow the money that are stolen from.

And it is even harder to swallow the stolen rendezvous and even if it is hard to swallow its pride, especially to the people who are oppressed in their positions, you will not live without other people who are oppressed, will not live without other people who are oppressed.

I am sorry, but your drama actress has gone through a long time, and you have not known each other for a long time, and it's just you that you have to have a $10 million or not, it has been a long time when you already have a $10 million or not, it has long been found out who is lying down and who is telling the truth.

But not, you did what you can do to the Supreme Court all the things that you can do so as if it will not open its accounts, because it is against illegal rights and human rights, if it is against the impeachment court, Joker Arroyo.

Meanwhile, "that's what Joker was asking for to do in-dollar accounts of Estrada when he was talkative, according to the investigation of Raissa Robles.

What can your explanation for your explanation that it cannot be done by more strong, better to believe, and there is no assurance that there will be no doubt of opening of-dollar accounts?

It is clear that what you want to do is not explain to the issue but as early as now, we can guess the strategy of your house and your relatives, just like what you did about the case of your house, Risa Hontiveros, and Walden Bello, that it is not true that you have $10 million.

But what now if it is not $10 million?

What now is if it is only $5 million, now, if it is $20 million, what others say is that, and there is still nothing else, that is why the number of Ombudsman is wrong?

What now, if the number of prosecution is bigger or more small, it is just proper that you have millions of dollars in the bank that you cannot be declared?

It is just proper to continue your position because they are receiving that you are a clean person, it is okay that you are the one to be the face of justice because you are trying that you are a good person?

Again.

I do not know from you and your tribe-mates, but in our opinion - we are referring to the surveys and we are saddened by what you are saying, that we do not have a energy again, it is too long, it is too long, it is too much time that we can have a decent life.

It is time to have a new life.

Will you come out at the impeachment court?

It's a good thing, when they are going to stay at.

It has been written by Budget Intalan, Quiros, in my column, Tabag-The Rued.

The Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news on Sunday, May 13, 2012.
