
Their tone is the same.

The tactic of those behind the so-called "Ipit Gang" is successful because the tone of the stars and the villain in the pork barrel scam is already a success.
"When they were senator" proof, "Pogi" "Pogi" "" krrrik, "it was only stated in the alleged corruption of Aling Tasya, wow, it was really at his soul to condemn their own companions in the Senate.
The reason why politics is that politics is because they are known to be an enemy of PNoy, that's why they are the ones who have been able to cross the cross.
Look at your life, after a few months, included now are the accusations of corruption in three eggs in the list of the queen of plunderer in the country.
Because of the "Czar of PNoy, even the famous allies of the administration like Alcala and Abad are involved in the Senate are Senator Chiz and the known friend of" Chiz "as a proof," Senator. "
Just like the initial tactics of three eggs, these accusations strongly refuted because this is still a list and there is still no strong evidence that will prove that the content of the "Ipit Gang" is true.
According to PNoy's reason to Malacañang, those involved in him in the list are only in politics in relation to the upcoming 2016 elections.
Or, isn't it right now that the tone of the stars and the villain in the pork barrel scam is only one of the same reason, the queen of plunderer has become a state witness to the Philippines.
According to), all lawmakers are going to be consumed when there will be a number of air conditioner "that is said by Aling Tasya, that proves that corruption in the country can be considered as LGBT activity in the government.
It is possible that the allies of PNoy will possibly get away but it is certain that the investigation is going to pass there, if the people who are seated there in Malacanang especially if they are not an ally will replace it.
Question, kgg President PNoy, don't you regret the "Czar of choosing him as one of the things you are asking or all of these with the plan to push for the interest of the Liberal Party for the upcoming election in the country?
No matter what is the reason, the people are happy because it was revealed to the public that the respected officials of the government were revealed when the conflict between Balos and Samar Group of PNoy is still active.
