Edam Bu, is no longer known by the mother By Allan Dr and August 24, 2016.
"Money!
Together with Doods in the cast of Salas.
According to Doods, the year 2004 when she stopped working in making a movie since she did not want to stop him in making a television series in 2006 because he did not like the time of working on the soap operation.
It is also sad that Edam also sad about the truth that she does not know a lot of artists now.
He even knows more from the media than new actors.
But he works at GMA and when the project arrived, she accepted the offer of seven.
It was included in the cast of a movie before that only wealth is the lead aunt Gloria Romero is an Alzheimer's.
Now, she is part of the drama when the actor Tom Rodriguez has a type of Alzheimer's.
We said to Doods, at his age of 61 years old, it seems that he would not have an Alzheimer's because of the severity of his treatment and she knows almost all the showbiz press.
A famous actor-TV host said that he is hoping that he will not have this, but his mother, in front of this, he started to have an Alzheimer's.
He himself / she himself said that this illness will be given to a person, he did not make it a grin.
So we need to maintain the mind whatever our age is.
Doods laughed at our request that it's a good thing, "Active", not just in the mind but also in other things.
Heredious is this illness, that's why they are siblings, they have already discussed anything about it, whatever happens.
The voice of Edu has sadness when she told her mother already forgotten about who she is her twin sibling who she also does not know.
"His nephew who is taking care of her body in Parañaque," that is his son who is his son.
Even if he is facing his mother and they are eating, he does not pay attention to him, he said, it is painful to have a loved one that is like this.
Usually, one who remains in the mind of the person who has a sick Alzheimer's is "those who had a severe effect in his life.
The mother of Doods, even if she wants to know her co-workers and his former co-workers, he does not know, that's why all the siblings can almost cry.
According to Edam, this is not just an ordinary person who has become an ordinary person for dizziness.
