Many celebrated, many were disappointed.
By Zaykit, June 30, 2016.
Today, the oath taking of the two new leaders of our country is being given, and giving thanks to a president who served this past six-years.
It is probably right that the exchange of criticisms will be right, as if we do not have a choice but to face the truth that our country will enter a new chapter in his history, the prayer of many of us should be peaceful and orderly.
These past few days, it is in CNN that I am watching the news, what is being focused on by the United Kingdom (UK) in the European Union (UK) in the European Union (EU), many were dismayed about the future of Britain in the future, many were disappointed because of the future of Britain in the Philippines, many were disappointed.
According to him, he is not the right leader to cross the UK going to the new chapter in history.
There have been a number of animals owned by the United States because there are many times that there would be more opportunities that will be taken out.
They said, they do not agree with the vote being taken from the EU, they still want to raise the EU instead of leaving the EU.
The change happening is too much, not only in our country, but in our surroundings, what is a good upbringing by the Aquino administration in the country's treasury, which is a result of the good handling of the Aquino administration in the country's budget, which is happening in America and England.
Friends, these events are just coming back to the truth that we cannot assure the open-off of our lives, even all over Instagram and selfie-selfie, which may end up.
In an instant, we can be able to enter the conflict during the chaos, if the issue between our government and China will not be properly solved, the Philippines gave a warning to the Chinese government of America.

There are many impending danger in the surroundings but the mind of many of us is focused on their decision in riding the MRT or the thickness of traffic in EDSA.
I hope that this will be a puzzle for us all that are happening in other countries, "Fallen countries Are that will stay overnight," it is convinced that this is the signs that our world is approaching and approaching the end of his history.
What has been done for a long time for the millions of people, will eventually be exposed to them.
Many of the fact that having a proper relationship with the Lord Jesus will have the most important thing in everything, in the end, this will be the basis of what will happen in the next time.
My friend, I am really not going to worry because it is important for us to repent for our sins because the most powerful King of the King is almost there, it is already there, we are in critical condition.
Should we recognize as our only Lord and we are safe, or he should not be belittled and will be treated as imagined?
The Bible, these are not overlooked by those who want to reveal his birth, suffering as public service and death for our sins, if the Bible of God has not been saying, the Bible about his return is certain.
Jesus will not return to a sheep but also a fierce shark.
That is why my prayer for all of us is for us to gain weight in Him for loyal and to serve him while there is still time.
Let us think well that the King of the one who used to take shelter can be there tomorrow.
God bless, God bless, the Philippines.
