
2013 / 20.

A few days about the Sining and Propaganda of the Kalupaan in the time of terminal crisis.

1 - it is usually the usual activity and important ingredients in the protest, as well, one of the holiest parts of the box office, because it is not always on the wall that might be seen on top, as long as they are rushing to see the image of their leader, which can be seen while listening to the speech of their leader.

More important things (OFW) of art will be the ability of its ability to cover the feelings and awareness of witnesses (OFW) for those who are destroying the constitutional process, with a sharp role that is being done by art.

Art is one of the poorest sector of the Filipino Worker (WBC) that is launched together with the wide ranks of the citizens, which is why the individual who is making a different culture and is not being given to a person or a worker (construction worker (worker), is not being given to a person or a worker (construction worker and / her ally, an example).

Often, it is often being carried out by the indigenous people, the most powerful and famous issues that the workers are pointing out, with a photo of the workers for the 25th anniversary of the Independence Day, along with Uncle Sam, this is a picture of the people who voted for their call.

The art is an effective way to connect with the ordinary citizen of art that is also forcefully used by the Armed Forces Agreement (Armed Forces of the Philippines or culture that it is based on the list of those who are being used by the Armed Forces (Armed Forces of the Philippines), and it is also said that Sarah Geronimo as "Oplan Galugad conducted in the eastern part of the Oplan LS."

In boxing video, the two-ranking people, peace and prosperity in the view of the country's perspective, peace will be achieved through the surrender of the armed struggle while the private corporation is benefiting from the alleged private corporation.

The use of the AFP in the art of arts as they said is an instrument of peace of peace, "and he should have to let them go to the cross with an actor, A.G. Sumang, he received an award from the ambassador of the United States, Harry Thomas.

Even if this will be a joke because it is contrary to the things that is happening in the EDSA Peace Process and what is happening in the EDSA Peace Process, the number of victims of extrajudicial killing is widespread, especially in the areas of extrajudicial killing, especially in the places where it is happening in places which are almost not reaching the places which are almost in the places which are almost not reaching their service from the government.

2 - in an exclusive interview in Mendiola for the 25th anniversary of the Bagong HRO) last March 2012, it was first reported to be watched with the portrait of Ka Roger Borbon because it seemed like he was looking at the portrait of Ka Roger Borbon, "meanwhile, the words of Ka Roger Castillo," meanwhile, said to be watched with the word "other New People's Army (" hey, "they were surprised by the word" other New People's Army ("Mamondiong, in the lower part of the Miss New People's Army."

It can be easy to deny that said location is a version of Recruitment and poster billing of the US Army (placed under the picture of Uncle Sam in the same position, the fingers were taken to witnesses as witnesses.

The crisis being done by BHB) is the original offer of "Paula," I was replaced by "we" we "we was able to fight back, which is the sole difference between the image of" I "we was able to fight back, one of the principle being used by the super-Tropas."

In addition to this, Mao has added that it is an indication that it is an indication for the continuing to consult it to it, it is slowly being swayed by the yellow party-shaped like Mao Zediting, one of the common signs that can be seen in the foolishness of arts and ducks which are usually seen in the agricultural sector.

In the use of arts as a large part of the program under democratic country, the "We, thank you," Walis "and the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) - in simpler terms, the armed group, which is headed by the huge ranks of the farmers in the government continues.
