Sunday, April 29, 2012.

I'm an Akyat Bahay in our mansion.

Ever you will never escape darkness and have a way to achieve the light, until the glory is not implemented in your heart.

It is an effective solution to the success of the 12 we are receiving different ways in order for a person to achieve his truth.

In my experience, "when she wakes up, or clear thinking is different from each other, their experiences, education, education, and beliefs.

Just like the ingredients and ingredients in a taste, when all of these are together, it will cause a custom like it, as well as the character, this is a bit of its way, it is a little bit.

Positive or negative or important is I stay in a peaceful, because this is heading to the scheduled events of your character in order to achieve the glory.

A person can no longer join in his depths, and pass through with the obstacles going to God, until he did not really love him, until there is no love that is dominating in his heart, it is impossible that she will do anything that is happening in his heart, and he can do anything to love him if he is not able to give it.

The events of a person can be found in her "Ib," this is what's important to him, and this is not complete, as long as the body is not complete, and from God and to God, it is a person who is in God and for God.

Many of us do not know about the Holy Trinity or the three, the belief that this is the truth and it is not our God who will become a relationship with the two different questions because this is one of the important questions that this is only one and three of these angles, here are some important issues regarding this.

There are three truth that the Holy Week is pointing at three truth.

We believe in one God that he is not the same as if he is three.

The Lord shown to the three grata. God is one, but three of them have their identities but they have different ways of thinking that we will be able to understand each other in a community which we cannot fully understand.

10: Good manners.

I am 30 years old and my Day is one.

Juan 10: 30.

14-coloured house of our mansion.

I will pray for 16 and pray for you, and he will give you another chance, that he will take care of each other.

17 although it is already known to the truth; that whoever can't accept the world, because you are not yet known to you, and she is still not known to you, and she is still not known to you, and he will be able to talk to you. Juan 14: 16-17, they will be able to think about it; and he will be able to talk to you, the chaos, or not the agreement.

The three losses in God, we understand that both of our fellow countrymen are going to be together with other words, and it does not mean that God is going to come near us, and the son is pointing at us, and the son is pointing at us.

In quick understanding, mind (Father / her), the action (ang / Action), and IOS (SES), and this is the truth that you should know, and will be followed by your consciousness (joy), and it will be followed by your consciousness (joy), and it will be followed by your consciousness (joy), that it will be heard in your glory (Divinity) that it will be witnessed in your glory (Divinity).

Evil is not only our imagination that we are taking advantage of our minds and we have the ability to accept it or even if we do not think about it, we continue to take care of it.

We just don't want to do what we know that we need to do, and we are also confused about how it can be done, it is just okay because it is only happening because it is only happening because it is just a few of your hearts to discover what is the real content of our hearts.

Each one of us is being rude to God, and any person if he wants to improve himself; and to be an expert, what he wants to do is to invent things; and how to reach the destination, what will happen next?

Send the glory better and meaningful changes in the life of a person, from the depths of our hearts, and institutions for our hearts, from our hearts, we need to live for the truth, just to taste our glory.

We have artificial personality that are only small to our original personality, this is where there are confusion and one of the things that will be followed, and one of them is seen outside, and this is what is being seen in our place to forget our events.

Our events will not be seen in these kinds of things, not in the statement of the church, and not from the influence of our society, instead to find and discover why we were born and which is the way we should go.

The long time to share the truth is that, this means of living every day and each moments since you won't be moved and of His love from the powerful motive of the entire world, to fulfill the glory of your real life.

The truth will be free; because you are with the cooperation and comfort, you have the peace and happiness, and there is still no one else, aside from this.

And according to us, he will not be tempted to give, but bring us from evil: Because I am the kingdom, political, and awareness, the truth is right; so that the continuing happiness is right, to achieve peace, and eventually get a taste of our glory.

We can only do these if we ourselves make our own lives, no one is doing their own lives, no one is spared from others, not allowed to destroy others, so we can be free to improve our self and succeed.

If we will avoid unexpected events (even if it is possible that this will happen), it is as if we consider the life that there is no opportunity, no change, no change, and what will give in the happy moments when the "good life is felt.
If you are moved to yourself, you will be able to celebrate and make your life happy every day, your desire for the goodness and improvement of all, and the service of your fellowmen will be fulfilled.

We are pointing at each other when it comes to Apuyan y, not from the smoke of the fire.

We are calling the ship that is after the ocean, not the insults of water that is left by the boat, we need to find out of our own actions and not from the physical abuse that we have in front of us, but for our own souls, and for our hearts, this will only happen if our glory is happening.

If our own IOS is connected and joined in our Great God.

We were encouraged by Pablo to take the advancement of our minds to take a connection to our minds, straighten out our minds in things related to the truth, right, real, and model.

There will be a lot of things that are on top of the top, not on the things on earth.

Coling 3: 2 KJV Ejercito, it is clear that the use of the mind (the sky is clear and it is not true that the land is focused on our minds, and it is not the truth that your mind is focused on our minds, and the blessings that creates and the grace is in God.

In the end, siblings, whatever things that are true, any things that are honest, any things that are honest, any things that are good, and if there is an honor, and if there is no honor, think of this things.

Filbert, 4: 8, we are thinking that what we are thinking is in the right to understand and know the truth, this will make you happy and peaceful our glory.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.

Only the glory of 27 last March / 12) will only come.
