Where are you Ping Lacson?

Where is former Senator Ping Lacson?
But when we went to the Christmas in Tacloban City with the leadership of National Press Club (NPC) President Benny Thai, to give help to our siblings at work which was also destroyed by the typhoon, we have not seen any change.
Two months have passed, regular customers, since Yolanda hit the Eastern Visayas, there is still no change in the status of our countrymen who are lacking in our help to the victims so our President Benny is planning to return again in Tacloban.
President Bentres said it's because he saw how the Aquino government was deceived and the Aquino government wanted to give the sardines and two kilos of rice to the victims of Yolanda.
If not for the foreign people who give help, we cannot be tasted even if our fellow countrymen are pitiful.
What is painful, regular patrons, the temporary housing project that the government built for them is bleeding, so that the materials used for the housing program that will be enough to sleep are the pork.
It is said that the expenses in every kilometer house built is said to be P1 million but there are houses that are not in the bathroom and the kitchen, how the five members of a family will give a sound in their room which is as big as a way of it.
If our countrymen are used to sleep in E. Visayas, there is no problem yet but they are not animals in order to treat this by the government of PNoy.
President Noy, you should send to our President Benny to build a proper way to build a orderly and strong house in a low price?
That is why our fellow citizens are always asking where the billion fund allocated for the rehabilitation of Samar and Leyte is where the money from the many countries are.
The money is not the only money, where are the food that they have sent to different races?
And where is Ping Lacson to raise the Tacloban and other places that were severely affected by the typhoon.
Is it possible that Lacson just appointed the paper to say that the government is moving?
His skill is a waste if they are not given a hand and power to raise the Eastern Visayas.
