Cong. Samuel Ledward.

During the first time we saw and know ACT-CIparty-list Congressman Samuel D. Pagdilao "Mamondiong, we never thought that he will reach as a lawmaker in Congress now.
It was quiet at all times but he firmly denied it but sharp.
Before, Ka Sammy of Secretary Fidel V. Ramos, who is campaigning for the presidency of the country, will be imprisoned in the office of former Interior Secretary Rafael's Alunan, the DILG-PNP.
He was slowly given a duty as Chief of Caloocan City Police, he was chosen by 10 Mpost in the month of Mental bank-Jayclubs.
The provincial director of Cavite.
The leadership of Cong. Sammy in PNP is not a joke, even if the residents are very quiet, even if the residents are silent, in the hands of Cong. Pagdilao, "we was impressed by the people's hands.
That happened in Cavite, Caloocan City and in CAMANAVA, we even feel pity for his policemen who are abusive and criminals.
Many policemen were fired and suspended, so many policemen were thrown into his leadership including the latter who was considered to be recognized in CIDG.
It is natural for Cong. Samuel Pagdilao with a congressman now that he is a congressman, even from ACT-Iparty-list, he loses the senators because from the end of Luzon until Mindanao asked for help.
He is able to let in the places that are not even visited by many of our senators!
Before he sat in the legislative chamber, we talked to PRO-CBN News Forum and told the media government before, he wants to help the police and soldiers to save the level of fulfilling their duties.
He wants to raise the kind of life that he wants to give many military and policemen in a decent life and house.
In his fulfilment as representatives of the police and the military, he was surprised because our fellowmen in different corners of our country are whispering with him.
The influx of ordinary countrymen from Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao will not be cut off and the real help that is fake, isn't it?
Because of what his people have seen and experienced, the sympathy, their solid support to Congressman Sammy Pagdilao was completed.
According to them, "if the congressman is given the whole country to help, why did he not do the senator in the town?" I agree.
