Father, Joe Burgos, 65.

One of the failures of the movement of the movement is passed away for the imposed changes in the country, father. Jose "Joe" Dizon, 65, because of the complicated situation coming from the illness of diabetes.
It was announced by Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), on social media the death of Dizon at around 11: 15 in the evening of November 4.

He is set that the death of Dizon, who was first known to the public as the brave leader of religious leaders who fought against the war in Iraq, he continued to fight against the war in Iraq, cheating in the election and, this last, fighting against pork barrel system.
He was headed by the Bangsamoro Christian Community Precinct 1 in the time of the Marcos dictatorship.
Together with the founder of Dizon, who was served as an ID, who served as an aio-ranked program of Mana Roselle Parish in Rosario, Cavite, the said institution is recognized in the whole world as an example of giving support to the workers in the Cavite expulsion. (Cdela Cruz).
Because of this, Dizon was able to answer, and was the Chief of Tji and Severe Actor in South Korea, last 2008.
Included in the scope of the organization Nationalist Alliance, Bayan, plunder center, Social Watch, Social Work, Philippines, Diclofenac, Philippines, UPP-Pad, and Calanoga
This February this year, the group of women identified as a "V-card," or a male personality who were visiting the rights of women and fighting in violence against women and children.

This September, Dizon became active in the form of Abaca of pork barrel Economic Cooperation Agreement (September 13) and Notara Maget (September 21) in Luneta Park and Mendiola.
Last month, October, Dizon celebrated the 25th anniversary of her priest.
For many, Sunshine's representative is the long tradition of Christianity of the active participation in the fight of the citizens, who is part of the Catholic Church who pushed the widespread change inside it and to the Filipino people.
"It is thankful for the great contribution in pushing the rights and obedience to those who are oppressed and being raped by the workers and minds of the workers and the entire Filipino people," stated in Facebook account, a few minutes after the passing of the priest.
In November 6, 7: 00 in the evening, you are scheduled to conduct a copy of the recognition given to Father Dizon in San Roque Cathedral, Caloocan City after this, his remains will be transferred to Casas Hall, bishops Refervent prayer in Imus, Cavite.
