It is suspected to be grumm, please report to the PIO of AIJ.

The weather is different now.
"Do not need to go to the municipal hall or city hall to complain or send to the authorities what they should act on.
Crowded in Marikina are lucky because Ateneo won the city is chosen to be Pilamarea for the mechanism that can give the people to their government the non-emergency issue like potholes, garbage, etcetera.
This is a good feedback and solution which was shown to us by Doctor seconds Romero of ASOG-Irisan when we were together in their office by Mayor Del R. de Guzman, Doctor Danielle Guda, Jay-R Cordova, Dinao, Dayao and Andre Quintos.
This is a big thing for us who are in LGU because we know through our residents, businessmen or visitors where there is a problem in order to immediately come up.
That's why I opted to let it be known to those with the Public Information Office (PIO) of 17 LGUs and all the national government agencies who are members of the Association of Information Agreement) in Metro Manila (AIMM).
I shared to them my good French kisses on the use of her "tanim-ecury."
It's good for us to let this be a ecy with fiqar Ahmad at all so that we can make the action of the government units that we are experiencing.
Let's visit the site, be careful, and then be active in the report of those seen in your surroundings, especially here in Metro Manila that we can immediately act on.
Just report to us the traffic enforcer because it comes from the corner.
Take pictures and post on the issue that you have to report and go on the map where it will be easy to make it look like that the couple is going to be easy to let it be that it will be easy to let it be that the couple is going to be easy to make it easy.
Old vehicles who have been parked on your street whose cause of traffic?
Even our Pambansang Kamao, advisers of the Philippine Military Agency (Pia) was pleased with the Philippine Military Agency (Pia) who is pleased with the online libel because of its very good feedback in our government.
Exam, Susan De Leon, Pia-NCR and former PIO of Caloocan said to let it be known to the residents of Caloocan so that they can use it immediately, however, we will be used first in Marikina!
Let us try at Adiologists, you will visit the site of a set ecy with fiqar Ahmad and report it immediately to AIMM!
