
Pantukan, Ibum, the revolution: Education and the effects of the novels, will be a fervent prayer "Lubum.

By E. San Juan Junior.
March 7, 2014.

"There will be a fervent prayer.
1, on the first time, many were already against it or look like a lot of things that he kept on the word "Atong" what is this thing, this is not just a propaganda, that this is not appropriate for the Saligang Batas to protect himself, and according to us, we should also say that this is a need to show or to protect us.
2 - one of those who are going to be in college in Europe and the countries under the SEA Games, especially in the time of "Cold War." And until now, the prime movie "Orationist."
In whatever it is, the "interruptible load" is widespread in different branches of the education when it is important to explain why it is important to search for its relation with teaching. Example, if it happened, in the appearance of the program.
3 - one more example is that we are often grateful for the payment for the meeting like this in fact, what we should thank are the workers, farmers and employees like them who are not proud of the politicians and their "pork barrel scam, which are stolen from the politicians and their" pork barrel scam, which are stolen from the hardship of sweat.
4.
It can be seen in the relationship of the teacher and student: "Hoy, listen!" The teacher, the teacher insisted that this is a representative of the state, which is tainted by the foolishness of the colonies of the Spanish tourists and Americans.
In the jurisdiction of the economists like the "tiktiks" of work, English is the instruments in making a free market to sell the strength of the modern system, an individual who owns the modern system ("Maritez-asa), the result: The individuals on his position in agriculture, society is different.
5 - the society is equivalent to the relationship or relationship of the manger or relationship of those who have been separated from each other, she gave birth to every identity of an acquaintance, readers, teacher, who will borrow from acknowledging, calling the group of gratitude, that's why you will borrow money, institution.
It is not a ego from the identity of the author as a result of the meaning of the author, which is a result of the implementation of the bank that is part of the institution, which is part of the institutions used by the institution, which is the part of the institution that makes it in English, or in the market in English, "which is the cause of rape or eheals in the whole world.
Through the institutions and operation to be practical, anyone can make a set duty in a certain area in the history of society, as well as the authors of this kind of view, law, and acknowledging the power of a dominant kind of power in our society.
6.
Let us take it as a sign that a genius is a result of a genius or intelligence of the author as a friend or intellect, which is one of those who are serving the leader of the tribe, of church or aristocratic.
This is different after Renalliances, finally separated from the actor who became a businessman for whoever they will buy, but is a slave to anyone who will buy it, but a slave of the market to live.
On the 19th of 19 century, the actors who are from a bourgeunos.
The rebellion of Villa, Abadilla, Amado Herrel, and the experts of the following are the symptoms of the crisis in the situation of the crisis of a gathering of a Mahogany intelligence that would make it stronger and worse now.
