
The government troops retreated, key to peace in South China Sea.

The country.
There was 7, 2012.

The tension between the Supreme Court and China has started last April 10 after he was blocked by the ships that will make the coast guard of the Philippines in his attempt to arrest the Chinese national and rocks found in Panatag Shoal, Zambales.

It has been a few weeks that the two countries who are claiming the two countries who are owned by supporters in the area were suspended for a few weeks while the American troops were launched by the American troops in South China Sea and various parts of the Philippines.

This April 21, the PKP has called out for the force of the Pambansang Kamao and the territory of the Philippines and in a peaceful resolution of the arguments in the Panatag Shoal the PKP has done the three years of Salik.

1) the ships of the ships from the Panatag Shoal and other territory that will be given to the Panatag Shoal and other territory that will be given, respect the national standard and stop the aggressive resistance to the Philippines.

2) it is time to investigate all of its troops that are station in the Philippines, especially those who are close to those who don't have an agreement to be an territory in the South China Sea and stop the show-off its strength in the Asia-Pacific.

3) the Aquino administration should stop the persuasion and improvement of the US in the country and Asia-Pacific and to send the US to support the Philippines against China.

For the three of these, the release of the US to the Philippines and Asia-Pacific region will end the presence of the US in South China Sea, the largest Salik, who is urging the rules between the countries in Asia, where a peaceful resolution will not be built.

The Filipino people should fight the aggressive resistance of China while they are convincing China to be charged with its signed agreement between the ASEAN where he agreed with a dialogue with a dialogue in the Panatag Shoal and Spratly Islands.

China should be asking for one of the Filipino people to know that the posture of China is more in terms of defending them in the Philippines, although there are his ambition to contradict the US as powerful country, it can't be offered by the operation of economists like the industrialized countries.

The strengthening of the tension in South China Sea is that the US was able to persuade the US as a part of its goal to supporting the "American Pacific Camping"

It is not the interest of the Philippines against China who are defending the US while China is a bigger interest in the Philippines as well as China, which is just being used by the Philippines as drowning, particularly if China is surrounded by corruption.

Aquino made out that through the US-RP) through the US-RP), the US will surely help in case a armed conflict between the Philippines and China.
