West Philippine Sea has been the campaign to be held in Butuan City officials of the DFA to emphasize the legitimate rights of the Philippines on the West Philippine Sea.

February 1, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, February 1 (Pia) - an official of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), which will favor the government of the Philippines, Arbring to Tribunal will favor the government of the Philippines, the territory of the Philippines against the West Philippine Sea against China.
In the Oplan Galugad conducted on the West Philippine issue of the DFA and Philippine Information Agency (Pia) Caraga Region recently held here in the city of the Philippines and China, there is a right in the United Nations Contact Policy "that is an rights in the United Nations Contact Policy" that is an rights in the United Nations Contact Policy "that is a rights in the United Nations Consignation.
He said it is clearly stated in the Ubers which is said to be stated in the Ubers which is signed by the Ubers which made a road and sixty five in six countries and is considered as the Saligang Batas of the ocean.
Filipinos need to fight for their legitimate rights especially about the West Philippine Sea.
According to the official, even if there will be a long process, although there are continuing to give proper information about this for every Filipino, the country's position will be strong in the case that he has filed to the supreme court.
According to him, the Philippines is not claiming the entire South China Sea, but also part of its part which is only in the jurisdiction of the Philippines, including the Kalayaan Avenue Group and the Scarborough Shoal, as well as the important ocean in it.
Alamply added that the West Philippine Sea is important for the improvement of the economy, security work, and it is important to the food of the Philippines, and it is an important home of the fishes and the important activities of the fish and other sweetened bosity that is rich in electricity.
Alamply added that the government of the Philippines is following the law and according to him, the Philippine government does not need to achieve all the positive results in the case and will favor the country the West Philippine Sea, which was attended by the Philippine government from different college and university in the city of Butuan City.
Meanwhile, Presidential Communications Office (MTPB) Secretary Sonny Coloma also supported the said multimillion division and the campus of the DFA and Pia Caraga, and expressed all his opinions about it.
There have been a lot of ways to show the entire country that Filipinos are united, strong and full of belief that it has a legitimate rights related to the West Philippine Sea and he thanked all those who are going to attend the West Philippine Sea and they are convinced all the right rights to continue in the West Philippine Sea, and they were convinced that the right path to spread to the Philippines and the Philippines will continue to be spread.

Pia Wurtzbach and Caraga Region.
