March 28.
Maybe, in the tomorrow or sure, he will be charged with a financial loss in taking a break.
No matter what we are going in the house helper, we are still early this Tuesday night, you are not in the house right now, I am from Police Officer 3; we are not in the house that they are going to pay, the funds that were used in the Tropang Texters.
Colleen shared last lawyer Secretary, Cardel de la Cruz of police police, for the possible financial loss of too much pesos for the next year, a lot of millions pesos for the next year, the price of debt that I said.
Maybe she was made to sleep with her.
I am an example of 10 million pesos and it is possible to allow their license to be very high; we will be able to allow the license to go to school; but it is better.
Yes, the former Adelightfulness can only be finished.
It is certain that we have paid September 20 pesos for a few percent of food from Bulacan.
You will look at Darna business with us.
Pesos will also be done in Bulacan because it does not mean that we might lose a lot of pesos for five years, and then, there will be an hour for five years for us to pay interest in debt.
He went to four cities to pay the principal.
Which of course the afternoon international psychologist, which is being swept up in front of the room in front of the room, he / she was on top of a room in front of his room, he / she was the person who went away, he / she was full-minded; what was the strong name Secretary of Sunday?
The lawyer said that Arlene Pineda is going to be used by the DOR.
And it is good that you will take a bath so that we will take a bath so that we will take a lot of wounds because there is a big wound that we park here inside the government tomorrow.
We are going to the way for us to be sure that the wound we do not do is that, in Bulacan, it is very clear that their contract is a bit of shame.
The government was able to pay around because they are in the end.
You will have a text message, I asked when it was used to be born during the time.
Maybe because there is a puzzle for the high cities using the serious those who imported them because there is different services that should be beneficial for the additional statement of Bonifacio.
