Bandila by the Constitution.

In elementary school, teachers are pointing at the importance of the flag of the Philippines and the guidance of society, the Constitution or the Saligang Batas to college and the education is over, respect, love and care of the flag together with defending the Constitution.
From the president of the country up to the lower sector, the high respect for the two important guidance of the citizens should show the flag as the Constitution as the Constitution as the Constitution as a book.
Like the language that Gat Jose Rizal said, "the one who does not love her own language is even more bad that we don't recognize in our Saligang Batas," those who do not recognize the constitution should be considered as the traitor and enemy of the country.
The president and in-law, are the soldiers and police before becoming an official who took office, they only have one curse, "to defend the flag, the country and the Bible of management, the Constitution.
The challenge to the reaction of Benigno Aquino III recently against the decision of the Supreme Court to illegal the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) that has created it through pork barrel teacher Butch Abad is wrong.
The decision of the magistrates, 13-0, is based on our Saligang Batas and not in any personal or political basis, even if the magistrates of G. Aquino has a bad behavior in our constitution.
Similar to what Noynoy's allies, Senator Serge Osmeña said, the head of the President is hard.
It was followed by former Senator Joker Arroyo, who just believes in a democratic leader that only believe in himself even if he knows that what he is doing is wrong, it creates a crisis in the Saligang Batas to the President of the country!
Soldiers and police, to whom are you?
You will decide!
One more thing, when Noynoy will learn to respect our flag, he is the only president who does not put the flag (Commission on Elections) even when he went to another country, is he a Filipino or leader of the Liberal Party?
