The fight of Quezon City also for their benefits.

In 37 years of teaching de Vera, he still tried to pay the salary for the daily needs of the family.
But despite the increase in price of goods and bills for services, I still have the salary to get along with and going along with the threats to remove even the amount that he is receiving.
It's because the Commission on Audit (WestMinCom), which was removed from the benefits of employees in the government, is not in accordance with the law including the teachers and restriction of government funds.
Face the threat.
Because of this threat, he went to 2,000 teachers in Quezon City who are members of the Quezon City Public School, Association of Quezon City Public High School and Alliance (BTAC) to protest about the amount that was released by the COA, to request for an additional salary to the teachers.

Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista was also faced by Quezon City Hall after he was long waited for by the police and the guards for a long time.
Bautista explained to the teachers the situation of Quezon City when it comes to the benefits of the teachers, the local government explained the steps of the local government to give an ordinance for the sake of the teachers.
"The ordinance has approved on the ordinance... about P1,500 every third period (equivalent to 20) continue to continue about P1,500 every third period," according to Bautista.
According to the mayor, the local government is currently studying the request of the teachers, particularly their salary and lack of schools such as classrooms.
Because of the K to 12 program of the Aquino administration, the local government should not worry about the construction of additional classrooms but also in buying the land of schools.
According to Priscilla Ampuan, doctor and president of the QA Police Officer, positive, the response of the declared mayor in their request is positive and they understand the condition of the city, but they should understand the mayor declared their request for additional wages and benefits.
"That's why the city government in budget is growing because the budget is increasing as the budget, which is not all construction because there is not only construction because there is (national) government for it," according to AKHala, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Will the government be saved.
For the teachers, they should not be stricter and taking advantage of the government so that they should have to increase their salary and benefits especially for sweet words and bills.

"That's why there is a huge amount that will be added to the expenses for every day of goods, why are they going to be frugal to the government), they should be frugal because they are the ones who are going to vote, they are the ones who exported back to them?" The vice-President of the QCinema Film Festival.
According to De Vera, his salary is really hard to make ends meet in every daily expenses when it comes to school, they are still being spent on the appropriate food stall for their students.
"It can't be taught to teach the father-AIDS but instead of putting on their expenses for the family in the peak, we are using Camping that we have one," according to De Vera.
Included in their call are the House Bill 254 that aims to raise the salary of teachers and employees of the education sector.
Preparation for the SONA.
Even if the teachers have released a victory in front of the Quezon City mayor, they still need to fight for the long time call of the Aquino administration for additional wages.
Since Aquino took office as president, no one received any wage increase from the teachers and said that Aquino has not mentioned anything in all his speech at the State of the Nation Address regarding the salary of the teachers.
"This will only be tasted by Aquino's SONA, the teachers will show more anger to the government of this government) for the teachers," the end of Caballoy.
