He was shocked to win an award!

The marriage that Vic Sotto wants is simple for them with Pauleen Luna.
Would he really marry Pauleen?
"Womb," there is nothing wrong there, if it will come there, it's okay, "he answered when she talked with the Scud of My Little as a film fest season.
"There are also plans, which is why when you live with your neighbor, it is not just because you have this form," according to him, he will not hide that he will not hide his marriage with Pauleen.
"I cannot deny it, but now, it is not a trend now.
Do he want to have a baby again?
"When we go to school, for sure, no matter how twin, it is better," he said.

The original ID-time King of GMA 7, Richard Gutierrez, has been going home to the 37th Star Awards for Television, which was held at the AFP Suzuki Cup for Television last Sunday at ABS-CBN after the Vice Supreme Court.
Richard won the said award for the Filipino Adora, his former show to the Kapuso network that she has done to GMA News by the Public Affairs.
According to Richard, at the Star Awards for Television, she was accompanied by Twin-Brother she is together with the siblings Toni and Alex Gonzaga, the floor, and she was surprised when she came out in the middle of the floor because she won an award.
"And the First, I was surprised, so I asked the question about the award which I was able to do," as long as, I won't have an award and I have already needed an award and I need to go at Kaingin 1, "called Richard.
When the trophy was handed over to him and read what was written in defending Traving show host is the only time that Richard said that he won't say that he won.
Richard was also able to make sure that he / she was able to go back to defending ReallySharonCuneta also for defending Challayed of Marian Rivera, that's why the young man got confused and did not know where she won because he was in the right room for defending Traving show host. "
"According to him, I was shocked, but," of course, I was replaced by one of the PMPC Star, I was replaced by the people of GMA News by the Public Affairs for him, "that I am really making a show" "said Richard."
In the victory of the said award, the fans of Richard and all are asking if the actor is asking after being a Kapuso inside the 11 years, where the actor's actor will go to the network of TV host?
Anyway, as of now, Richard is busy and the taping of the TV show of their family is starting to be shown on the international TV network that will be shown on an international TV network that will not be released, and he has started to be sent to GMA Films.
