A real slave to each other.

Ellen is moving in and out of work.
After the end, Ellen was able to get along with two-year opinions but Ellen was first entered from a company that made a part for the DVD, in Laguna, but he was only five months old, which is why he was no longer new to the workers.
Because it is widespread now that they want to make the actual action or payment for their positions and the huge supply of the workers in order to be able to spend for the needs of the market or market, it is said that it is contrary to the Labor Law where it is stated by the Department of 18-PO2 during the time of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
During the time of President Aquino, the actual making of the Department of 18-A. if you look at the law, will be mistaken for protection and helpful to the workers, but for the workers, it will take revenge on them.
"My work there was eight hours only from Monday to Sunday, no rest," Ellen said, his salary, P330 only.
Ellen was found to have a job in one Garabat, in Quezon City, but he also did not last for the candidacy of the factory that's why he decided to resign from the present, he has no one to resign from NXP, a company that is cemented in Laguna.
According to the chairman of the union in NXP, a regular worker has regular workers in the company in the union but since last year, the number of those who had the actual workers went down.
Included in this number is Ellen who was directly taken by the company, "before, about 600 people were able to go against each other, because according to his direct effect, there are students who are in the aral system which is under the international training.
Aside from the two agencies of our actual-200 people, they are also included in their warehouse which is a source of payment, "in total, 1,400 were the number of those running to us.
It is said that the haunting of the company, which is growing the demand for production, is that, but when we are asking for additional wages, it is being asked for an additional wages that is included in our exclusive subdivision (CBN A), that is why they are asking the company to be suffering, "said Alcantara.
The negotiation of ABS-CBN is currently happening and one of those who want the union to be regular as an example, "the OJT, 18 years old, but the OJT, 18 years old, they have a salary, but only half of them goes to training school," Alcantara added.
Ellen is with Ellen who is only fooling around in the house that we are fighting for, "hoping that we will become a regular as a case," the others, seven years ago, "he said.
Work that was left, salary of a slave.
It is different when the widespread brownout are widespread in the industry, according to the Personal Economic Cooperation (Labor Law (Camper).
Under the actual work, the workers' security guard will leave an assurance that there will be an assurance for the workers, the Department of Labor Law (DOLE), 44.32 percent, non-regular workers, but the Eher, is very conservative, he is very conservative.

Eher explained, it is not new to make the actual arrangement because of the white neo-Tropas that the country Britain in the United States during the decades of 80 countries in the continuous decrease in their economy since the decades of 50.
According to the group, under the outline of the Independence Day, the laborers are destroying all the right to win the movement in making the movement and work in the world the revolution.
In the way that workers say, the salary of the workers is worse, the salary is low, no benefits and any hour can be removed from work.
Eher also explained that there are different faces that are implemented now like the Labor-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-ray, which is being harassed by the privatization of the SEA Games.
The group also said, this is a big effect of the research, especially for no assurance at work, disappearance of their rights in the union and low wages, "said Elmer Lahi, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno.
On the other hand, the earnings of the businessmen who implement the Red Marinas an example is Henry Sy which is on the list of Forbes last 2013.

Meanwhile, like Ellen, like Ellen, it was about 11 years when John went back to a factory of milk in Laguna, "said that I was just receiving P348 wages, and because he was in a cooperative, she had no contract with him and any time he can be removed.
"I have a colleague who got removed immediately because he fell on your job, exposed to our job, exposed to the chemical," we entered the chemical, "we went to the cauldron containing milk," he said.
Also added by the colleagues of John, almost all work of regular workers, like the forswarming operators, computer data to covetousness and being rude, are being done by people like him.
Rise!
Like Ellen, John, and other contractual ones, they want to have a voice to fight their rights especially the assurance that there will be a few of the workers who joined the actual organization of the Filipino workers or our father-in-law.
"
LMB also said that it is the duty of a regular workers to fight for their fellow Filipino workers who can fight against each other.
"At first, we are looking at our regular entry to our regular ones because we may take advantage of them at work," Alcantara explained that they need to enumerate them because one of those who were taking advantage of them is pitiful because they are pitiful for each other and taking advantage of them. "
That is why they encourage the people to complete their own union to stop their rights, like those who want to go against their rights, like those who want to push their rights now after three days of protest this last year.
