
Mining and the proliferation of danger in Mindanao.

By DBP.
November 5, 2014.

The citizens of Mindanao will not be silent about the threat of destruction of nature because of illegal mining, which is why the government needs them to build the military.
When typhoon Sendong and Pablo has passed in Mindanao last year, the effect of the destruction of nature, flooding and landslides, which killed thousands of lives, was found.
One of the experts is pointing out that the primary reasons why the citizens here in the calamity: Kalawaan in Mindanao at present are being destroyed or target to foreign terrorists.
Because it is the policy of Malacanang to attract the foreigner and big companies of mine, this is not a policy to control the destruction of nature because of mining, instead, they are protected by incentives and big market in their very hard work.
Any foreigner and big companies will be carried away by their natural resources in Mindanao: Gold, and copper, their primary own mothers, also not included in the increase of electric power in the eastern part of Mindanao.
But the projects that this project are taking a severe fight, which is why, it needs a "protection," the security guards are not enough, that is why the troops of the Armed Forces of the Philippines are corrected.
At present, the elements of AFP are assigned in different parts of Mindanao, they have 5 programs, (4 degrees east), Caraga, Far South Mindanao and Northern Mindanao), while some are still in the west-northwest.
If these number is not enough, there are 700 of Americans who remain in Zamboanga City.
Many of the violation of human rights were recorded this 2014 because of the operation of military, bombing, enafloat, clearing operations, and forcibly evacuation.
It can be seen that the effect of the military operations, evacuation or 120,269 people and farmers in their community and our ancestors, and everywhere cases of abuse against activists.
It is also intense for the safety of the operators to lay down to the ranks of Bagani or Lumad by the Lumad by the Armed Forces Geosciences), similar to the Lumad, that's why they themselves are coordinating with their fellow indigenous people.
In spite of these, the history of Mindanao is rich in fighting against activities that are included in the illegal mining sites in 1994, the Tutok-Manobo tribe in Davao del Sur of "
The participants of the Lumad are continuing to protect the Pantabangan range from huge mining and destroying of forests due to the destruction of wood.
On November, the hundreds of indigenous people are scheduled to lay down the road to cooperate with the fellow victims of calamities and after this, they will go to Manila to cooperate in Manila so that they will stop going to Manila, they will object to illegal mining and violent protest.
