TV Patrol, SSeptember 11, 2014.

It is important to remember this.

Life is like harisees (Echo) - whatever will be brought by you.

He also goes back.

There are many who are not able to make it first to show an additional percentage (80 percent of the happiness which is coming from the relationships between love and unity, what if you are in the end of your life and you will get back to the memories of yesterday, what are the real important thing that you cannot forget about it?

Just six words, that is where the quality of your relationship is.

Study this question: If your relationship is the most important part of your life, what do you do in the length of your life?

Another question: What is the most effective way to create and continue the good relationship with others?

The work that has a responsibility (100 percent) in a relationship will be accepted, and there is no expected or waiting for in exchange of your principles in life, whether the relationship is very important and quick to fulfill, to avoid it, point out and blame.

It is easy to fulfill this and our hearts will voluntarily come to our hearts, when the real Filipino is in full and humane, they need to know their relationship, and to give more than 100 percent, and to give 100 percent, and this principle is direct.

This is a step to make sure what you can do to improve the relationship, and do it immediately to show the respect (equivalent) and goodness (equivalent) for others, even if it is worthy or not for him.

2 steps - do not rely on anything as a replacement of Bambi, Hanglement, Zero, Zailon, RL, Saranggani.

3 - avoid anything, you have been carried away, others are blaming or doing anything (even if you are full of challenge and make a bait that may not affect you so that you will not affect you if you have no permission.

Every step, I can advise yourself and will build your patience and goodness.

It is better if someone is with your own and concern because, we can easily surrender and give it immediately, especially when another relationship is not noticed and made in exchange for anything in exchange for anything.

"Sometimes (rare), the relationship remains to be an obstacle and a challenge, it cannot be avoided," I need to learn how to be happy, "I should also learn how to be happy," I should avoid me so that our relationship will improve, "and etc."

"

This way is extraordinary and only a few of us are using your loyalty as a real Filipino) in a relationship, and if not, the other people will take care of it, and what you have shown will also be given to you.

Whatever it is planted, you will also reap you.

In this incident, 100-0-0 relationship will be quickly removed until it reached 100 / 100 which is a good relationship - an ongoing treatment for a happy relationship and peaceful life.

The start of love is to let our loved ones get to know and get closer to each other, and when we are always teaching, our loved ones are our only ones that we need to see in them.
