Violence in violence.

Instead of violence and violence.
Just recently, the attack of more than 3,000 victims of the typhoon Pablo has been reported in the station of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Region Xi Jinping that the thousands of rice and relief goods that have been stored in the said office were reported.
Despite the victims of typhoon Pablo, those that are convicted by typhoon Pablo have been convicted by the DSWD, the DSWD also included the violence of the victims from Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental due to the allegations of DSWD Secretary Dinky Soliman that the victims of the force to force the victims.
But the DSWD will take any comments about more than 3,000 victims of the storm Pablo, it cannot hide the destruction and shortcomings of the said agency of the government in response to the needs of the victims.
In the truth, the bark was done by more than 3,000 victims of the typhoon Pablo recently that it led to the authorities that the victims lost their livelihood and they are just hoping that those that are going to have a livelihood and houses are just hoping that they are going to have a source of relief goods for them to finish each day.
On the first report of the group last January, Soliman himself promised to release an 10,000 sacks of rice for the victims but almost a month has passed and a promise of rice was written.
Instead of able to address the high needs of those who were devastated, violence and fraud attacked by the government after the first bark last January, the leaders of the said action was immediately charged because of the trouble and improvement of traffic.
It is easy to say that it is just right to wait for the victims to wait, and it is not acceptable to make the reason that the DSWD has given the formal list of the victims before it can be distributed, except for the distribution of three months.
The people who are asking for help will have its peak when it is violence that the government is trying to put in the public who are hungry and without home, violence will still go back to the government.
Because of the truth, there is more corruption and violence which should rule the state if compared to the quick flow of traffic and the office brought about by the barbells.
During the year when typhoon Ruby attacked the country, the government has not yet fixed the system of response to the victims of calamities, although the administration's threat is always there, which will cause too much pain to the people.
Widespread and mining are widespread in many parts of the country, in fact, it is not part of 83,000 hectares of land in Davao Oriental, one of the countries that has been damaged by typhoon Pablo, in the latest ban of the Aquino administration, and thousands of hectares of land in CamanValley.
The projects of DSWD should also be tainted with the allegations of corruption that should be able to respond to the needs of those who were damaged, based on the reports that the DSWD has allegedly received information and said that they did not accept what the DSWD said that he paid for them.
There are also reports on the presence of the American soldiers, together with the officials of the foreign government office, in the places affected by the typhoon, they continue to pursue the ability of the Philippines, which is why they continue to allow the Aquino government.
The victims of typhoon Pablo has been far from Manila, but their experience is not far away from the poverty of the poor that could not immediately recover every time a disaster arrives, and instead of helping them recover, the blame was being thrown at them.
Whether there is disaster or not, the flood has subsided and the condition of the people will worsen and the government's wish is still fresh for their own work, they are calling for protection to their human rights.
Filipinos will not have to endure until they do not feel their rights in a low service, it will lead and it will lead to a long time when they are going to be charged and take back what they have been waiting for them.
