The curfew continues even if there will be a TRO for a TRO, Lhek in Angeles July 28, 2016.
The city of Quezon will still implement the curfew for youth even if the Supreme Court has an issue on a Temporary Protection Order (TRO).
This is what QC Mayor Herbert Bautista assured by saying that the ordinance is not under the TRO for the curfew.
According to him, they call the ordinance by every barangay which prohibits the minors to spread scattered at the late hours of night, "Discipline Office, but Bautista explained, there are only a few barangays who are taking the" Discipline Office "Ordinance Division.
It is also good that the Supreme Court (SC) released a TRO for them to be given protection if the provisions of the ordinance will be changed or removed.
The mayor also announced that even though it was temporarily stopped by the curfew for the city, Juvenile's welfare act, which will give protection to the children, including the government arrest.
"There, in the barangay level, if they have an ordinance, that is where there is an ordinance that occurred between the city's rights to the office of the city of the Philippines, if we were we, we have a citizen's arrest," according to Bautista.
Bautista explained, since they implemented the Discipline Office, from 10: 00 in the evening until 10: 00 in the evening up to five o'clock in the morning until five o'clock in the morning, and even the use of the syndicates of the children from their modus operandi.
Bautista said the curfew lasted a big help because of the incidents of fights of the youth in their city.
In relation to this, Buhay partylist Lito Atienza hopes to set aside the Supreme Court as soon as the TRO that stopped the curfew in some areas in Metro Manila.
According to Atienza, who became mayor of the city of Manila, he is in favor of curfew for minors.
"For me, there was the curfew for the children, after a while on the part of the SC, hopefully they will send a TRO for them to work well with the LGUs," Atienza explained.
He said that this is to save the youth to be victimized or used in criminality.
"They should respect the TRO that maybe the SC is studying what the ordinance has to be the basis of the general that the local government units" will explain.
The congressman said that it is one of the curfew in ways to achieve protection to minors.
According to him, the youth are the aim of many syndicates now to be used for the crime because they are in the end.
It is better that they are inside the house at the late hours of night to study, rest and be silent in their home.
