Kindly answer the dog.

He really doesn't want to be stopped by the senator Alan Peter Cayetano because it seems that the person who will sell it will be the person even if he sell the soul from Satan he will do in his position.
Beauty with his brother, Pia, I am impressed by one another and are just meddling if needed.
But this is Alan Cayetano that this is really a protest that seems to be the iron fist of the face because he really did not know what he thought, the people did not notice his politicking through his scenes on the paid advertisement of Taguig where his wife was Mayor?
What if he thought of the people, are stupid?
In the said advertisement, Alan Cayetano is proud of Taguig and it seems that the former campaign of Vice President Jojo Binay, "here in Makati." Aside from just like Senator Alan Cayetano, he still wants to get salt, that is why Taguig is going to progress because of him.
"Indeed, it seems that the people have enough for them to know that the progress just started just because of Fort Bonifacio Global City which was established by former President Fidel Ramos, which was established under the C-5 Road which was completed under the former President Gloria Arroyo.
For those who do not know, Alan Cayetano is very busy on the days but also because of his ambition, he is full of stories about the people close to the Arroyo, how to ask for money, Alan Cayetano with former FG Mike Arroyo, who is always being given to.
According to them, almost all the spent by Alan Cayetano when he was just starting in politics was from FG and to her godmother GMA but when he got all his own money, it was reversed.
During that time, former Senator Manny Villar and here it is natural for Senator Alan Peter Cayetano to be silent and this is only natural for him to have an ally because when Villar lost for president it seems that Alan Cayetano has a new agenda.
It seems that he wants to use Villar and his Liberal Party to make him as the Presidential standard bearer the party, that is the reason why it is just now that he is going to be in the media for now.
Before, and now, there is no true important here to Alan Cayetano but his ambition is the person of a moment, you should not be trusted because it is certain that if he saw a chance, you will be able to catch up.
It is better to have a dog because the person who likes him does not know how to feed him.
