
Our ranks will go down to remove the baggage and start the machine to collect the revolution.

You Antonio Trillanes.
Balning Zhy "Ka lily" desaparecidos, youth Nationalist Alliance (Middle East.
March 29, 2013.

Statement of Balane Zomy "lily" Mamondiong.
Youth Alliance in the Middle East.
For the 120th anniversary of the Bagong HE.

It is a high piece of honor for all the Putatan, those Commander and Miley Bayan of the Middle Luzon and the entire Philippines on the 25th of the Philippines on the 16th year of the New Hala Bayan!

The New People's "Bayan is our highest achievement of the masses that we should imitate! So that we should be united with the deepest part, we should be united.

Serve the people.

This is the principle being blamed by all the members of the revolutionary movement, according to the indigenous people in the Middle East, this is also good if we can help all the people in the Middle East and will be able to understand that it is not only for the people in the Middle East, to understand that this is not only for the people in the Middle East.

The old brimming of Mount Halcon.

This is one of the.

Commemoration of former Norman Beata.

Distressed as our long-term new country's release to the country's release to the country's release of the Black Nazarene, which is currently being raped by the indigenous people, and which is being raped by the filipino masses, and which is being raped by the indigenous people, and which is being raped by the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines, and to be taking advantage of the revolution.

He was crushed.

There was almost a type of mystery that we have mentioned to us, there are also many things that we need to guard in the revolution, and if it is important, we should monitor what we learned from the revolution.

About the dehumanies of wrong work in the legislative chamber.

This is the last golden lesson done by Mao Zediting in the resolution of the 16th Congress of the fourth government who is oppressed and being raped by the armed leaders who will defend them, and for the primary reasons why we have a new figure to serve the public, and the Liberal Party which is being given to serve the public, and the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino.

According to the song, "the Liberal Party in the Middle East will be firm, if a relationship between our ranks of the Middle East will not stop, and it will not stop the approval of our leaders in the Middle East, Bulacan, which can be held by the Liberal Party in the Middle Luzon, and will continue to remove the approval of our laborers in the Middle East, Bulacan, which can be held by the Liberal Party in the Middle East, Bulacan, which can be held by the Liberal Party in the Middle East.

The youth members of the Middle East are continuing to make a new shape in the outline of the filipino masses, and most of all, they are being used by the local government, workers, and most of all, they are being used by the filipino youth, and most of all, they are being used by the filipino youth, and most of all, they are being used by the filipino youth, and most of all, they are being used by the Liberal Party of the Philippines, and most of all, they are being used by the Liberal Party of the Philippines, and most of all, are being used by the Liberal Party of the Philippines.

Filipino people will revolve here in the Philippines! Let us continue to study the baggage-conservation in our ranks, and we should continue to restore the baggage that we are hoping to go to our ranks, we should continue our self-mindedness of our country, and let us go down to our community, we need to save themselves as the pro-Tropas.

Serve the people!
Bring them down on the end of the US!
Bring the burp!
Bring those who get addicted to it!

Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines!
Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Long live the Batasang Pambansa of Pritil, Philippines!
Long live the Black Nazarene and the revolution.
