Stop the freedom.

Yesterday, we celebrated the Independence Day.
We are worried about our broken freedom from the hands of the Spaniards so that the Americans will be used properly.
I am thinking that it seems that there is a foolish opportunity for our the freedom of freedom and I have thought that this is probably the reason why until now, our love for the country will be repeated.
The number of politicians who can be compared to those who can be compared to those who want to be prepared to be addicted to the citizens just for a little money is still ongoing.
We still continue to be tied up by the belief that is against each fiber of our Filipino.
It was said that there was a good opportunity for President Aquino, the scandal about the pork barrel scam to lead the real fight for us to be released in the hands of corrupt and opportunist politicians and corrupt politicians.
But instead of using this opportunity to clean our government, PNoy was able to use it to put his opponents in politics and be covered up by his opponents in politics.
We hope this is not what we are expecting.
Our dreams are the person who has no known friend and companion when the welfare of the country is at stake.
We will meet the real leader of the country and not just a leader of a few.
In the following days, Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla are going to be brought to jail due to the plunder case filed against them by the Ombudsman.
That should be "that, and there is no space for any kind of concern then she will show these people who do not have anything to do but make hope in the country's money.
But until the President or the Department of Justice is not doing anything, like Budget Secretary Butch Abad's alleged force of Janet Napoles), Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala, and other party mates and friends of the President who were caught by PNoy in his alleged campaign against corruption.
Every move by the government continues to take care in politics because of the attempt to dry the politicians.
