Accident, traffic and Maire.

As early as now, it should be alert, especially the police and traffic enforcers of Metro Manila Development Authority and local government, about accidents and traffic in the streets.
We observed that there's an increasing number of vehicles entering Metro Manila on the day and evening because of the return of those taking a vacation in the provinces related to Christmas.
If there is a heavy traffic and traffic enforcer, those abusive drivers, Jews as well, somehow they are being careful.
If they cannot see anything, they seem like a rat playing on the street while the cat is not there.
And how the rats are becoming derogatory if the cats are not destructive, they are even worse than abusive drivers.
They destroy the vehicles and other properties but their lives, lives of their passengers and innocent people beside the streets.
All of these are happening because of their disturbance, it is being implemented and not following the traffic laws, they will have an accident or accident.
One hundred vehicles are not just the passenger vehicles who have abusive drivers.
There are also many in the ranks of private vehicles, to earn big truck and others.
There are some who say that it is a few of them, delusion, because of the spread of traffic in abusive drivers.
And this kind of coincidence, other things that are still there in the area.
In relation to the traffic enforcer, what is the complaint of us who is currently under the MMDA that the latter needs to finish one of these so that they can see the performance of these people?
But do you know that the bastard MMDA Conejles, "that is said to have been kept in hide and will not work?
And those who follow their duties will be pitiful to fix traffic which is why he is really the primary responsibility.
They were just watching the money and money from work.
Money is money because they have a commission on the fine of the drivers.
How are this true, MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino?
Men and women are the ones leading the system of MMDA and they have started to understand the constable of these policies.
They are annoyed because this is where the heavy traffic started in areas where MMDA is moving.
How can't there be traffic if a constable of their job is allowed to be done after they have a case?
I am asked by your office my office is not the order of your office?
