Editor: who criticized and opposed?
October 11, 2016.
It is sad that this style of some supporters and fans of the politicians during the time of the campaign can still be brought up to now.
The campaign is over.

The treatment of information should be finished as a propaganda "and" epal. "
The government's system is still under the country's system, that everyone has the freedom to express their opinions and opinions, the lawmakers, those who are seated in power, the voters, and those who are seated in power, the voters, and those who are in the cabinet, are clear.
If the people had a master, his will should be listened to and his opinion is considered by the elected public who are very important.
It is not right that if an ordinary Filipino is going to speak, he will burn this, he has an agreement to insult and respect the supporters of any politician.
That happened, "during the time of the campaign, this should not be made a trend until a part of culture and it is scary if they will allow it to prevail!
This is not included in the culture of Filipinos who have a strong respect for democracy, especially in press of self-control.
We agree or not to the opinion of others, this should not be released yet, the discussion is also part of democracy but should not be passed away from its limitation.
Like in social media who seems to be abused in crossing the private space of every individual, if you want to involve himself in the opinion of others, respect should not be lost, respect, "good manners.

It seems that it has been gone to the character of a lot of blessings, "if you do not want to do to you, do not do it to others."
The truth is, those who are seated in the government should be open and being thankful for the criticisms and criticisms because this is where they are the ones who are wrong and their usual styles.
If there is something to explain, there is a good opportunity for the negative comments of the common people.
The criticism of a democratic society is not bad, this is only bad for a community which is being used by people who wants to ruin the Filipino freedom of the people.
