
Fight the Oplan Galugad conducted in South Quezon-Bondoc.

Editing.
The country.
There is 21, 2012.

Wide and cruel campaign of threats and violence is currently wreaking havoc during the citizens of South Quezon-Bondove (ALS) in removing the Filipino US-Aquino administration.

One of the most disconcerns in the history of the campaign to be charged and domination of enemy forces within the entire 22 towns, or more or less than 200 of the Philippine National Police District (Police Office (Police District), or less than 200 of the Philippine National Police Station in different towns in sq.

According to the masses, the disforce of the military continues to rule the power and law of the military, "they are focusing on human rights under the Oplan Tokhang which they are using, but the right violation of human rights.

A long term solution is based on the creations of armed soldiers who are called "peace and development for six months, they are being used based on the houses of the masses, they are being used in the houses of the masses because they are also using the center of barangays of barangays and other public schools.

They are repeating everything that will attend the meeting they will catch the local residents under interrogation of the highway, "said that they are being forced to cooperate with the military and they are forced to cooperate with the military and they are forced to leave the place to avoid threats in their lives.

It could not cover-control of the Oplan Tokhang at the Oplan Galugad last 1972.

The Oplan LS is made to be increased since the purpose of the Marcos US-Aquino and the AFP to clean the area at the end of 2012 when Aquino wants to clean the annual history of the poor farmers and the armed revolution.

However, it can be recalled that the Philippine US-Aquino's Marcos regime seems to be inevitable that he is pushing the people for the path of the masses to fight the poor, to fight over violence, the people who are needy to commit suicide and fight.

In front of the intense competition of the armed forces of the Marcos US-Aquino, the Liberal Party of the Philippines is calling for the citizens of Botchok in the field and entire region of South Tagalog, in all local branches of the PKP, in all local branches of the PKP, in all local branches of the PKP, in all local branches of the PKP, in all local branches of the PKP, and intelligent and intelligent.

The widespread brownout in 1991-lupa is the one who opens the many opportunities to gather big success and thrown away the revolutionary movement.

There should be an launch of the local units (HB) 80s, you will be more aggressive and full of the bickering of crooks in the coming months to encourage the ability of the masses to get rid of the citizens, to take advantage of the ability of the masses, to get their weapons and sources of weapons to destroy them.

There are so many opportunities to launch the bickering of offensive which will surely be punished if the actions of the enemy of the AFP should be strictly enforced to determine the various parts of the water supply and other slow movement in order to take advantage of the armed attack against illegal enemies.

The units of BHB) in other parts of the region of South Tagalog should have already been implemented by the appropriate offensive according to the reading and observation by the local government units that it could not heal and cause the local units that it can produce and cause of the sake of my enemies.

It will double the courage of the people to fight the campaign of the Marcos-Aquino administration to fight the harassment and protest against them by the corrupt soldiers and other armed personnel of the country as protest in the presence of the soldiers and based on the presence of the soldiers in their houses and occasions.

Maybe the scream that will be bought for the true reform in the earth and the revolutionary solution to the land, will be raised and build the salary of Filipino workers, sweating and implement the fair price of their products.

The Honor Code should be firm against the masses and local branches and local branches and groups of Liberal Party to strengthen the movement of the masses in using different tactics of enemies to strengthen the movement and loss of different attacks of enemies.

Fix the wide-minded people to support the citizens of sq.

He will look at the different corners of the world for the justice of the citizens of Norcia to capture the sympathy and protest of the Filipinos and the citizens in double the sea which are behind violation of human rights and anomalous laws.

Learn from the experience of the citizens and the revolutionary force of other regions to remove the huge success in the coming months against the Oplan Galugad conducted during Oplan Galugad last 1995), give way to the advancement of the filipino masses and the strengthening of the armed revolution.

Just like the indication being shown to the South Quezon-Bondoc Peninsula, it is said that Aquino has no difference, but more cruel compared to the past, it is clear that there will be no meaning of human rights "and pushing peace."

The Filipino people knows that the Filipino Workers-Aquino administration have known the Filipino US-Aquino administration to be a Filipino in defending the rotten system, surely, it will surely be disappointed in front of the courage and concern given to the people and the armed revolution.
