MERS came from the side and accident in the road.

Is it really negative or not a two-year-old nurse together with six more Filipinos who are the most pitiful ones who got sick of MERS in United Arab Emirates?
One of the Overseas Filipino Workers who died is dead after getting infected with those who have MERS in the said country that they are being treated.
It can be recalled that the authorities in UAE said that there are symptoms of OFW nurses who went home to us but they already left them and reached to the Philippines when they show their examination of the medical exam.
Passed away.
The OFW went through Ninoy Aquino International Airport despite being caught up on the road while on the way home, there is a sign that we will be able to enter MERS from other countries.
If this happens again, maybe one day, we will be in so much exhaustion from the quick spread of this illness which is more cruel to the SARS or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome who killed 775 people in Asia last 2002, especially in Hong Kong and China.
The severe captain of MERS-48 hours died within 24-48 hours after getting infected.
Dead in Malaysia
If you think about it, we are just beside us, especially when Malaysia said that they already have a victim who died.
The victim came from hepatitis B, Saudi Arabia for the last few days of March and he died recently.
This is a sign, Bro, that we should be vigilant about the coming from UAE, Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle East.
It can be said that a 73-month has been dead in the past two weeks of the said countries and what we know if we will follow the victims.
With the number of OFWs and traditional politicians who come from the Middle East.
But even the tourists or whoever who came from the said countries are also possible that there will be someone who has MERS.
The doctors are the ones who are wearing a doctor.
It is because of the severe torture experienced, there are doctors who are in Saudi Arabia who do not want to treat those who are sick.
Instead of putting their sworn duty to treat those who are sick, they have chosen to resign from the hospitals that they are facing at the hospital or clinic.
The doctors are afraid that they might get infected and they will follow the wake.
We understand the reaction of the doctors but what if it happens to us?
It is good if those corrupt are our forces to take care of those who have MERS, so we can no longer be a problem "when they died.
Worse than MERS.
While we are strict against MERS, we should not forget that we are in the middle of the millions of people traveling in the air, in the sea, and land.
It is really millions of people around anywhere because of the Holy Week and up to these days, it is moving back to the source of the places they are coming from.
In the history of accidents, especially the regulations, if this happens, hundreds of thousands have died and this happened at the ship Doña Paz, Doña Marilyn and Princess of the Stars.
It is more worse than MERS or SARS, whether the accidents comes to us, in truth.
Therefore, all the agencies of the government to watch or controlling all kinds of transportation should not be gone or supposedly blinked so that severe tragedy will not happen again in our ocean.
