DTI-Batangas, an autopsy is held at the fifth floor.

August 16, 2016.

The city of Batangas, August 16 (Pia) - members of the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), together with the representatives of the DTI-Illegal Drug Enforcement Agency in 18 hardware, are selling construction materials and electrical cables last August 5.

Some of the dresses are in the province particularly in the city of Lipa, Batangas, and the towns of San Pascual, Bauan and Lemery in the market to ensure that the quality of products in the market is good.

Atty. Ann Colobong and chan is said to be filed in charge of Conejers Group of DTI which is usually the cause of the fire, which is why there should be a good thing if the products they buy are Import Commodity Clearance (ICC) or Philippine Standard Lunch Program (ICC) or Philippine Standard (PS).

The ICC is the only guarantee for the quality of product and this will not be the cause of danger or disaster and this is also the basis that the product is importation from other countries and PS Mark is also a proof that it is done to the Philippines.

There are stores that have experienced that even with PS Mark has been printed and the number 1 proves that this will pass through the process and undergo autopsy to ensure the quality and capacity of the product.

"If you make a product it is only right to see the signal number and if this is not, it means that the products these products are fake or fake.

DTI was given 48 hours or two days to explain the five stores that have been seen by questionable products, including Golden Actor, Trece Martires, Golden Topnotcher in Ermita, Golden Topnotcher, and Ozone boxing supply.

The said hardware will be put in the investigation and it is possible to correct the lack of process, according to the DTI-Batangas officer-in charge of the DTI in order not to release or sell until the investigation is not finished.

Meanwhile, those who are partners have been delighted with the examination conducted by the DTI in Batangas that according to them, their safety will be a big help to the disaster that could possibly happen because of fake products.
