It's a sick but flew up, choke, boy!

It looks like President Benigno Aquino III is just angry at the International Monetary Fund and to their chief Executive Officer-managing director Christine Lagrao after he did not remove the person he arrived in our country.
Instead, Vice President Jejomar Binay is the only one who faced Lagrao, who was happy with his trip and meeting with The Palace of Ka Jojo.
Beauty.
That's why we say that President Aquino is just mad, because it's just a few days before the IMF chief said that his agency visited us under a ated report on top of the Philippines to be under rehabilitation!
Hey, it is a good news and you will be irritated with IMF report, if it is true.
According to IEF, during the time of former President Aquilino "Erap" Estrada, he did not end his term (1998 to 2001), this was once at 3.8 percent in the case on top.
Maybe if he ended up to 9 percent, during the time of former President and Pampanga Congressman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, inside his 9-year in Malacanang, it reached 341 percent only.
And now, in the almost 3 years of G. Aquino, this is just one hour of 19.6 percent.
You are a child of a washbasin with seven white sheep, how can you do that, leeches?
Go ahead, who will be happy in the report of IMF)?
That's why, when Aling Cecilia arrived in the country, the hope that he will face the young president was a piece of man with no Noynoy in front of him.
Just like what the media is used to and there is only a chance, here are the distress of the Malacañang who carries the defense, so as they say, the fever of my boss is really severe because of lack of rest in work, that is why her cold and cough exploded.
So there, we pity the President.
But wait a minute, if a person is sick, if a person is sick, he needs to lose weight, right? And if there is a high fever, cold and cough, it should be together with many water and vitamins that should be taken care of.
Is that what the Our Lady is doing? "Yes.
After a 48-hour visit of Aling Jews Lagrao, he immediately went home to his territory but we are still handsome for her statement, wow, Philippines and we are still very handsome compared to many countries like me, especially in Asia when we have the most low point of progress!
That's why it's just being said that the economists of the Philippines are strong because there are no doubt of our immigrants and Overseas Filipino Workers or Overseas Filipino Workers or Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), there is no new job, no work, and there is still no work and there is poverty in their ally in the Social Weather Station (SWS).
