The success in WPS is not good.
By Bernard Taguba, July 17, 2016, I am saddened if there are fellow Filipinos who are doubting and are not supported by the success of our country just like the victory of our country, just like what we victory in the Permanent Court of Arterial Road (PCA) against China.
When the PCA released the ruling last July 12, 2016, the most important day for the Philippines against bullying of China, I have a new opinion of some Filipinos who are former leaders of the country who are not happy with our success.
That because the United States might meddle, that because the Philippines is influenced by the PCA to favor the Philippines with the case we filed against China because they have released our territory at the West Philippine Sea (WPS).

It is obvious that they are not included in more Filipinos who celebrated the success of the filipino race against stronger and rich countries that does not need to use force.
I do not know why they are not happy because former President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III thought to bring this fight to the United Nation (UN) because we do not have a war with China.
Many of those who were obviously happy are against Aquino and they were included in the critics of the former President when it was still in their roof, so I was thinking that this might be the reason why they did not celebrate.
I am just thinking that in their minds and heart, they also celebrate a secret from our success but they do not show it because the one who is the one who is disliked by Noynoy has succeeded.
But what we do not want and what we want, if not for Noynoy and the legal basis of his government and members of the Supreme Court like Associate Justice Antonio Carpio and Francis Jardeleza.
It's because they preferred to bring this case to the UN to defend our territory against China.
It's not with our side with Noynoy and the legal wife who worked together to fight for our territory in a peaceful way, but we salute what they did and the Philippines can say that their "grandfather was included in our ocean."
One of the things that we are waiting for when the PCA will release their ruling is the Pad of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) but many criticized in social media for Secretary Perfecto Yasay, because it seems that he is not happy.
Mister Yasay's face is dark because it is not the face of a person who has succeeded in a fight, so why it looks like it is sad about Mister Secretary. "
After all, Yasay was not included in fighting the UN but he was replaced by former DFA Secretary Albert del Rosario.

He might be embarrassed to take care of the success of others.
But Filipinos are very happy because even if we do not have a war, we won to defend our territory from the Spanish colonizers.
