
The president loves, "do not talk to us!

We have an old saying that thieves are mad at fellow thieves.
In his sudden speech in the middle of the height of watching TV of the people, President Noynoy Aquino criticized the thieves on pork barrel.
He did not say anything but we already knew what he wants to know.
It's because the thieves, who are being told, are in the back of the criticisms and also treat him as a thief.
PNoy insisted that he is not a thief and the thieves who are referring to the issue that he can create confusion in the issue of robbery in the huge sum of the country.
Some political analyst himself said that in the speech of PNoy, it seems that he cornered the chase of the thief and when it fell, he wanted to search for help.
"I am not a thief and they are the real thief.
PNoy's intention is clearly seen because of the downfall of his trust rating, "he also wants the people to take back the case of Janet Lim-Napoles and his accomplices in pork barrel.
This is the issue of "pork barrel scam, which was involved by the senators, Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada, Bong Revilla and many others.
Then the anomaly happened at the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), that the fund was allegedly thrown by the President to share to the senators and congressmen to vote for the removal of former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
PNoy is accusing the thieves, "it turns out that he is also one of his fellow countrymen, he is right, he can't be clean, because he will not be clean, because he is an ally of the pork barrel of the country.
It is not a simple issue that we attacked here but taking advantage of the huge money of the country who were allowed to join the projects.
We waited for his speech but he is further confused with our mind.
Instead of damage the existing system in the distribution of the pork barrel and talk about how he can count on his own form, he even defended the opportunity for the increase of DAP that is illegal because it does not believe that he is not a thief?
He wants to talk about the case of Napoles and his accomplices, "okay!
Who are his secretary and an ally senators and congressmen who benefited from Napoles?
It is clear that our beloved President also made an appeal to the funds of the country because he defends the DAP that he regrets the huge money from it.
All of them are the same dogs that crave lies in the contents of the pork but they have different newspaper.
