20 years of Beijing is the form of Special: United Kingdom in the advancement of the rights of women.

Macky Macasaverted!
January 27, 2015.

It has been long if dancing and the One billion pesos woke up after the amount of tax on Beijing is the form of Action Force Macky Macasaels.
There is no change in the condition of women, poor, for the entire world for the entire world-20 years after the implementation of Beijing, form of Special Action Force.
This is what the women groups, Gabriela and Center for Women's Month, CWR) in a low pressure recently.
The result of Beijing Decongestion Program is the form of the United Nations by the United Nations conference of Women last September 1995 in Beijing, China, its goal to remove the non-worthy of women in the 12 critical field.
The Beijing wants to form the women in the whole world, we will respect their rights to health, live without receiving any violence, to have a fair salary and join the United Nations on March 9, 2015 in New York.
20 years.
According to Gabriela, after 20 years have passed, there is nothing or even a little bit left before the situation of women.
Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, majority of the women and their families are living in severe poverty, a proof that the big number of poverty in the Philippines is proof, the huge number of poverty in the Philippines, he said, will not lower their number last 10 years, "he said.
In the separate report of CWR about Beijing, form, it is found out that the declaration of Beijing + 20 will never be implemented until the government released a huge contribution for some rich and foreign businessmen.
According to the group, within ten years, the progress or change in the place of women in the Philippines has no shouting.
It is said that the government should not boast on what it has been stated in the report of the government at the 59th anniversary of the Commission on Sevidal of Women, "says Jojo Guan, executive director of CWR.
In the report of CWR, it was found out that six to 10 women are in the sectors of service, and 69 percent of them are receiving additional wages that are low at ng Wage, Philipines.
Even in the data of government agencies that Bureau of Labor Law Employment Statistics Authority, it is shown that three million women in agriculture are receiving Ph150 every day with four million women who have no sufficient salary or so-in-law or so-in self-employed such as vendors, giddy, Patera and others.
Also with more than two million or 16 percent of the women are connected to the political clan.
The group also said that 100 percent of women are included in the Labor force, and this past year 2014, the number of those with work and 5.36 percent is the women.
"If we will let the number of those who have no job and the seven million-law force have no job, or it is hard to find a job, or there is a hard time to find a description of your job," Guan said.
CWR also said that one of the policies made to the women is widespread because no matter what sectors of making are widespread, most of the workers, most of the workers, most of the workers, most of the workers, "he added.
"One of the failures of the government to the women is the issue of health, the CWR is still high, which is around 221 every 100,000." The solution of the government, the privatization of the 72 public hospital, "Guan, according to what the women want to give.
Feelings or write by the rainy season, along with the members of Gabriela. Macky Mathay will be included.
They really want to go against each other.
"We have companions who are going to give birth, or not just a few weeks since only a few weeks since the most of the workers who are behind the camera, they do not have any benefits like maternity leave and to leave, but they treat them as gifts.
Every taping for them is the payment for them. "PhP2,500 is the taping of the episodes of show every week, others are receiving a lot to buy a lot, but have no rest," told me.
"Even if you did not have an alternative or gift, the management has no help," we agreed for help from the people who lost, "told me.
It is said that it is said that if compared to other sectors of doing such as Garay and Andrade, it seems that they are in a glimpse of someone like write to me but the truth is, it's as if we mingle with the artists, but we treat them as an artist or person whom we treat us, Second First Class, "he said.
I also told me, it is sad to think that there are many of those who are in the editions of the network, but most of the women are behind the camera in their actual or gift.
The way is still low.
According to CWR, in the span of 20 years that the Beijing is implemented, there is still no change for women as a product that has been widespread as a product, and took the women as a weak thing that will only be spent as a weak thing.
"This is also included in the concern of Beijing to form the violence against Women, but it is sad that despite having 37 laws for women, the abuse," Guan added.
According to Guan, every 55 minutes, a woman or a young girl is hurt, and every one hour and 21 minutes have been raped.
What is worse, 75 percent of the victims are minors, and some of them are also killed, "according to the abuse of the poor women who placed them in position to control those with power, including their wives.
Meanwhile, the Philippine Commission on Women (NPC) insisted that there are many things that the government could do to fulfill the Beijing, form and there is only a need to work together with the groups of women and AFP) to help each other in order to implement the laws for women.
"We are both the CWR and we are in the Bible, instead of taking advantage of the data and mechanism of the report, I think that their report on the report of the Bible," stated by Emelda ine L. Verzosa, executive director of Polomolok, and Filipino Weeker.
Gabriela explained, any victory made by the women within 20 years is due to the strong movement of women.
"Because of the militant action of the women, the reason why it hit the different issues and the laws passed through women," said Salvador.
The group also assured that they will remain on guard against the alleged wills of the government which is pushing the policies of the government which is pushing for foreign businessmen, poverty will result to the equal-worthy of the man and women, "the end of Salvador.
