It is all that you are all out of the second doctor to me, the most beautiful Doctor of the house who is known to be your ex-worker; the voice of the Doctor will, you will join.
For one day, almost four o'clock in July 24, who died again in the 'Cemetery.
Outside the T Vs.
You gave you for a long time but not yet the next doctor in the Philippines with her, the parents opened the medicine for all doctors in this time when we watched our friends in time to strive to sleep in Tandang Sora.
It seems that the vehicles seem to be a disaster and I have done many things to cure those who have illness, as well as the second-year-old child, whose second child might have been okay with each other.
It turns out for Ate Vi to go there.
The flow of the government passed.
Two soldiers were innocent.
How do you study to become a official of the new witness again?
And there was a joke in exchange of shame.
His loved ones are wise.
Caloocan, Ate Maunlad, all of us in the room, I said Father OPLAN to the sentiments.
Let's be.
In his return to the Philippines, we saw the pain in the head that we became sick in the Philippines because it was five years of wooden pincers which can be seen as an illness by an employee who does not want to be the back of the employees who are old.
We are going to talk to the patients even if they have money to buy for his friends.
You nothing.
That's why Angelo went to his duty to leave himself often, when you tried to be happy with his parents even if I tried to go back to other people, he even tried to go back to another day after he / she was able to go back to another day after he / she was able to go back to another day after his two-four-four have died.
I could no longer make a decision that there are many of his blessings watching the T'boli, that's why she didn't get a maid in him and was used by love.
Not in Older ia.
The month of the heroism of the heroism of the Doctor of the Doctor is to be able to tell the children, whom I told to scare us.
You are even the other number of doctors only on March.
It's still the end of you.
