Hems, do it immediately!
July 7, 2016 is said to be one of the plans of Land Transportation and chide by the Regulatory Commission (LTFRB) for the provincial buses to be removed from the stretch of EDSA.
It was immediately supported by Highway Patrol Group (HPG) of the PNP) the latest experiment of the national police to free up the flow of traffic in EDSA, if it was helped, the HPG has helped a few minutes on the narrow highway.
In the end, in the morning and in the afternoon, the HPG will have no effect on the length of heavy traffic in EDSA.

The gas said that there will be an hour and this is the truth, it is not new to remove the provincial buses in EDSA and it will only happen if they do not have a terminal in every part of the highway, so they will surely have no reason to enter EDSA.
At first, the plan was made into a low terminal at the end of EDSA where it was only found out from Coastal Mall at the end of Coastal Mall at the end of Coastal Mall), which made the bus terminal coming from Southern Tagalog and Bicol souvenirs.
They had a huge loss since they did not go to Manila, "the length and huge amount was really caused by the narrow streets of Metro Manila.
Although it is a big inconvenience for those from the provinces who are used to go straight to Manila, Pasay City or Quezon City from where they came from.
Now, they cannot oblige them to transfer to a vehicle or walk away when the long-time plan will push through, but hopefully they can understand that this is for the general interest if they will not be solved.
Any idea that will help ease the traffic in EDSA and other Metro Rail Transit in Metro Manila should be supported and tried.
Just an experiment on that, alright.

May it be lessened even if it will be lessened.

This is the leadership of the No Contact Policy "of the PNoy administration, it is a big help to discipline the stubborn motorists, especially the number of bus drivers there in EDSA.
Now, it should have been done immediately by the provincial bus-free EDSA!
