
According to Brig. Gen. Rey Oryang.

Only a few days have passed, Commissioner Ruffy Biazon immediately reported that it was where it was where and the Bureau of Customs troops of smuggled goods that costs P10 million.
The estimated 4,000 sacks of rice from other countries that were found in 10 million pesos, will be added to the list of violent actions.
What can people really say about the current leadership of Asukal will say, "that is what they are saying that Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will be in a fight against him, since it's too late, it's too late for the people who are on the back of the people behind the case that's being done.
Where are the beach leader of the country who have been unfaithful behind the image of Customs Chief just to destroy the eyes of the people?
And wait - I smelled a news from the BOC which is an official of the military responsible for the name B / Gen. Reynaldo Orchier, assigned to the office of Deputy BOC Commissioner Danilo Lim who is responsible for the fall of the abler.
It is said that Lim is included in his time to the Armed Forces of the Philippines and like him (Lim), Orativity is a good and reliable partner.
You thought that the bad odor of the dump truck that came from the smell of being smuggled out is arrested immediately by the bad spirits there in BOC.
Oh, well, it is a good asset, that Orditures should be given to BOC because, according to the statement of Chona Ligas and Lim, he is not wrong to get any personality of Orchler's service to be the number one enemy of the people there in BOC.
However, even if Lim is not in Aerana, "will no longer have a good official, Adelana will never lose a good official because he is there to be there.
It's because the return of Lim and Biazon to be included in the ticket which is composed of the Liberal Party which led Secretary Mar Roxas and President Aquino will be discussed.
That's why if Lim's departure from the BOC will push through, we suggestion is that Oryang is going to replace him as a leader of the Intelligence Group of Customs which is okay because of his innate intelligence from the intelligence of build-up.
