
His voice turned out.

By Rolando B.
February 4, 2012.

ABS-year-old Ermson Acosta, (2011)
The entry of Erlan Acosta is in a Kalawaan in video - a trailer truck which is asking for release to the release of Acosta, a medical opponent in Calbayog, Samar.
The image of the voice of the voice of the voice of the voice of the voice of the voice of the voices of sweat and the poor is waning with the voices of the kind of sweat and the poor when it reaches up to the derailing of their mistreatment.
That's why there is a powerful being verified because the political creature is being treated again because according to him, he was able to study in UP P. he was able to study in UP P., became the chief of Philippine Amusement and speech, hair-ray (speech, butt-speech.
Inged, Acosta, which turns out that he turned out to be in position by an artist who is fighting back in the luggage of an artist who is fighting for the arts and movement of Acosta, the state that is assigned for the arts and movement of Acosta, the state of his priority, the state of Noynoy Aquino.
In one of the most effective video - it is an effective video - it is an effective video karera and image - a few minutes of peace, "as a simple moment of remembering their father who does not have any enemy," it is an effective moment, and grieve.
He will run for Acosta, especially in the "no carabao in Cubao" (hmmmp!
Most of the feeling that he is touching in the video is back to the back owned by Acosta and music, which is why the opposite of the opposite of its face is becoming a cause of the opposite of his child and loved ones, in the movement of the opposite of the movement and friendly.
The history of prison is long in the country: From Jose Rizal and to the escape of his sibling by his brother-in-law who created a beauty and politics in the middle of the beauty and politics in the middle of the mixture of beauty and politics in the middle of the shape and politics in the middle of the energy and development of the state.
The relationship of the trailer truck for the campaign of Eramson Acosta is timely because of the continuous control of human rights, it is timely because of the continuous use of human rights, that even if it is not during the time of Hernandez and Sison, even if it is not for music.
The call of the martial law that will have made the campaign for Mao Zedas will be a sign of the issue of the privatization of the awareness and movement of the awareness of the awareness and discussion, and the proof of fulfilling this is the worst part of the political crises of the country.
However, the success of videos and campaign is the moment of release of Acosta and for all of the construction of political agenda like before, a souvenir for the bones and experience of the construction of political agenda can be implemented, not only a lot of memory that they continue to fight for these kinds of corruption.
