Con-Con-Ass should be and not Con-Ass.
The direction of the wind has changed when Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez already changed when he said President Rody Duterte wants to change the Saligang Batas and no more expensive Con-condolences.
If Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson and Sherwin Gatchalian will be asked, they will be in favor of Con-Con the Constitution and it would be better if they will pay attention to the lawmakers, as well as the lawmakers, and whatever happens, "Lacson explained.
Gatchalian believes that the sensitive provisions in the Saligang Batas like anti-dynasty are the party-list system and economic provisions is only big because there is a big possibility that the interests of the congressmen are going to lose.
And if Gatchalian will be asked, the Constitutional Commission should be elected as Con-Con and should not be included here are the elected officials, those elected officials on May elections and members of those who are called political dynasty.
"We, to the Our Lady Together" to the Kapisanan ng mga Artista sa New Constitution, a charter change will be an ordinary person than the State of its New Year to serve, "said Gatchalian.
The view of Lacson and Gatchalian that the Con-Ass would not be acceptable to the issue of voting from the House and Senate if this is going to be complicated and low in the legislative chamber to get the lower part of its total member.
"According to Con-Ass, I said that it is not clear in Article 17 Section 1 of the 1987 Constitution, which is not clear in the commemoration of the 1987 Constitution.
It can be recalled that even during the time of President Fidel V. Ramos, the Lakas-NPA-Muslim Democrats (Lakas-CMD) is trying to push through charter change (VMMC) through Constantino was composed of members of the House of Representatives and Senate.
But the burial happened last 1997 when former President Cory Aquino, Vice President Joseph Estrada and Jaime Cardinal Sin and the thousands of citizens in Rizal Park to protest against FVR's decision.
Under the administration of President Joseph Estrada, it is also trying hard to change the "economic provisions in the 1987 Constitution by the 1987 Constitution by the 1987 Constitution, but it did not fly down and added to the anger of Cardinal Sin who also tried to replace him under President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo but he did not succeed.
Gatchalian said, although Con-Con-Ass would be more expensive compared to Con-Ass, it will be more acceptable for the citizens the Con-Con and in the end, the benefits of Con Con and in the end are the benefits of Con-Con what you think?
