The March.

By Tomas, Santos - May 22, 2014.

Blocked by the sun when he was able to reach and his other soldiers in San Fernando. Fifth day, which is needed to be the cause of his legs and full of bruises on his cheek, which seems that his skin was the one who turned his inside which reached Camp or Dontogan.
Whether you get caught in the mountains of Ilagan of Cagayan, he entered the armed forces with his very popular father because of his unique training wherein he did not take advantage of the fight and dedication in service and dedication in his service to the armed forces.
Unknown to the majority, he had a bigger reason for those who have been raped by the Spaniards, his father had no assurance that he had no assurance that his safety was being raped, and he had no assurance that his father had no assurance that he will serve as a memory to his wife in case he disappeared.
They already know that he will act cute, no matter how many forces are ready, they know that there is a small chance for them to win, many hope to win the Lord Almighty using prayers as the sake of the guns and sadness.
This is the time for the time for the soldiers to wait for a signal that the fight will go out and ran to the direction of the clinic by his wife and the American who were not forced to hit the land in different parts of the body of the Filipino soldiers and the American who were not able to leave the land.
In the continuation of the war, the defense of the Philippines is slowly being given by the Spanish soldiers and the camp of the Katipuneros, but in the end, they have to get a hold-up with the remaining soldiers, that whoever will contradict the entire country, which is whoever who will contradict the national armed forces.
It became a prisoner in the war where you get caught, following the order of the Japanese national or an iguana, who were beheaded by a Japanese, they were rescued by a Japanese, who were beheaded by a Japanese, they were beheaded by a Japanese, they were beaten up to the knee which is at the middle of the Libingan.
Many of those with co-workers got caught due to severe heat, hunger, and tired of their bodies which have not let go and were robbed after they were crushed and drowned in the ground.
One hundred or more soldiers were held in every box of the train going to Capas, when they arrived there, the camp of the Hagdan in the Philippines, which is said to be sent to the Philippines, which is said to be imprisoned, and all left prisoners of the war.
He seemed to have been missing for a few days, he did not know what was the reason for him to live, but when some of his companions had already seen her life, she remembers her life, that he would still see his love in life.
It is now he understood everything that it is easy to die early to die so that there is nothing else to die with your loved ones, for the future and in the town, you have thought that it is difficult to live especially if every time he is walking, he will be able to study.
He / she thought that now that he got closer to death, the hope that he will live on to Camp or Dontogan, he will continue to be finished, but until now, the fight is going to be finished, but it is also for justice for the country, but also for his will to live for himself.
