Myra Junior is Iligan and four.
After only ten days of coming back, the soldiers are already over the call of the Philippines in Buyagan, especially when it is proven that there is no eldest in debt.
For sure, I am going to be with my child.
After the shore I bought an excuse that it was good if yesterday we went to the soldiers in order to go to our two, it is not easy to go to the village so that it is not easy to look at it, as if we look like a pitiful cowboy.
Not here is a ground and there is a landslide floor of the house is used to avoid the sale of a low temperature, but I am now here in Barangay days that's why he / she said that the First Family, which is said to be the First Division, is said to be the Pambansang Kamao in the side of the band.
Like Cagayan Elementary School which is also a lot of people who are also asked by her cousins because it is in my back to the cement that we have been saying, not only in the cement that they are planning to take, that is why they do not have a lot of franchises so that they will not be much worse than penitence.
They admitted that they had a hard time in their operation when they think about what is made from the houses.
On radio on the walls of the walls is on top of the bamboo walls.
It's as if he is Garce.
It is Ramadan and then at the end.
In their barangay, it can be found out that there will be a lot of white neo-Remontadoses no longer be found.
It can be seen that the two motorcycles were allegedly taken by the group from Forbes to encourage the payment for them to be a man from February.
That was not far, that was a house of the price hike.
I already found out that, there are soldiers who are stubborn; as well as the same place, the children are also affected because of the volume of stones that caused the fight.
The grader is like a grader that takes too much heat from or iced tea, the house helper, Omar and Abdul Feranil, the camp of the M Riyals, and the military did not go back to it.
All of your house is filled in the cemetery of your house.
In his house.
The leaders.
Some of the tied civilians, who were Marcos, like the Is, were found.
In a nipa hut, the word was very strong.
A while ago, the body of the Philippines in the place there is a small amount that we need to buy in the house between soldiers and the government that you are carrying because of this challenge.
We saw.
The true ability of our country.
To be annoyed.
Last February.
Today is March.
That's why we were able to recover immediately.
Fuck, covetousness; and then.
It's so-time that we can do.
Stand up for the military but will borrow money so that it will not be V the reason for their meeting with trouble.
In the house almost everyone will agree to something like that.
Their target was.
The old man just cried.
What a pre-nosed?
Here in the area, watch a horseshoe.
Twenty pesos.
Okay.
There, we are sure that they will go after the higher members of the good member.
While you are saying it's as if you won the government.
That it will take time to return to normal, and they need to support the military because of the threat that a good group might return to their place.
"We are very pitiful; he / she is very kind; we are saying that the military is now saying that, he's a good group, who is not loyal; he / she said that it's not true that he / she is an ally, who is a member of the B; that's why he / she said that it's not true that he / she didn't have any kind of stories that are not in care of your condition at the B-B; that's why he / she said that it's not true that he / she didn't say that he / she was not talking about.
On the fourth military, they are not hiding anything that it is also possible that there is also a member of the Saligang Batas.
Those who are worried about this especially are your relatives but it may lead to as a member of the M PL.
Many of their relatives have not yet to be more aggressive in Baguio and a good thing.
We are anxious; we are full-tempered; however, if they will security, these will not be complete; we are also different from what they are saying.
They think that they have no difference with each other because we are saying that they should be elected.
These people who have fought in the government have their clothes there, while the military are saying it is a few years that they are saying that a few years, which are done by the bomb of the suspects were killed by the bomb of the suspects, the parents and other candidates for a good group.
Hhness, very well-mannered; not once, can't be seen, that's why he / she didn't take care of him; he / she said that she was taking her pictures here in the room.
I grew up with D billion pesos.
What we are saying is strong so that this will be one of our pencil and topography and for a while a while ago, we will be the one to teach on our going there in Buyers Limited; there are some who say that according to him, there's one who has a power to be crazy.
"They are also with those who have been with something like that who are covetous of R TJ because we were able to remove it, which is why we really have to take advantage of what happened here in Buug, thank you very much for you in a bed and view.
