The Public Administration as well as Bira Masaya Esmilla, September 5, 2016.
We cannot stop the quick action of technology, this has a mark of progress and it won't be prevented but it seems like we are always fighting and have a sabotage of it.
The gadgets like cellphone, shrimp, media players and computers are only ordinary things, can we deny that this is part of our normal life?
Teaching before, if we go back to the previous strategy of teaching, there is a big difference compared to now that we have learned from school using a way of 3Rs - Retiro Street.
As time passes, the demand of new generation is increasing and not enough teaching of the concept should not be enough.
The teacher needs a companion in order to get the attention of the youth like the colorful picture, with action, sound and others.
Teaching.
Under the program being implemented by DepEd, K-12 curriculum, it is included here is teaching and copra technology in Information Technology.
This is a big challenge for the teachers of the public schools because of a limited budget from the government, it is fortunate that some schools from Imelda Elementary School, branch of Malabon, who received high-high-high equipment in teaching such as television, desktop computers, which are from the local government.
There were two rooms built for the Commercial Center for almost two classrooms.
A limited case.
However, the lack of lack in order to meet the needs of 4 thousand children to school is still very big.
Despite the limitation, the teachers are trying hard to fulfill the widespread damages done by the abomination.
The sacrifice of the teacher.
Though the salary is simple, many are forcing himself from their own pocket to have their own laptop, burns.
It was a very big help caused by the technology in our profession before, a long time spent on writing the Lesake.
Now, C-encovetous is just being cowards.
There are also a lot of people who have been victimized by DLL-Tropas.
Tarakan.
We also called Tarzan, big role that he was replaced with the t-ray of Manila paper and KimXi.
It was last seen in a glimpse of the children who are studying if the lesson will be with Povidine iodine which is accompanied by video Crib which is appropriate to study.
Wake up call to students.
He moved out their interest in studying and there were also times when the children themselves made their own video.
They can also be given extension, when they go home to their house or going to the computer shop through visiting the Eyebank Foundation, and Learchipelongs like "Quad per School" which is considered by DepEd.
It is possible to pass it to FB.
This is also usually used on Facebook in making to be enious online.... there are GROs at Public School, Teguessed that style is also common.
As time passes by, expect that not only in Metro Manila and some cities in the country will be implemented, teaching.
But the question is are the neighboring barangays in the modern ways of kissing?
