
Destroyed by him.

Clean names, not money, what is important is to resign from his duty, city administrator of Manila, Atty. Simeon Garcia, which was destroyed by the people around Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada.
Garcia, chief of Staff of Senator Jinggoy Estrada for nine years, became a victim like Mayor Erap's wrong accusation and forcefully destroyed by people who are envious of him.
Together with the Liberal ng Masang Pilipino, Erap and Isko are together in Manila, along with Erap and Isko, in Metro Manila and my opinion of Erap in Manila, former Manila City Doctors Garcia is the real one who made the new mayor of Manila to make his fight last 2012 elections.
Thousands have helped to criticize Mayor Estrada about the people who were out of the former congressman of Nueva Ecija due to the end the hindrance in making money from the city.
Using Garcia is using its management in Divisoria, Quiapo where it was assigned by the mayor to disappear, which is being complained by the vendors.
It was lost that Garcia had gone when Garcia was the administrator because it was sent to the Tristan (Office of the collection, aside from the fact that it was about the 79-year-old boy with the collection of the Walkers.
Before, using some personnel of the Department of Public Works (DPS) of Che Borromeo, aside from the names of Councilor Dennis Alcoreza, one of the allegations to collect payment.
Garcia is grateful for the surrounding the mayor because this should be investigated on transactions and contract being served by some who have personal interest in the system of Manila.
Garcia saved his boss Erap but the mayor favored the people to go to each other because he has long been with him for a long time and he has long been with all of these to his ears.
Now, the brightness of Garcia is so happy because there will be no obstacle in their cruelty and this kind of lies in the name of money.
Hopefully, the time will not come when Mayor Estrada was caught in the responsibility of his Secretary to the mayor, Atty. Edward Serna io like what he did to the Erap Muslim Youth Foundation.
The mayor might have a report that the businessmen who talked to his said official promised to complain about the extreme height that they are asking for their payment for some buildings standing in the jurisdiction of Manila.
To Atty. Jojo Alcoop, it was replaced with Garcia, hopefully you will not be victimized by the big lies of the surrounding Mayor Erap.
However, maybe what happens is that what would happen is that what will answer to the will of the surrounding you.
