
JC, the desire for Jordan By Alwin, October 29, 2016.
JC de Vera.
Diva, thank you for a love of UP Film Center to watch his supporting Actor.
I was able to find out why JC took home the best actress to the QCinema Film Festival.
I admit, I am not often with JC.

Besides, what he knows is all that he knows in life, that's why he will be deceived by her race which is why he / she will be deceived by his race but what's always happening, it seems that she would not be able to breathe.
He was about to talk for a long period of time, when the publicity was recovered, but after that, he would just be able to give up.
After the movie, Wish, i'll just be able to stop just a stop, that's why he / she was able to stop him / her because he / she was the heart of a love.
Why is it?

Because, he does not know how to know that de Vera is good.
As Mikey, he whacking out that he accused a pusher and was locked in prison for four years, you could really feel the film that he was able to feel out of the movie which was abandoned by the characters.
And boy, a roller coop of the house that he went through to Mikey.
According to the First Division, you can see that he already has an affair with him, "the fear and trembling of his abdomen when she was raped inside the bar, Fight IT led by Vilma Santos in the relationship with Vilma Santos in the relationship.
And because there is a LGBT race against the movie although it is not vegetable of the director, that is Liza's highlight in that, the fairies, which can be held up on the ridiculous and very hot topic.
Perelegant, a kiss on the heat, wrapped around and love, that is together with De Vera and Herrera.
I scrub it, there is someone who takes a glimpse of my womanhood while I am watching the scene.
It's true that, it's true that you have heard the sound of the sound of a nap.
Hope for the one of being ill-tempered, he / she really loves me.

Hahaha!
The chemotherapy of JC and Jordan were too much, you would really think, "they are married.
There was a point when she caressed the heart, it is delightful to see that even Andre Paras and her barism are all acting, "I can still let go.
There is another actor in the movie that should also be loved, Acey Aguilar, like a villain.
Seen behind bars was the reason why he was so strong.
