For the students who graduated with honor.

There is a joke in the English language about the two kinds of students of the student: 07 at nightfall, that it's already a running fight for.
In the occasion of your end (elementary school or college), I'm greeting you, I know you have worked hard to get a good upbringing by your loved ones because it is definite that your loved ones are very happy because of the honor you have received.
Compared to college, the number of those who got in college that the number of students who reached a high grades are dependent on the number of students who reached a high score, so you feel that a popular competition in a famous movie before (which became a TV Patrol), "said the one" one "one"
In the language of the current generation, you are the one who has a high score, you are more intelligent that more than others.
My plea to this point is simple at this point: Any praises from your relatives and friends should not be set up in your head because the honor you have received is not a guarantee for your future future.
It is better for you to analyze the making of your "good future," first of all, what you want to happen in your life, right?
It is true that being the honor student is making a lot of opportunities, you can see yourself in a big company that will give you a higher salary, aside from the good benefits like you, although you still need to show that you have a high level of my professor.
And what kind of "professor was" what is needed to work in the big company that you want to work in the big company that you want to school, if your hard work is the basis, it can be said that the employee is looking for you and obedient.
But what you want to earn big is what you want to happen in life? Or would you want to make it deeper if your skill is better, there is a space for the tasks that you have not even source of income.
It is easy to say, but it is hard to do so that what you will do is a big sacrifice if in case it will be applied to a big company that is ready to give you a big salary and it is an additional benefit, what you will do will voluntarily surrender to the welfare of the majority of the poor.
To the recognition given by your honor, as a hardworking student, you need to change your perspective in any activity that you are doing so good in the end, you will know that you do not need praises, recognition or acknowledging.
Yes, you still need to earn so that they will earn a way to give a family but with positive perspective, you need to be rich and instead of accepting the events around you, you need to help to change the trend in society.
Can you be ready to accept the challenge that is full of sacrifice, hopefully we will test the true "honor, not your student but your personality.
And if the concept of the "good future is going to go back, as a result of your end with honor, you need to remember every meaningful life that you need to do because we need the sacrifice to be done because we have something to change.
