
Hala BE, IOS in Sabah and politicians who have MERS.

While there is a crime happening in Sabah, Filipinos and military forces and police of Malaysia, we remembered that the dark story in the Bibit is a long time.
This is about the harassment done by Hernaez and a bet in Egypt as well.
Hala Bira!
Hernaez is known for harassment from the children when she found out that someone was born as the king of Israel.
Herrel said that he lost his position as a king in the said country before.
That's why he ordered the killing of all young men with two children to ensure that whoever was born will be defeated which will replace him in his throne.
He was just unlucky and was able to make it back to Jesus going to Egypt.
Herodes of children failed to remove the tribe of children, especially Jesus who was peeking into the safety from the people who can make it alive.
No.
During the time of Moises, Parker or Pharaoh as the call of the king in Egypt, then.
The children also experienced this, especially the men, before the order of a Parker in order to finish all the young Israelites or Hebrethren or Jews as the race of Moises and Jesus.
The group just wants to stop the increase of the Israelites or Hebreach or a solution to killing young men who when married, became the cause of their increase.
It was afraid that in a long time, that if the men whose faces are increasing, there will also be more who will complain about his fight or for the Israelites or Jews.
In a very long time, his son the Princess himself was the one who took advantage of Moises in the river and treated her as a real child.
Just like what everyone knows, Moises is taking the escape and release of the Israelites before in Egypt.
Just a Filipino.
Because of the arrival of the royal family of the Sultanate of Sulu in Sabah to restore the said land in the jurisdiction of the Sultanate and in the Philippines, there is also a widespread harassment from the Filipinos there.
According to reports, as long as Filipino, there is a doubt that if an ally or not the royal family of the Sultanate.
That's why there's a report now that Filipinos are increasing in number.
"Is it that not only in the area of Lahad Datu, the eyes of Malaysian Malaysians but also places that are going to be far from here are not just in the area of Lahad Datu.
And it is said that Malaysia has a plan to just leave the Philippines with many Filipinos in Sabah even if they have grown old, married, and working.
Religious elders.
There was a gentleman who was killed by the Malaysian Airlines that included in those who shelter the royal family of the Sultanate of the Sultanate.
Prior to this, Malaysian soldiers were also killing the father of the house which was the date of their date for the royal family or continued with them.
The murder was added as a form of harassment from the Filipinos there.
With the feeling of Malaysian, there is Jesus or Moises which led to the Fisheries Code of Sabah, which is why all of them are in doubt, being harassed and killed.
Like Jesus.
Because of what happened, it was also reported that the allies of the royal family suddenly increased.
And some allegedly went with them to bring weapons and fight.
It is still different from the coming from Palawan and Mindanao to enter Sabah as a martyr anymore from the return of Sabah to the Philippines or the Sultanate.
With what is happening, it seems that the situation of Jesus will go back to Sabah and the Philippines is also in the Philippines.
"Is it that instead of stopping the movement, then the Sultanate of the Sultanate, it will be a drink of laboratory tests.
It can be recalled that the Christianity was strengthened and the movement of Israel will be strengthened and murdered by Jesus and Kristofer before.
Not in favor with war.

We are not in favor with the war in resolving the problem on the territory in Sabah.
We know that there is a peaceful way like bringing a problem in the United Nations.
What I mean is that the problem in legal way and the UN is the possible court if we present it there.
That is why, we are asking the government what to do.
Especially that the fight over Sabah will get smeared by blood and death.
In our opinion, not pure case or cause or no hope is the return of Sabah to the Philippines like what others are saying.
But though it's possible to end up in the UN, it would also be good to ask the UN the problem using the position of Sir Marcos and the Sultanate of Sulu.
It is also not enough to show it based on humanitarian or Mercy mission "to those who are hungry or having a hard time now in the area.
Candidate for corrupt!
It is just surprising that there are almost no politicians who speak about the issue.
"Is it a word that has been made up, if there is, all innuendos or consolation for each other.
Even the straight path is suddenly reversed while these are very noisy in politics and they are the ones saying the one who is saying the SSL and Jesus in our time.
