
Who will benefit the most from donations?

From the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas Region, we witnessed what kind of government we have and what kind of President is, we, the Filipinos who have witnessed the shortcomings, weak leadership and capacity, as if there is no government and no leader.
One week has passed when the super typhoon Yolanda hit the Visayas region but there is still no help or help from the government, President Aquino directly said that the government is ready for any disaster.
It is said that the Cuya was ready to be ready, but the 20 ships of the Philippine Navy, the 20 ships of the Philippine Navy, are also ready for the places which are possible to be hit by the storm, it is expected that the storm will end up and the typhoon will go down.
President Aquino, what happened to what you said before the devastation of Yolanda in Visayas Region, a week now, but why it seems that our countrymen in Visayas are not feeling the things you said that everything is ready.
DILG Secretary Mar Roxas blames the roads that were said to be used to get along with it, but what could they use and that is why they do not use the relief goods?
You said that you are always saying that it is always after the trucks that load relief goods in the time of the campaign even if the chopper could get their minds even if the chopper could not do it, why don't you do it?
Why is it that, where the senators and other politicians have nothing to see, one of them spoke in TV Patrol, even if she was not seen in TV.
The people from another country will make sure that the Philippines will love the Philippines because of the size of donated money or in line, but the disconcerns will be provided by the government for the victims of Yolanda.
Can the donations reach the people who are deserving to give assistance, to the people who are really victimized by Yolanda?
Umm, let us just look at it, whoever will benefit the money and food given to other countries, the real victims of typhoon or the people?
