Challenge to General Espina.

There is no doubt that the public is impressed by NCRPO chief Leonardo Espina because of the strong resolve in the order of the PNP for his personnel.
For him, there is no place for the police to be exported.
- up to him, Espina will not disrespect Espina.
But in QCPD, one named "Rocky" is already in its peak because of the harassment done by the NCRPO because of the foolishness of "Rocky" "according to Chona Lupa," according to Chona Lupa, "a "-"" of the QCPD Top Rank. "
And because of this, General Espina is still being used to those involved in illegal drugs in the city of Bistek, as well as his challenge to General Espina, the Muslim PNP personnel should be imprisoned if QCPD director Mario dela Vega, should be disciplined.
Cebu - based on illegal gambling.
The personnel of BOC Commissioner Ruffy Biazon again boasted when they were arrested last Thursday at the P7 million worth of sugar that will be smuggled in Cebu City.
It was only two days ago when the BOC agents caught a Filipino-American who tried to build a few guns and gun at work at NAIA.
The sugar that reaches up to ten 40-year-old matriarch of these traditions of Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu), which was held in Port of Cebu last November 22, 2012 when there was no appropriate permit from the Severe Regulatory Commission on November 22, 2012.
The conformity is intentional to be the dancers that's being sold, as well as the witness, which is why he will not need to get the flood in the local market of a blood sugar and to protect the interest of the local sugar industry.
It is only right that even the exuals are being monitored by the leadership of Biazon as well because the ports are usually made on top.
It's amusing that because of the previous BOC administration, "the trend is not made to be exported in the UV Expresses in the country because of its system.
And it is Biazon, we believe, "we believe," do not go there!
The good work will continue and the people will surely be happy.
