
6 Karangalan Village, 23 policemen in drugs and closer to the victims.

Chief Inspector Elmer Santiago, the intelligence officer of the Philippine National Police, in a place in Mandaluyong City last Wednesday evening and he died then.
This is after meeting with one of his officials and asked for help to support her in the campaign against high drugs in Metro Manila and Central Luzon.
Did the police kill him?
This is the question and the truth will be shown on the day when someone will prove that he will persevere in favor of him.
DIawM for drugs.
In following the footsteps of those involved in drugs, Major-Santiago.
He has done the source of drugs spreading in Metro Manila until the province of Zambales and Bataan.
He also managed to smell, policemen who are involved or protectors of drugs.
Also drug lords and drug pushers.
And this is what he pulled and submitted to Camp Crame, according to what Santiago did when he was still alive.
6 Karangalan Village, 23 police.
In his diets, drugs or brain are from Muntinlupa City, in the National Bilibid Prisons, especially now.
It means, a big drug lord is imprisoned and even if he is imprisoned, he is still operating a syndicate from his cell until the said province.
And the flow of drugs becomes successful because as it goes to the hands of the six Colonel and 23 police.
The Subic-Olongapo area is in the jurisdiction of the police and in the six towns of Bataan.
That is why this is just the reason why drugs is not complete in these areas, including of course in some places in Metro Manila.
Have been suspended.
There are reports that have been suspended and some of those involved in the drugs of Santiago are being investigated.
The question: To whom is the investigation and where is the investigation?
Does there have been imprisoned for them and can the authorities wash the hands?
"Is it possible that there is something that can be brought about by the authorities?
Drug lords and the victims.
Where are the traditional politicians and drug pushers?
Did they catch them in order to be one of those who should be responsible for the widespread drugs in Metro Manila or Bilibid and in Zambales and Bataan?
It seems that the police is silent on this issue or maybe we will be surprised if there will be their bodies that should be thrown anywhere.
Because Santiago slaughtered the policemen or men of drug lords, who can be sure that the boss and children of policemen who are involved in drugs will live long.
Death or deaths are the usual ultimate solution to wash the hands of the involved police and drug lords in their illegal activities, Bro.
It is the child of tofu, PNP Chief, Director General Alan Purisima, how will this be, duh?
Unlikely to answer.
If there will be an operation for the Philippines and China, they will help President Barack Obama when he loves the Philippines?
This is an important question for Obama to go to the Philippines.
The answer, is like the equivalent of what Mar Roxas said to the victims of typhoon Yolanda in the past.
It is up to you in your life because what we want is a peaceful solve the problem.
Only the support in the case filed by the Philippines about the territorial dispute in the West Philippine Sea in the United Nations is the clear answer of Obama.
Weapons and training!
Giving weapons and training in using these is a clear answer.
Obama said that he has no intention to stop the haunting of China in the West Philippine Sea and it is not just good to look if China will use threats because the trade and organization of the Chinese and the Americans are huge.
That's why the hope of the Philippines is really blurry to help Uncle Sam in war.
PNoy continues to tell the Philippines more than saying that the Philippines wants to progress more than going to the war in order to defend some of rocks in the West Philippine Sea that is why people cannot live there.
Ask for help from the victims.
Because of the unlikely issue on security and protection of the Philippines from the Americans in the conflicts of the West Philippine Sea, it is better for us to run for the new saint and to Pope Francis.
Maybe it might be recalled that Pope John XT III and Pope John Paul II is our prayers to defend the Philippines in case there will be a war on the West Philippine Sea.
We also ask for help from Pope Francis or Papa Kiko for our progress.
Because Papa Kiko is willing to cover the corrupt and threw him in the middle of the ocean.
Those corrupt are the reason for the progress of the Philippines and they have a lot even if they are just waiting for the list of Napoles with Justice Secretary Leila de Lima and ex-Senator Ping Lacson.
This is also the reason why we have no fighter jets and other weapons used in defending our territory from the taking of others.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
