
School.

Similar to primary services, the people will be facing a big problem in education.
Every year, almost all private schools and university are asking to increase and increase.
Their reason, the increase in supply and things in the school continues, aside from fixing the buildings, daily bills and people who are planning to increase the teachers and personnel.
In the coming school year, 353 in college and university were reported by the Commission on Higher Education (Commission), who are asking for the increase of pension increase, aside from schools in Eastern Visayas which is still down from the lashing of typhoon Yolanda.
Education is one of the biggest being spent by the Filipinos.
From 40 percent of the companies that are called "difficult," or "the" ones who are living in poverty.
It means that, it is more important to them to have its own stomach than to enter school.
And it's not only the poor who complained about very expensive and expensive education.
Even those who have their own school students complained about the continuous attack.
What's worse, a lot in college, the university or the Priority Development Assistance Fund "which is still teaching.
The "Dugo-school" this is the reason why many are going to graduate because the failed to go over to Licensure Festival.
Do you see, after they were taking blood and sweat of their parents to finish school, this has not ended up yet?
It is because the Commission on Higher Education, or control over the scattered pork barrel scam, because many of them are owned by politicians or are their relatives.
While there are many parents who are looking for guidance for the good future of their children even if it is expensive to pull blood in paying so expensive, it is saddening that a lot in college and a university will lower down the level of their teaching.
Also add to this problem is the lack of opportunity or lack of programs in the government's work.
Do you look at the thousands of dollars, hang out because it is difficult to enter a job, based on their eyebrows or study.
We know that education is a business for the owners of the schools.
But hopefully, the very expensive amount of toll fee is they match their proper service.
"Is it mixed with a high quality and not just like" school, which can be bought from a kilo of longganisa there.
