
Thursday, August 21, 2014.

The book about this book is initial, fourth.

This is the reason why I am called.

It has been a long time that there was no difference in the book that was so long ago in 2006, the first collection in 2007, and the third collection in 2007, and the third collection last 2007, and the third collection in 2008.

First, almost few of the workers are writing the ducks, which is why it's hard for them to pass by the author as well, it is also possible that there is a trend of books that can be published because there is also a trend of books which is common to activists.

Second, it can't pay attention to it because aside from the many tasks, those who are destroying the internet will get better instead of just a few bites.

Third, the remaining copy of the Ondoy storm was drowned in the typhoon Ondoy, 2 and 3, and dried the things even if it was not able to reveal himself even if it was broken.

They sold it and hid as a proof of the disathers for the first three issues, that if there will be the payment for a comfortable, it has been published.

Fourth, it is hard to gather the author as well as the writers, good thing that's why they are convinced to write and ask them to write.

It is important to save down and short stories of activists, who are workers inside the movement, in the principle of people and for the principle of people and for the principle of people's rights, and principle which is the rights of each one, and live with integrity.

That's why there is a need to continue the authors of the author as well as their contribution and writings are big contribution to the construction of the workers, not only here in the country, but also in other parts of the world.

Every question were gathered and made into the editing of being thrown at the crash site, but almost no one touched the entirety of each candidate for how the readers can know when it was caught, or it passed to your servant.

Let's go, let us read and we have the pain and belief of the ducks which are here by the ducks, we can also find the sweetness and bitterness of their counter, sacrifice and happiness.

Let us prepare for the fifth collection of the duck meat which is why we will return again and save for the next generation that will be beneficial for the next generation.
