
Poor at the time of flood: From a danger zone "towards" death penalty. "

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
August 14, 2012.

It is not yet finished that the flood has long been washed away by the flood from Montalban, Rizal (establishments, Quijano).
Even if the sky is dark, everyone is busy cleaning the clothes, toys for children, closet, and other valuable items being submerged in flood in the midst of the southwest monsoon which has long been famous in the lives of poor people who were affected inside the Relocation Site in Montalban, Rizal.
"We were brought here to be killed," prayed to discover, Fernando Perez, 58, a month-year-old family from Isla Puting Bato, Tondo, Manila.
Morality is not safe.
At around five o'clock in the morning on August 7, Fernando was woken up in the entry of the flood in their house, said to open the flow of water and the flow of the flow, he said, including the six-month-old grandchild.
Those affected in cleaning are busy and they do not want to go back to their former home, and they can only be occupied by houses which are allocated to the new All Soul's Day (several years; Quijano).
More or more than 3,000 families were built in vitality Village, Montalban, the severe flood lasted up to 200 of them were forced to stay in their roof until the water has subsided but no rescue arrived.
The flooding was caused by the overflowing of the river, where the water coming from the dams of La Mesa and Wawa, a thin dike collapses, which was destroyed last morning - was destroyed in the river and houses.
"It is good that it happened (the destruction of dike), if not, many are dead," said Fernando.
Last Sunday, President Aquino visited the vitality Elementary School where some of the victims were being thrown away from the river, that's why he started to catch up with the houses near the river, "right?" Do we need to build our own in danger, "he said," do not need to build our self in danger., "he said.
These styles in vitality Village, Montalban, months, Quijano, are destroyed.
But according to the poor, the government itself has put them in danger of the alleged former part of the river in that part of vitality, and the land of the National Disaster Authority (NHA) to buy houses.
"That's where we were taking a bath and doing laundry," according to Anna Bayambang, who lives in Montalban, they were surprised when they arrived at a higher part, where they stay in a higher part, where they stay until now. "
Many of those who are living in the houses are currently living in the houses in a higher part of vitality Village, the problem, it was allocated by NHA about other countries in North Triangle, Quezon City, despite it, many are not going to return to their homes, whatever happens.
One of them is Martina Gascar, 44, he remembers the fear that he was feeling when they encounter, along with his three children, the flood was like a ocean because it came back to death instead, he said.
Marbuprofen, car (right), we were brought to death by the government (children (months; Quijano, were brought to death.
Only three months have already been transferred to Montalban, Quezon City, who were collected by the houses in NIA Road, Quezon City.
But now, there is no use for the peace of the house that has been taken away by the flood, up to 10,000 pesos worth of warehouses, but I thought it's not good here, "it turns out that we were sent to death."
"It is better for us to make a hut in a hut," according to Fernando, if they will allegedly try to return.
PNoy plans for the poor.
Damayang Lagi, Damayang Lagi, Kadamay, is threatened by the Aquino administration to the poor, from the danger zone and landslide where the group is far from the flood and landslide, this is far away from the flood and landslides.
Just like the fear of the group, the government is using the disaster to push their demolition just recently, by Department of Public Works and Highways Sibol, Rogelio Singson that Aquino ordered him to evict them from the side of the water from 195,000 families in Manila. "
The dike built in San Jose Builders, Incorporated.
"They forcefully pulled out that it is not true for the welfare and safety of our poor people, we are the victims of the flood, we are the ones who will be victimized by the explosion of our houses," according to Carlito Galion, second chairman of the Pambansang Kamao.
"What about the private mall, condominium, and building who occupies the most big land in Manila, including the experts were referring to one of the cause of flooding?, why the government did not order to prevent those who were exposed?" Untalan added.
The statement of Aquino has been shown to her being the coldness of the poor. "
"Hopefully, they eat everyday.
Last August 13, a lot of relief mission was identified, Kadamay, and Adik-list of vitality Village, which is part of packs of old clothes and food in the call, "to ensure the safety of the poor!"
It was said that this was never done by the Aquino government, instead of suspending the budget for fixing and acknowledging the budget for fixing the budget for the demolition and other facilities, including the damaged dike.
We are talking about snack and AOIL-list (OFWs-list (establishments, Quijano).
That's why the poor people who have been living in Montalban, learned to depend on the government before, even before Aquino reached Montalban, the group of mothers to feed porridge and hundreds of children came first.
Bayang's family is also affected, vice-president of Auto, sweat of vitality, but he did not stop in his job in order to help in cleaning and operations where we are poor, "he said.
Amelia is an real Estate broker even though, while the wife is one of the actual security guard, they know that they are still lucky compared to other countries, how they earn, they are still hungry every day, they eat everyday.
He asks that aside from fixing the houses of Relocation Site, the government should build a decent job, but he knows that it is unlikely to happen under Aquino's area, while they will continue to transfer.
Poor, helping each other in cleaning and operations that are being used in the time of conditioning the season.
