Dinky Soliman, the victims of the storm Pablo has been accused of corruption.

Members of the storm Pablo asked the resignation of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Salas. Dinky Soliman that they accused the funds for the victims of the storm.
In one statement, the residents of Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental complained about the mysterious management and corruption of P18 billion calamity fund and other help from the international community, "most of the victims of the Pablo, who have been with other rotten rice," according to Barug on Hala.
The victims will just laugh at this day in front of the DSWD office in Region Xi Jinping.
The group accused the DSWD that was built on the piles of house built for the victims, "according to the newspapers, it was only around 200,000 pesos, but according to the International Organization (OFW), according to Karlos Traia, spokesperson of the group.
The group also revealed that there are Ghost of DSWD in the town of Cateel, Davao Oriental and Monkayo, Compostela Valley, where the signature of workers given by the agency is fake.
In the interview of Filipino Weeker, Trangia said that DSWD has not yet given the 10,000 sacks of rice that Soliman promised after the bark of the victims in Montevista National Highway last January 15.
"There are a lot of schism that they are asking for all kinds of beneficiary and many are afraid that this will be used by the government against them and they will also be charged with cases, like what was done to us, he said.
Seven leaders of the Barazza was seven, including Trangia, who was charged by the police and other cases after the barracks.
According to Trangia, "the DSWD with the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to use those that are going to be used by the government against insurgency and if those that are going to be used by the government.
"This is against our exclusive laws and why are we not given the materials to build our own house?" He said.
The DSWD has also being sold every amount of P200 in every time that is for each other, according to the complaint of the Lumad in Bagocboc, Davao Oriental.
"The government of Aquino himself pushed 6.2 million victims of Pablo.
And fought in order to live, "said the Baracademia.
A big corporals will damage the victims from February 15 to insist on their wishes, including the alleged responsibility in the disaster of big companies in mines and plantation.
Meanwhile, in one statement of DSWD, Soliman said that they are ready to give the promised sacks of rice, as long as the group will respond to the eight major schism.
