After the celebration of the expenses because of the high New Year, we can go ahead; we are already living there.
To those who will pay for it now, how will they be able to go out from the money they might get out from the money, because all of us have lost electricity and the phone, we will buy that we are the New Year to watch.
Of course, for two hours, there are a lot of expenses so that the budget is very small now because it's a little past you know that it's just a lot of people.
We are stupid; we really do not have a long time, no one after the past, we really do not have any kind of things even if we are really not wearing a gun, it is really difficult to catch us in two consecutive days in Quezon City, it is really difficult to chase and why.
That is why I can take advantage of what we are talking about.
The Chairman here is in personal adviser?
I told you that this is certain Auto Consignation.
There are still those who look at each other; we have to look straight and just sleep on what is the right way to make both Julius.
We have to spend on what we have to spend.
Forget what is needed so that when I will look at it, I will really be able to make a debt because I am the one alone in Ondoy.
"When they said that only four months have passed, that is why it is not effective if you do not have an effective card, right," it's as if you will pay attention to me, I will be able to pay attention to all details which is why it's only one of the details that's why my five-six children are high.
Five out of them are close to those who are being told by the Zurbano family.
It was five, but there was no one to pay, but he did not pay attention to the flawless; so that I would not have been killed by the five, it seems like they were thinking about that, after being paid.
They are being paid, that we are paying taxes; rather, I arrived here in a month a month.
You will say to you, at the other hand, you will be able to ask for an estimation of one hundred pesos for the two-shirts-shirts and godchildren of Two people.
Very much.
That's why we are saying that this is the amount of debt first for you to pay more, but it will be better to pay a bigger chance for us to put us first.
They will say that there is no payment for you to go back again with the projects that you are calling, as if you think about the competition, you think about the competition, it can be easy for you to pay for it, that is why it is easy to pay for it.
Here in the five-year-old siblings, they will be kind and kind.
You are the beauty that is why they are free doctors for the cellphone that we have for a cellphone; so he said that, there are people who are at the same age; and very eight-six-four years.
Our salary is only two thousand pesos, which can be deported; we can play computer.
Because what else can we go; we can't take care; right?
What is the sixth time when he is assigned by the pay of Ronald a lot.
Kalupaan.
Someone will get a job but it is better to pay.
All are equal.
Really.
I said, my debt is for my debt or debt, is I going to come closer to me?
What is it?
I really love the best thing.
Then we do not have money to look down; we have no money.
That's why I am saying it is easier to read but the truth is, you are also able to look straight at the sake of the people.
That we need to save away because you should pay that you are being paid, just to let you pay for someone to eat while they have to be used to drink.
It is okay to be thrifty.
By Soriano.
It's because we heard that we have a marriage or a shopping person, just talk when he talks about the age of pesos.
For five days for five days, he said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was saying that he / she was not getting angry; he / she said that he / she was really not getting mad at a nipa hut to me, I would say that I will get mad at me.
.
It's only then when it is February and I have five years, it seems that we are the same, but we are also selling the coins; we are selling the coins, but we neglect the truth that we are going to be together.
So she told her man to build a man here in Manila hotel.
