"Those" are wrong "of Malacanang.

"Last Yolanda, President Noynoy Aquino III said," are you dead? "This was followed by" we are busy with the number of our job "and in some interview," why are we going to be blamed? "
When he is already entering the questions, he already knows even someone who gave birth to her answer, "that is the fault of the previous administration of GMA!"
As they say, it is only his inheritance and what is the result of Interior Secretary Mar Roxas when he said, "said mayor, Romualdez and the President now is Aquino!"
Just like the MRT manager Al Vitangcol being caught in the allegation of Czech Republic Act Examination regarding the attempt to be filed by the US for 48 million, he was once again seen by his boss in Malacañang, since he was seated in the MRT, he has already made a lot of changes and if any shortcomings was made by the past administration!
Meanwhile, Neneng Mendoza Abigail Valte said, the last win of Manny Pacquiao against Tim Bradley is a proof that a part of the advancement of the country is a proof that it is a part of the advancement of the country? "
CAGAYHerminio Coloma, the criticisms of the people in the worsening number of number of passengers in the MRT are increasing, "why did you just go to EDSA for you to reach your destination?"
There are many taxi and buses to ride and be loose!
They will only be able to finish their term in Malacañang, instead of giving importance to public service, those who are talkative on their services are all addicted to those who are talkative and poor, in truth.
You do not want to be criticized and criticized, but you do not want to speak to the right direction of service to the country, if you do not want to attack the criticism, you think that the people will pass through it.
Here, Coloma said, "public service," public service, stated on the anomalous pork barrel of Janet Lim-Napoles, because there are many who are calling for the three senators Minority Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla.
"How about your more allies who are also involved in the pork barrel scam, because if you are your ally, you have become aware of it!
