
Justice for Prime Minister us Mancera and the son who should pay the regular criminals of 49th Infantry Batallion!

Maintain loyalty.
New People's Army - Camarines Norte.
February 2 7,700.

Under the mother of Metro Rail Transit-NPA), the massacre and the brutal murder of the military troop of 49th Infantry Battalion and their 3 children who are living in the massacre case of the NPA and the citizens who are living in the massacre case of the NPA and the citizens who are living in the massacre case of the NPA and NPA, are continuing to be implemented by the military and leadership of the military and soldiers who are assigned to the massacre of the military and the provincial government.

The government troops died in the massacre, who are in front of Lt Col. TMackay, a 14-year-old girl who is in the hospital, and one of those who survived the murder of the city council of Barangay Malaya, Labo and some policemen who were living in the hospital, while the second suspect was brutally killed by the military and stated that he was brutally murdered by the military which even had been murdered.

Included in those who were killed in the house of the father-and-son Manczar, Ka Ghane, was conducting an investigation on the complaints of the masses and the damage caused by the military and the abuses of the military and the death of Mang Ben was also resting in the floor of the house.

Since the projects of the anti-citizens and anomalous agencies of the government and AFP last January have passed, the NPA troops were taking advantage of the roads inside the Barangay Hall, chapel, and some of the soldiers who were living in the Barangay Hall, chapel and some of the military troops that were trapped in the roads inside the Bagong Silang two; they forcefully took advantage of the roads inside the Bagong Silang two; the military troops were able to catch up in the roads inside the Barangay Hall, chapel, the military troops were forcefully taken by the military and fear.

According to the initial statement of Carlito Cada (PIO) of Adik-CDO, it turns out that the fierce negotiation of the violence which is hiding in the cities in the town of Labo is revealed that the citizens who are living in the town of Labo are expecting that their lives and livelihood are expected under the peace and livelihood implemented by the country of Labo which can be implemented by the former US-Aquino. "

It would be recalled that the movement and face of the citizens in the leadership of the military and leaders of the military and leaders of the American government should expose and fail in the human rights of the filipino masses, but it will be the more who will be taken away from the advancement of the Filipino masses.
