
The Filipino people does not benefited from the division of the fund under the treacherous and PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 05, 2014.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Filipino Workers or DID, to be a source of fund allocated to DAP - CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) started the increase of the Aquino administration who benefited from the Filipino people from taking advantage of the funds under the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) by Malacañang and he was dismissed as an initiative to give straight to the opposition of the Aquino administration for almost P177 billion in the public funds.

The PKP insisted that Aquino has given funds under the DAP, not able to help solve the existing problem of the Filipino people, lack of jobs, lack of houses, poverty and increase in price of goods that continues to worsen under the Aquino administration.

Last Monday, the Supreme Court released the decision of the Philippines (Commission On Elections (entire court) under the constitutional process, which is favoring the Supreme Court's petition to avoid the Supreme Court's petition to avoid the criminal prosecution and impeachment) to avoid the criminal prosecution and impeachment.

"His supporters in the politics of Aquino are members and allies of the Liberal Party, his friends and big businesses that are benefited from the transfer of funds through DAP," said PKP, "said that Aquino used the public funds for his own sake of politicians.

"Like the budget of pork barrel, the funds given by the Malacañang and the pension increase in the budget through DAP are allocated for the projects which are favored by the allies of Aquino, politicians, even other major projects which are given to the programs of the politicians' allies," added the PKP.

"Even if there is no concrete information to hold-up, Aquino insists that the funds given to the DAP were done when the funds given to the DAP were made to make the attention of the truth that when the fund is being implemented and should be given by Aquino."

It is also insisted by the KP, that the division of the DAP administration is almost 500 times more than the anomalous transaction of the public service, the P26.9 billion pesos for those who are called 1.77 billion pesos for the anomalous program against ARMM, which is estimated to be 1.96 billion pesos for the agricultural sector of DAR and the 625 million pesos for the agriculture and agricultural sector.
