This is the story of the Filipino Worker, don't disrespect!
Wake up in the illusion, Ka Freddie! By Alwin, July 18, 2016 "CUPP), what Freddie Aguilar wants to push for as chairman of the National Commission for Alunan, the Arts.
Hopefully, those from the Palace, is to know that there is a process on how to be a Chairman of NCCA, a person who is a candidate like Aguilar.
May they follow the process and do not force the amount of Rocket Chair and I do not have any plan to belittled the ability and intelligence of Freddie.
However, after he read his suggestions about Torre de Manila problem in Luneta, the peak of me, a heart attack in Major-Major-Los Angeles.
His immediate solution will be solved before making a position in the statue of our national hero, Gat Jose Rizal and the two carabaos on the part of Luneta Park.
The statue of Rizal should face the statue of Rizal so that it will not be a problem of becoming the "Philipines" of Torre de Manila.
Good!
You are a real genius and clay pot, Mr. Aguilar.
They already know that you don't know anyone who can defend and count on why Rizal's monument is in Luneta.
I know that Ka Freddie already knows a lot of running and intellectuals in the feelings of the hana's feelings, and it would only be alone.
But we wake up her in the illusion that he is the Can ally skill in the culture head.
Not only being "Atong" should be the basis for the NCCA head.
Let us not disrespect the legacy of the late National artist for an adult who is an actor Epy Quizon, Jaime C. Laya, Evelyn Panaligan, Ammth, and Felipe de Leon Jr..
They are the former Chairperson in NCCA.
We should be ashamed of the same as of the late National artist for Film Eddie Romero, the National Historical Commission for Fiery Cross Reef, Virgilio Mendez, National artist for Ramon Cruz, who once in their lives became the committee members and tuberculosis.
There is no need to explain what happened to him, who was hammered and personally said that he became an NCCA wheelchair.
"It is said by the act of Kautism which is owned by Freddie," Tuwid na Daan "!
"Our Country," good!
In NCCA, Better chairman, we do not need to deny it.
