
He criticized the brutal and criminal treatment of the victim that will be recalled, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 28, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Aquino administration, the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), and the Philippine National Police (PNP) "due to the brutal and criminal treatment to thousands of victims of calamities that feel bad for their immediate need for food and rehabilitation."

A few thousand victims of calamity came from the area of Compostela Valley who rushed the third day at the DSWD office in Davao City, and they were brutally murdered after it was charged by the police and currently being charged by the local government and theft.
For a few days, the victims of the calamity were able to answer for a few days from the DSWD office, they can answer the DSWD in the construction of the calamity that hit this early morning of December. "I can advise from the DSWD office in the construction of the calamity that hit the Congress in the construction of the calamity, which should be for the relief and rehabilitation of the victims of the calamity.

"Malacañang should attack in expressing the doubt of being legitimate victims of typhoon Pablo and in filing a criminal case against them and their organization," said the DSWD and the Marcos regime in the immediate need of the DSWD and the Marcos regime in the immediate action of the storm Pablo.

"The filipino masses of Compostela Valley, which is being oppressed and being raped, is being oppressed by the calamity that was caused by the previous typhoons and by the direct influence of the Marcos regime in their proper disposition," said the KP.

"The revolutionary force of the typhoon Pablo should encourage the masses to remain strong with their target of the masses so that they can continue their wishes, to expose their wishes to the Aquino administration and destroy their wide support inside and outside the country," said the KP.

"Whatever it is, they may continue to discuss a long time issue about the widespread operations of the companies in mining and the plantation of the area, which are taking advantage of the environment, taking advantage of the citizens and stolen from the natural resources of the country."

"The PKP has called for the Filipino people to continue to support the struggle of the victims of calamities for the immediate action of the calamities for the immediate action of the calamities for the victims of calamity," said the KP.
