"Billions of pesos of DAP went back, Aquino to resign.

Different groups against pork barrel are calling President Aquino to resign after the Supreme Court declared that the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) is being considered as the Presidential pork barrel.
Other groups also appealed to return the Aquino administration to the national treasury and more than P142 billion worth it was used as the wage increase in the year 2011 and 2012.
"In the decision of the Supreme Court (to the decision of the Supreme Court (Aquino's decision, the widespread corruption done by Aquino and his allies," Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), a sign that the workers in the country will hide.
Mark Lui Aquino said, the general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) in Metro Manila and spokesperson of number Scracademics, said that Aquino should be held accountable for the suspension of the Congress or the public and the public is centered on the palace.
"Aquino should resign from shame and his pork gang is getting stronger and reasonable to remove him from office through impeachment or improvement of the citizens," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Women agree under Gabriela.

The Constitution has violated the Constitution.

In the decision signed by Associate Justice Lucas Bersamin, the Supreme Court said that the National Security System (541 and other orders of President Aquino in relation to DAP was signed.
In the said point, the Department of Budget Secretary Florencio Abad was able to take action under Budget Sec. Florencio Abad, who took funds from different agencies of the government that does not have an example to the said agency of the said agency.
It is usually reached up to billions of pesos from the worth of pesos or the proposed fund.
The Supreme Court said that it is against the DAP in Sambag 2 (5) ArVI of the Saligang Batas, it is said that it is said that the endorsement of the "tanim-bala" will be prohibited from the government agencies.
It is said that the "cross border border ers" will also be prohibited, a agency of Executive will be saved from the office outside the Executive.
"It is much better that the administration spent by the Aquino government to P141.23-B DAP, instead of the P10-B which is allegedly stolen from the funds of the country because of the pork barrel scam," Aquino said to be responsible for the pork barrel scam, "Aquino said to the Bayan-Metro Manila.
After the said decision of the Supreme Court, the group of poor people who are against the pork barrel that nobody believes the public that Aquino will not be involved in the pork barrel scam, does not believe.
"It is not for the welfare of the poor, the funds of the government), as it is legal or illegal acts of the government, as long as the program in the economy and the poverty of the government is based on the economy of the government for those who will see the poor in the pork barrel of Kalapati, national chairman of Kalubihan, Aklanthem.

Wants to be investigated.
Meanwhile, it is called out to immediately investigate how Aquino spent the said fund in implementing DAP.
"It was said that stated by the said decision of" pork barrel "as President Noynoy Aquino, he used the challenge to be applied by former president Ferdinand Marcos so that the biggest pork barrel fund of all," Linaw, said.
The decision of the Supreme Court came out in spite of the consecutive protests of the various anomalous groups that are clearly calling for the resignation of the President.
Last June 12, the number of Abangenos that everyone who is involved should be held accountable, including Aquino and the members of his cabinet, Sevidal and Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala.
This last week, thousands of farmers from Central Luzon, Ilocos, Cagayan Valley, Cordillera, Southern Tagalog and Bicol went to Manila to insist on the removal of the destruction of President Aquino.
