Revolutionary government?

Or Vallejo, the House of Sonny Belmonte agreed to the investigation of the Mamasapano massacre last January 25 for them to just wait for the result of the Board of Inquiry (Pi) just to wait for the result of the result of the Board of Inquiry.
In the Senate, the executive session is greater with the senators and "involved in the plan of the senators and" involved in Oplan Exodus.
Their reason, is the security of the country?
While the congressmen and the secret investigation of the Senate are resting, "G. Benigno Aquino III said, that he is really busy with the meeting with his cabinet.
Well, it is natural for the allies of Aquino to be full of action because they know, that the feelings of the people will be completed without any time when those involved in the massacre happened in Maguindanao.
They are making the fool and the people, even the school of the children, those who are involved in the sin of Aquino, know who ordered the operation in Mamasapano, so they know who ordered the operation in Mamasapano, which is why a leader is called.
If the Commander of the AFP and PNP did not release any plans of the AFP and PNP, there is nothing in their move to move and because they are shouting, "it is not clear, that is why they were allowed by their CIC!
This is Manang Leila de Lima, smart, but they are trying to feed them?
It's because he said, the PNP is not included on the operation conducted by CIC because they are really civilians.
"On the two-day executive session or investigation of the senators, it seems that they are only able to talk in speaking things, it is possible that the information given to the involved officials of the police and military cannot be publicized.
For example, Director Napenas was told by the committee, who was suspended and resigned PNP Chief Alan Purisima, all the orders of the operation, which is every action of Purisima, G. Noynoy Aquino knows!
It is right there, "the issues of supporting the AFP should be sent to the massacre," the text Brigade and communication Purisima, which is also one of those who have support from the military, if there is only a cellphone from the military, if it is sure that there is a failure!
I hope that the residents of the BI or Senate Bureau of Investigation and the Senate Bureau of Investigation and Senate Bureau of Investigation and the CIA) should be true and honest in the town of PNP-SAF (SAF 44, if not, you will return the history!
