Duterte list... there is a target of vigilantes! By Betchai Said, Boyet Jihadist, August 9, 2016.
Those people named by President Rodrigo Duterte are in danger of the hands of vigilantes who are involved in the spread of illegal drugs in the country, according to Senator Panfilo Lacson.
What's worse here is that even if the person who is involved in the list was innocent, Lacson said that their lives in the hands of vigilantes are in danger.
"Thank you to the former name-in-list, thank you, there is a case to be under the law but by Lacson," said by Lacson, this Sunday, President Rodrigo Duterte made the name of 160 judges, 44, other lawmakers, police and military who are involved in illegal drugs.
But according to Senator Leila de Lima, former Justice Secretary, and wheelchair of the Senate Committee on Justice (human rights, he could not file a case against the drug trade if the list would be filed.
If the government has sufficient evidence, they should just file the corresponding case against the personalities who are being involved by the President.
Wash your hands.
Meanwhile, after President Duterte's burial last Sunday, the appearance of the President, who was involved in illegal drugs in the country continues.
It was around 9: 15 in the evening the day before yesterday, Chief Inspector Roberto Palapal visit of the Manila Police District Office (NFL) Station 7 and Chief Insp. Jovie Espenido and four policemen were not able to reveal their names.
Yesterday morning, the CIDG of Laoang Northern Samar Mayor Hector Ong arrived together with his wife, former Mayor Madamba Ong in order to clean their names for being involved in illegal drugs.

The other day in the morning, San Rafael Mayor Cipriano Liyag "Goto, Doren.
In the afternoon, former La Union 2nd District Congressman Ezard io was arrived at the afternoon and was strongly denied that they were involved in illegal drug trade.
San Pablo City, Laguna Mayor Vicente "Ammunition) also denied the allegations that he is involved in drugs, wherein he is one of the list of narco-politics which led by Duterte.
Meanwhile, the three Bicolano who were included in the Duterte list were identified as Reynante Dayawan, former member of the Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm (BJMP) in Legazpi City; Reymondo Alvarez, cousin of Reynante; and PO 1 Christian Catalina, and denied the involvement in illegal drugs.
