I know Better: Sarah, in her life right now!
Erap, fond of the beauty pageant!
By Jun Nardo, June 18, 2016 Sarah Geronimo, Sarah Geronimo, is said that Sarah Geronimo to the clarification of Boss Vic del Rosario in the media about her pregnant issue, and there is also a lot of Sarah in his life now.
This is the statement of this week of cho after giving a statement on the issue about the girlfriend of Matteo Guidicelli who attended the Second press conference of the 2016 Miss Manila at Bulletin of the Manila City Hall.
Just like the first part of the diamond Hotel, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada, Jackie Ejercito, and Chairperson MARE Foundation and some officials of the city government, here are some part of the speech of Miss Manila, all of them are beautiful, smart, hardworking and ready to help others.
"But if I am a 50-year-old Charlesetta Williams and I am just being teased about what I can say," part of the speech of Mayor.
Part of 450th Year in the City of Manila is the Miss Manila which will be held on June 24 in PICC.
"The third time for the third time we was we, Are Holding and the Miss World pageant, this has been stopped by the former administration when I did not know the reason.

Manila has long been dark and it is clear that you know what I want to say why it is dark, "he said.
According to Mayor Joseph, the pageant was related to his heart.
"In the last 1900, there was still no Miss Manila, there was an called Miss Carine Queen of Tindan, the pageant, to the straight path of 1920. Rebalde, a conservationist.
Mayor Eve.
"In 1925, was chosen as Caraan queen is a good relationship named Maria Marcelo.

"Later at this, I am going to be confused, I am in McJim wallet.

"That is the only reason why I mentioned this afternoon to my heart the Miss Manila pageant.
"We unite for this project to show to the whole country the beauty and bravery of our city of Manila," said Mayor Erap.
In the 33 years, most of them were avers, dean's in-list and graduated from cum Laude in their school.
Nora is a movie, just a black box!
ABS-CBN's movie, Nora Aunor and Coco Martin, as Padre de Rossi, is one of the list of films which can be watched over by the network of the network.
Coco is the song of the movie and Director Adolf Alix, Junior, the director, that it has been hidden in the trunk of the films which was being hidden in the trunk of the films which was being taken out of the Middle East before our cinemas.
Of course it's a contract that Coco is a contract star however, which is why he is the one to protect more than Nora, huh!
