
"God," of the Makati and police station.

The gate of the Banica's and lucky path to pass by residents of "Forbes Park and Dasmariñas Village in Makati is closed to motorists particularly around 10: 00 in the evening as part of their" security guard. "
That's why even senators, congressmen and rich people living here are following the said policy but not the lord of Makati!
Right, judicial system, Makati Mayor Junjun Binay, and Senator Nancy Binay and Senator Nancy Binay and son of Vice President Jojo Binay, have passed last night in illegal hours.
In fear of the security guards to be removed from duty if the said policy will not be implemented, that's why they do not raise the iron fist to prevent the convoy of the prince of Binay, the fake child of Makati!
In what they did, the police immediately picked the poor security guards on the excuse of Makati COP / Supt. Manuel Lucban, they immediately examined if the documents of the three security guards are legitimate.
King's mother, "Colonel, there is the PNP unit for a job", and if ever examined, your fake children, why do you need to remove them from their positions?
"Toto Lacson is there the gambling Lord of Makati, why is it not that, it's not right for you to catch up!
Entice the President.
The sale of illegal drugs in Palanan Village, Caloocan City was nonstop because of some reasons.
First, the "brain" of the said drugs is trying to catch a huge income so that the Christmas of his family and his pushers got worse.
Second, they are taking advantage of the time now where people have a content.
Third and most of all, nobody has the strength to report the said illegal acts because this is his brain!
According to our Akamai says, it is estimated to be assigned to QCPD Station 4 that is assigned to QCPD Station 4, the brains of the widespread selling of drugs in the area, which is why his chief Supt. Norberto Velasquez?
By what is true, Caloocan COP / Supt. Bernard Cajiyang, can you not worry that this is a police-QCPD who is spreading fear in your name?
You call me, Colonel, and I will give details to you the operation of those inhumane people!
