10 million Filipinos are submerged in debt.

It is scary to think that my beloved Philippines is submerged in debt.
It is scary because the boss of PNoy is okay with all of these.
It would have been good if they were able to collect the debt more than his boss.
But not, the corrupt and corrupt are going out to be benefiting from this.
The debt of boasts!
Let's return to us, Bro, the debt of bosses in Malacanang.
More or less or less small record but there are only a small amount of alibis as well because these are from the government.
When Erap left in Malacanang, he left a total debt of P2.17-1090451.
Aling Gloria left a total debt which costs P4.36-1090451.
Now that the fourth year of PNoy in his position, son of foreign people, the debt was also jumped from the P5.9-1090451.
It is composed of PNoy's debt from other countries which costs 2.5-governmental organization and local which costs P3.4 per cavan.
Debt of life.
Because the government is submerged in debt, the citizens in debt are also submerged in debt because of its debt of excessive tax and other collection from the citizens like license, franchise, permits, and many others.
"Is it that the money received from the citizens is used to pay attention to debt.
During the time of Erap, there are 81million Filipinos, each one of almost 27,000 Filipinos have debt.
After the administration of Miss Gloria, every Filipino has a debt of debts.
On the fourth year of PNoy, a Filipino has debt of gratitude for P59,000.
In exchange of debt.
Because of the huge debt of the government outside and inside the country, it needs to pay a lot of years and in fact, the payment for debt will be paid to by the government.
The Constitution has nothing to say that education should be the primary focus of attention and if that should be the biggest part of the national budget year-year.
See, Bro.
The government of Aquino has a budget about 1.8-Tropas that last 2012 but the debt that was paid is about P75,000 pesos.
This 2014, he will pay the debt of P7,000 pesos from the budget of P2.2-1090451.
It is impossible that the payment for debt will be bigger than the combined budget of education of P32.3 billion pesos and additional towns or public Works and P250 B.
Now, Bro, forget the record for the year 2013 and the history of a huge payment in debt even in 2015 will not be repeated.
They first have debt.
It cannot be denied in the record that number one priority of the government is the payment of debt and the truth is that he will not allow a huge debt in the previous administration.
The education being pushed by the Constitution which should be a number one program in the government is under the skirt of the administration.
In simple words, Bro, debt first before education is what the government is doing so much, the budget is not enough for the primary needs of the citizens.
Debt, where?
This is the big problem: Where is the debt?
It is hard to follow where the debt is used but for sure, there are those who are being used for the government and this is where it can be seen where the debt was covered.
One question: Is it included in the debt that is being spent by the 134B Development Assistance Fund and P177B which is the Disbursement Acceleration Program?
Of course, to be very good as good as good, said the speak in Malacañang, hehehe!
It is said that the truth is coming out that even if the Supreme Court has been declared by the Supreme Court, the DAP was declared as the DAP, but they are already alive.
Don't be surprised.
That is why, we should not be wondering why the government is doing a fine there for all the citizens.
Because he needs to pay the payment for the debt of his own action.
Even if it is clear that it is clear that there are a big amount of monitoring and being taken away from debt and taxes, and also a fine of the so-called official of the country.
SE177.
If the problem in exchange of debt, Bro, the law of Presidential Dec.1177 will be a big problem.
It is a law that has been martial law and it is suspicious that the President of my beloved Philippines is a law.
The Department of 177 prepared to pay attention to the government of the Philippines, especially in foreign debts.
And if the debt of the foreigners will be discussed, not only the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, Asian Development Bank and Japan International Agency) are being discussed, but the international airport that is standing in the Philippines, which is also a debt of the government.
This is also included in these are the government which are proud of the debt of the company that they are living with in the Public Development Assistance Fund).
If this law will be disresolved, the government is free to control the payment in debt of corruption, corruption and taking advantage of the foreigners.
And the government will conduct a case on the public funds for the project and programs for the progress of the Filipinos.
