
Corona is, Gloria and the mutiny.

For example, Chief Justice Renato Corona is so ill-tempered for the impeachment case, where will the Philippines do it?
Aling Gloria is also for example even one of the criminal cases he is facing, where our country will also go.
We were asking because there was a smoke that was filed against President Noynoy.
Because it means that the end is the smoke of the mutiny is the defense of Corona and Aling Gloria?
Or is this smoke of a bigger problem that may not be noticed or noticed by the current government?
Evidence against CJ?
There is a big hope for the owner of congressmen, that he will rise up by Corona from avoiding them from the complaints that they filed in the impeachment court.
"Is it that the extreme wealth in the land, buildings and money of Corona from the fragrance of PS Bank and BPLO.
Because the said Court has accepted the evidences here, including the strongest bank record of Corona.
It is said that the size of the wealth of Corona is not fitting to the said wealth and properties of his Severe Actor, Livni after he was seated as a magistrate.
The eyes were wet.
In the Daily Inquirer's released news, it was reported that he forcefully went home from other countries who were members of the Basa Air Base, which was included in the company of Basa-Tropas that was included in the company of Basa and Cristina Corona from having too much wealth in the bank.
The said member of the Basa Air Force began to say the money of Basa Air Force to say the money owned by Renato, but what is important here is if there is value or nothing has been said against Corona.
One question: The member of the Basa Air Force is going to be a witness, in case it will decrease as the defense of the multimillion peso money from the bank?
Because the congressmen have already finished their case and only Corona is the only one to present his defense against the accusation of enriching position and lying on the SALN.
They will win.
The senators, judge, free! With the trial in the case.
"That's the reason why there is a looming trial.
First, they want to end the case before the Holy Week so that they will not have a burden in life.
Second, the senators and judges are looking for the trial and they are not able to do anything as lawmakers.
If this will happen, it will be quick to have a decision and it is true that the congressmen and lawmakers should have returned to their antique job.
They neglect the laws that they should take care of for the many problems of my beloved Philippines.
There was a mutiny.
President Noynoy himself reported through the media that there is a contest that there was a mutiny who wants to return to his position in order to run again, the Presidential Security Group continues to deny.
It is said that PNoy looked like a Herodes of PNoy that he is afraid of the owner.
There is only one truth in the complaint of PNoy when there is a word known by the truth, like Senator Tony Trillanes.
They confirmed that there are generals in the previous administration who are concerned about the current officials of the police and military who turned back to PNoy.
Remember that it is true.
The smoke of the mutiny is a sign that the current government is having an abaya for other problems of the people.
What will happen if anti-Gloria and anti-Corona will only do the business of those in the government?
In the legislative chamber, lawmakers are complaining that they are hardworking to enter the lack of electricity rules in the meeting of the committee or in the meeting of the committee or in the meeting of the committee or plenary.
Just like what we mentioned, senators also complain about their lack of time to create laws.
They have a big problem: They are not expecting that the pork barrel they are being followed is certain that they will surely profit from the 20-page agreement or Ghost.
The others are anxious because their opponents in politics are received by pork barrel and they are not.
You see, Bro?
Petroleum, Eve and others.
But, most of the problems of the congressmen or planned attention of these in their jobs, it seems that those whose problems with the severe petroleum products are becoming a burden to the problems of many, lack of electricity, education and many others.
They are dried with no changes and they are hope in order to have changes?
The president loves, it is good to get along with the impeachment and case of Miss Gloria to take care of your bosses.
This is so that there will be no reason for those who are taking advantage on this day.
