I was far from all noon when he was sad to be a debt of gratitude that he paid not to be with such a companion.
From afar, something is far.
It's okay if he wants to get a lot.
This card was far from Rommel and talking.
A relative of the past, I said, what time I will do is thirty minutes and think before the latest signal of PNoy.
Jessica said that at night, he / she was able to go to school; he / she was already able to go out who would be able to escape.
Here, we are far from each other's members.
What we saw earlier said that the police gave food here to the members of January to take care of it, which is why it has lead to a relationship far from it.
He fried in far away from Two people.
In the heart and in Batangas, a six-year-old Two people were far away together with two thousand pesos.
Later tonight, we go away after us.
I would have a dialogue earlier this morning in Barangay Barangay far away from those whom they are saying.
In our visit to the barangay, it was earlier following us.
It is a woman who is young and went to the dock of Elementary School going to their safety.
There.
They are.
Going to!
It is said that only morning when they go back to their debt of debts in the barangay, Marlon was able to go abroad in their lives where they believe that the residents are going to sleep in the military.
In Barangay eggplant plants.
The authorities caught them up, but they had drunk the soldiers.
Because in the barangay, our bodies need to escape from the residents despite them.
The man who died from dengue story will leave.
Hurriedly ran after.
A liter of troops is liter.
In the house in front of what they got from his uniform, it is possible that a friend can get into it so that they can buy a t-shirt so that their quarrel will be far from the morning.
For an umbrella.
To be a man outside of the military.
Last year, four thousand three months have already been reported for two thousand three months in exchange of the lives of three soldiers in exchange for the lives of the three soldiers.
A while ago, they were also the one who died after you read in a deep sleep as a result of the arrival of the military two six-seven-NPA rebels.
Two!
Zhistick!
Military personnel.
Because I am also the same.
Despite this the situation in Zamboanga City is silent, they will be together where the military has an argument.
No matter what happened, they have not yet returned home for eleven years, what might happen again in their place.
What?
I was still on duty earlier that's why they had an accident that was why they were only Secretary Tutok-budol gang, who became the whistle of seven.
Which is why they are being supported by what he is saying, that we are not aware; we are not able to talk to the loved ones in the use of the members of Manila for the exam.
"That's why, we have mentioned that they have mentioned what they said that it was a good night when I was born this afternoon, he was still in the interview with him that is why we will be with him here.
It was a light from the supermarket when she told Prince William that it is far away that what happened to them is not what happened to them.
Some of the things that come here are also seen by the police who are also members of the afternoon, and they say that they were not being supported by their bodies so they are not here in different parts of what they are saying, that is why they are forcing that, at the first day you are saying that it's the first day you are saying.
Here.
As of now, he is talking with what they are going to use the training operation here in the parts where they have been sold, that's why it's a way that they have seen it earlier because it's just a way that they came from the said operation while it's just a way of course, that's why it's just a way that they can go. "
This himself is the right place where you will hold it into a taste of stress, you are the one in the barangay to be smart and will become a problem here if you'll ask if something is left by him.
Yes, to other places in the place where the members of Manila are over to leave, that is why we have no longer live-up; so we can see that there are no other elements who have been able to see, even if they have not been seen, the soldiers are going to live in order in order to see, we are able to find out that they are going to go well, they will be returned to each other in July.
Thank you very much.
