What is the government's plan to the farmers?
I want to protect the weather fingers at their house because of their usual argument about the incoming typhoon, the farmers can be ready and somehow they are able to harvest it.
During the time of former President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III, he was taking the same with the Philippine Attaché and Geometry when Asumba compound of PAGASA) because of the failure on the incoming typhoon.
Since then the PAGASA is going to fix the incoming typhoon, so somehow the farmers can be ready, no matter how long the typhoon Karen which destroyed Bicol to Cagayan Valley cannot be said, they cannot be said.
The farmers have a investment on how long before PNoy arrives in the Palace of Malacañang, the people will only be disturbed by the incoming typhoon and realized its strength.
The only ones who cannot be able to recover is the little too late so they need to support the government so they can get up even if they will surely lose their financial loss.
But if the farmers need to prepare, especially those who plant rice, the departure of the four-Illegal Drugs Group (LR) will leave the next year on the importation of rice.
The QR is set to control the importation of the government of rice in other countries like Vietnam and Thailand, rice cakes, so that rice will not be flooded in the country.
If the cheap rice in the Philippines will die, local farmers will die because the rice production of rice is too expensive now compared to other countries.
Just imagine, the government has no help to the farmers so much is very expensive, so much is very expensive but the gasoline is too expensive, and most of all, the farmers are able to save the farmers.
What's worse than all, there are no facilities for the post, there is no proper road going to the farm and because the government does not have help, the farmers are forced to put them in the farm when they have a high interest in order to plant.
I do not know how the farmers can keep up when they are removed from the importation of rice in other countries which is cheaper.
If the government has no help to the farmers in the next year, I will not be surprised if the one who will die in the industry of farm will die when he finally removed their tomfoolery in the next year.
Yes, rice is cheap because it is possible that the farmers in other countries will live here especially in Thailand and Vietnam and not Mister Juan who is in the farm.
