
PNoy's straight path will be wise.

In the administration of President Aquino, "Tuwid na Daan" is famous because this is the hardest for his fight against corruption.
Why is it that the anger of PNoy in the corruption is just like that, this is because this is the trend of this in the government which is why the country cannot break free from poverty.
Some of the presidents passed and like him, they dreamed of being like the Philippines, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Japan.
"That's why, our politics is weak," unlike the President in this country which is said to be "white" should not be made a black. "
"Do we want to say it, when you say" Tuwid na Daan, "you should go straight and do not need to turn the way.
In the speech of PNoy, we are always "Tuwid na Daan" but we think, this is the one blamed by the Aquino administration for our dreams.
But although this became the reason of the shooting of the President to his many speech, there is still there corruption in many agencies of the government.
"Like this, wise in" Tuwid na Daan "of President Aquino.
It's a good example of the government's branch that those who do not allow the president of the President are the Department of Enhanced Defense Cooperation (Natural Resources.
If we will allow a lot of complaints being destroyed by the environment, there is no doubt "Secretary Ramon Paje and his position should not be worthy.
We received a lot of complaints from the resignation of DENR, the end is the complaint of Zamboanga del Sur Governor Antonio Cerge.
Paje failed to lessen the lack of tension in the province of Cerge that the foundation was already released by the DENR secretary to a mining companies that the use of fake gods and other infrastructures in the province.
"Those who are said to have been supporting the mining companies that were allegedly supported by the mining companies are the ones who complained in the company because their nature was too raped.
It is figured out that the mining Bureau Director, Leo Jasareno are filing a term if one applicant in mining has been suspended for the required law.
If the contribution to the mining companies being complained by Cerge in order to mine, it means that the Special Action Force has a foul smell?
If this is the seat of President Aquino in this agency, can Filipinos reach the orders of PNoy?
And if the foolishness of DENR is ongoing, and it is possible that in other agencies of the government, who will believe that the president's heart is heartfelt from the heart of the President. "
As if, we sold it again.
