
While platforms are going to go.

The municipality of reproductive health (RH) bill will be the town of reproductive health (RH) bill.
But what is really what the Lord said about his command "they are going to have DERO?"
The Lord said to Adam, to Adam, after they have been removed from Paraiso: You will work and increase.
And the Lord also did not say that both of them can have nothing to stop.
The command of them is increasing.
Because they each have their own ways to explain about the Bible.
For example, he is always saying who is the one who did nothing wrong about the one who did something wrong about the people who wanted to kill Maria Magdalena because she was a prostitute.
But the catholic priest has already forgotten to follow the order of Jesus to Magdalena, "wow," wow, SPARK. "
That is what is happening in the RH bill from different explanation, but if you analyze it can be deceived by us because the people from the church is not complete.
It seems that many words in the Bible because it is not beneficial for those who are pushing their religion.
Just like the first order of God, "I am your God," but what happened is that you are removed from the Catholic Church, "Jesus, and Maria, and Maria, who is his mother, is covered by the golden crown.
God said, "Maritez-Holy Week is said," but the church changed his 10 order.
To all the catholic church, this is what you read "and go to church every Sunday and will be charged."
Religious are also saying that if God has forgiveness, we can even be people?
What happened is really what happened, God does not understand Eve and Adam, to take out his wife in Paraiso.
The Lord's Lord's Prayer of Jesus is also there where her forgiveness was built, and of course, the horrible scene was last touched.
Now, about the RH bill, do not vote the RH bill if the government will buy the condom and acacons for the country.
Do not let yourself be carried away by what the priests are saying, those who get rich, who get rich, and those who takes care of them are getting addicted to it.
