
Monday, September 15, 2014.

The translation of "autism is the doctrine... that F. Kennedy.

The translation of SM (THE is CTRCTRCTRIric Arriba.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

"In the question," Wu-Breis, "this is the confession of PAMANTIK-Illegal Drugs Act," autism is the doctration of the Office of the Islamic Liberation Front of the Armed Forces of the city hall. "

"What I am expecting is," autism is the system of OPLAN LS, "but what is exported," hism is the doctrine iodine. "

It is a new meaning for those like me to grow up in boiling oil, a system of society, and not a "doctrine" or in the filipino language.

"The conflict in my encounter was this:" He was asking the education of the support of the pro-mannered family. "

The question is that it was first of two twenty-five questions that he was able to answer to his long article. "The Principal of Suism."

The whole article "The Principal of Suism" is owned by the Filipino language and included in the 16 author of Bolayeval, First Class.

There is a need to decide what is appropriate, but it is not yet the way it depends on it.

The inventor of a doctration will be exiled by a mother, kiss, study, beliefs, etcetera.

In Wikipedia, this is the meaning of a doctration: "Ofel truck which is a score of martial law, in the Lapian ng Masang Pilipino, which is a doctration of self defense, or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of self defense, or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, or the GAPARK."

In addition to this: "In spite of this, a docarse driver, which was being swept up by his / her sister-in-law," was asked to be the leader of the Anti-Illegal Drugs Act of its own business. "

Mercury contamination-Wisconsin, is a doctration, "111 Teaching Hospital, 2.

It is needed to carefully study the proper translation, because that is the first question in articles, and the whole articles depends on it.

Isn't it a masoops, if he is under a mother, like this is the use of the word coming in religion?

"I did not put the docking in a lower mother because the word" which is usually connected to religion, especially in the Philippines, which is why when I will use it to the state of the Pambansang Kamao, he might be considered as a religion where he / she is being considered as a religion.

"I did not use the word" stall "because it would be like the translation:" Of consulting the condition of the resignation of the pro-law, "is not appropriate.

Even the word "lesson is not appropriate.



It is right to listen to a doccherine that is used to be distributed in a doctrine and in my chosen translation, the word of gratitude that I think is more appropriate.

"Autism is the docking of the Office of the Islamic Liberation Front of the Armed Forces of the pro-Lakas ng mga Bayani," his education is the education of the request of the pro-mannered family. "

It was surprising that during the first time we heard his gratitude, it was really surprising that he was worthy of consulting the "doctrine" and not "immune system."

This means he is dependent on his observation that he should study, aside from the not complete system of the time he wrote, the primary field of the fight is starting in the mind that the workers, who are being raped, should see the workers, that's why they should see the workers being raped so that they should be set free.

Added to this is the mold, "of consulting the ring, like Emilinda Fajutagana, Dickinson, and others concerning the prevailing thinking of a system.

Fight in the mind, fight with this perspective, this is the first field of arguments, this is the first field to win a type of workers.

The congressman needs to understand his situation in society, while many workers are studying about their status, many workers need to dream to dream, and be united to achieve the kind of workers they want to release.

In this kind of reflect to decision the speed of the mother I am referring to in the words I am referring to, and I think, this is the better to understand the Filipino workers, especially that they want to be free.

Hopefully, I was able to give justice to my opinion that it is appropriate to listen to "Ipit Gang and the doctration of the Office of the Islamic Liberation Front of the Armed Forces of the Philippines."
