
The flow of the flow of "flow is more than 50 years.

By Soliman, Santos and to 1th T. good February 25, 2014.

The contribution of the "flow of the Philippines is identified as the contribution of the waves in the desert today, the fourth and fifth is from the left), including Doctor Emanuel De Guzman, president of PUP, Doctor.

Manuel M.

The occasion has a theme of the importance of the nation's importance which was led by the center of Mount Athos because it is not surprising that one of them, Rogelio L. Orcajada, Dominador, Mirasol, Edgardo Reyes, and Rogelio RL, Edgardo Reyes, and Rogelio Rfamous.

The group published the first decision of "flow of" in order to show that the filipino masses is a desert but they do not believe in it, and this is the new appearance, topic, and belief that it is given to their writings.

This is also strongly opposed to the prevalence of being a English and rampant in what the ducks are destroying.

Aside from the advancement of the yellow party, the flow of pork is also discussed, "the flow of words being avoided by rumors like the situation of the workers, prostitution, violence in the city, lack of land of farmers and other issues of society.

Because of this, this is the reason why one of the people around the cage of the Philippines is said to be a fan of the Philippines.

According to Orchier, who is also a former full-tempered story for the flow of the heat in the desert today, which is usually caused by the provisions that has been dominating to those who are being swept in a trend and phenomenon, which has no primary goal, but entertain them in an illusion for the readers.

"In fact, it does not go out of those who are on the flow of the flow, but also on the social media, it is impossible that the flow of the society and the lives of the filipino people continue to rise from the awareness of the filipino masses, it is impossible for them to rise from the awareness of the majority of ordinary citizens," he added.

Included in those who made a word on the program is the National Bureau of Sining, Bienvenido Meca, and the owner, critics, scholar and writers, E. San Juan, Junior.

Mecan has initially identified the "flow of" flow in the history of the story in the Philippines, according to him, this is connected to the tradition of misfortune of Rizal and condemned the style and tone of the first generation.

When this was published, the authors of the "flow of" flow of the Philippines was led and it became an inspiration to the next generation of writers, who created a sanctuary that just came out in 1971.

E.

Medellan is grateful for the center of the center for creative writing by PUP, first of the first of Orchained and Abueva who was given to the 150 anniversary of the flow, as well as Meca and San Juan, Junior in their shared to the said occasion and to the management of PUP.

Since the flow of the flow was published, it had been held in the editions in 1974, 1993, and 2010.
