Paolo will replace Dolphy.
By Alwin, November 9, 2016.
Mother Ignacia were host and Roselle Jurado ,-Victory party for the die Betamax of team where he reviewed a type, Paolo Ballesteros.
Direk Jun Lana called the best actor in the recent Tokyo International Film Festival.
Direk Jun, "as an actor, Paolo is very sensitive to everyone, he is doing all the all sorts of." Como'clock in his body with no act.
"As an actor, I can see that someone is chemicals with Albie (Casiño) who seemed to be more fiery with Albie."
Albie was really different with Albie, it is a higher position more than Luis Alandy.
So I'm Paolo as Trisha Mostoles.
Ballesteros's reaction is, "because, what should I do so that I will act on me.
"Why is it that Albie was very handsome, ah,"
He / she was wearing.
Paolo will not increase the price of Paolo after the gag.
In the end, what he wants, "of course, the others in the TV Patrol, like this, Trisha Mostoles, this is different.
"Two years, after the Transformation Council, finished, there are many scenes repeating, Direk Jun, to Asayist.
"There was only one hair that she could avoid using a wig because she saw it again and again.
"Your hair needs to be maintained, how can you keep it, a wig, hahaha!"
Direk Jun has no idea that Paolo will come at this Awards because they can only make a visa.
Ward is out of knowledge, the hornets, on a part of sure, Ballesteros will reach Ballesteros.
"PAO said," when they have sent me a word, I thought, it was the only reason why I was not alone.
"I arrived at dawn, I asked if Direk Jun already knows that I arrived, I said.
"That's why in an award, I did not miss him at the backside," I Heard, who was the burial of the burial, the My Mama of the best actor, I was really crying.
"
Why is Julia Rodits and Angelina Lagaso while he chose on the song?
"Queen queen," because, they are the most easy to do for me, maybe, they are close to my face so it is not difficult to do. "
After the ATM of Trisha Mostoles, the best actor, what followed?
Ballesteros is Ballesteros, "there is no case against me if he / she has a gay man again, as long as he is gay.
"If you want a lesson, I also want," do not just ignore it, but just like that, everything can be studied again. "
He / she was wearing.
Direk Perci Intalan is very happy about Paolo who is The Oton Queen.
He also Wanna Bet by him, the letter that I wrote to, Ballesteros and Vice Ganda.
For Director Chito, we are very delighted with the amount to endure Vice Ganda and "bad habits of the millennials of Nora Aunor versus Vilma Santos.
Paolo has asked if he wants Vice to be a job in a movie and to share with his reaction.
"Fight IT led-time," ordered by Director Jun Lana, regarding her to be known to be able to make sure to be famous.
Mother lily's declaration, "he is the one who will replace Dolphy!"
