There will be a downpour of rain that might be the ones who are looking at the casian; we were able to look at the caskets; Gulanggani; we are all asking if many are asking if many are asking if many are asking if it will really push through, whose legs are really asking if we will push through.
I told him that we are very pitiful; we will find out the fineness?
Now, we are asking us to be together with the Arellano University where they will bring them.
Two worry because we have a free time for us to have free.
Look at it as a text message that I'm in a text laboratory; so we can slowly do it and we slowly do it there.
So, if you will be able to release the laboratory that they have taken, there are still a lot who will be interested in there for almost two times when you are going to return to the hospital, we are going to return to the hospital, we are going to go back to the hospital, we are going to go back to the hospital, but this weekend when they will go back to the hospital.
You know the Wednesday morning, and then the rain is done by other uncle of Tom yes, maybe we are okay to be young.
And then, I am in Quiapo, about our visitors.
The doctors, what do you know is that we are living in our living room so that you are the ones who are living in the middle of the gravestones; so that we are in the middle of the middle of the middle of the farm; that can damage the fields yes.
Yes, we are proud that our doctors are stupid; our doctors are pitiful, if ever they will be in case.
I have a relationship with the customer and they are the only ones that will look at the eyes.
Most of those who have no money Corporation, do not see because it is not enough for the mirror, that is why the eye is gone.
At all times, we have a point that it is okay to go to a long time; we are going to go to the mall which will affect the doctor's mall because that's the only thing she knew in Prince, we, as well as the doctors.
The heart will again look at if he look at it.
Very small; we have no use, without things like that, then, then it goes to other doctors, that's why we go to another doctor, that's why it's only two of those who are like that, that's why we only have a text message.
Because you are Francis "Tuwid na Daan" that's why we are at the same age; we are stupid.
Like that, those who have age are going to be the ones who are at the same age.
We need to go back and forth.
That's why the doctors are looking at me that maybe it's good to just call me Paolo doctor.
That there is a U Vs.
They said, face a face.
And it is said that there are other Western style, perhaps there are other March only.
You know that style of style.
In my exclusive interview with the U P, the treatment of I was for free are free; rather than social worker eight to medicine.
That is what the government is on YouTube.
I am cheaper than being operated on by a doctor.
Well.
Not anymore.
We need to look down; we are the ones who love the medicine that they love, but have mercy on each other.
