The storm was devastated by the typhoon, there are those who violate the budget.

Constitution Rep. Winston Castelo is worried that a state of State Universities (Colleges (SUCs) which is severely damaged by the typhoon Ruby will receive millions in budget for the next year.
Together with this is the other presidentiable that cannot be received by a cent from the Capital Region or budget for the construction of new projects.
"In the hearing of the Congress for the 2014 national budget, we got the 79 of 110 years old when we study the data, most of the establishments that were destroyed by typhoon Yolanda," according to Espinoza.
According to the young lawmakers, this situation can be avoided if the lawmakers have listened to the call of the youth last month to increase the budget for SUCs and not continue the budget of budget.
But it was still passed by the Legislative Chamber and the Senate in the budget of budget last week.
Galvez also pointed out that 11 from SUCs) which was damaged by Yolanda was the one who won't receive a cent from the Capital Regional Training (Co) including UP System, which was also destroyed by the typhoon.
"How can the broken school be stolen if the national government will not be able to make it even just a cent for the National Capital Region," said Naing.
Aside from this, it is said that the government should also be considered in the first years, the government did not give enough budget for the improvement of many schools in Visayas.
The Department of Budget and Management and Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education, the outline of the Aquino administration for education in college.
"The same House in Congress should address this issue as soon as possible, we should not pass the budget that has been destroyed by typhoon Yolanda," according to Espinoza.
Diokno also called out to the leaders of the same house to take back the number of the national budget and do what needs to be fixed - not only for SUCs which has a pending price in budget.
According to the congressman, the giving of additional funds through mental budget is not for four of the needs of the damaged cable, but the Congress needs to review the national budget right compared to the actual needs of SUCs.
"It will not be like this if our national government does not have a national budget if only in the beginning, the Aquino administration needs to take a lot in spite of the continuous call of the people and the people - in a dangerous behavior which is easy to show accidents," the end of Mandela.
