I said yes, that it is just injured in the exam of a witness in the camp this morning even if their dust was very high and mudslinging of the soldiers, he is okay with that.
What rode the room with the news can be heard from the news.
If it was seven o'clock in the morning this morning, I was saying that the two-year-old grandfather, Rajah Buayan and casian Corporation here has the most of people.
There are no other people who are wearing.
I worked in a washbasin with eight thousand more than the policemen in the Sampaloc Model Shop of Ramona, who are also the Ro-Tropas that I know how much was the Ro-Ronda Pilipinas for two years to sleep without only two thousand released on his face.
After this the troops of the strong wind entered the house Saturday, but it was only ten minutes on the roof of the house when they were asked to call.
That is why we are very pitiful; we are going to go to school, I am saying that those who got the key are in the morning when my troop entered it in the area together with the mother and child.
You cannot talk to an official who does not have a place there that's why they cannot enter the office of the government.
Go straight and go straight at Eglow water.
February has a solution.
Until the whole day, he has no win at the same place there in the town of Boracay Sampaguita Pictures, they were not clearly seen by people.
Television is the statement in the past that's why the government and the government here do not have something to do with the father.
I released five percent sorry.
He was defending his last visit to everyone.
She is all your children so that the problem will be strong but it seems that you do not have the own enemies that is why the government needs to drive for the victims of the storm.
Four-four-four-four-four-four-four were found lifeless; as long as they say that four people are believed to be finished without visible problems in love and in love, there is no more than ten-seven who died.
He died.
Mother of a A: M for ten minutes already.
Sheryll Mundo.
A little bit more than five o'clock in the afternoon, what we are talking about was giving a statement to live without him because of the prize to go to their prize.
Bed and a bad news, grandfather was walking in the next chapter in the next chapter with the people near the corner where the government is in a taxi driver going to Bulacan morning by the people there where Sheryl got sick; we were not the fruits of the luggage.
According to the government of the decision of challenging, I said.
But the problem would be known.
It's because I did not push through.
