
Aquino Idizziness.

By Campos.
February 22, 2012.

"It is good that Jesus" is good, "this is the outline of questions by Pres. Benigno" Noynoy "Aquino III when he was still running in the election of course, he was the one who was used by the Aquino administration, and that's why he's still being used by President Justice Renato Corona.
But what if it's not good to be simple, "Oh, what is happening right now is, if those who introduce themselves as well, second, if the members of those who are doing bad, second, should not be held accountable and to push the ones who are doing wrong?, second, if the hunt for the staff of the evil is right?
The Aquino government should be set up for the not set for Arroyo and his accomplices in the position, but he was not filed with a case against Arroyo, he was not filed with a case against Arroyo, the case filed against Arroyo, as the mother of the plunder case filed against Arroyo, in order to become a simple graft case.
If the big fishes were able to pass through, what is still small, the government of Arroyo, who is responsible for the murder of Corona, who is responsible for the murder of Corona, was ordered by Arroyo in the middle of the impeachment against Corona, which is why Arroyo was still allowed to leave the hospital arrest.
But the government of Aquino is decided to remove Arroyo from his position but if he can't answer Arroyo and those who are concerned about the purpose of the Supreme Court in Hacienda Luisita, to make sure that the current administration of the Supreme Court in Hacienda Luisita, to show up the right compensation "that they ask for in exchange.
And because of the decision of the Aquino government to push for the interest of Cojuangco-Aquino in Hacienda Luisita, they use the full force and wealth of the government against Corona whose result is weak, in spite of the effort given by Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, the impeachment case is weak.
In this point, it is good to analyze the agreement of the Senate to the Supreme Court by the latter released a Temporary Protection Order (of course, this is also a result of the weakness of the prosecution, that is why it is a result of the priority of the Aquino government in the case.
Now, the government of Aquino is trying hard to fix the trial hearing for the impeachment case but it is not proven that the accusation of Corona from the bank is not proven, there is a secret to get enough vote of Corona from the bank that is there, aside from the numerous propaganda against Corona.
In the end, some of the Aquino administration had a foul odor in the New People Power Line, but the People Power Revolution was not only in a peaceful gathering of many people in a place for a call that's why this is the People Power filed against Corona?
In EDSA 2, the New People Power Plant is the result of the Senate hearing on the truth that he hit the truth because it is clear that the evidence against former President Joseph Estrada is clear because it is clear that the evidence against former President Joseph Estrada is clear because it is clear that the evidences of the Aquino administration, the administration of the Aquino administration, the New People Power Revolution to cover up the failures of the truth.
But it is possible that the Aquino administration is still possible to send a slap on the face and shame so that the government will use the impeachment for annulment of Corona - and the government's support of the country will be used to make it look like the US's support.
The real goal of the Pambansang Kamao in supporting the impeachment of Corona: To remove the obstacle in the impeachment of Aquino's impeachment, it is clear that the goal of the Aquino administration is clear, especially in the administration of Aquino, the distribution of KWF, the farmers, and reveal the movements of the government.
Most important is, the fighting against the local government continues to improve the issues of the citizens - which is why it continues to be covered by the Aquino government using the impeachment case, while it continues to be covered by the government of ordinary people, while it continues to arrest those who are against the citizens of the impeachment.
In running around the events, however, the true motive of the Aquino government from the impeachment case will be bigger than not, instead of getting support from the government of the Aquino administration, instead of giving support from the Aquino administration, "they said the same is playing with them, and one, who also used power.
