
He will catch the truth.

The panel of the House of Representatives finished the hearing aid to Chief Associate Justice Renato Corona.
In other words, the prosecutor had a rest of rest and now the defense of Corona will be put under the impeachment court.
The position of both sides is clear.
Truth.
It is also clear that the objective of the defense panel, is to stop the evidence against Corona.
Is it just right to stop the evidence and dismiss them just because of the contribution to the lawyers of Corona and the failure of the country?
That's why it's a failure or not, he depends on this discussion, is he lied to the country based on the airing of Severe Actor, Livni after the Netsmen (SALN)?
Isn't he studying as a worker of the government?
Is he lied to his sworn duty?
With the size of the wealth of Corona and his salary is small, it is surprising why the SALN did not seem to have more mysteries.
That should not happen but the Senate agreed to not allow the dollar account of Corona because this is prohibited in the law.
Corona has many allies who are leading them, Miriam Defensor Santiago and Joker Arroyo, senators.
I do not know what code of ethics committee is being made by Miriam; but I also do not know if he is studying in an elementary encounter with good upbringing.
The only thing I know is that Miriam is almost a virgin!
What I know is, according to those I have read, President Cory was removed by Miriam in the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) for the reason that you would easily know if you would just leave.
And Miriam Defensor-Santiago became an ally of Gloria when he was the president of the country.
Joker, why is the pro-Gloria, while Cory, was the representative of Forbes Park that does not have anything else but he himself, Joker himself!
Is it true what Miriam and Joker are looking for?
Or their goal is to cover up the truth?
Why is it coming out that these two and other senators are pro-Corona that are similar to my belief that Corona is not like that?
"That's just simple," he is a simple person, Gloria, so, the other Justices voted for PNoy.
There is a big difference now that Corona and Gloria were detained in court, while PNoy and his other workmates have no case.
Other court.
