Meanwhile, in a video that you were able to get on the laptop of the Poverty. Cebu Pacific, why can you find out how the sixth senator is used in Morong and seven who are going to have a high cellphone now in Cotabato after a few seconds after the group of B must have been charged.
Who supposedly wanted to go to their place so some residents themselves are afraid to get caught up in the tire that you are going to pass in Cotabato City to report.
There is also clear in the statement of the help that seems to be paid today, that the next target of our government is here in Roselle, why, he also appealed to the homes and actions of the people who have been believed to go to the cellphone that they have been believed to go to the cellphone that they have been believed in.
This was taken from his laptop but basketball was one of his followers in the past year, and it can be seen that the training is going to pass by his personnel.
Isn't it that every day she will be left behind in the past, you will be transferred to the actual operation that you want the one of Tell that you want to eat whatever it is now that they would always go.
It can be seen that the training of his staff on the use is being seen.
A crazy treasure that is ready to do is to do who is far from the high school which is difficult to enter later at seven o'clock.
Make sure that there is a fight against these.
This was a stronger bar that exploded; we were able to deal with each other; and because they can be accompanied by Two Wives, that's why when we saw that Mariel is prohibited, that's why they really need that, "they really need that.
They will make it well if ever they are yes.
They will also meet in the video as to how they can be fed up at the Smart of their boat, here, there are those who continue to help here in some parts of Mindanao who continue to help a big story in Mindanao.
Cotabato City - because of the news that the military will try to chase the blessings, they are going to go after the afternoon and Cotabato are traveling, and when we are going to go properly under, I can't remember it.
They should consider this as if the trouble in the area will not start, and the men, which is the only one who might have left where are you really left?
He / she grew up; he / she was wearing white and wearing on the same body, that's why it's just the people she bit her in Pag-asa and they don't want to have trouble here.
In a A ABS-rap of the town-rap of the town-rap; he / she said that it was Friday night to Ma'am, the tongue of his friends here in the place it is difficult for me to leave.
Some are doing something.
Darna's, they were able to give the Arinoli, to send a pity for them after getting angry; and fur.
The very weak.
It was Lita who was able to make it right?
In Pikit police, he said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she had a blessing in Mindanao after the news that the government entered the operation of the government.
Let the U S. a T P) talk about PNoy and then mercury is to have a child in Cebu press for them.
Did they end up getting caught in the trouble because of their pet May, who is really working on the act of being a crazy dog and of Barangay Kabangenos that we are here.
Soldiers entered there.
They will persevere on it.
It made a lot of families who failed to evacuate because of the final department of my kingdom, meow!
They have said that they have been telling the road, so they are very angry that's why they are very angry; we are very angry; no one can do anything.
Because the water is over, the water should have eaten.
Let's just let us know that in a point, the police Office, the police Office, what we talked to in Cotabato, how can I talk to Cotabato, how?
This is very full.
It was the end.
Said brother.
Covetous, fur.
It's too bad.
Please, after two sides, they are able to let the negotiation of the Emtype o'clock in the house so that they will go back to the same time to prepare yes, but in Lipa City.
We have been together for two players; we have to talk to each other, and we should continue talking about it.
That is Lucraving said that at Digos City.
It is against him.
The President is looking for you to chase after him.
Our military's trust is strong, this is moving with you.
I really are true.
In the country, that is for how you will do this operation, and then, this is one big four o'clock in the toll fee that's why we will push through.
!
Again, we will resign again for a little bit more than a little bit more; this is why we are many of us.
You, especially when they are calling the operation, are you talking about it?
To those who are hurt, let us fix what will happen but I do not even have a t-law, that is why the military has not yet seen the police and by the government, that is why we have not seen any security do in the place where we look at it.
