
INVazole, Palawan, and IP, are the same.

It seems that it can be guarded in one of the investor should be guarded in Palawan and this is the National Commission of InFilipino-New People's Army or IP) under the office of the President.
I personally witnessed and saw the eyes of the paradise island of "Malhmmmp" but it seems that it didn't have been neglected, it is just such a waste that this happens around the island.
Based on the information gathered by lily's Calvento File, it turns out that Boracay Tourist Assistance Center is going out to be one of the owners of the island of "Malpas" so in any hour, they can be able to save it to become a very beautiful resort.
To our friends who were able to talk to the Filipino Workers or IP, it appears that the owner of the island seemed to have been intentional that it is possible that they will be taken by a TRO for the bosses at the Regional hearing Office, Region 4-B of the IP).
It is said that the work of the National IP is said to be guarded by the owners of the island that was delivered to and when the work is in the middle of the work, this will be given a TRO for the development or construction of the island.
Here the economic system is natural, a investor should make a way for the project or development of the island to happen.
The owner of the island will be annulled by the bosses to remove the TRO for a payment for a payment for him and this is only the investor and Gabatan, who knows.
The Commission on Human Rights is coming out by the IP-P, it is said that the island that they give a TRO is the property of IOS but why the money they ask for P58,000 pesos only for some of them is the only thing they give.
This is what is happening in the island of Malinta.
The investor should be pitiful, just like in an island that has a reserved P10-billion budget for conformity that is set for more than one hundred million before it will be given a TRO.
The genset was not able to do anything but his project was taken out of the island and was transferred to Bohol, because in Bohol, because in Bohol, the tomfoolery of the National Police and Gaby en will not work.
He also admitted this by Coron Vice Mayor Jim Geralde L. Pe, to P15.B project, that it is in Bohol that he felt a sense of regret with Vice President because he added to their province.
Anyway, even if I am the investor, I would want to transfer my project instead of going to the place filled with greedy and corrupt officials of our government.
The investor are just wondering why in other places, the investor should not do that to the investor should not be like that, in Boracay, Bistansos and Coron in order to be strict.
President Bira 3, well, if you can't show that your men are going abroad to go abroad to invite, that the money that you are spending in the trip will be wasted, that the money that you are spending in the trip will be wasted, that is why there is something that will be done here, lily's Day.
