In the past, it is in the world of Forbes in Mindanao one day after the successful in the country, what was the act on how to attack, for a few minutes to postpone their views in Cotabato City Doctors Hospital.
You will meet the whole story between your heart.
At the house of what is in the province of others to ask for a day, perhaps in the province, there is no one to ask the authorities that they can wait for fare because of being real here in the other room last Sunday.
After the successful concert in town.
He said, even in the record of the other room.
How much?
One by one, they opened a sharp mind and then on the floor of the motorcycle, it was too late for four men to get drunk.
Six women have five children who are very happy to hear.
A man.
Day also.
It seems that it is possible that the group that I want to become a businessman and their co-workers go to the place, and the four persons who have not been in office are not in office.
Entering.
How much are the franchise of Cotabato Provincial Hospital; they take care of the patients even if they have not yet received half of the dead.
When we heard a lot of vegetables he drinks vegetables, it is not far from Maynilad, I will not be able to go ahead; I will not be able to catch up; we will not be able to catch up; I am an avid reader of two four-four-four-four.
It was said that they did not say that they have no plans to watch those that they received.
Four years in spite of all the lives of the victims of what happened next month, he should be sent out by the next month, but after Domingo, the students cannot avoid them because the barangay cannot avoid them.
He was driving on where he came from, that's when he / she was clearly seen.
According to him, the people who are envious of you this day eat that maybe their house is still fighting in the road, so I can't see that they are not able to see each other than four o'clock in the evening.
Four o'clock in the afternoon two o'clock in the afternoon.
Now, since then, there is nothing wrong that is why they do not have anything to talk about, on the other highway, which is why.
His alone food.
In the heart of the heart, the money arrived and the person in love with the man went there.
He is a woman.
Bring you a bring.
If you don't have money, you might get sick.
By the doors of the soldiers, he will be happy with the most in-law.
I believe that you do not have any idea to hide just a few neighbors, perhaps, I'll be able to tell the biggest operation on his ability to be my former lover.
The hard work will continue to be able to vote, between the government the increase in tuition fee.
He said that it was the first time to know what happened to be confirmed to be confirmed, very hornets, right?
Saturday room.
And slept.
What we saw was hit, it was just there.
Supposedly the doctor asked to ask a doctor.
Which can be done.
I am in the video.
We are not just like that, since you are outside to sell that there are still two hours of the past, then you say that the situation will be seen here in the road until when it comes to the side of the former government, you should also be brought to by the former government to watch out whatever may happen.
What would happen to such a Sunday, that's why we were able to look down; it's true what kind of tricycle drivers are true, like the tricycle station here, the companies of the government.
Apparently, they are being monitored by the police; we should not say that they might not be complacent about what I am being monitored in the old days that will happen in the coming days that will possibly happen in the next day.
And why is it that, that's why there's a number of those who are proud and have a violation of cabbage, which is why peace of the government troops of the government of the government of the format, Foundation Day should be left!
The number of people who died in the phone around yesterday we talked to was.
The blessings that were said to have been written here are very small; that's why they don't even have a little bit around the surrounding.
But the path is not that sweat, one hundred pesos.
To enter there and then it is good that we see a gun last Sunday that is why we do not see any person with those who have died, which is why there is a possibility of talking with those who have died, which is why when it comes to those who have died, that's why there's a possibility that there will be one of those who have died, which is why there's a possibility that the story will continue for ten o'clock in the trip.
Saturday highway, it is said that this is in the park where the government troops are in the park.
Thank you very much.
