
Slaps, Jony.

President Benigno Aquino III did not move in his revelation in front of the delegates of the World Economic Cooperation (WEF) in our country recently.
He earns big from the delegates that he said, he dismantled the corruption and the economy of the Philippines is raised.
Next to invited to the foreign leaders who prioritize taking care of our loved town.
I do not know if Noynoy Aquino is reading it, I don't know if the surrounding him surrounding him is loyal to him.
Just when, on the pages in Facebook of Japan, fear is spread and they will avoid the town of Juan.
There is one reason, the crime is high, the electricity and out of the home are expensive.
In the crime, many Japanese Japanese, Korean, Americans and others are planning to build a business here.
They had a difficulty with the number of basic goods for licenses.
In the economy, Noynoy said that Noynoy said the high "domestic helper" (GDP) of the country.
Because we are the most leading in Asia.
Alright, let us believe him.
But how will he explain that in spite of the riches of the country in his campaign protest, why are there more poor people?
Why is there no opportunity for work?
Why are there more hunger now than the past administrations?
Those who attended the WEF is the problem of the businessmen who attended us.
"The fight that's being taken back in Belgium is to make a thrift shop in order to clean the back of Laguna Lake.
The Marcos regime has no reason for the cancellation aside from the agreement between them and former President Gloria Arroyo!
That is also what they did for contractor from France that would have been going to make the ports for us in the highway or Roll and Roll.
One of the feature is done by Noynoy's personnel at the Ichambers (chickenia.
The US was trying to ask the US $300 million to maintain the contract on them for the protect of the Metro Rail Transit (MRT) along with the supply of the new tram.
For now, the ambassador of Czech Republic is still charged?
How can the foreigners make a source of capital if the situation is like that?
The electricity is expensive and the water is expensive but most of all, the foreigners want security.
They do not treat each other, Mister Aquino, they are not stupid in your flattery.
A slap on the face of Juan is your boastfulness.
