Saturday, May 18, 2013.

Wind.

Wind.

(Pentectment).

Try to beat your index finger in a small opening of your mouth, just try to act on your mouth, what is the difference from your mouth, and when it comes from your mouth, it is a hot topic when it comes from your mouth.

"This is what we can use as the symbol of the giving of Jesus during Holy Week, he asked them to go home and say it was from the depths of his will and because this is when it is hot and it is coming inside.

In the old age, we already know that the wind from the breath of God was the one who gave the mud which was made in the mud when we were breathing, we are still investigating the life that was given to God.

In the report of Jesus, the wind is sent to the air that came from his will that was given to the men as a sign of putting on the holy spirit that we have accepted when we were given the responsibility to continue the disclosure of Christ.

There is one story about the parts of his body that sometimes, he / she said that he / she was the most best because if he didn't lose his heart, she said she was the best because she did not lose his mind and she said she did not lose his mind and she said she did not neglect him because she was the one who thought about it because she was the one who thought about it.

But despite this there is one part of the body that was just quiet when he saw a hole on his body, and even his heart fell down because they learned that each other is going through and they learned that each one is going through each other.

In terms of this, we should find out the church now.

Many are competing against the ability of others, but when we give us the holy Espiritu, we were given all of our part of the church that we have their own important things and when it is not in line, it has an effect on the general's life.

We should not just be silent and do not run as part of the church and let us know the role that you will perform.

The church has different parts of the church and needs a person to make sure that the priest is not enough, but the LRTMC) that's why the Larracoyotl dam.

If you are a child, you can be the altar Serna or will join the Parish Youth Foundation where you need church.
