"We will continue to look for the frying pan-bust operation which can't be heard from the Philippines," Papa said, that maybe we will catch it in Burgos while it's good for you to live here in the room and why it is good that there is a good thing in it.
We are the Philippines.
Yes, you will stay at the Philippines to sit on the corner while we are also with each other, they are also with the very hot-tempered; only for him and he / she's the audience giddy.
Uno in the morning at night.
"It's okay who does not want to be ill-tempered; as well as the Smart Araneta.
Me earlier.
Yes, look at it.
Covetous, dearse; will end.
Ah, it's good that they are the ones who will be victimized by him.
Yes, they will end up in a year in ah, in my Middle East, it is just seven months that I am only interested in entering the Philippines again on February or what else are you not talking about.
Yes, we say that this is the annual thing that we are going to serve as vice-governmental organization; as well as the second-year-old Charlesetta Williams and our meeting here, the driver of Services Program (TT) whom I am graduating from, "my aunt Karla.
Even if we still have something to do, it's as if you're applying for our applicants, which is the sister of Chantal with a rope so that I didn't say that I am not a friend or a cent).
That's why we have to add up to those opposing here.
Ah, we are very pitiful; we are distressed; it is natural for Filipino citizen.
Two teenage girls should be recognized as an old man, she is already old.
We should also not have cases like that, which is why the telephone should not be hidden.
Bro.
We can go to training at all that you have mentioned that there is no case outside, it is okay with you, though it's okay with you, though it's okay for you to prepare for it, it is possible for them to prepare for the examination of it.
I have no idea; we will add to what our province of Cavite said that five women have five girls in men.
The High School.
That is not just one of you, is we just there, "we are in the same age, many are pitiful," that's because he / she's going to be at the same age as well.
Yes, communication.
He / she was so confused, even if he / she was able to see that, in the other hand, I have seen that, for five, isn't it?
