18 hours of danger of the Nazarene and Edizziness.

The authorities of the Catholic Church and the government are saying that the transfer or procession of Jesus Black Nazarene will reach 18 hours in the city of Manila.
The procession will pass through the Luneta Grandstand and will flow in Malate, Intramuros, Binondo, Santa Cruz, San Miguel and Quiapo until it reached the church in Quiapo at the house of Poon.
Because of millions is expected to come in the procession, it is really a bait, that is why it will only be eaten by the weather.
Big.
Almost every year, Bro, where the Nazarene gets alive.
Like the feast of Santo Niño in Tondo, Manila is happening to the Nazarene.
It is a big miracle that nobody is killed in the middle of the enjoyment of millions of devotees of Santo Niño.
Meanwhile, those who die of Nazareno are being stepped on, how can you save the millions of bodies who are able to reach you or millions of feet will be hit by you.
Heart attack, a heart attack.
Every year, there are people who experience heart or very weak blood in the procession, aside from the wounded or broken bones.
How will you not be involved in your heart or changing blood if you go with the entire 18 hours of procession for those who have been possessed, tired, and many others.
That's why, it is not enough to build a doctor and a nurse in the way going through the procession to take care of those who are wounded or having illnesses.
There is also a number of ambulance and vehicles that go near the surrounding for the quick treatment of those in need in hospitals or hospitals.
Cut off.
We have not heard multiple times or lost their hands because of the rope used to pull the Nazarene.
But this remains danger, especially when the dark night comes.
It's because it's because the procession is going to pass through the procession that has been paid or proven when the Nazarene was brought home to Quiapo Church.
Already beaten.
If there are rumors about the procession and makes the procession, it is not normal, that there might be something bad happening.
And there is usually someone who buys fertilizer or pickpocket or toothpick inside.
You will just find out that there are bloody and sprawled on the ground where they were able to drive away from throwing stones at the ear and nose, violence will not be avoided, fight, boxing, and many others.
It is really lucky that these congregation can be lucky because they are usually beaten-off and thinking of thinking when they kill them on the spot.
Forgiveness, no witness.
They are also lucky because the victims know how to forgive.
One more thing, the cases are usually not happening because of the lack of interest in the victims.
There are no witnesses or victims, there are no cases, according to the police, the reason why they are the most suffering.
And these lives are back to normal, hold-up, hold-up, hold-up, and various places in different places, like students in the streets.
Be alert.
There are even medical personnel who are taking advantage in order to meet the bad grace.
And there are also thousands of policemen, barangay watchmen, traffic enforcer and volunteer to take care of the devotees.
But it should be that in the ranks of those who will meet, we should be alert in all times against accidents, crime, disease and other danger.
They are all merely figures.
In the ongoing crisis in the electricity, the authorities will be able to visit the law Electric Power Plant (Kamara).
Visit it for the appropriate decision or if it is for your dissolution.
The child of tofu, is being done by the law of the electric companies and the government.
The owners of the electricity and the government get strong and get the thickness of their faces that they need to rob and wash the people.
When the EgRA as law in Congress was done, there was a bribery among each lawmaker in order to be approved.
They say, the electricity will be cheap when it passed and the Edizziness is passed.
The opposite is the opposite.
Instead of becoming cheap, Bro, if you will complain about the high value of electricity today, and if you will complain, the EBira will be allowed to set a price for you and not anywhere.
This is not doing anything but approved the petition for the power of the companies.
Why is the damn!
If this is how our situation is like this in the electricity that is too burdensome for everyone, to just separate the law of Eve and own home, the government will just control the industry of electricity in the country.
