Aquino, allowed to be a dictator because of DAP.

Julian Bato.
No difference from a dictator is President Benigno Aquino III when he implemented the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) while the budget is ongoing for the budget for corrupt service, according to the anomalous group.
According to the group Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN), Aquino allegedly abused the power of the president when he took the management of the national budget and disregard the decision of the Supreme Court in relation to DAP.
It is stated in Section 25, Article VI of the Constitution which aims to pass through the national budget, meanwhile, according to the appropriate provisions, the only giving of the proposal and the implementation of the budget can be done by the President in this process.
But from 2010 up to 2013, Aquino transferred without permission from the Congress about some of the funds in the national budget for the 116th "priority," allegedly under the DAP.
When the Supreme Court made a few parts of DAP last July 1, it seems that Aquino attempted to destroy the release of the separation of powers by the Saligang Batas, said town Secretary General Renato Reyes.
"We do not want to reach a point that two equal branches of the government are going to be involved in the middle of the third branch, it is hard to understand your decision," Aquino said in his speech last July 15.
According to Section 1, Article VIII, the Supreme Court has the power to reduce any program of the government if they are seen violating the Constitution.
"It turns out that the President filed an intensive care for the constitution to be an intensive care for the Saligang Batas and the SC) to have the Constitutional crisis if the executive leader to be followed by the ruling of the SC," Reyes added.
The allies of Aquino immediately defended the DAP allegedly because of the good results of it to the economy, according to the National Economic Cooperation Development Authority, the three-year implementation of DAP.
"Anything but, if you look at it, DAP, to go to a non-priority, to be a solution to the benefit of the country," said Reyes.
Aside from 144 billion funds sent by DBM under DAP, P40 billion will only go to paying the insurance of the Central Bank of the Philippines and Bureau of Customs, while P52 billion is allocated on the pork barrel of the Malacanang and Congress.
According to a memorandum of DBM, Malacanang is taking the budget for DAP from the funds such as P33 billion pesos, and 30 billion pesos for the personnel of Services Program in 2011.
"You will be shocked with the size of the funds saved but instead, you will be surprised why the social Services Program," said Reyes.
This year, the 26 are going to experience a number of 112 State Universities (SUCs) in the country, including Mindanao State University, which will receive the biggest budget for more than 660 million and UP will receive P157 million budget.
In the record of the Sangguniang Partylist, almost half of the proposed budget of SUCs from the Aquino administration is approved under the Aquino administration.
"Tanim-Aquino's adversary, the Help Family, was able to be able to leave the Pambansang Kamao in the social gathering, the presidential pork barrel," said Reyes.
