War versus traffic should be from the president.
June 17, 2016.
This has been recommended by House Committee on Metro Manila Development chairman Winston Castelo, a press conference yesterday as his support for the resignation of President-elect Rodrigo Duterte to resolve this problem.
"It's true that the corruption of the traffic Enforcement Agency, President Duterte is out to be taken out, but according to Castelo, the lawmaker said it is time to give additional power to the next president of the country because if the problem will be solved because of the lack of political will.
The lawmaker said that most of the Metro Manila are not moving to clean the streets in their jurisdiction of the community which is why it is not possible to resolve the problem with traffic.
Aside from this, the projects of the government are also not able to increase the roads, to increase additional bridge and others because of temporary restraining order (TRO) which is the issue of the court.
"Based on the opinion of the Rocket Chair of the Metro Manila Development Committee, Tindan, which is the cause of the President's emergency powers.

Despise or Times call for PPETyo, to be a big contribution to the Severe Actor, the Severe Actor, "according to the lawmaker," according to the lawmaker.
According to him, according to him, the Supreme Court should strictly implement the discipline of motorists violating traffic laws, and it can only be done, he said, this is through the emergency power.
Under Article VI, Secretary 23 (2) of the Saligang Batas, the Congress may allow the President of the country to have an emergency power but for a limited time to implement what is needed especially during the time of war and other calling the national emergency.
According to Castelo, the problem of traffic in Metro Manila is a part of the national emergency because based on the study of Japan International Criminal Agency (the CA), the government and the citizens are losing P2.4 billion every day due to traffic.
