MILF (COMMK to be a good thing, good luck!

There, the former Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) has an international agreement that it means the surrender of weapons towards peace talks.
Different followers of the countries arrived as a witness to the statements of the spoke, that was the start of peace after more than five-year-old Filipino people in Mindanao.
Don Benigno Simeon Coyo-Noy Aquino III said that his administration is the real patriot and the path of peaceful Mindanao.
Okay? Does he want to say even the administration of his mother before?
Who among the Filipinos do not like peace, who really wants violence?
Who wants to become a rebel fight in the state, why there is a rebellion and that event is the negligence of the leaders, PNoy!
Poverty is what pushed many of our countrymen to rebel against the leaders of the government.
Poverty is the root of all the arguments of the affected sectors.
Laid before!
With what happened to the MILF military, it would have been good.
But it's just that, "those who surrendered the HF or Bangsamoro Islamic Armed Forces are all damaged, no longer used but just fixed it just to look like the eyes of the witnesses they are fooling!
Many of them surrendered are the carp and armalite rifle which were supposed to be sold at the newspaper and bottle but it was seen because of the excessive drama that was given to the Malacañang-OPAPP-MILF.
The question: Where and to whom they come from, the sacrifice of carbiness and rifle? "Some of the piece of high sacrifices, they have no doubt, that it is the old age of MILF Commercial Center.
They were brought to the first to look like a lot of weapons thrown away?
What is worse, each weapon is under the P25-thousands.
It is not a problem, if it is not enough to surrender to peace but it is one hundred kilos, even the weapons of MILF, as if they seem to be used to create such a big money.
"My Moro" in Maguindanao said, they do not have an old weapons, to whom are those?
If PNoy really wants to end the rebellion and other kinds of terrorism in Mindanao, it is also a wealth that he is saying that, "he / she has been saying that he / she has been telling the first real initiative like ARMM.
Why don't you pour the funds along with the quick action of many infrastructure in Mindanao?
"The funds of OPAPP, Nana, Congress and the useless agency, take and put all over the entire surroundings of Mindanao.
But, what happened to the MILF, which is just a Moro and Moro.
You are seen by your people!
