No pointing of finger, none of them.

It was infected with PNoy on his followers regarding the issue of severe traffic flow in Metro Manila.
Like the style of PNoy that he likes to teach in every controversial issue against him, the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) and Land Transportation Office (MMDA) and Land Transportation Office (LTFRB) will teach the Regulatory Commission (LTFRB).
MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino said, the new directive of LTFRB chairman Winston Ginez himself was the reason why the flow of traffic in Manila is tight.
Tolentino has a point that Ginez denied some programs of the MMDA to hasten the flow of traffic but Ginez insisted that his directive is not the real reason of this problem.
It was about the point that Ginez was about to have a point when the flow of traffic was still heavy, that's why in the past few days, it seems that the motorists would not allow the motorists on the road because of the super horny "traffic.
What I know is that Tolentino and the former mayor are lawyers in the province of Cavite where the situation of traffic is good under his administration.
Ginez was also a lawyer that is why he first became famous for the people there for the impeachment against former Chief Justice Renato Corona which is said to be the payment of PNoy to put it on top of the LTFRB.
That's why it appears that a lawyer is against the lawyer who will fight within the tribe of PNoy but on the pointing of finger and teach them two, they are starting to look like the barbells.
In this point, there are even finger pointing and teach them! The boxes have been piled up in our coast in Manila.
The blamed by the Philippine Ports Authority (PSP) is the directive of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
This is a big effect in our economy because goods will surely increase because of the additional expenses of businessmen in our dock, the collection of the Bureau of Customs (BoC) will be delayed.
.
Just like the MMDA and LTFRB, the Putatan, BOC and local government of Manila are blaming each other on the issue of the dump site in our dock, the people... that's because of their tomfoolery!
