The Ebola virus has reached 90,000 to ISF.

This those who fight a politician in relation to the election 2016 should stop what they are doing in politics and look at other problems of the country that becomes the danger of many.
An example is the disease of Ebola in any day to enter the Philippines, the children of the traditional politicians are going to take time for this.
These politicians should remember where the Ebola virus could still jump out, like the entry of disease in Dallas, Texas and New York City in the United States and Malpas that they will be hit by illness.
90,000.
In an estimation of Yale School of Public Health in America, who was reported by The Legal et Infante, Disown journal, up to 90,000 to die of the Ebola arrival of December this year.
It has been said that the time has been finished which is supposed to be controlled by its construction and it is obvious that more than five times the increase of those who get sick and die.
About 5,000 people are dead from 10,000 illnesses in the past seven months and it is said that the spread of disease in the whole world is still starting, especially since there is still no cure against it.
This is amidst the report of the World Health Organization, which may have a vaccine against illness in the middle of the 2015.
A different solution.
Everyone should be in a hurry to find ways to fight the spread of disease even in the world.
We should not take advantage of the "effects of an experiment on the present of those who get sick, especially since they are not easy to do it just to make it in the whole world, aside from the questionable effects of these.
Doors!
It is also because of the travel of people from and going to the countries being attacked by illness, countries and people who want to stop the travel of airplane and ships are increasing in number.
In the 17 countries in Africa of the border agents in countries Liberia and Guinea and Guinea so that they will not be able to enter a disease?
The Yale School of Public Health is saying that the authorities are going to spread and spread the things as protection against the disease, including the famous clothes, similar to the doctors using their treatment.
Christmas and tourism.
Of course, there are already fear that there are more than 4,000 Filipino Workers who are in the mentioned three countries, the worth of 7,000 OFWs in Nigeria.
In Liberia which is at 2,000 OFWs, almost no one goes to and be treated in hospitals because they do not want to follow the order of the government to burn all those who die of Ebola, which is why more people will die of Ebola.
What about the arrival of OFWs from this country and from Sierra Leone, who are planning to burn the corpses which are also not allowed by the citizens and surely will become the cause of quick spread of disease and death?
Now that Christmas is fast approaching, causing the influx to the Philippines of OFWs and tourists who will possibly cause Ebola.
What should be done to stop the entry of Ebola in the Philippines? This is a big question that should not be ignored by anyone.
Or the children of our co-politicians who have been staying in politics now, answer!

Ultimatum at him / Benny.
