Edious: Freedom should be given importance when they are fighting.
By Rico as June 11, 2016), the Philippines and every Filipino in the whole world are going to celebrate the ninth year of Independence Day.
But let us ask our countrymen if they can feel the heat of the celebration of this celebration, especially the participants of our fellowmen, most of them are celebrating Christmas Day.
The Philippines has been free for more than a hundred years since there are no Filipino people who have witnessed the first anniversary of the flag of the Philippines as a President of our own town, but there are other generations who have heard the story of the heroism of their own town, but there are still every generation that occupied our country and the control of foreign contacts.
Just recently I remember all the heroism of the Filipinos against the Spanish Americans in the movie "General Luna," it's just sad that it seemed to have been made in the mind and spirit of the youth who watched this: The fighting of the character of Filipinos who is truly a rust that is true in the release and improvement of the country.
Now, the Philippines is entering a contest of showing signs of stolen threats to democracy.
I hope that the suspicion and fear is wrong but it cannot be denied to the statements of the new President that he has an effect of the public's statements that he is not spared from the observation of the public about its lack of patience and failure to accept criticisms.
He also said to everyone, even the lawmakers of the next Congress, just do not leave my plans and programs as well as it seems like the media can be erased in the government where even the media seems to be erased.
The pillars of a life of democracy is being criticized by President-elect Rodrigo Duterte by his threats and words, hopefully not just forget that we are in one country and are still fellow Filipinos.
It is only one race that takes care of freedom and he is ready to fight for someone who is trying to extort, let him know a word or finally kill any reason.

The feeling of every Filipino is still there to defend this desired against any threats, foreign or fellow Filipinos!
