Talaba!!: Christian, admitted that there is no one in showbiz.
By Barazeda July 27, 2016), before judging the contract of Christian Bautista in GMA, she was brought to the cast of Encantadia that he was happy.
Christian has long wanted to make a little action project, that's why even before the taping of the coming television series will start, there are a lot of training that he went through, Christian, the Lord of the Lord of the Rings and Game.
In the chatter of Christian, he admitted that he had a relationship with a fellow Filipino, Kumamoto and Ramiro Bausa.
They met a friend for a long time and they had a relationship for a long time but they still have no plans to get married.
According to Christian, he was able to settle down at the age of 34, maybe he will wait for a year and look at what will happen.
Gabbi Garcia and passion in the reaction.
For those who are hiding in Encantadia.
"He / she was able to go back to Encantadia, which was received by Encantadia from the Kapuso network after the hair-raising Pilot of this last week.
That's why it is very thankful for the lead Stars, according to the netizens who continue to support and mock GMA Network.
For the Kapuso actress Gabbi Garcia who is taking advantage of Alena in GMA Telegant show, inspiration will be given to him in Encantadia.
"It is the good thing we ourselves," our goal is for them to be like a person's goal.

"That's why," we, "our love for show to show that we have gone to a show that we have been waiting for a long time, including them, they are looking forward at night at night," fun at Gabbi.
Maine Mendoza gives priority.
Maine Mendoza
For Maine Mendoza, fans of Top Rank Promotions will be a source of gratitude that's why anytime, the Phenomenal Bostar is going to bring happiness to the people who are asking him even though his father, Mister Teodoro Mendoza, who is usually called by fans of Maine, Daddy Bae, "
In fact, just recently, the father and son of the young lady was shocked when there was a heated argument that spread the kindness of the two and brought happiness to the said fan.
"He is kind even if we are going to cross the street where he is holding my window and asked me to call her a kind of car when I heard that he just asked for a moment," according to the fan of Dublin, queen.
He / she was wearing.
For the Kapuso actress Solenn Heats, it is true that the First Lieutenant.
It is said that Solenn Heussaff has a post, "Build of Solaverted Art" if it can be recalled that he had a successful fiber in April using the rainy season of number Solenne Art.
Marian was too late for being a mother.
Marian and Baby!
The Kapuso Prudon, Queen of Marian Rivera and Dingdong Dantes admitted that her mother was the happiest incident to her because she was a person who changed his life.
And now that Baby Zia, is getting bigger, a message of love was sent by Yan, the host of his eldest child through her Instagram.
The actress was able to post a picture of Baby Lefia, she added, she said that she was being pointed at a happy 8th year-old daughter, Dr. Love when she was really being pointed at and waiting for the start of social media about the social media about the TV remake of this column.
In fact, it was not lost in Top 10 trending in Twitter Philippines in the entire Pilo Brigada Eskwela.
And as gratitude, one of the lead Stars, Rafael Rosell, is ready for a short point, for those who have seen their drama, Rafael also showed in the video the few of them to be in the video.
Do not let it pass by a very eager story of your liar day from Monday to Friday after different souvenirs.
