Suddenly Lo'clock in hectares of UP went to the morgue.

Aldrin Villegas was able to do it.
What welcomed the students and teachers of UP arrived in August. Although the heavens fell in the stretch of University Avenue because of trees planted in the University Avenue because of the rainy season and the upcoming end of one year in UP.
But just after a few days, the flowers were also tasted by strong winds and rain showers because of the experiment of the administration of UP.
These are these.
It was a strong downpour of rain the wake up to Joseph, a Friday morning because there was a long time trip from Bulacan to UP and there was no announcement on the suspension of the making of making or not an announcement on the suspension of making of making him to enter.
Joseph was in the trip when he found out that there was no class because of typhoon Mario and even his classmates were not able to leave the house early because of the height of the flood, "hopefully the students who were coming from it will not be pitiful," he said.
Even Dave Santiago, it is also difficult to travel to UP from his boarding house in Marikina every time the rain is strong, he needs to dry up because of the flood in going along with the congested traffic.
"There are a lot of hours for the trip because of the strong downpour of rain, many students are still having a hard time in spite of the acacademic," said Dave.
It is estimated that the capacity of 11 dormitories in UP Diliman were only at 3,600 kilometers per kilo of UP Diliman, for a huge amount of 17,000 students who are living outside, there is a need to enter and go home.
On the recorded 15 suspension of 2011 to present, seven or almost half of this came from the month of August when the class starts this year.
The other parts of UP cannot escape from the problems of the new calendar, "the students are having a hard time to adjust to students due to the destruction of classes brought about by the frequent rain," said Dyan Guihulngan, chairman of UP Cebu Provincial Council.
This is not surprising because the most typhoon is wreaking havoc from July up to September, according to Doctor Romulo Telerano, former general secretary of the National Sambag 2).
That is why according to Production. Gerry Lanuza, the Department of Soccore, no one year has been considered a failure in the new academic, "in my opinion, the argument that he left is not."
It is raw.
It is the purpose of the government to keep up in the calendar of the countries members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
There is still no one year after this was published, the change in the calendar was already difficult for the month of August, July in the meeting of the Board of Regi last November 28, including UP in a seven university in Southeast Asia that June the school year.
Students criticized, teachers, and employees of UP prioritize the proposal, like number of Suntingon, Protest and Chel-Tropas.
According to Lt. Gen. Emmanuel is God of the School of economics, the academic issues are not important on the topic of the funeral parlor, he said, "Interpol ID, which is an avid reader of the university which is a national or a national global warming which is the national global warming which becomes the national global warming which becomes a national.
In order to fulfill it, the number of "tiktiks" and graduating, a thing which can be done in the old calendar, like 123 individuals, which is set aside from 2010 to 2013, according to the record of the Office of extension CoCs), should be increased.
"An academic, which was asked to be responsible for those who were asked to be responsible for the honor, which was being taken by the biased.
This is a big challenge for the professor because of the lack of facilities, "they promised to build, which will build a fist fight, electric fan units, electric fan, but where, Lanuza, stated.
"
We are like that.
Though UP will move forward to the current problems, it is still not good for the new calendar, which seems to be attracted to another country and will be protected from another country instead of serving the country.
"The Duterte administration for the funeral parlor with the Philippine Amusement and Lot of the US will of Social Work and of Country," said office, Carl Santos of the Up University (USC).
In the record of the International Criminal Court (ILP), the Philippines has the highest homicide rate in the ASEAN which reaches up to the nearby countries such as Brunei, 3.7 million MT; and Singapore, 35.2 square meters; and Singapore, 351 billion pesos.
Instead of making a job, it seems like he is being sold in other countries to make the strength of Filipinos as a proof that more than 10 million number of Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) are in the leading state of the Philippines as an apology of "human Labor Law in Asia.
"They are not just taking a new calendar, but also in the line of" exported "as" as they say: We, we were telling to the acadversary, we was being watched in the acadic, "said Santos.
In total, it can be recalled that it can only be a father of the country in the ASEAN, the Student Gener Neill John Mackenzie. "Fight IT led to the Our Lady OPLAN), Fight IT.
More than the goal of the cancellation, UP should not be able to collect the sanctity of the quality of the quality of the filipino masses.
"Up to the number of members of the number of students, which is very high-tempered, and fog of students, to send their own education, the bosses-in social media, in exchange of resources," Allen Lemery, chairman of UP Los Banker and SC).
It's not just a simple change in the day of school the transfer of academics because it is contrary to the path that the mandate should be taken from the university - the mandate which is leading the country is a huge change.
