Worry about the people.

Even if they are not sure if their loved ones are already dead or dead, the relatives of the victims reminisced the disappearance or disappeared.
Within the yard of the church of Baclaran gathered together, carrying the pictures of the victims, prayers, and accompanied by a candle, prayers, also prayer of the relatives, to give justice to what happened to their loved ones.
"We are not in a cemetery, which is owned by flowers and candles for our loved ones, because we cannot see them," says Lorena Santos, a group of relatives of the victims of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) who was kidnapped last 2007, and until now, is missing.
Also criticized by relatives is also criticized by President Aquino on the cases of human rights, after the President said that there is no equivalent disease from the left, "Santos said that there is no equivalent disease from the left, especially that the relatives who are looking for their relatives are being counted.
"It is painful to lose a relative, but it is more painful that we are not going to go to but the fellow relatives of the other victims, we are not doing anything for it, because the military and the police themselves have kidnapped our relatives," said Santos.

Former general Jovito Palparan is one of the alleged criminals in the disappearance of the students who are Shermelyn Benapan and Karen Emano, and the general continues to appeal to the court to stop the hearing of the kidnapping case filed by the relatives in Bulacan.
"He denied all the accusations against the military, but we know that he is a blood pressure," Concepcion Emano said that the increase of member of the victim will be felt by the increase of members of the victim.
"In an organization, the members are only right, but in our opinion, to lessen the construction of being cut and killed," says Concepcion, together with the relatives of the victims from Panay, Caraga, and regions of the southern and Middle Luzon.
It's the challenge of the group to Aquino to answer the Anti-Added Tax "we will assure the President that we will not stop with our loved ones in order to give justice that Aquino did not do," said Santos.
