DAP was worse than PDAF but the decision of the SC?

No one knows what will be the decision of the Supreme Court in the controversial Disbursement Acceleration Program.
According to the SC, it might be the next week to release the decision.
In this DAP, Bro, the government spent the total amount of P1536 billion for the years of 2011 until 2013.
The government of 8353B last 2011, P58.7B last 2012 and P15.13B last 2013.
It depends on the news coming out, included in those used to use DAP, incentives or bribe from the senator and congressmen who ordered Renato Corona as Chief Justice of the SC.
PRO-DAP.
Two faces are sent to DAP, of course of those who are against and in favor.
According to Malacanang, the SC should not pay attention to the DAP because they stopped it, especially when he declared the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
The lawyers of Malacanang also said that the SC should not make a decision because there was no initial case, for example, in Regional Trial Court, and the SC will not allow the SC's work of the RTC, "epal."
And it is time to raise the case to the SC if there are problems in the law and the Constitution which will surface here.
Anti-DAP.
According to the anti-DAP, some judges, have legal problems, that is why the SC is going to discuss and make a decision on it.
For example, Malacanang is making his own law in the budget that is not in the jurisdiction of the law for the national budget or general to be exported.
The separation from the Congress of the Congress, Executive and Judiciary is considered as the Constitution by the Constitution when it was simply released by Malacañang by National Budget Circus in 541 that became a law for DAP.
Malacanang is said to be fed up from different agencies and does he put all of the DAP, including the funds which have no certain project or program and is against it in the Constitution.
Questions.
Question: What is the decision of the SC, it will not be as well as the DAP, and push him first to a higher court for the trial and release of data before going to the SC for the final decision?
If the SC decides to pass merits, will he side with the anti-DAP or pro-DAP?
Presidential pork barrel.
The anti-DAP is considered as the Presidential pork barrel of DAP.
This is aside from the Presidential Social Weather Stations, Malhmm, led by the SC in his decision on PDAF and other budget from corruption and other agencies of the government.
Included in the biggest pork barrel of the Philippines is the DAP, if the liver has been buried in the use of said amount, P15700,000 pesos in the year 2011 until 2013.
According to Justice Secretary Leonor Briones, of Social Watch, the total pork barrel of PNoy is up to P58,000 pesos.
And the pork barrel is going to make the expenses of those who are holding what they want, projects or programs.
Progress is the Philippines.
According to Malacanang, if they do not have an DAP and spent for this, the Philippines will not have achieved the prosperity this is being considered by other countries, even in different kinds of international airport.
The DAP that resulted to the economy of the country is stronger and the country is going to progress due to the Tuwid na Daan that was used for the budget of DAP, and for the regular funds of the government.
We have already reached the level of where we are one of the countries with the best record of economic growth.
While in the crisis and uncertainty of the livelihood of other countries, we remain standing and do not experience any weakening of the economy.
Our livelihood or economy were supposedly weak when Yolanda arrived in my loved Philippines.
Citizens!
For the anti-DAP, all lies and it is an expert in the mouth of Malacanang to the citizens to progress and continue to progress the Philippines because of the use of DAP.
They are doing the survey as basis that the poor will ask for forgiveness from the poor and not only the hunger of some of our fellowmen, but they are increasing in number.
If there are people who get rich, no one else but the 47 families who have control over the biggest part of the economy of the Philippines and these families are the partner of the government for the billions of value of projects and programs of the government.
It will be the same with PDAF?
If it depends on the contents of the contents, of course, we want to know the constitutional process and legal or not the DAP.
For us, it is better that we want the SC's decision to pass merits but instead, he should be kicked out from the RTC.
It is a big amount of DAP released by the government that we do not know about the projects and the DAP did not know anymore when Malacanang himself admitted that it came from the senators and congressmen who were not able to resign from Corona.
It seems that DAP was worse than PDAF, which is important to be at P96B in the past four years.
