
Special Action Force who is going to be built by Parañaque City will be built for the further economic growth.

Postmaster by Jerry Yap.
On June 17, 2015.
In opinion.

Because of the fact seen by Entertainment Television, Parañaque), Mayor Edwin Olivarez already thought that the Special Action Force (Sid) has been built for the sake of the entire city.
Through Sid, the process of questionable transactions will be slow even if they do not want to humiliate the entire city hall.
In the last record, the business games in the said area reached 20,000 pesos in the said area which is estimated to be 30 billions.
Some of the big businesses that can be seen in the area were identified to be found in the area of Solaire Casino Hotel, Manila Bay Resma.
Ayala Land Incorporated, of a shopping mall, which is estimated to be bigger than the Mall of Asia, will also be visited.
According to Mayor Olivarez, all about the tax in Sid's tax will be an obstacle to the public service like the free health condition, health and young housing projects.
Long live Mayor Olivarez!
A warning: Be careful of the modus operandi of Discipline Office (Atsuko Noni) (DOLE).
One sports agency complained to us by one of our relatives to be careful with the public.
This "the Damayan Lagi, Enforcement Agency) who has the address at Casimiro and Funeral Homes, still unidentified 2, 58 Casimiro Avenue, Barangay Zapote, Las Piñas City.
Because you need to diet, a relative is the one who took place in a sports agency.
He got away and boasted to the DSF, which was said to be the one who was sent to them.
"Well, when I saw the" International Airport "said," the kitchen that will be used for him, suddenly got nervous and felt nervous.
And then he suddenly admitted that he is not really the International Airport, she is just being taught by one alias Angie which is lying to look for lamps.
Because the modus operandi has been discovered, the DFS has sent a replacement, but the relatives of our relatives are all irritated due to the abomination.
With our relatives's pity, he was allowed to send 113 million pesos because he will be treated, but there, he did not return.
This is what is worse, when I call the office of DFS / her to get a replacement, the answers that she is being carried out will not be seen anymore.
Sonhmmmp!
It is quick to collect payments but the service is rotten!
The truth is, the modus operandi of DFS is too bad that's why we are calling the public to avoid DFS-Tropas.
It feels incomplete with you, we are still stress in the people they will send.
The Department of Labor Health Organization (DOLE) what the action you do to these kinds of agency?!
WILLIE, Fight IT.
"There is no stop" coming from the BI-OPLAN).
DOJ Sec. Leila de Lima, do you know that he is always happy in the Bureau of Immigration Office of the Commissioner (BI-OM).
Why did you say?
Well, even if it is strictly prohibited under Republic Act 6713 (Code of conduct a gift to the Republic Act 713 (Code of conduct a gift to different parts or ways, it seems that the downpour of blessing from the BI-OPLAN) is strictly prohibited.
Even if there is no occasion or even without birthday, after a while, the food from the BI-OPLAN) is allegedly a while, and not just food, special food!
"Is it like you're fond of Fight IT?!
That is why those from the BI-OPLAN) can't do anything but to cook a pillow because it is embarrassed to those who send them for food.
Who could have been coming from the said number of deaths?
On Leah, like Betag-fiant, or "Annie fixers!
Kindly answer, he is the BI-Off M Cos Norman Tan-5!
Illegal quarry in Sitio Bato Brgy. Guda Santa Maria, Bulacan (Paging: DENR Secretary Ramon Paje).
Sir Jerry, why is there no longer stop in illegal quarry in Sitio Bato, Brgy. Guda, Sta. Maria, Bulacan, if the DENR or any government agency is hiding, it is not surprising because it is near the dump site of garbage that is near the dump site of garbage?
