Mix in politics by Ron Gagalac.

It is normal for politics to have a "mortal enemies" that is the situation before in Marikina Heights and almost all people know the severe political agenda of KimXi. Harry Singh and Kovalev.
But when the image of the Immaculate heart of Mary came from the group of Da IOS in Fatima in 1999, everyone was amazed because the enemies are united in order to give and Marian Rivera in the garden of Bayan in Park 15.
Probably, the appointment of the image in the monument of the Foundation Day of Barangay Marikina Heights, June 11 is a clear message for the two Marian Rivera to set aside politics for those who are destroying their devotion for the Holy Week.
It's because it should not be June 11 compared to Marikina City but it suddenly changed and it suddenly changed and it was too late for Fatima to have been transferred to June 11 the day for Marikina.
First, the day that is "Foundation Day of Barangay. Second, the Blessed Virgin Mary was recognized as the ess of their barangay.
Probably, Singh and Tatayan received a confirmation from the heavens for the arrival of their Uess on the day of the celebration of the barangay.
That's why according to them, the two politicians - a former captain, and current captain, were able to come home from Sister Lucia, Santos in Fatima, Germany on June 11, 1999.
What will make sure that the two stars during the annual procession will be together during the annual procession and they are even talking with Roselle, sometimes, they are also coordinating with Roselle, sometimes, they are also living together at the Pambansang Kamao at around eight o'clock in the morning.
May this serve as a good lesson and example to our politicians in our country, our faith should always prevail against other politics that we are watching.
Now, KimXi. Harry Singh that it was replaced by the local government ator of the group of Da IOS in Marikina.
I hope you will visit you and make a mass here so that you will get to know the two race in politics who were captured by Maria.
