Hold-out of summer.

There are so many things pushing for charter change or charter change.
Because they have divided half of their torch.
The spokesman of Malacanang himself said that he is also confused.
The reason for all, the media is blaming their mother-and-child.
She said that she makes all the media thoughts because he said he will report it.
Especially in the opposition of majority of charter change, the truth is the opposite based on the million-million favor of this because of President Noynoy.
King-mother, they have forgotten that they themselves are the source of the arrival of the Pamen.
And the truth is, they are ready to change and change in order to change the Saligang Batas, especially the politicians who content this, extension.
What is being revealed now, the others are just being carried.
There are 70 congressmen who are fired from their position in 2016.
And they are secretly supported by now, for extension.
What they want, is, they should be bad for the time, extension.
They need to give charter change.
If not, the movement of charter change will occur.
And what is still wanted, is that there will be no election in 2016 to make sure that they will last for extension.
King-mother, Matik, that they are evil in the confiscations of their power.
Now, it is a sample of it, they are really used to it because they are going to walk the way of Constantino was set aside for the amendment of the 1987 Constitution.
In Constantino was unanimous, they are the only ones who will form the force to make changes.
They are the congressmen and senators who are in critical condition in the Constitution.
Their reason is, since they are voted by the citizens, it is only right that they are the only representative of the citizens to be exported in the Constitution.
He is it?
And when this happened, its distribution, who will stop them in doing phenomenon, like extending the mother to the Supreme Court, he is the one who will be against the abuse of those from the Palace and Congress?
Who can stop them in order to give the entire ownership of all the wealth of the country for mining and ocean, including the farms?
As early as now there is a proposal for 100 percent owned by any big businesses in a huge business with the foreigners who are more than higher positions in wealth and businesses in the country.
King was already living together in spite of the constricted streets of Jun Briones.
