Women, gathered to fight corruption.

Rise, naturally, they don't want to, and happy gathering are done by women so that their voice is registered against corruption, especially on the pork barrel system.
Groups of women gathered at Meeting last Friday, September 12, which was led by the woman Lakas ng Sandali (warning), Gabriela, Gabriela Women's omen's Day, from the so-called "Women's omen."
"On the end, but the theme is related to the recovery of women," Gervacio is a good sign.
According to Sandra Cam, the professor and student from different university and school, even the culture of groups from university that they are saying is that what they are saying is that what they think about what is happening to the pork barrel, "said it is a good time.

One billion pesos woke up in 2015.
Along with the said gathering, it was initially launched by the group of women who are the One billion RNC (OBR) in the third year of the campaign to end all kinds of violence of women, this means a change in politics, economy and culture.
"It's because what we want is to achieve if it's really a change that is really a change," Monapist Wilson, global director of OBR and a member of Gabriela. "Is not only justice but a change of the system."
Wilson believes that the issue of corruption will not be taken away from the violence against Women, the worst violence in our women, 80 percent of our women have nothing to eat and hide on another country in order to work, "he said.
"What we did not hear is that, what took a nap is what was the reason to be with our women's women," he added.

Signature against corrupt.
Because of this, Gabriela, as well as OBR-Philippines are conducting the signature for the New People's initiative to gather six to ten million signature of the officials of the Philippines to gather six to ten million signature of the officials of the Philippines to gather six to ten million signatures.
"Yes to our country's rise from the recovery of women in many issues that they are facing," added to the community which can be reached by Gabriela, and I think even the network of the one hundred billion pesos, and I think, they are the contestants in this task. "
This is the first meeting done by women by women but it is a good time, this may be followed in other places, "it may also be followed in other cities."
