Past now is the whole cousin of our farm after the celebration of my celebration every night of our group, I have two groups.
Three are dead while three are wounded in the farm first.
You are still unknown to the residents who call here in reading what happened yesterday, at least we saw each other, the residents of dinner, which are residents of dinner, were already out of personnel.
Here in the barangay couple, because you are not asking what happened to Jessica, it is not common to happen that we will tell the Emperor their place.
Within eleven o'clock to two thousand, there are already rights of the ashes that have been fooled and it will take care of it because it is a big way for you to sleep with a large part of the motorcycle, that is why other candidates are going to board the two title with two titles.
They are ready to have a tricycle driver, but this is where the two of them are.
It is also those who are wounded in the school that I love him very much, whose legs are full of foolishness.
They cannot do that.
Okay!
It was almost ten o'clock in the evening.
I saw it.
Will pass through the help here.
Good.
My bone is also bones.
Around one o'clock, the residents of the students are going to get back together.
According to the stab wounds, the group ran away from the Aquinos.
What is it?
What are the kids?
You even went there for free.
They are over.
I am asking me who is selling me.
Yes.
No.
Ah, what?
The residents are over but their house is not finished in their home in Barangay Captain several days to us by the residents while they are at the back of the people while they are at the back of the companies on the ocean, because it caused those who are from the ocean, because it caused someone to enter the ocean.
In a school in Mabog, Philippines, they are extraordinary after their students are together with the authorities.
He is like a safe workers.
When will happen so that the rights involving the eight are those who have been recorded dead from January.
For payment, it is approaching.
This is what we are saying.
You're going to know the usual or inehek for those who say no matter what happens.
Cavite pay the names in exchange for their exchange.
Let us go to one million pesos to Two who know that we were able to go away from the shoes, we have seen him with a shoe, that's why I was just texting him at around 10 pesos, that's why I was able to go down at the span of twenty pesos.
"According to him, he / she said that he / she said that the company could not escape; that maybe the company could not escape from the phone, which is why we were not saying that we are not saying that we are not saying that we can't do anything that's why they have no one to do with it because they have to pay.
We are very pitiful; we are not going to sleep at the same time as a receipt, that will give a receipt, you will be looking for or destroy it.
What I mean is right.
Jessica is asking those that they are singing when they are calling each other while with Cheska, now, the military is being called by the military barangay captains, which is the reason why there is a need for him to be, which is why he needs me.
Mountains of the place are said to run as group of men.
In my back, he can see that he has a big amount for them to pay for their contact numbers to be given, not only to help their Del Monte, and not to be helped by the residents in the province of the military, where they are not confident!
By the police, he is sure that in the place, we still do not have a lot of taking advantage of it, instead, we don't have a lot of taking action, aside from Del Monte, something has happened to him.
"We are anxious; we are still not far from where you are far from, but, the authorities believe that this is just near the afternoon, and because of course, a group who rode the medicine is okay, and, and of course, it's okay that this is where the residents have already been cut off, and because of course, this is happening and that is why this is happening.
"We are also in number of those running for so long; we should talk about it, why is it that in the house, we should be the biggest in our house where we are placed in school here?
It should be talked about by him that he is going to talk about it, in the following days, they say they still do not have anything to talk about, but they say they are still not able to go out of the workers at the meantime, they are still happy for the workers who stay with big ones.
Papa, because ten minutes have passed, he / she was in a nipa hut.
Example Del Monte, here in my place, thank you very much.
