The challenge to PNoy: Gloria, be held accountable for the abusive military.

"We will not get justice for the current system of the government who protects the accused."
This is the recognition made by Edita Burgos by the launch of Gloria Macapagal-Carnapping Unit, a group consists of different groups and personalities who are planning to chase and hold the impeachment trial in the Senate against the chief magistrates of the Supreme Court, Renato Corona.
Suspected to be kidnapped by the military was the son of Burgos, Jonas left last April 28, 2007, they reported the case of Jonas to the Supreme Court, but the latter was removed from the kidnapping of Arroyo.
Burgos said that the process of impeachment trial is important for the victims of human rights such as an oath-raising murder and forcefully disappearance, he believes that the removal of Corona is a step towards defending Arroyo.
The call of Gloria responsible should be filed against President Aquino, to file a bigger case against President Aquino "the plunder case of the plunder case against the charges of human rights to be a pending case of the Ombudsman Are them," part of the municipal hall of the group.
Despite the filing of the graft case of the Ombudsman against Arroyo, it was also due to the anomalous construction of Arroyo in the judiciary like Corona (in relation to articles), the case filed by the government should not be held accountable for the former President.
The group explained, instead of filing the plunder case against the former President because of the anomaly held by the Ombudsman last December 23, the Ombudsman is not enough to file a case against the former President of course, the various groups are disappointed with it.
Based on the motion that was filed last January 10 in the Ombudsman by the Model Shop, chairman of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), Bayan Muna Rep. Teodoro Bacani and Liza Maza, the vice chairman of Gabriela, they said there are some who are trying to file a plunder case against the former President.
"
According to the said motion, the former First Class Jose Miguel Arroyo, the former chairman of the Commission on Elections (Comelec), who is Benjamin Abalos and former Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), were involved in the signature of the contract held by Arroyo for $30 million pesos from ZTE.
"How serious the Aquino administration is serious in giving answer to Gloria Arroyo in a bigger case," father. Joe Dizon, one of them, should strengthen the cases filed and not just like the plunder case that happened and not like the plunder case.
This is also what the other victims of human rights are like this in a separate interview with Jum Clyde Fernandez, spokesperson of the group of human rights to Karylle, majority of the criminals who were filed, removed as the accused of the former President.
"There is still no case filed by the Aquino government against Arroyo, about the violation of human rights, he said, only the relatives and victims who filed a criminal case against the government officials, similar to former general Jovito Palparan, and other members of the military.
Criminal cases of Morong and Usahay are still on top of the court until the present and Palparan's remains are still fugitives, despite the alleged widespread brownout and placing a million reward of the government.
Clyde Fernandez said that there was an attempt by the Aquino administration to the form of TrawCommission on the office declared by the Supreme Court that was declared by the Supreme Court, but according to the Clyde Fernandez, the scope of Trailbo was left behind because he is only anti-corruption.

He added that there is a big limitation of the new law about the urge to be charged because according to the law, the proposed law regarding the command responsibility which was filed last 2007, which was filed against the Supreme Court which was filed last 2007, is not being implemented, including the late representative, including the deceased Atejano.
"He is still still on the legislative committee, what I know is that, in the committee on defense or to the committee on justice," according to the committee on justice, he also said that although Arroyo could not be charged, there is already an international conventice who can be used about it, "he said.
Casiño also added that the appropriate law is not needed to wait for the command responsibility so we can file the highest official of the government violating human rights.
He also said that due to the progress of the case filed against Palparan and other cases, the passing of the said law is centered on the said law in the opening of Congress.
Meanwhile, in a separate message to the Filipino Identice, lawyer for human rights and general secretary of the National Union of People's lawyers, that if Arroyo would want to chase or file a case against the human rights of the military under his leadership, it is possible that he will be held accountable through the existing system.
"There is still a point at the old age of age that could have been taken by the old man's post, Apples Jalandoni, command responsibility of GMA 7-commander in the latest record of GMA as a certain of the criminal case of GMA as a cent of ID," Koko Pimentel said.
From the old SC justices who had become fond of Apples Jalandoni, 1949, the Supreme Court held the filing of the case at the Military Commission against Sgiant Japanese who were assigned to the Philippines by former President Manuel Roxas to declare the American soldiers about their abuse during the time of the war.
Although Arroyo was not included in the attempt to file a case against Noriel Rodriguez ruling because of the lack of evidence, he was still placed under the command responsibility. "In the city case of Noriel Padiernos," said, "said OPLAN ia.
"Thus, in the case and bar, the Court of Appeals died, in its its position that's being taken by the Supreme Court of Calanoga, Humalig), the Office of the Philippine Army (Nacadversary, Humalig), of the Office of the Supreme Court (Commission on Human Rights), which is a part of the decision of the supreme court.
Odelia added that even in the national laws, the case that Arroyo will look after the former President "in the International martial law is that he should be held in the International Criminal Court or ICC, but he / she is going to be a disturbance to the International Criminal Court or ICC's which is why he / she is going to be able to get out from the International Criminal Court or ICC), which is why he / she is going to be able to get out from the International Criminal Court or ICC), which is why he / she is going to be able to get out.
According to OPLAN ia, in this time, it turns out that the graft case and plunder case against Arroyo was stronger, it turns out that the plunder case was stronger than human rights, which is why the Hello Garci'll still be chased.
When it comes to the command responsibility of Arroyo about the violation of human rights, players can be seen that there is a clear possibility that there will be a clear person who will go to. "Rebanal Abcede,; we are able to make sure that Palparan as Hala Bulang; and Raymond Manalo," says Obol ia, "says OPLAN).
But it does not mean that Arroyo should not be responsible for the abusive military during his time in power.
