The attack of Deles and Bagatsing's attack is very quick.

Reporting, Jose Maria Sison.
He thanked the political opposition.
April 08, 2014.

It is repeatedly being attacked by Secretary Teresita Sinunuc of the Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (OPAPP), the first topic caused by the 4-point that resulted to the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP), which caused him to be set aside as a small thing.

It has been long since Duterte insisted that the peace talks should be held today on the second point of English which is appropriate for the worsening economic crisis and economists like the worsening economic sector and local these kinds of non-ranking officials of big politicians like the Aquino and Cojuangco.
We should have the constitutional reform so that the lack of livelihood of society and economists, true poverty, lack of houses, lack of houses, lack of houses, lack of homes, lack of houses, and other problems of society, and other problems of society, and other problems of society and economists.

When they signed the CAYETANO in 1998, during the time of President Fidel V. Ramos, he took a way with the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Social Welfare Administration as well as a small-page of the Marcos regime to avoid Ramos to prevent the negotiation about the reforms and economists.

It is the obligation set by the Marcos regime to set the imprisoned Philippine Amusement and NDFP) in relation to Joint Task Agreement on Human Rights), and the hundreds of political prisoners in relation to the CAYETANO), which aims to be filed in filing of crimes against those who will be sent to adversary.

If the Marcos regime will not follow this agreement, the people will not see the people who are planning to talk and get an agreement with the unfair policies of those who are needy and to sabotage the peace talks which should be endorsed and national freedom of more than one hundred million Filipinos.

The attack of Deles and NDFP, in the form of the direct complaint is that the peace talks has become a way, and directly insisted that the attacks of those who are detained by the Philippine Consulate peace will continue to continue, and it is estimated that the attacks on more than ten more agreement that will continue to vote from the time of Marcos Ramos will continue.
