Oh,: VP Leni Robredo!
June 4, 2016 - the protagonist is proclaimed that last Monday of the Congress, as the National Board of Canzers (NBOC), the next president and vice president of the country.
I want to send the warm greetings to the new President of the country, Rodrigo Duterte and vice president Leni Robredo.
This tandem will serve as guidance of the country for the next six-years that is why they need our whole support to succeed as the campaign manager of VP Leni, we can say that his win in the recently concluded election.
Aside from this, it is one of the strict arguments in history when it comes to the position of the vice president, what we went through several months before the campaign started.
In our past column, we mentioned the challenge that VP Leni was facing at the start of this fight.
One of the biggest challenges before is how to meet VP Leni, before he accepted the challenge, it is only about a percentage of our rating, it is even just one percent of the six candidates for vice president.
Aside from this, it is also a problem before where the funds will be used to show the show and going around the whole country.

But we do not care about this challenge, instead, we made it "
The release of VP Leni in different places in the country has been the key to our campaign to identify and send a message to those who are inside the society his message of hope.
With the help of this, the public is slowly getting the character of VP Leni, the source of what they have done and what will be done for their sake.
To those who are tired of going around by VP Leni, he served as an inspiration to our supporters and Volunteers Organization sent her work and helped in its distribution of his mission to improve those who are really important to him and his dead wife Secretary Jesse Robredo.
We ran for the true "epal's campaign," that even if the movement is different, he became brave to open the clear goal which will lead to win.

Now, the campaign is over and has been proclaimed by VP Leni but his fight is not yet finished, including his supporters.
The six-year fight of VP Leni will start to improve the situation of the poor, just like what he promised to us.
We trust that the hope and trust in his campaign will be continued in fulfilling his duty as the vice president of the country.
