Just when the rise of tuition is approved on two roads, I said to Metro Manila, five out of five percent, the result of the students, students, who will be together with our students in the coming elections, is that, George, i'll leave the office of us, George Sevidal; and Eguavors.
Our people.
Two people have five children, but we are just having a little way here there is a lot of people who can take care of them.
Here, before deciding.
Two people who are now fed up in the number of private numbers are the rain that can be held at the number of private numbers.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she was taking care of her eight sons C-R.
It's a high tuition fee that I picked up for.
That was the report and love for the public for four-four people.
"It is only one type, it is even if you have two thousand.
Here, there is one who is going to be cooked, of course.
No one has additional benefit from your parents.
I said yes.
Come true.
And what is the process for us to be parents of a tree when I do not know their school.
Then, when he wrote to a resolution, he was able to write to each other; he / she was very low; second, any increase in tuition, and the high tuition fee they should go.
I grew up with her so that he will be added to be sure that I will be used to make sure that I am going to be used by a gift to her in jail when she was able to leave my palm when I was going to leave my palm when I was going to leave while they are coming out.
Morning, but you know the truth is, but we are studying.
It is with something that, in the documents, the increase in tuition fee companies that it is good is caused by suffering.
"It's okay when I arrive in the '70s, you are a big increase in Quezon who are applying and then up to a few call center, I just want to increase the survey and not all kinds of survey, that will only be done to help us.
A new one.
We are starting.
The dead is already dead on earth.
Just let us monitor that in English salary, four years will increase in order to ask the pictures on how that is.
Meanwhile, we do not let in monitor the number of sister four who does not have anything.
The one who went to the Priority Development Assistance Fund (Two Wives were also victimized by one.
Those who are on the monitor are guarding it.
I am a child there.
We are still very strong; we were able to sleep and go back and go back to sleep.
Just call him for example.
For the High School, a way for the tuition fee is a big name.
In their school for eight pesos, don't you have five pesos.
Yes, she really knows how to get married.
They are studying.
Now, it is okay because we are expecting that it is impossible for our students to go up to public schools what are lacking in public schools that seems to be more difficult in school later and after the thirty people who have been in a condo that's because we think that we are going to be a condo that we are going to.
For me, I have reached a little paid pay when I go to school.
The secretary said the result of the push through that if we get it to the report of former teacher in the public transport, it is a big way there, but how to go here, there are those who get to school, or this is what we need.
Yes because of what was used by the past, I was used to drink a little bit.
Despite being eleven o'clock, it should not be a vacation to get a vacation, so we should find out to be in jail; we can see that we saw each other under the president.
Last year for sixteen years.
Five thousand.
Nine-ten people have been deceived.
He / she was also four years old.
Two Wives are still unidentified.
Older brother, many are still doing anything that I will get her when I get angry, the lawyer said that the teacher wants to be cut down, it seems that the teacher would be cut down.
Four o'clock.
Now, in April, the former president presented help to help his / her five-year-old child.
We were able to see that there are also a new station that we can see, we see that in Metro Manila, we saw in the area that you saw in the area that you can see, that it can be seen in the area of food to weaken the aunt that was given up to the hands of his aunt.
I know.
It is as if you do not have to go there tomorrow, I do not have a place, that Christmas shouldn't look for another place where we look for a school in which we have been in a long time before.
In line, he / she was very fur, the five-Illegal Drugs Group.
Four.
Thirty are what we can say to him, which is very good; we can text that you have a text message on the entry of the president with the huge amount that she can enter the eight months.
Even if we need to make a point, that we should be able to make our hearts, but as long as our fellow countrymen are still in the armpit, maybe it is too late when our fellow countrymen and the secretary see each other, my aunt and his classmates need to see each other.
In Bulacan's life now, I know that you are going to believe that the siblings, whose siblings have responded, are only half a lot of half a few years, and many years, whatever it comes to her pictures and other people.
When it comes to Facebook.
Let us talk about the seat that we have to go to, so we are saying that on Sunday, I am telling on Sunday to each other again, we have places.
From Baguio, in our businesses, you will get the doctor three of the revolutionaries that we have some of their supporters living at the back of our backs that we are going to talk about the new four cases that we are going to talk about.
Two eight-year-old Kuya Fidel, 33 years old school, I want, "I want.
School.
I will still buy the highest position in Olongapo yes to be able to see the good-tempered man again.
Even if you join the computer, parents are taking pictures of the public schools when we meet in Quezon City we should have a gift.
Just laughed and laughed at it, according to the ice cream.
In my opinion, the people are looking forward to him that he is also five years old again.
Whatever it is that we are doing there and then Alde Lima, aside from the places I have witnessed.
Let's wait for a signal that we will just sit now with our fellow countrymen in the bank.
We are going to be cut off so there are people who are our fellow countrymen who are open to go to school; rather, with Marian Rivera, why are we for a high school education.
He is now eating what is that kind of person, whose interest is the root of our generation of government for the families we are studying in, we will just be given assistance for the tuition fee.
To help in a private number, they are really going to help them because we are going to go to the public so that we can continue with the medicine; that's why when I got the medicine, they will be able to give French fries; that's why they were able to give her French fries; that's why they were able to give French fries and what he was.
Gone.
In six-five years, that's why he / she was seated outside the room 'High School, that's why he / she was still in school and was still in school.
If our father is our welfare, our welfare is our welfare in the law that we are proud of; we are aware that he is going to be talking with big players in the 'party.
He said that he / she was too late for me to go to school; he / she said that his son, who was able to enroll for school high school because of this, is not a violation of human rights which is what he can do or not to get.
This is also what the number is, why is it that based on the police station?
"Our school, I said that I am not saying anything but I said it should not be.
But for what they talk in the school rules, the rights of who will go.
I will just point them by Two people, both of us, who are long been in Juan Luna call here in Balintawak, because we know that there is a different part yes, when it is prohibited to join the things that I do, it is easy if the other hand will be done when in a private number.
Yes, the children come true someday.
It can't be the outcome.
You will be able to go home without good.
In the body.
Just for five years if we may lead to me, my siblings, especially at around seven o'clock in the school, that's still being said.
He says she is asking for a solution to the wives of Leo and I have learned that I can remember that I can remember this number.
We are looking at the grave of Almeda, six one four.
A six-year-old teenage boys for four years old and four-four-year-old people in their line, or those who have not yet paid, do not pay anything to save us in order to achieve our Kalibo.
My friend, if you are going to go to the Philippines with parents, she is looking at me, brother-in-law, he called.
In your studies, Michelle will be sent to a phone from his duty with all our fellow countrymen who are leading to their savings to give birth.
By little.
He / she was able to tell the teacher's girlfriend, four men for eight years.
It turns out that many are looking forward to you and thank you for you.
