Mistress, should not be hidden and should not be ignored.

In the past two weeks, I noticed a man coordinating with a woman while walking in front of the office of the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDU) of QCPD in Camp Caringal.
It is good to watch the two who are walking on the light of the month in a park, they do not care who can see them.
While they are getting closer to where I am, I noticed that the two of Holding Holding have been familiar to me so I was able to laugh at them well.
Yes, I really know the two, a former general and former District Director of QCPD, and the woman is also a investigators of QCPD.
We do not care about in the line of Holding and their two children, hopefully they should put it in the place, not "what they can do to the place, because they are having a relationship, because this is the former general who has a wife.
It is not clear to me if he has a wife, but at the age and appearance it is so impossible if women are still young.
Many policemen have seen the two in-Holding Center for two while walking in front of CIDU and almost everyone has one reaction.
In my opinion, with what the former general did, he just wanted to show to the public that even though he is already retired, he can still get a mistress.
It seems like he wants to tell the police that you are like you, even if he has a wife I still have a mistress.
Isn't it that that kind of mistress is hiding, he is not contented with his former personnel as respect for his wife?
On the part of the mistress of a woman, he is proud that it is one of the former general whom he got even if he said that he is just a mistress.
How about the part of the General's wife who is also known by the police of QCPD?
General, sir, I am not meddling with a lot of hidden places that you can make, do not turn your lust in front of many people and inside the camp.
Remember that you are very full of people and it is possible that you reach your spouse "that is his cheating.
My goodness!
