The payment: Sevidal, angry at herself's bashers!
"
By Jojo will last August 18, 2016 when Joseph Sumang and his courage to defend Yolanda Pascual Iric Arriba, the Filipina who took care of him since he was only one year old.
Sevidal is the one who won the gold medal for 100 percent of the Rio Olympics and defeated great American admirers, Michael Papal.
In the interview of Jessica with Sevidal and aunt Karla to the State of the Nation (GMA News TV last Tuesday night, there was no fear that those who are destroying his nanny, which he considered as a second mother, became violent, because he was disappointed with the painful accusations of the netizens against his aunt.
"Fight IT led to the hearing that was a hearing for the top of Her, that's why there's a success to take care of my success, thank you, I know, to Her er.
"He / she said that the other hand, although he / she said to be at the other hand, though, though he / she has been taken off by the Commission on Audit, though he / she has been taken off by President Rodrigo Duterte, the statement of Sevidal with his live in Singapore's interview in Singapore's interview in Singapore's interview.
Aunt Karla became calm about what happened to his pet dog.
According to him, "I-Assure thank you, it is normal to see all the all sorts of plunder case that will be a good thing to be a good man for someone to have a hidden talent, which is a bit of money, which is a hidden talent in my wife, my partner,"
Jessica's interview lasted for eight minutes and five seconds after the State of the Nation has found out that from Cagayan Valley, 56-year-old Filipina who was graduating from the Philippines lasted for eight minutes.
It can't be denied that aunt Karla was hurt with the allegations that she is using the popularity of Sevidal for him to be recognized.

Aunt spoke to her a surprise from her last year when Joseph was given a surprise on him last year.
"Joseph DID System (Acerness, said that she could not avoid being carried by by Joseph Cajigas.
"It is a surprise for me" however, however, though he / she took a surprise for me, thank you, "Joseph Estrada," the story of Mommy Lydia to remind everyone that a decent profession is the maid, and nanny.
The tone of the voice of Sevidal is different when Jessica asked his message for his Filipino fans and supporters.
"My supporters in the Philippines.
