
What is needed to commemorate the workers in June.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

Although the government is commemorating the masses, that usually have been used by the masses, the annual June 12, that they are telling this as holidays, and not as a simple masses, especially the workers, that this will be given to the Spaniards and to put under the Americans.

It is clear on what was written in the Acta de Infor defense, the documents signed by many people to go down as a proof of the declaration of freedom.

According to the document, the Philippines will be happy from the country in España, this is the freedom to be under the protection of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, "Campton of the Armed Forces of the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court (Article."

Second, the color of our country's colors as our country is based on the color of the flag of America as a proof of the declaration of debt of gratitude for the United States of America, as a proof of the United Nations of the United States of America, as a proof for the United Nations of the United States of America, as a proof for the United Nations of the United States of America, as an example of the United States of the US. "

There is a need to commemorate this kind of workers in June 12.

This is the World Health Organization (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs (or Labuan for the countries which have been criticized in the English of Britain, because there are many Labor laws in English of America) but maybe the workers should be asked for children, that should be the issue of young workers.

Let us also return to them by the question: The issue of the young workers is only an issue of the child, or because it is also an issue of child Labor Law, this is also an issue of child Labor Law or this is the issue of child Labor Law?

The issue of child Labor Law or workers is also a matter of Labor Law or workers who said this is the International Criminal Court (ILP), a international organization between the United Nations (proof that June 12 is the declaration of the Commission on June 12 to commemorate the World Day.

According to the Philippine National Star this May 1, 2013, All Soul's Day, there are five million workers in the country, and there were five million workers in the country, and there were recorded two roads and fifteen million (215million) young workers in the whole world, more than two times in our population at 94M (2011 data).

"

Based on the report of the Philippine Star, the root of the child Labor Law is poverty and lack of decent and full of livelihood, "the Rom of child Labor in Poverty.

The International Criminal Court (ILP) has launched the very first World Day against Libingan ng Laboratory last June 12, 2002, as the theme of the children's condition, "No.

The young workers are seen to be seen in a pot, in agriculture, in agriculture, in agriculture, in factories, and nearby streets.

They are exposed in danger and in dangerous things, chemical, heat and cold of time, and there are still those who are at the young age, but because they are working at a young age, they have no chance to play and go home to a young age, but because there are children who are at a young age, they need to change their future, and this is what we need to change.

It is possible that the issue of child Labor Law issues can also be related to the issue of evil spirits due to the old workers who are working hard for the old workers because they do not want to go against the old workers because they do not have the same time for the young workers because of their age.

The issue of the young workers or child Labor laws are not only an issue by the children but the workers, who should be in school, together with the children, including the children, and the children should be in school and are being experienced in the country, and this should be resolved by the child Labor in the country.

The parents of the young workers should be given a job, and not only the young workers should be able to work at the young age, not only the children of the young workers, and they do not want to stop the abuse of children, children, "PKMK this should be stopped in the Libingan ng Masang Pilipino Program (CRP) in the Congress.

The issue of child Labor Law is also an issue of human rights according to the International Coyo-Pacific Economic Cooperation (MMFF), Article 10 (3), the children and youth should be protected from their morale or health or dangerous life or those who are interested in their normal progress should be punished.

It is also necessary to put the state of limitation on the age that is low in where the job of the young workers is prohibited and being implemented by the law, is being punished by the law, which is being implemented by the law, which is being implemented by the law of the United States (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, which is being pushed by the law enforcers.

According to the Convention on the Human Rights of the Middle East of the Middle East, Ar32: "Is recognized by the party of the children to protect against the sake of the child's rights and to be protected from the health of the child's health, heart ailment, moral, morale, and social development.

In the laws of our country, there are laws related to the protection of young workers but it is not implemented yet because if it has been implemented, Phase 5-16; the Republic Act (RA) 7160-16; the Republic Act (RA-16; and RA 9208 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Atejano.

The Armada-153 of the Labor laws are about the special group of workers, like children and women, most of all, there is the Department Order (do) 46-3) in the commemoration of the 18th of June every year as the World Health Organization in work of the children (World Day.

However, we should also understand that the children Labor in child Work and child pornography, jobs are suitable for the age and rest of children, and there are children who are usually abused by the children, and good time to work at the young age, and the children who are usually not abuse in the young age, and hard time to work at the young age, and the children who are usually not abuse in the young age, and the children who are usually being abused by the children.

June 12 is a warning to us that the young workers are not yet free, but it is still continuing to take action on this day because June 12, we should take action because this is the issue of making and human rights to commemorate the World Day against the whole world and in the whole world and end the whole world at the whole world: End child Labor Law!
