
The farm of Hacienda Luisita to arrest them because of the shower.

Macky Macasaverted!
January 15, 2012.

As a symbol of the protest against the 22 leaders of farmers and members of Ambullets, the leaders of the leaders and people of the church attacked the joint patrols of DOJ Tarlac, which is an indication of the complaint of RCBC from (Macky Macasac.
"We will visit a widespread protest, the threat to arrest our leaders and colleagues.
This is what the Filipino farm of Hacienda Luisita said after it is shown by the Office of the City prosecutor in Tarlac to the two cases filed by Rizal Commercial Center (RCBC) against the 22 leader of the farmers of Alyasang Makabayan (Ammunition) and its members, including some officials of the barangay inside the hacienda.
They filed a case under the P280 pesos (equivalent coercion) and Ar195, 12 of MENA (Commission of real), due to the 500 hectares that they are claiming of RCBC from Brgy. Balete Drive.
Rodel Mesa, general secretary of the union of the farmer in the agriculture sector (CHR), who is also a farmer in the hacienda, in a press conference, that it is legitimate and with a huge morale of his authority wherein the complaint of RCBC from, he said.
According to Mesa, they filed a petition to the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) last January 5, that the version of the 500 hectares of RCBC from together with the directive to share the land of the farmers has no action.
It was given last 1996 the order that will be started in exchange for 500 hectares of land, but according to the Filipino farm, instead of being transferred to the corporation which was owned by the Pampolina family, and instead, he was transferred to 183 hectares of RCBC.
The farmers insisted that the Veloso family was used by Cojuangco the order to prevent the distribution of land according to the declaration of the law.
Lito Biguenos have explained, the chairman of the United Luisita, "Union (ULU) and one of the charged, from the help of RCBC from the land of RCBC from the land of RCBC from the land that was built in the land which was made in developing the land.
"It seems that this land was erased from 1996, and this was productive so we were able to eat so that our family will have something to eat," Brockman said that the conorder should have no meaning.
Bieber also added that it is an initiative of the farmers to develop the 500 hectares of land after giving the land to a fellow farmers and we will have a livelihood, but this is in exchange of a case and the threat of arrest, "he said.
"They will do what they want to do, and we will do what we need to do so that our fellow farmers will be given a livelihood," said Bais.
The farmers suspected that the Aquino family members of Cojuangco said that the Marcos family did not fulfill the order and agreement that the family did not fulfill his order and agreement that he was leaning on the case last 1967 and 1985 that is why the entry of RCBC from it was illegal. "
"They are proud and for a long time, that land is illegal in the entry of RCBC from there," Mesa strongly insisted that this land could be done (we could have done this) to live. "
It is the harvest of the rice in the part of Hacienda Luisita that are claiming of RCBC from (KR Guda.
The people of the church supported the call of farmers.
Bishop Deguera allegedly stated that the Supreme Court or EBabe, which should be considered the truth and improvement of society in Hacienda Luisita, should be considered.
"It is clear to use the law's statements, hoping that even the spirit of the law will be understood, especially those who are involved here are the family of the President," said Inc., an example is the new conflict between RCBC and the farmers in implementing laws.
Meanwhile, according to Father Edu Gariguez, executive secretary of the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines-National Disaster Risk Reduction and for Social Action Force (CBCP (CBCP)), instead of celebrating the farmers due to the decision of the Supreme Court the opposite happened.
"Cojuangco's family does not stop the land to be returned to them and these will not be distributed to farmers," Untalan said.
Gariguez hopes that the Cojuangco of RCBC from going to dismiss the farmers by filing a criminal case, a big hassle that happens, "he said.
The farmers also clarified that even if they are supporting the impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona, they fear that the Aquino family can use the process of impeachment trial to restore the decision of the Supreme Court again in favor of the family of President Aquino.
"We warned President Aquino not to use the impeachment trial to Corona so that the decision of the Supreme Court (about the distribution of the land of Hacienda)," said Mesa.
Gariguez hopes that if the position of the Supreme Court will be replaced with the allies of the President, maybe the decisions just like the Hacienda Luisita, "
Hashim is also challenged Aquino as if after being shot by the wealth of Corona, the wealth of his family is being chased, especially the "properties like Hacienda Luisita.
"This is the effect of social interaction and you should not be too much wealth while the farmers have no one to be imprisoned," he said.
