They are against political dynasty law and they want to limit it to the President.

Postanes and his mind.
On June 12, 2015.
In opinion.

Binay is really truth to all the laws that will favor them.
You can imagine that the anti-political dynasty law is being endorsed by good lawmakers in congress.
Because their whole family is now in politics, Vice President, his father, Nancy, is the senator, and another daughter, Junjun, and her other son, Junjun, and they have a former mayor, which is why they already have the pork barrel in their projects, according to the Senate hearing.
And they also want to limit it to the administration of the president and vice president, the old Binay said that the Vice President is now in our country.
VP Binay said, just let the people decide until they want the president and vice president as well as the reason of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
This is what's funny, if he (VP Binay) is seated in Malacanang, he will continue the campaign against corruption. Ngek!
And they will not be deployed in the cabinet of a politician, maybe they will be put to a relative so that they will not be able to get their projects and have a jackpot with them.
That's why I am okay with the issues being conducted by those known-ranking officials, Jim Paredes, Cynthia, and Leah, "will be held in 2016, hoping that the people and youth will also go with them.
It is really time to end political dynasty are because this is the root of severe corruption in the government as long as they are in connivance with what he knows about the corruption of his former ex-Mayor Ernesto Mercado, this is what he has known as VP Binay. "
It is the reaction of the PNP directors that for the retired police for the retired police.
I sent a letter from the PNP Custodial Center for Compostella Valley to explain about the complaint I wrote to the retired police.
Dear Mister Venancio,
Tsinelas and to a sign, complaint, complaint and reaction, on January 3, 2015, the PNP, for the chief of additional pension increase to entice.
The Philippine National Police (PNP) is being hunted by the Philippine National Police (PNP) that is being endorsed by the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), to the release of additional pension hike for PC (PEP), the pension increase of the DBM for PC (INP-0).
Take a rest at the address of the legislative chamber to attend the address of the Social Security System.
(SSgt) P / Dir. Rolando Abanggan, Senate Director for Compostella Valley.
There, PNP pensioners, sorry that there is still no budget for those who are looking for the pension hike.
