Frankly: What's good is that it is not good for the first 100 days of Duterte.
By Ellen Toribio, September 26, 2016 is near the first 100 days of the country in the leadership of President Rodrigo Duterte.
Now, it is said that this has been 88 years old, but many are feeling that many years have already happened and many issues are everywhere.
I have seen something good with what Duterte is doing and that is when talking with China.

It's because the policy of former President Benigno Aquino III in China is really a failure, how, his foreign secretary Albert del Rosario, is still Americans.
Because of their arrogance, the Philippines has lost control over the Panatag Shoal which is also known for the call of Scarborough Shoal, which is just near Zambales (124-kilometer news).
"That is what should be provided to Aquino and Del Rosario for a big sin" to the Filipino people.

Many are asking, will Duterte finish his six-year term?
To cover the failure to cover the failure, they filed a complaint against China at the Argive Court in The Hague and slander her as well as China to the Filipino people.
They thought that China is going to be afraid, especially those they occupied by rocks in Spratamak.
Duterte said that the first whom he will ask from China is to fish the Filipino fishermen in the Panatag Shoal so they should not be blocked by the decision of the Argive Court that Panatag Shoal is the traditional fishing ground not only by Filipinos, "said Chinese and bullets.
Hopefully the situation in Panatag Shoal is going to be returned before April 8, 2012 when the conflict happened there and the control of the Philippines was gone.

But whatever is the good policy or program of Duterte, the burial of his incessant killing in the advancement of the campaign against drugs will be buried.
Last week, Duterte said that his promise is not enough for him to clean the country in illegal drugs, corruption and criminality. "That's because he repeatedly said during the campaign.
In Laoag City, he said, "if I cannot do it to three to six months, I would resign for Bongbong Marcos to become president."
Bongbong Marcos won't win as vice president.
Even if everyone said that the six months is impossible, he is trying to do it because if he cannot do it to three to six months, even if he is given 10 years, he cannot do it.
Duterte made sure that up to 3,000 have been killed in him, to determine the success of his campaign against illegal drugs is the height of the dead.
It is not for Duterte to respect the rights of every citizen in life, he can't be killed or punished if they are not responsible according to the law.
To his critics, his answer is "PNoy!
Many are asking, will Duterte finish his six-year term?
For me, the better question is, can we do it? "
I believe, the Filipino is strong, "said a song," I will let it be. "
