After the shooting in Pangasinan, the teachers also insisted again.
Although both teachers, Rosellan, and his wife, both of them were born in debt.
Eleven years has been teaching in Makati Science High School which is only about P18,000 pesos in the family, while his wife had something to reach 2,000 pesos, but this is still not enough for the daily needs of the family.
"If there are some who need to work on Saturday and Sunday, a father will do this, to provide for the needs of his children," according to Palapal.
He is one of the thousands of teachers in the crash of Alliance of a concerned Filipino (ACT) who marched in front of the Legislative Chamber during the hearing of P365.1 billion proposed budget of the Department of Education (DepEd) for the 2015 of Committee on Appropriations.
It's because the Aquino administration has not allocated five pesos for the budget to increase the salary of teachers since President Aquino took office in 2010, there was no longer received any additional wage to the teachers.
You are Sagala.

It was reported that the murder of three teachers and the contents of the three teachers and a collector of four others were killed) in Pangasinan National High School after shooting a police who allegedly collected money from the teachers who were not able to pay for payment.
For the teachers who attended the protest, they are similar to the killed teacher in debt because their salary is not equal for daily expenses.
Similar to Palatan, Rondy Fernandez is also full of debt from Ramon Magsaysay Cubao High School which is not enough for his salary for food, fare, electricity, water, and rent the house.
As of now, Fernandez's family is just starting to support the future of ten-month-old child.
The Pantawid Pasada card was lacking and borrowing money, which is 30 years old teacher from Melencio M. Castelo Elementary School which is said to have ended his children's education but the money he went through with his family was not a joke.
But at present, Abion is allegedly seeing the difficulty of his fellow teachers because of this, which is why he went with the call for additional wages.
"I do not have to study, but I still have needs to make it alive, but I am going to make money back then, even if I am going to listen, they should have to listen to him (an additional salary)," according to Abion.
According to ACT, not only the police who shot the teachers killed them but the very system that serves as the condition of the teachers.
"The teachers, because of the lack of salary, they are forced to borrow money that happened in Pangasinan National High School, even at 5 / 6 (classes of debt), according to France Castro, general secretary of ACT party.
Aside from the lack of salary received by the teachers, they are also facing different kinds of jobs that can be considered as part of their teachers, it is as if the teachers, the teachers, are still not yet received by the teachers.
According to ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio, only Aquino is the only hindrance to the wage increase of teachers and senators for the House Bill 245 proposed law for the additional wages of the teachers.
Tinio submitted to the Legislative Chamber to increase the salary of employees (9,000 pesos to P15,000) and a teacher (P1800,000 pesos (P25,000), which was passed by Senator Grace Poe, Sen. Loren Legarda who, and Senator Serge Osmena III.
"If in the Senate and the Legislative Chamber will be asked, it's okay to be a part of the case, to Aquino, that even if we are here in Congress, our true express our message is Aquino," according to Tinio.
The teachers made sure that the number of funds for the pork barrel that ended up in front of the public like the Presidential pork barrel in the appearance of the Disbursement Acceleration Program of Aquino is not enough for the additional salary of the teachers.
Ready at the mass.

Because of the no longer received increase in their salary from the Aquino administration, the teachers and the mass will be set to conduct a widespread brownout.
"It is not just for your personal but for general (why I will participate in the mass leave), that is why we really need to be united," according to Abion.
According to Palatan, it is allegedly bad for a teacher who is expected to help in their situation are the government, but the government themselves is saying that the quality of their salary will be stolen, the quality of their lives.
"We are thanking the mass leave for a teacher who shows support for him, so we can talk about it," according to Palapal.
For the teachers, their wish for the government is not only a lack of salary, they also need to feel that the government being treated by the government through additional wages and improvement of the condition of the whole system of education in the country is not enough.
Benjie was also said by Benjie Valbuena, president of ACT, "we are not the carabao that is why, we should not be considered the national animal."
