Offered by Hala Dom, etc.

These past few days, your HE is busy in preparation for the rainy season.
In fact, on May, there have been various training and inspection of Disaster Risk Reduction and Navy units for this.
As of now, the preparation and coordination of the Navy with different branches of the owner and non-government units was huge for the response to the calamities in any part of the country.

But it is not just for the preparation of the calamity to be busy with the calamity, there was also a preparation for the burial of the queen Sofia for Spain in the country, particularly in the province of Albay on July 4.
The combined forces of the Naval Forces Southern Luzon (NFNL), of the local government of Albay, and other organizations here are in thorough preparation.
The visit of the queen is the very first visit of the royal family in the province and this is along with his visit to the projects of Spain in Albay like the evacuation center, Jose Belmonte Duran Memorial Hospital and his mate Stock Exchange.
DOLL, Commander of NFNL, Comeditioning (Apr. 19, F. Kennedy, sir.

In the field of talent, the Naval Forces Agreement (NTSETC) in Zambales found their second NEiffel Tower last June 21, 2012 for the benefits of the burial of Leeath Center.
The residents of NEDOTC also offered the night for Commander of their Commander Rear Admiral Nestor S. Lanticse, who is scheduled to retire on July 13, 2012 - defending Wtch in your opinion, Sir!
He directly attacked the talent in singing from the students of Navy opposing in different kinds of course in NETC.
There are 10 finsters that were chosen and tried to make their own skills from the hundreds of dreamed of taking part in the competition.
P / Herminio Coloma, Joanna Marie. Goma, who is getting the Naval Forces or Canila, will be on a date.

Congratulations to the 120 Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, Navy, from different parts of the country, who are graduating from the Bangsamoro Basic Law by 246 and 247 last June 22, 2012 in NETC-Welcome Rotonda.
As time passes, I am calling for all my siblings to continue their support for a strong and a prosperous Navy with a prosperous and peaceful Philippines.
We can do that Filipino!
