
The Aquino administration has a big scandal for the Filipino people.

Editorial Department.
The country.
August 21, 2012.

A big calamity is the raging typhoon in Metro Manila, Southern Tagalog, Central and Northern Luzon on the first day of August.

The initial memory of the storm Ondoy in 2009 was remembered that it drowned the big part of Metro Manila, of typhoon Sendong from 2011 that drowned the large part of Northern Mindanao and Visayas and other typhoons due to the lack of calamities in life, and lack of rotten infrastructures in controlling the flood and care for the safety of the people.

The big accident showed that this is a sharp edge of the Filipinos, the workers, poor people who have no livelihood, farmers, fishermen, small employees and professionals and other ordinary citizens.

In the lower part of the country, they are living in the canals, river, lake and places where infrastructure is not enough for the cleanliness, disposal of garbage and controlling the flood in the countryside, they are most angry that it can be eaten by the overflow of garbage and talks in the mountains.

They are on their daily livelihood in front of a deep crisis and huge poverty, they are the one who is oppressed and losing their kinds of protection and safety as well as the priorities of all the type and state.

Every time the typhoon and the calamities have piled up, the lives and safety of the filipino masses are on the brink once again, the Lord's lives, the biggest disease of the rich people, the biggest disease of the rich, the biggest disease of the rich and his cellphone from his cellphone.

The Marcos regime showed his true color in front of a big disaster and conflict between the millions of citizens, the hundreds of families who are stubborn, "and they insisted on the tragedy they experienced in the evacuation center and his chicken, which is a candidate in the coming election.

But any noise and show are done by Aquino, he failed to fulfill his big sin in the country, he failed to fulfill his big sin against the flood and preparation for the calamities that should be held in his order to use the budget of calamities for the necessary preparations for calamities.

This August, Aquino is just doing nothing in front of the water level in the dams, but until now, Aquino is still not doing anything to reach the lake and watershed areas in the rivers and watershed areas in the rivers and watershed areas in the rivers and watershed areas.

A bigger calamity will be faced by the poor citizens in the plan of the Aquino administration to use the widespread demolition of poor community, and make it look like the plan to use the poor, which is also dangerous in flood, landslides and other calamities.

The true goal of Aquino is to get away from the poor, and use their houses to his friends with big businessmen and their business partners, which should be done by Aquino's plans, according to the planned construction of the said demolition, in relation to the planned construction of the local government of Private Consignation.

The most powerful being experienced by the Filipino people is a disaster that is being experienced, lack of land, lack of food and other goods, the increasing price of food and other goods, the rise and violation of human rights.

The continuous service of Aquino is for the interest of the major schism and being understanding of the worst calamities that bring a huge danger to the Filipino people, for sure he will bring the citizens in fair, progressive, fair and progressive.
