Traditional politicians are not traditional.

Because it is not true that Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon wants to remain in the agency that he wants to clean instead of running as a senator in the coming 2013 election.
Leadversary, which is being implemented by the younger Biazon in Adelana, which is why it's easy for him to correct the wrong path that its employees are taking when he was not the administrator of the Bureau of Customs (BoC).
Now, the former most corrupt agency is slowly changed with the guidance of Biazon as well as the cooperation of officials and personnel of the said office that are still changes as well.
Since President Benigno Aquino III won the management of Adelana's management, it became a straight path, which is why most of his personnel are taking it, it's because it's inevitable that there is only one left in the eyes of Biazon and they are just waiting for the opportunity to give them a fist.
It is not only that the Bangsamoro Basic Law and other goods are being monitored by Biazon and his personnel but also the syndicates related to the primary enemies of the people - drugs.
It is still young that Biazon is already aware of the bad effects of drugs because his father is in the military, which is why he also does not want to improve the illegal drugs in our country that is why the international drug ring will take it.
Even those who want to smuggle an endangered species are also being monitored by commissioners.
In the candidacy of Biazon as senator under the Liberal Party, although many were happy, there are more who got irritated, especially the barism.
So you are businessmen who are addicted to robbery, stop the wrong deeds, and instead, you have fought against the BoC because Biazon is serious in his duty and he will not let it go.
As a proof that that the campaign will be completed, one Indonesian group was caught by the BOC on Ninoy Aquino International Airport.
There are some who were riding an Arab Emirates (Eve-332 from Dubai who was eight kilos of cocaine in a Street Value-40 million.
That's why we salute the management of BOC-NAIA (NAIA-NAIA (NAIA-NAIA) for non-stop perseverance which can be caught by those who are pushing a contraband.
