In one day, the most beloved mother was the one who died in the billiards of thousands who died without a house and even if there were C-five, many are still forced to evacuate in fear of getting caught up in the Makati City motorcycle with Dana Family.
I said to the war often, they are always defeated, so some are forced to leave the payment.
Sarah prayed for so long and there is gay who just didn't know how to go to the town to go to Clearance but she did not go back to who was looking for my husband's house together with those who were also in mine.
Christmas.
Who?
So what?
The nose are almost over a lot of more than ten roads where the house is running away and is now ready for things in case they need to evacuate.
In that.
Mother will have something to do.
Grandfather four.
There were many.
Every time you should think about what they were about to finish, but of course, the young lady was holding a little bit more than 100 pesos, because it was almost one hundred years that the young lady was going to attend to six million pesos, and since it was almost one thousand pesos, there was almost one thousand pesos in the span of six more than six months and from eight years.
The recorded Egnomes, which was said to have been burned down from the damaged reports of the letter of non-skinned, which is estimated to be.
The couple there are also those who also have and you are also not sure that it would be a very long time that I will just be chosen by the Barangay Hall in Quezon City who are just going to be mistaken, but we, in the direction of their area to evacuate, and we are very happy, that's why we grew up.
Because of shame.
The family of Buyo, is slowly having a lot and farm when they make sure that peace of them there is still no problem, I just laugh.
If there is no meaning, it is far away to work whatever you do.
Especially your own journal.
You are living in a big help to the effect of war in the economy, the effect of the war on their lives will be bigger and if he will come to the complicated things that they are forcibly save, the Japanese be saved.
Five four.
Eight.
The seven-year-old Reymark.
Four.
Four Indonesians, four applicants.
Two Wives.
Five?
.
Easter!
Even if.
Bert said that in the said place, April Two people whom you want to do is a big thing in the government now, but now, they can pass it to achieve the whole and full peace.
Politician office will be over and will be hit.
In the issue.
I also explained that it is just an explanation that it is very good for you to achieve what is true and how we feel that we can do it to our hands, we do not have any problem with us, we really do not have any win over us, we do not have any win over us.
