
Minh was the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

Before, the Muslims also called the land in their belief to their beliefs.
Minoras was in Mindanao, Sulu and Palawan but it cannot be denied that the Muslim brothers have no increase in number of these three islands.
The muslims and their land became rampant in their land where the Christian government put a title for the christians.
The Muslims were called by the Moro who were said to have bad words, which is why the muslims then are not disconcerted.
Until the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) of the UP student Nur Misuari came to the revolution that ended up in a small AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao or ARMM.
Other rebels reacted and they established an administrative group of MILF or Moro Islamic Liberation Front.
After a long war, the MILF attacked the MILF in order to build its story, Bangkal, Moro or Moro Nation.
In the current discussion, the MILF wants Palawan which should be under the jurisdiction of the Bangkal.
And of course, the ultimate revenge of the Muslims will strengthen the whole of Mindanao.
Sabah is not about the agreement.
This is as a respect in Malaysia that his / her support to Sabah is only the real Estate prosecutor, sultan of Sulu inside Malaysia.
Palawan was also a problem because according to Malaysia, they are the Spratly Islands that China is claiming of China, Taiwan, Vietnam and Indonesia, female employers.
The toll movement of Muslim brothers and Moro who call again is not yet done.
While he would stop, what China said, Malaysia and other countries, they are the Spratly Islands of Palawan.
However, the group of islands, which are also included in Luzon and Visaya, are coercion or Moros.
Southern Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu-Lapu.
Rajah Buayan and Manila are Muslims.
But because they were on Sultan Lalaurie of Tondo with the Spaniards, the indigenous people lost.
Raja Judiciary on the Cebu of Magellan was on his side with Magellan and when he was killed by Lapu-Lapu, the Spaniards took revenge and occupied the entire Visaya and Luzon.
How will this be finished?
Seguerra and State wants the Moro because they say they are the owners of Minoras.
