Mayors, can Mar do it?

It is said that the mayor got involved in the P12-billion pesos worth of money scam in Visayas and Mindanao.
That is the reason why Mar Roxas, Secretary of Interior and Local Government and Gaming Corporation) immediately flew to Mindanao to ensure that the victims of the victims were able to recover their investment and locked the culprits.
The case is at the National Bureau of Investigation's case that's why, it looks like the Philippine National Police led by Mar as a DILG secretary is not yet done.
This will be known if Mar is going to know if Mar is the leader of the DILG to be under Mar with the PNP and the mayor is under him as well as the mayor.
A lot of policemen were fooled by Scuisine that should be called Aman Fuentes and Phils.
The policemen just closed while many policemen are cheaters.
There are also many soldiers who were victimized by Aman Fuentes before the soldiers who borrowed money from the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and cannot control their duties in the company that the owner cannot be seen.
Mar in the Senate was leading in the campaign against double the negative money scam, but where are the criminals? And the victims recovered their money?
With our dancers to the world, others are owned by the people that sometimes have not been tried in whatever happened in Dansalan College so that what happened in Dansalan College but others tried to ask the Sec. Manapao but all of them wash their hands.
Is it this DILG chief Mar Roxas, something can happen in the investigation of Aman Fuentes?
And the mayors involved in this scam punished?
It is unlikely to happen again and because of the pointing of this case, the hope of Mar to be the president of the Philippines became more unclear.
There have been many victims who committed suicide due to the scam of Aman Fuentes and others, who are very busy in their minds how they can get their money back.
Because you are happy, you are not talking to you, you are smart, people, educated, and those from the church, whose collection is given to Aman Fuentes.
Where is Mohammad Suico, alias Amalilio, who built Aman Fuentes and inside a year, he was immediately called for P12 billion pesos?
According to him, they are in a lucky house in Dapitan City and Taguig because he also had a house in Dapitan City and Cebu.
