BoL-Hala BE is proud of the presence of Doctor Cecilio TIDs.

It is sad to know the abuse of the Bowie, for the change of the names of Bohol National High School in Doctor Cecilio Piat National High School last 2000.
There are also many who do not want to make the sound of real name "Papal" that's why they want the former name of their school to remain.
It's a good thing that it has been an ally and acadversary, the Holy name University, who is concerned to meet the fellowmen of the Pnipple and what is his contribution to our country.
Lime are the chairman of Bohol Arts, Culp Council because of her, the protesters were not able to prevail and former Congressman Isidro Zarraga, Jr., which is why up to now, in Doctor Cecilio, National High School.
But it is saddening that when I go home to our homeowner, she was able to tell me that Virgie was looking for me to be able to write to me in the Piat Street, what do you think is the reason?
We are with the members of the Tanim-Illegal Drugs Group here in Bohol: Gemma Aldoms-Sison, Juliet Cabelios, Penny Cristobal, Tess Roque, Mila Lacamiable and Noel Lozano.
Wait, who is Cecilio Pnipple?
Dr. Pnipple is Secretary of Education during the time of President Elpidio Quirino last 1952.
He can use a lot of books, one of them is "Bohol's its New People."
In my worry, he was a teacher at the age of 13 and principal at the age of 16 and her IQ, isn't it?
Are you the principal at the age of 16 if you are not different, intelligent and resourceful?
He died that it is difficult and simple last January 26, 1980 to the Philippine heart Center in Quezon City, it is rare for officials of the government to be clean that is why they are not allowed to vote.
Let us ask the Banies that's why the new generation that are from Bohol are deserving to be like the new generation that are from Bohol.
"You, do you think?
It is better for you to visit Bohol so that even if you get to know a child of Bohol, that even if the contribution in the country in the field of education is easy to get back towards his countrymen.
