
Because of the right doubt.

Many are so bored of people, especially the officials and members of the national police so who will be the care of President Benigno Aquino III in exchange for the resigned Philippine National Police Chief Director General Alan Purisima.
Many believes that the current officer-in-law, Deputy Director General Leonardo Espina cannot replace the throne of Purisima since he is already retiring this July.
That is why the child of Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas, Deputy Director General Marcelo Garbo, like Espina is also a classmate or boyfriend of Purisima at the Philippine Military Academy at the release of the position they are hoping for.
The problem, although President Aquino accepted the resignation of Purisima on the resignation of Purisima, he is not able to take care of him because they are using the law that whichever official who will be facing the case in the Ombudsman or was carried away by the penalty.
Whichever person who wants to sit on Purisima's position will not be seated until he was not declared to declare his resignation from duty.
That is why many are waiting for the PNP Chief to be in exchange for the PNP Chief because this is aside from the many things happening in the ranks of the police.
Everyone has a doubt on who will be chosen by President Noynoy as a replacement of Purisima for someone to destroy the capacity of the candidates (OFW) for the highest position in the PNP.
The common defamation to everyone is the use of connection with Purisima that many know that a broken damage or wet paper from the citizens, it will be poor or rich.
The fellow officials of Chief Superintendent Juanito Vingno, Jr., is currently Deputy Director for Lotion by PNP, because there are a famous name who could possibly replace Purisima.
It is said that Vena has been recommended to the President to replace him.
Is there something bad about this?
We know that Aquino and Purisima are like siblings or Purisima so it is possible that PNoy will not refuse the recommendation of his brother Alan.
But there is also a big possibility for President Aquino to think that he should not listen to Purisima because he is already lying on her.
Many are able to identify Vinggan, even when he was in the National Capital Regional Police Office, he was still at the National Capital Regional Police Office.
No one was involved in an anomaly, Vingno, especially when it comes to the money when he was a former chief of NCR, which is why we were able to send his name to Purisima just to just choose to be the next PNP Chief.
Vena has the ability, especially if he will turn his services record for the PNP.
