They are housemates.

By Atty. Remigio D. Saladero.
July 4, 2012.

They are doing all the tasks in the house, from the most difficult time until it is the hardest for them to cook their viand, washing clothes and taking care of the children and the elderly because they do not have a different life when they are not there.
But in the opinion of many, the service of the house helper is not the same amount of responsibility for an ordinary workers, it will be seen in the policies of our surroundings, for example, for an ordinary worker, they should be able to spend more than P12,000 pesos per month, but for an ordinary worker?
A worker should not be working for eight hours when his job is almost eight hours, he will pay a bit of rest or rest because this is also the right of the house-helpers?
Upon the arrival of December, a worker has an example of 13th day, aside from this, he also has to build or join the community in order to take care and push for his rights if the house helper is like this?
Instead, we are often heard by a house helper who is raped or raped by her employer, it is also normal for a house helper to borrow or taste bad words when he works.
In the whole world, the number of housemates, 83 percent of these are women and Overseas Filipino Workers or workers in the Philippines, which is estimated up to 1.9 million house helpers are in the country and 1.4 million pesos in other countries.
It's sad, but despite the number of house helpers, they continue to be oppressed and being raped by the family members which they are doing inside the private houses and not in the factory, they do not have a right to treat as ordinary workers.
It's a good thing that this view is already changed last June 16, 2011, approved by the International Criminal Court (ILP) the convention number 189 which is so-called Convention Center for domestic helper.
The Commission on 189 is important because it raised the type of housemates from being a slave to their employers towards a formal kind of worker who has a corresponding protection under the law.
It is stated in the Social Weather Stations or 9 that every country should really spend the age of housemates who are similar to the 'age of ordinary workers, if there is no 18-year-old maid, if there is no 18-year-old maid, this should be given a chance to end his high education.
The government needs to ensure that those who are safe from abuse and discrimination are the obligation of the government to ensure that they are being given importance to 24 hours, to make sure that they are being given importance to the salary that is not more than 24 hours, and other human rights to ordinary workers.
The Social Weather Stations or 9 have also said to know the rights of the house-helpers to build a relationship or join and join their grievance.
For the housemates who are working in a different country, they should be given a right to hide their visa, passports and other items to be given.
The government should implement a formal contract between the house helper and where he works in relation to this, the government should really file a corresponding agency to implement the rights of the house helper and where the maid might file a complaint about violation of their rights.
Pres. Aquino formally approved the Social Weather Stations or 9 last May 18, 2012 and in the Senate to approved his agreement.
But even if it is approved by the Senate, we should think that it is difficult to implement a Social Weather Center due to the lack of mechanism that can be implemented in the country members of the said organization.
Because of this, it is important to have a national law here in the Philippines that contains the rights of a house helper in the direction where the DOLConvention Center, 189.
The proposed law on the house-helpers has long been on the Congress for a long time, which is called Kasamhouse Bill 3278 in the Senate and House Bill Number 6144 in the House of Representatives) but it is not being implemented thoroughly.
Perhaps there is a need to make noise regarding this proposed bill to be approved by this proposed law, we should also need to enumerate the house helpers because they also have the sweat of sweat.
