
Scorpio (TIDs-Moon.

Just like giving up and continuing to give light to the moon every time the night comes, it serves as a hot palm that carries the hearts of every Filipino to call the East of the Moon.
In the prestigious X-t hotel in South Korea, it has reached up to the Middle East of the Moon that is composed of five bastard Filipinos.
The group shared to me the story behind their success in Seoul, Korea.
According to also Tolentino, as the leader, their group is very popular, tall and three hundred pesos.
These are identified as Basila, Gutierrez, who is from Polillo, Quezon; Leonida Benedicto Gonzales from Mandaluyong City; Cerilo Tamayo, from Valenzuela City; and Jellen Salanus who came from the city of Taguig.
One thing that was led by Lim is the way to complete and choose every member of the band.
In the Philippines, the race was started with music, each other, and if at first they are taking a separate path, music, and it seems to be waiting for them to reach success.
Even though they admit that there are challenges that the group will be facing, they remain silent and are united to overcome them.
"
"It is not easy," said by also.
The group really felt too much loneliness for the family and loved ones that were left in the Philippines.
"This is one of the poorest people.
"If you are abroad, thank you, you have been sick, you have no other choice but to sing," he added to others.
Despite the sadness and trials, the group is still thankful because of the hot acceptance of them by the Koreans and even foreigners who have been possessed and bad for their skills and skill.
"The song," son, "famous" of the Koreans.
"That is what they always want to be in the New Year with us, what they want is the song," said Honeymoon.
Aside from what they are doing with what they are doing, the salary is also huge and the benefits received by the authorities like them in South Korea is great.
"When they saw the apartment near the Food, 3 Times Street, we are eating in bureaucracy," according to Jelica's.
World First Class gift is really being shown by the group East of the Moon that they are increasing and hoping that they will go through a few Filipinos when it comes to the field of music in the country Korea.
And here is the message of the member of the group Anakbayan, for the mausoleum of them like them, "i'll just call him, a glimpse at the Discipline Office, of course, of course, of course," of your gift.
"We need to be diligent in order to reach what we want to reach."
