BBL by Noynoy and MILF, the followers of the Congress.

No one is against the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL).
There is no Filipino who does not want peace in the whole country of the republic of the Philippines.
The filipinos were identified as Americans, Tagalog, Visayas, Muslim, Ita, Ifugao, Ilonggo, Agdugayan, Tsinoy, Manobo tribe, Tsinoy, Mangandapon, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe, Manobo tribe,
After the Mamasapano massacre, which killed 44 members of the PNP-SAF on January 25, opened the consciousness of every Filipino about the real initiative of President Benigno Aquino III, the BBL.
Those who do not care about the BBL, complained of opposition now, not because they do not want peace but the closed face there is a BBL issue with Aquino and MILF, who are separated and traitor!
When the SAF 44's issue was hot, they hid in the den.
After almost two weeks or the group of groups surfaced again, he talked to the members of the Congress in the Senate and Legislative Chamber.
She has only one wish, to pass the BBL as soon as possible.
Just like what is being done by a puppy or a dog, some of them were able to pay attention to their owner.
The Aquino administration needs to pass the election and all of them!
It means, as well, as well as the blind, the senators and highest allies of Aquino are blind and deaf if they do not pay a lawmaker.
Because of the word "and all of all, we remembered what will be impeached from the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.
From 50 million pesos was accepted by each one!
Hopefully it is not true that Noynoy will wake up and he should not force to pass the BBL that affects their godfather to Malaysia.
Hopefully, one of his Filipino is the entirety of the BBL by the research, studies that are involved in all sectors of Mindanao.
Hopefully, he should not be afraid of the threat of MILF, that if it will lessen a letter or a huge impact that affects the BBL, he will bother Mindanao again.
It is a clear case of sedition and they should be imprisoned!
In the issue of peace, there is no fear that should be put in the minds of the MILF.
The BBL of Aquino, MILF and his followers in the Congress will only result to a bigger problem.
In the moment of forcing that to be implemented, surely, many will appear like the BIFF is going to ask their own state!
It will surely happen, Mister Aquino.
You are not able to do anything for almost six-years in position, if you still have the republic and every Filipino?
