From Satan and RL.

We do not take sides or favored the politicians who get involved in the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
But we agree with a bad father of Senator Jinggoy Estrada that it seems that the Aquino administration is not moving to chase the many senators and congressmen who are involved in the billions of PDAF scam.
King was living together! Who will not go inside if there is no more than 20 senators who are involved with Jinggoy Estrada, Juan Ponce Enrile and Bong Revilla, the Senate himself and the Malacanang made a solution?
Who will not go with if Malacanang and the legislative chamber are not taking action of 300 congressmen who are involved in destroying PDAF?
And who will not go with if the Congress and Malacanang does not take action on the involvement of the people from Malacañang on the PDAF scam, like Budget Secretary Florencio Abad, Agriculture Sec. Proceso Alcala and TESDA Director JonJackie. Proceso Alcala.
The record for the involvement of senators and congressmen came from the Commission on Audit and supported by its part of the record of Benhur Luy and Janet Lim Napoles.
The truth is, in our gathering of barangays, people feel that the people in power are very popular.
With the desire of those in power to stay in position by pretending to crush their enemies or not allies, it appears that being rude to their posts.
But it's not only greedy, judicial system, but evil.
Isn't it that evil are teaching the other followers of Barabas while the ones who are teaching are the followers of Satan?
It is Satan who has control and giving importance to the funds of PDAF when they think corruption and the Barabas are the ones who are taking advantage of the stolen fund.
But the most painful of all, to collect it, to what the Satan and Barabas are doing is what the people are suffering and are hungry.
There is no funds or act on ordinary citizens who are taking advantage of the ordinary citizens who are taking advantage of it, workers, fishermen, farmers, vendors, taxi drivers and jeepney and many others.
Because of the pockets and are taking advantage of the Satan and Barabas, this is the funds that should be given for them.
King-mother-in-mother is really alive with PNoy.
Who will not enter this situation?
