
The Revolutionary Council of trade Universities (National Democratic Front of the Philippines on the 25th anniversary of the birth of Gat Andres Bonifacio.
Push the revolution of Bonifacio!
Workers, join the armed fight!

DOTU-NDFP.
Revolutionary Council of trade Universities (National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
30, November 2013.
The answer to the abuse of foreign power and officials who will provide for them is what is needed for the national freedom and democracy.

After several hundred years, the abuse of the workers and the filipino people became stronger, Filipinos still haven't achieved the dream of freedom and democracy.

This year, in spite of the 25th anniversary of the birth of the hero's birth of a hero, a challenge to the workers and the citizens to continue and be successful with the national solution for Bonifacio.

To bring the Marcos regime!

Under the former US-Aquino, it is exposed that the rottenness of society is exposed to be exposed to be exposed by the rottenness of the community activity that will not be hidden by Noynoy to the workers and the citizens.

The three years of Noynoy in the position is tainted with an antioxidant and criminal case that was given to the right path, no embarrassment if Noynoy became a traitor, in front of the calamities and calamities that resulted to death of thousands of our countrymen.

It's a big obstacle for the Marcos regime's goal in the improvement of their desires, especially until now, the workers and the citizens are hoping for the national freedom, democracy and social change.

Workers, join the New People's Army!

It is needed to end the rotten system that is being made by the Philippine US-Aquino! It will not give nothing to the workers and the people but too much taunting and taking advantage.

Similar to Bonifacio, it can only be done through the armed revolution, that's why a challenge and call for the workers and the poor were a challenge and call for thousands of people in the countryside and join the armed forces of the revolution of Bonifacio, the New People's Army.

This is the most effective weapon to end the tight-tempered society, the people will be released from the narrow-mindedness of the citizens, form and strengthen the real government of the citizens, and strengthen the land to the farmers, and built the soil and progressive industry.

Only by the national government and the people's goal is to achieve the goal of Bonifacio, the national freedom and democracy and a society who has a real freedom, prosperity and peace.

Push the revolution of Bonifacio!
To bring the Marcos regime!
Push the national under democratic revolution!
Workers, join the New People's Army!
Long live the NPA!
