He asked the emergency powers.
By Arnold Clavio August 14, 2016.
The Senate has started the hearing in relation to the requested "emergency powers" by President Rodrigo Duterte to resolve the crisis in traffic.
But while waiting for the special part of the President, are the government agencies doing something to ease the burden caused by heavy traffic?
Every day, motorists seem to have their own strategy, especially now that there is still no consideration for each other and all of the things that are passing by each other and all of them have no respect for those in the streets.
But usually the result, the flow of traffic and they are going to make the road they are going to carry on the streets.
Where are the authorities?
There are a few who can be seen losing in the middle of the heat of the sun and these past few days is in the middle of the heavy rainfall.
One of the purpose of "emergency powers" by the President is.
"Like now, there are members of Calinisan, the MMDA and the local government have a representative, except the members of the barangay who also have a care and are just pretending to be someone who knows the system of fixing traffic.
Hopefully the senators and congressmen do not wait for the giving of "emergency powers" to the president because it needs to be needed.

Hopefully they prioritize the destruction of illegal vehicles and majority of alternative routes in parking space.
What's sad about this, they are the owners of these vehicles who are angry and have threats against those who are requesting them to be personnel of MMDA or DPWH.
It would have been a huge relief for motorists to open these alternative streets, including the private village, to quickly reach their destination.
A few study said that the amount of money missing in the economy and even in their own pocket of motorists, due to the severe traffic flow.
Actions now!
He / she was cut off.
Who?!
Who is the government official who got used and noticed that there is an unusual actions or feelings for his Undersecretary?
According to the barbells, the movement in each of their department is special.
Be in some care and sensitive decision of Miss.

Government official, he doesn't take care of any perspective or position of Mister.

Undersecretary.
"According to the name of the government official, the" I did a lesson, "while his last name has a lesson."
Lord, you will take care of it!
