"Where is the service to the poor, OFWs"?

It has long been a vendor outside the Philippine General Hospital as Elena Palma Polong ico, 71), but even if he is considered as the most powerful public hospital in the country, it seems that the health services in the country can't be given to him.
The Philippine Health Organization (PhilHealth) card has the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) card, because of his condition in life, he could not pay attention to its condition and the PhilHealth failed to use this year which has reached 160 percent for PhilHealth.
"When I buy medicine, I did not have any story," said Nanay Elena. "This, according to what the government did not have been used to," said that he still remembered his son who was hospitalized in San Lazaro last year, but still passed away.
PhilHealth, according to him, has a big thing, especially when he will experience 100 pesos every day, but he said, "we did not expect it because it seems like nothing."
Nanay Elena was only one of the millions of Filipinos who are benefiting from the concern of the government which is part of the government, including PhilHealth, and groups of Overseas Filipino Workers who are paying for PhilHealth, but not benefiting from this service of the government.
Call the court to stop.
Susana Lana reached the alliance between OFWs, including Migrante International Criminal Court and United Nations in Hong Kong (chickenil-HK), in the petition of the Supreme Court to release a temporary restraining order (TRO) against the implementation of 160-million MT) on Friday, March 14.
This was the latest petition against the said height of PhilHealth, after the similar petition served the Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR) and Center for trade Union and Human Rights (CDO) last January.
It was stated in the petition of Susana, Pad, which is against the Overseas Filipino Act of 1995, or Republic Act 842, the increase in line up by the government to the OFWs because they are complaining about the lack of consultation and "although it is unjust that it is appropriate for the number of OFWs.
"There is no need for snacks or the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration to collect all the OFWs given by their employers, we have connections with the Overseas Filipino Workers Welfare Association of us, we have diabetes, but we have tons of PhilHealth," he said.
The OFWs are also wondering why they are being harassed by PhilHealth, but if they get sick, they will go back to the hospitals where we will get up to us, "they will just go home to buy 20,000 pesos, and if it comes to us, it will be a burden to us," it will be a burden, "said Martinez.

OFWs!
It is an important point, according to Martinez, not to depend on OFWs in helping economic funds.
"What the government is saying:" If you do not have been used to PhilHealth, thank you for OFWs because you do not get sick and help, my problem is the source of corruption, "Martinez said.
He also emphasized that the officials of PhilHealth, "while the members have not able to make a bra away in the time they need, they promised," they promised. "
It is not denied by his group that the relatives of the workers have been used to the Philippines by the relatives of the workers, but what you can do is a legal hold-up or for you, it is a legal insurance for the OFW to pay for it, this is enough and direct selling out of the country. "
Martinez knows that PhilHealth does not serve the majority of the poor who are getting sick and have no ability to pay their livelihood and no ability to pay the public who are anomalous., and if the Aquino administration is pushing and have no ability to pay the Public-Private Consignation.
From his position in front of PGH, Nanay Elena witnessed the protest against PhilHealth, and every time they come near his PhilHealth failed - it has been shown to the public as a protest in the unfair policies of the country.
