Global cybersex scam (5)

The current administration of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) is now a chance to straighten out the anomalous people given by the former US Navy group to scrutinize this (SRF) compound and the dock of Subic Bay Film Festival.
This is the truth: 18 former officials of the SBMA, together with former Chairman Feliciano Salonga and former Administrator Midas Arenza, the one who was charged by the Ombudsman in the Sandiganbayan due to the very good transaction in the nearby US Embassy (NSD).
After all, the case of SRF) is severe because of the rent of the Global Development Assistance Fund), Incorporated (global warming, including three (3) dock, buildings and facilities left by the US Navy, after using it in Subic.
Thousands of "per thousand pesos." Is the fee of Global City "in" wangwang. "
The transaction related to the government was done because it did not pass through the bidding, a clear violation on R.A, 184.
On the first agreement, it is not included in Allowance (TRF), but when it has been sent by Memorandum of Agreement (GAA) during the time of Salonga and Arenza, not only Alliances, including Bravo and Rivera.
The Revolution was even placed on the gate to be charged by the "Road (NLEX's toll fee, 10: 20 pesos and P5 million pesos and P5 million pesos, even the poor audience or low wages for every day in his hard work.
It was said that the road was said to have been constructed, which is why it has a right to payment for "Road PMC," when there are many parts of it, it's just like a lot of asphalt.
This is the truth: Even the operation of the United States Navy in Subic was affected by the SEA Games that is why the current administration of the SBMA needs to face it immediately.
According to some SBMA director, they will examine the contract of global warming, better.
But when?
They have read what we are writing about in relation to the anomalous contract of the Global in SBMA and our question if we are saying that we are wrong, nothing is wrong.
"That is how it is," shouldn't it be action immediately if it is true!
