Her, ": An abuse in the modernization.

A classic example of the abuse of the modern technology is the video of a telomere shortens as in the LRT station.
While netizens cursed at Nayer because of his incessant use of the lady guard of LRT, I could not help but transfer to the class of the game.
That's why the next day, after the video went viral, I've tried to serve as Nayer in his live-in partner to be tested.
That's why when I cut the video, she took a video that she also got in actual direction.
"We only have simple questions when she posted the scenario before he was able to take a video, is he only able to take a video, is he even alone to ask the cause of their wild?
If he was not able to catch the start of the situation, in our opinion, he should not have written the video because, according to what they saw, he saw the whole world upside down, and he did not see why.
My argument there is simple, you should not be able to collect any video of anyone if you are not able to gather and you have not gathered the details on why it happened so that you will not be responsible for the people who are thinking.
But the problem, the captured victim was able to build a video on his video due to his commentary on the side of amoeba which he was saying to be at fault in that scene.
However, the lady driver asked to apologize because he was hurt when he was hurt when it did not go through the security X-ray of the student's bag because he was able to go to a university.
This is what we are saying that we should be careful in whatever we move, it is as if we say that it's too much contemptuous, that's why it's not the act of the truth that he is educated.
But First First Division, you should also know what is the reason for his wild acts.
In our current time, almost everyone is holding the camera because it can't forget that this is not a license to protect us only according to the minds of the anity that we can do.
We need to treat the camera like a gun.
If we do not know, we may hurt anyone, we can ruin a person's life.
