There are some arguments about the Reproductive health.

If you think about it, my fingers are exhausted from different issues related to the Reproductive Health Law, it is just repetitive if the arguments given by the church and some personalities who are against the RH Law should be repeated again.
Just like the question that when his life is already starting, "it seems that those who are against the RH that even though the man has not yet entered the uterus of a woman has not yet entered the uterus of a woman.
Which according to Khhad, if the man has a prosperous man, to the responsibility of condom, it can be considered that it can be taken from the uterus of the woman, this can be considered a murder case or murder.
Tangere, buoy, "isn't it, the game held by men is a clear murder?
Does it mean that you really did not experience fatigue, okay, Mr. Pad, a million times that it will be taken care of with a simple understanding, there is only a person who cannot be taken care of the uterus of the woman, and a single man joined with her uterus.
Which is why any of these are trying to prevent these from each other, no one is alive.
Here is an argument between the church, because it is the primary obligation of the government as the protection of the government, which is why it should not be stopped through the economic Planning because of the formation of people of god and and Joseph, the protection of the people.
Here is the primary issue according to the nosy church, the morality of a country and the citizens should let the RH Law prevail.
God, and Joseph, which is high is the morale, if the couple, who has the lack of knowledge or ability to buy pills or an animal, have also increase their children.
And because their father is earning a small salary, he became aware, homeless on the streets and the children became a thief.
"Is there a high morality?
It's just simple, the resolution of the issues about the RH Law should be temporary!
Let the government serve the plan to plan and let us not want to!
