Education will be focused on by Mayor Rex.

It is good that Mayor Rex Gatchalian of Valenzuela City will focus on giving high quality of education for the youth in their city.
The announcement made by Mayor Rex as his first State of Education Address, where he also said that he will give 300 million pesos to use for the programs of the quality of education in his jurisdiction.
Said amount is used to be used, according to him, he called 360-degree "education program.
The action was made by Mayor Rex after the reports of 9 in every 10-6 students in Valenzuela City had a hard time to read and understand what they are reading and how others really do not know how to read.
He also did not like the result of the past National Achambers (Izzy Canillo) where the average wage increase from 71.93 percent in 2010 reached 59.13 percent in 2011 and 60 percent in 2012.
It is included in his program to add the curriculum and also the additional support and contribution to the students to encourage them to study well.
The parents and teachers, based on the appointed standard, should also be given to the appointed standard and as well as the local government of the new school building, so that the students will be vigilant there.
Mayor Rex did good to solve the problem because we can't expect that a student will be able to finish even if a student is a high school, if he does not know how to understand what he is reading.
And of course, if a child is not going to school, she might have already slipped off from the ranks of those who are standing, which usually becomes a headache to their parents but also their community.
That's why Mayor Rex is timely because he understands the importance of education as weapon, especially more than the youth who are poor in order to rise from poverty and lack of future.
Instead of ignored, he made a concrete steps to give attention to the problem so I can say that Mayor Rex does not want to serve as a good town.
I hope that other leaders imitate him and do not be talkative and form to the media what sometimes is accompanied by corruption in the country's funds.
Long live you, Mayor Rex Gatchalian!
