Covetous of PNoy and the MILF and MILF.

Arrived, the first step on the issue of peace between the government and the "Paula," the group of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
They were sulking before as members of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) by Cong. Cited that he separated and built his own group in the leadership of Hashim, that the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF) was established by the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF).
The conflict in Mindanao was temporarily stopped when former President Fidel V Ramos and MNLF chairman Nur Misuari is temporarily stopped after one year, the MILF attacked him to notice their force.
The ASG or the bandits Abu Sayyaf Group continues to run amok while the task is to kidnap and extort.
Hopefully, the agreement entered by President Benigno Simeon Cojuangco Aquino III is going to have a direction and who does not want peace, her?
But there is a lot of evidence to be resolved in the issue that 70 percent of the MILF are dependent on any wealth of nature or profit in every trade under Bangsamoro AOIL Region (if it will be passed on, it will be passed on.
AOIL Region and Muslims Mindanao (ARMM) are still the officials who have a representative in the west-out of the region.
It seems that the Aquino government needs to surrender?
This is the Philippines, we have a government, who is the one who will benefit from other income to collect funds for different services in the country and the citizens.
If it is like that, how will 70 percent of MILF or Bangsamoro will be used to why?
One more peace talks, the MILF said that they have a forces that are not less than 15 thousand, how are they going to surrender the weapons?
Will they build the own forces of the police and the armed forces?
Or they have agreed that even if DILG Secretary Mar Roxas will ask for an explanation that it is possible to build their own military forces and police, will it be listened to by PNoy that the brain, attitude and governance of our government is unusual?
According to Malacañang, if Noynoy wants to heart, that is the only thing, there is no other way to meddle or to violate the said soldiers and our policemen?
Are the new state of MILF, who are proud of our flag or will make himself?
All of this should be clear because if all, 70 percent are in favor of the new Bangsamoro Basic Law, wait, that is dangerous.
It just means that what will happen is not an agreement but it will surrender to the sovereignty that is happening in our own country, it is necessary to clarify this by PNoy and his "desaparecidos,"
But we say, we are hoping that the signed agreement is final in the right path, we are hoping that this government will not be negligent just like your greed "in the issue of management.
We are hoping that the relation and relationship of Bangsamoro will be equal to all kinds of Filipinos, the indigenous people, for every sector and the issue will be lost of acknowledging everyone but also, as one of the one race.
