"The Pope of DOJ, BIR; PNoy, does not care.

It is easy for the Department of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima to investigate the pork barrel scam of Janet Napoles.
But the DOJ believes that Budget Secretary Florencio "Butch" Abad pointed out that he is the "King of pork barrel" in the country and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, which is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and it is more painful
If the king of the pork scam cannot be investigated by the DOJ and BIR, it is certain that the National Bureau of Investigation is said to be protected by the National Bureau of Investigation and is said to be protected by the president of the country and allies, the national police and even journalists.
Why don't you make a lot of gambling? "Because he can beat the Pambansang Kamao Representative Manny Pacquiao for his disapproval of money.
Pacquiao becomes more aggressive with the strength of the BIR because the hero of boxing has a case of tax evaded for the BIR while he "Alas" is not being investigated by the BIR.
The NBI's hands were tied on the investigation of Alas because of the huge amount given money to officials of the government.

The parents of the students in public schools last Monday because classes have started when the parents of students in the private school are confident because there are still several days to prepare.
It's just that, many of the parents are complaining because there is a high bill from school that the government cannot limit it because the country's own president has a different justification.
President Benigno Aquino III said, the children will put to the public school if the parents cannot handle the tuition in their school school.
It is not just consideration for PNoy that because they do not have a study in public school, walk towards the school where they are hungry, and money is only water, which is why it was only water which could possibly hurt even if they are hurt.
Not only in education does President Noynoy do not care but also in the increase in price of goods that becomes the reason for the increase in price of commodities now, but the price increase in jeepney and bus increased.

Thank you very much to Jonathan by the Office of the Senior Police Office (OSCA) of the Manila City Hall, the Manila City Hall, who were left on a chair near their office, thank you for your loyalty and not taking interest on the things of others.
