It is against the national laws of Filipino soldiers in Mindanao.

The Philippine US-Aquino has a big responsibility for the damage in life and livelihood of the civilians who are direct the result of the brutal results of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the mountains of Mindanao.

The bombing in the areas where the armed and unknown armed fight of the people with foreign companies in the mining companies and other nearby areas of the civilians, along with the widespread brownout in the community of civilians, along with the widespread violation of human rights.

Under the Oplan Galugad conducted, the Philippine US-Aquino led the two of the areas command and made a huge bombing in the five regions of Mindanao and these troops are conducting a widespread bombing in different parts of the island.

The last victim of the bombing was the 83 families who evacuated from Barangay New Visayas, Trento, Agusan del Sur due to the severity of the attacks and widespread brownout the military on May 7.

According to the reports of the National Democratic Front in Mindanao, the biggest bombing in the areas where there are operations in South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Davao del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur and Agusan del Sur, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga Peninsula, Surigao del Sur and Agusan del Sur.

Against the international law, the bombing of civilians, which is not less than ten formal agreement that is a direct effect of their hands of civilians in the time of Filipinos, the prohibition of the attacks of the civilians in the time of Filipino workers, the prohibition of the attacks of general population so there will be no intention in their race.

There is a clear ban for the Customs of War in Land (OFW) and Kotong policemen who have been reported to attend mass at Lupa) in any attacks and bombing in the towns, barrios, houses and buildings without defend.

As well, the bombing is prohibited from the construction of the chambers (Commission on Human Rights) that the only purpose is to spread a noodle house, destroy or destroy the properties of civilians or any action which can cause damage to non-uppers, lines of supply, vehicles and other Moalibis, without doubt that there is no doubt in operations of the military.

Any violation of more opportunities is a crime against the entire world and now, they can file a case against the national court.

The national laws are strict in relation to the care of the safety of civilians, those who are sick, wounded and other no ability to defend himself, it is the most of those who are involved in the armed encounter.
