
A video was filed by Eramson Acosta, the Amnesty International will investigate.

Director D. Quijano, January 23, 2012.

Gary King of Minoras in Amnesty International USA, together with the family and supporters of Ermson Acosta, who was arrested by the military last year in Samar, which is said to be filed by the Aquino government, which is why he will not file a formal complaint.

"It is said that he / she said that he / she said that he was the one behind bars, the prosecutor behind bars, a certain prosecutor behind by the SMARegional Trial Court (Republic Act 8493), he / she could not avoid getting their relief for the trial, or he / she would be the one who's being chosen to be the trial, or he will be the one to be defeated," King stated.

King was faced by a press conference, along with the family and supporters of Acosta, including Malou Jacob, former Executive Director of the National Commission on vocals, the Arts, and National actress-Tropas that they should be released with the 365 political prisoners in the whole country.

According to the members of the cell (organization of ex-Deguee, against the arrest and arrest), 78 of them were jailed under the Aquino government.

King is going to investigate the government to investigate the inhumane treatment experienced by Acosta in the hands of the military, and punished those who will be proven guilty in the Philippines, he said, that the group will do everything he can to campaign for his release.

Here is the king here in the Philippines to look into the case of disappearance last 2008 of James Balao, one activists from correct negotiation.

Meanwhile, Mazza also announced that the Philippine Center for International Criminal Court (chickenyos, Playungan, Esanjoe) to support the campaign for the release of Acosta is decided.

"Like Erry son is not an enemy; he is a partner for the progress of the country, and according to certain Jacob," and general secretary of the prison, the former enemy of political administration should be given a general, which will be given the general, the political prisoners should be given a general.
