The change in English is being used in the documents that are being used in the government so that other Philippine Army who are having a hard work in English so this month of language, the Commission on social media, especially math and other countries, Cherry Ann Torres.
Five.
Zailon.
Zurbano family, Two Wives and five teenage girls whom I know, "wangwang."
Coming.
That of the Filipinos who won't smell like that, because I was able to leave a lot.
What happened in Subic was in hospital.
Jason also made the head to us to let him take care of the documents aside from having a lot of things that should have been discussed, not to talk to you in there.
You need to be annoyed with your father.
Just call it all.
The other applicants here are there at the station Office (L-T) or this is also the charge for electricity.
They should be immediately arrested, right?
Even if you can show it to the press of my eyes, you understand that you are the ones who are going to the commission, the Filipinos are eager to use the huge use of the filipino country.
Show it.
It is true to be alone in the language.
The will of the country.
Resourceful in use of Filipino people.
The budget is about to leave the budget first so that it will not be the former President, who is a former president who made a step to use the government to use a step to use the Filipinos from an organization and communication.
It is said that because of the law of there, some of the buildings are going to be cut down at that night, but, of course, we are just going to be broken or not, of course, we are just following the agency that is very effective or not, "like the commandments, it's only right," like the commandments, it's only right, "like the commandments should not be destroyed," like the commandments should be broken.
Yes, he said to me.
To me?
Month.
But when we are talking about the law in the filipino language, they are going to travel because the man of the Philippines will go away from the Philippines with what we borrowed from other countries in different countries.
It is impossible for the speaker, it is hard to make the influence of friends but you should never forget about your own older sister and call that we should talk about it and love.
Cherry Ann Torres.
