
It's about the local government.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
March 4, 2012.

Production. Jose Maria Sison, in an interview with her by a took place (Jon Bustamante).
The impeachment trial of Chief Justice Renato Corona will make the severe challenge of the institution of the government, including the judiciary and the judiciary, for a long time, has long been exposed to the tear of justice in the country.
But some of the government in the country are considered as said to have their own institutions for the growth of justice, the government and democracy.
Filipino Weeker, through email, Production. Jose Maria Sison, Propaganda of the Liberal Party of the Philippines and full adviser of the politics of the National Democratic Front in the peace talks.
We asked him about "an alternative government of NDF in some parts of the country.
Wow, it can be recalled that Duterte has been saying that there will be an official or government leaders who are leading the parts of the country which can be explained how the government is running, what is the difference between the government of the Philippine government?
JMK: Millions of the masses and the wide territory it is part of the germs in the field of 70 that will be provided by local officials of the political power to be considered as the local government of the Kapisanan ng Masang Pilipino at the leadership of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
It is the committee's appearance to the power of the power of politics and his household help, reform, production, production, health, defense, culture, judicial system, but the committee, based on the common masses, and for the wide masses.
The local government of the Partido Demokratiko Pilipino-workers and farmers) and those in the middle of the society are different from the middle of the government, the government is centered on the top of the government, the government is centered on the top of the government.
Meow, to what you know, how can you ensure the revolutionary movement of the democratic leadership? How are the leaders choose to choose?
The Gin Kings are sure that the approval of the democratic leadership to ensure that the candidates are from the kind of farmers and workers for the priority and those from the middle of the masses, that can be nominated in the masses.
He was elected by the members of the owners of the voters of the barangay or returnees or the representatives of the barangay or returnees, depending on the situation of security, based on new places, it depends on the new places, the members of the temporary restraining order for the campaign of politics.
Meow, how can the revolutionary movement of the clean movement of a clean government?
Armed Forces - it is sure that the government is clean by following the following: 111: 05 in the suspension of the committee of the committee, 2a tight relationship with the masses, 5.
Meow, there is also an alternative system for the judicial movement, which they called "armed challenge," to the armed group, who called the judge, what is the difference in the judicial system of the current system?
JMK - there is a legal system and style of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino is the legal system of the armed country in different level of local, the controversial terrorism, with the three judge who was chosen by Liberal, Bagong HE, Bayan and the masses.
The biggest difference between the armed court to the Supreme Court is the uncontrollable fit and action of the filipino people against the filipino people against the filipino people, responsible or criminals in the ranks of the masses, that the armed forces are sure to investigate, hearing and abused.
Meow, how do they take care of the armed forces for the welfare of women's rights?
JMK: Under the Constitution, program and laws of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino is clear, the rights and welfare of women that are stated in the international law and welfare of women and welfare of women's rights and welfare of women.
