"Leuterio," Pilar Pilapil, was bought by this week.

Pilar Pilapil is now fed up in selling his movie "Letriro," of Filamscape Entertainment Television, Jovento Aldomino, his director and another one who took it out, Andy was poisoned.
Between the taping of her "mother-son" for ABS-CBN, Pilar is playing with Vic del Rosario, the owner of this week Entertainment Television for the proper suspension of the movie.
It has been bought by del Rosario for the masterpieces of Jovelle was given to an Overseas Filipino Worker in London, who was working in the city that was working in the city, which happened within thirty-five years but suddenly discovered that he had an illness with cancer.
The question is he will return to the Philippines to be treated while his money saved is gone but he will be with his loved ones or he will stay in London for the corresponding medical attention although he is far from your loved ones?

There were Premiere, the film of Pilapil in the Gateway Park recently who was attended by the critics, Joe Burgos, both stars and colleagues at the work of Pilar.
Mabog and Andy was attended to the occasion and successful in the celebration.
According to Bibit Caraykit, a veteran actress of movie, it is possible that the movie is touching the movie and the role of Pilapil in his role.
"Jess Evardone, both actors of Pilar," I did not expect something like that, and I never thought that you could really do what is in paper. "
Even those from the movie to review the CPRO-page Board or MTRCB were taken to La Loma: "IT led by mortal enemies for Her."
Attended to Premiere, the son of Pilar, Pia Pilapil, together with his wife, Gerry Cenes, and their children.
The husband of Pilar was also there, identified as Pastor Bernie Treñas that the actress Liza Dialogue, the actress Nick Piñon, alias Calamudi, Ricky Calamudi, Anthony Solis, William Reyes, Danny Vena and JC responded.

Even the father of Vic and Vincent del Rosario, Jr. are always praises for Metl in making movies.
"Tuwid na Daan, it is common c," said Vincent Peale.
That is why the del Rosario did not hesitate to buy the rights owned by the masterpiece in the release of the cinemas.
However, buying it for television is still different, for the video, for other ways of owned by the owner.
As long as it is the only thing that Pilar will only get mad at it now, Jovelle was able to make it, the release of new Entertainment Television in movies in the cinema will be signed.

And do you know that Boss Vic and Jovelle was seated under his production?
That is why Shoyna and Maball was arrested.
There is a need for a project to have a new project for two men of arts.
Vic is said to have mentioned a television series with Jovelle was done to the company to show on TV 5 that is why he is very eager to work in the organization.
In the middle, Indonesia is now in Indonesia right now with his vacation together with one of his friends who took it took it, Simon, family.
Three weeks will be spent by Jovento and Simon, however, according to the director, any time he will be called Equal Employment Opportunity or anything that he will finish his vacation but to work.
Meanwhile, on March, the bagman of "Leona," Jovelle was also nervous at Pilipenko, Jovento and Andy was nervous with the result of the masterpieces from the box office and his critics.
