Thankfully, thank you for the foolishness!
July 19, 2016.
It's really good to enter a regular taxi in all terminal at Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA).
They immediately agreed to get rid of the airport police because they saw that their units are really lacking in order for the passengers to suffer the long queue for the long queue to go home.
Many of the victims are Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), who were surprised to see their family, but also a few hours before they ride in a taxi, it's because of widespread brownout, hold-up and "ambus" at the airport office.

In order to solve the issue of security, they opted to bury the passenger of the passengers on their way home or going to their destination from the airport.
The meter is very much, there are still small units that are really not allowed to serve the airport, which is why it is really time to enter the regular taxi again.
How about the system of the airport taxi that is still in the same time now, there are some who are going to give the passenger to the passengers, where there are holes in details of the taxi, from the plate number, operators, and even the hotline of operators.
It is not clear if the taxi already entered the airport terminal in order to catch a passenger.
It is very important now that as they make the public service in the primary airports in the country, the passengers will still take care of the evil people, especially the OFWs who are going home to their loved ones.
Although there are many who are happy with the steps of Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA), there are still some who are confident that at the airport taxi, they lined up and pay more expensive, as long as it is certain that it is not a hold-up.
It is fine, this is the concept of "free trade." There is a possibility that their products and passengers should be the basis of the products they want, and what their pockets are.

Hopefully, this is just the beginning of the non-monopolize of the Manila Electric Company (Meralco) for a long time.
