Careful in using language, we discussed it, "

By Tomas, Santos-October 23, 2014.

There will be a big contribution for a responsible and a wise person who took off the filipino language from a straight path towards a leeches and pursuant to the standard of Written Iday.
This is also emphasized by Virgilio Mendez, National Bureau of Sining for the filipino masses (KWF), to those who complained of the Filipino language on the 25th of September of Bulabog Romualdez, Magsingal son, City of Manila.
It cannot be denied that the influence of the took care of the people and their coordination with their daily lives is the purpose of KWF to talk and serve as a suggestion of the Filipino language to become the one of their campaign towards deception and placing a standard of the Filipino language.
"By your more careful use of the Filipino language, we can lessen the germs," says Almario.
The concoction is important for enriching Filipino language because this is where the steps that should be done when there is one of the national budget, is important.
According to him, this is one thing that is being studied in 1960s, and when it is studied in college up to the present, this is not used.
In the full of use, it cannot be denied that many people use the Filipino language in the country.
His explanation, if it is said to be a job, this is the desire to improve the Filipino language not only in speaking if not in writing and reading about the formal course of course.
An important step is included in putting it on a standard or choosing a standard or any knowledge that, because when there is a lot of people speaking in the Filipino language, they have a different boss in the filipino language, and they have a different lesson from the filipino.
To push for the current program of KWF, violation of writing, a agency was released by the provincial government and they encourage the machine to use it so that there is a style in using the Filipino language in writing, reading and speaking in any part of the country.
"It does not mean that all of our words are important, when we get out, we have one way and if we are writing, we have one way of writing," says Almario.
Aside from the cabinet, the agency of Giovanni Lozano is also suspended from writing which is based in Chicago Manual of style.
Different words, one country.
Following the interview of Almario, Purisima explained that Delea also explained, the former Deo'clock in the University of the Philippines-Baguio and is currently full-mindedness of KWF, the goal and consequence of their project, "Pogi" of the Philippines. "
While they are being mistreated and being united in the national, they are also taking care of the sweet words, and look at how they can enter the national and how they can use the national and how they can influence them in the building.
This project of KWF can be implemented by Senator Loren Legarda who will be under the documents and will steal all the language in the Philippines and will be identified to be identified as the legislative chamber to be identified.
Its goal is to lessen the language in the entire Philippines, make the language in the whole country and the language in the Philippines can be described as not only according to where and who are talking about it if not even in the barbells and communication with each language.
According to Delorino, they enita which in the year 2015, "Daang Matuwid" will be buried in a book which involved the poorest information about the language of the Philippines.
At present, that happened that a description of the 89 Mautes said, while it is in the process of commerce at 111: 00, it is not 200 of the total number of language in the country because many of 111 are in a sample of the name and other than 111.
