The government of PNoy, "pain, of OFWs, relatives.

In the span of two years in reaching the Philippines of the Philippines, Filipinos still cannot feel said promises, especially the Filipinos who were in different countries in order to find a life.
Susana Lana approached the relatives of Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), this will be their sentiments.
The relatives of the OFW who were identified to be covetous, Ruth Camba, Evelyn Mojica and Angelina Quinto and Angelina Meongon was currently facing the current condition of their loved ones who are in another country.
The lives of their loved ones in other countries are in different parts of the other countries, included here are the illegal immigrants?, human trafficking in exchange, imprisonment or to death penalty in exchange of their own work.
There are some Filipinos who are experiencing violence while they are at work.
Stories of grief.
De Lima said that her sister-in-law, Guihulngan, 23 years old, and aside from her employer, she usually has a rest and has no rest there, he was raped by her employer, "said Marax.
On December when he went out of the country from Zamboanga City he thought that he was just going to Malaysia until he reached Syria to Jordan. "Until now, he will just finish the eight-month contract." Until now, his / her body continues to go home to his six-year-old child.
"

On December 2011 when his brother's salary started to be delayed, then, from January to February, he did not want to go home immediately because he did not want to go home anymore because he did not want to go home anymore because he did not want to go home anymore because his brother did not want to go home because he did not want to leave his older brother's condition.
Allen Arroyo, who was allegedly an official of the Philippine Overseas Labor Office (shirt), asked help from Saudi Arabia to ask for help from Joel for ten thousand pesos in exchange of their house in the Philippines, including the attempt to transfer them to their house in the Philippines, to complete the huge amount that was given.
"Until he was looking for Allen Arroyo to get the ash that could have been asked by him, a lot of people were asking for evidence if the money was given," Allen Arroyo did not want to report him, "Buddy also told him.
Joel Bodegon also came closer to Ruth who also said to Ruth who went to the office of the group, also the call of Ruth, his brother, who has no job, and was living together with just a few months there.
Two wives of the 91 workers who are currently in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and work in Al-Saga were asked by repatriation of their loved ones, Evelyn Mojica and Angelito Cabrera, along with 91 stranded in said country.
"Particularly to my wife (Danilo), the third attempt to treat them from the companies that since he worked in the company, the company, which had a change when he returned from the start of the company, that's why the company of Evelyn did not change, which is why the company has not able to pay properly.
"Since he came back in 2009, the changing of pay was started, that's why they gave their salary first, so they did it for a few months from 2009 until 2010," the story of Evelyn.
The end of the contract became the problem with the many workers of Al-Saga, but for now they are only stranded in a point that even if they have already holding a receipt, they still promised to renew the contract of their job, "said that they have not been paid," said that they have not been paid, "he added.
It was only March 2011 when the contract of Danro or TNT) was hidden and hidden, that his condition in Saudi passed away, but we went closer to the embassy to ask help from our country, "Danilo said to her husband.
Even if they had an accident from the shirt of Preso or working permits, they could not accept it because it will not be denied that it can be accepted by the embassy for their wish to return to the Philippines, so they were united in order not to accept and to notice (their complaint), "Evelyn said.
Only the request of the 69-year-old Missus Dinongon was simple, who was able to go home to Doha, Qatar from 2010.
Since then, he is from the installation of the air conditioner.
"He calls me;" their salary is always for the end, they have not been paid for their food but their own, "he said.
They are heroes.
Are the government being given protection to our countrymen?
Migrante International stated that groups that are supporting the Filipino workers in other countries can worsen, the situation of the OFW is worse if the wolves attacked with many cases that they are receiving.
"From 1,500 cases before Aquino took office in 2010, the cases we encountered were recorded up to 4,500 pesos per year, until the end of 2011," Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International, chairman of Migrante has not yet included in it.
Martinez added, the implementation of these cases will prevail, "if previously, an individual who is a case or the same kind of cases, now we are witness to the higher implementation of these cases, from illegal Recruitment and different kinds of abuse of the government.
Together with this is the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is the cost of OFWs, Martinez said.
And while these kinds of cases are increasing, it is still being done to milk those who leave the country to work, it can be recalled that the proposal of Manila Representative Trisha Bonoan, David, it is not used why it is needed to be paid, "Missus Dinez said.
"Noguessed to the issues of the OFW.
Two years have passed in the management of President Aquino, but the majority of Filipinos have not felt that the result of their suffering in other countries is only a part of, Martinez said, for the intensified Labor Law policy, or the policy of the implementation of the strength of the government.
"Because of the desperation of the Aquino administration to look for the market of work outside the country, while the economy of the country is not successful because of its course, the Labor Law program will strengthen the Labor Law program in exchange for the rules and rights of the OFW," Martinez explained.
"It became more clear that he will make it a big business that the government is earning a lot in order to milk the OFWs," he said.
Susana is not able to take care of what happened to the two years of Aquino "for the very first time, four of our countrymen were sentenced to death in another country.
And what are their relatives' plans if ever they go home first?
"His older brother said to go home first, then she will think about what she will do next.
Evelyn also said, "they are lucky to rest first (Danilo) but she is still going to leave the country but not in the Middle East." Joanne Angelina meanwhile, she will go back to the Middle East. "She said she will go back to the Middle East." Because she said that they will see each other, "said Angelina.
On the part of Migrante, they are urging the relatives of OFWs - including illegal immigrants that join the protest in the State of the Nation Address of Aquino on July 23, according to them, the current president needs to be registered.
