Recognition of the youth Alyansang Makabayan for being a martyr of Irosin, Sorsogon.

Tel.
Youth!
July 19, 2013.

The offer of the youth Nationalist Alliance is the highest responsibility for those who were possessed by a martyr on July 4, 2013 in Brgy. Caltex, Juban, Sorsogon due to a defense against the members and the citizens of Bicol in acknowledging their lives and the wish of justice.

The eight hundred years of being a martyr.

The captain of the 31st IB, under the 31st Lieutenant, Ka Nel and Ka Gary who were reported to have been able to fight back in the area of the encounter, were armed with no ability to fight but were shot at close range in the head and in different parts of their bodies.

It has been proven that the military troop of the AFP of the AFP of fierce violations against the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (SC) and the international law of Noynoy Aquino are clearly seen in blood to prevent the number of youth and the masses being raped on the reason and justice of the armed fight.

Ka Greg, Ka Nel and Ka Gary, all of their youth were aware of the real condition of the society and the memory that they are experiencing the vast and most of our students, Ka Nel and Ka Nel, who were in the University of the Philippines Diliman, early part of the decades, 90.

They have been aware of the plague of society the distress.

They have been aware, especially the youth, especially to the famous kind of farmers, and instead of taking advantage of their own lives, they chose to offer their intelligence and strength for the filipino who is oppressed and to change the society.

You are Ka Rey, Ka Kevin, Ka Jerry, Ka Miloy is from the kind of farmers and sweat, the armed fight to end the plague of society because of the poverty and understanding that they have experienced.

Even if they have different kinds of source, it is said that they cooperate in the recent movement of the revolutionary movement to end the taking of abuse that is why for the young Alyansang Makabayan, their lives are not being given inspiration to those who are oppressed.

Under the severe crisis and improvement of the Marcos US-Aquino and the crisis happening to the revolution.

Our plea to end our plea is to end the rotten society, and improvement of our hard work, fix our hard work, commerce at the revolutionary movement and order to build a hint of success and success!
