Hmmmp: Lessons of Rizal.
June 20, 2016 - the birthday of Gat Jose Rizal, our national hero, is not enough, but it is not enough for him to send flowers to the ceremony, which is said to have been ordered by many because that's the same thing.
The truth is, there is no more than a gift but to the distribution of his life and how he loved the IOS in the country, maybe the millennials knows the story of Rizal's life?
Before, everyone is very sure that the new generation of the Philippines is sure, but it is tainted by doubt when there is an assurance to question the actor, General Luna "if it is focused on the film" General Luna "why it is tainted with diplomacy and a peaceful manner of writing and a peaceful society during those times.
Rizal is related to a high-year-old family who has wealth, educated and with influence in society, they are not included in the Spaniards so they are considered as "Indio" of the Spaniards.
They are not experiencing the broken slave to have sex with the friars (MSpaniards) for the "Indio" "this is the one who hit it through the more of the Filipinos" Indio "
That's why there is a question why Rizal and the national hero have an argument, some have an argument over Bonifacio and the Katipunan was a result of their personal experiences of the mistreatment. While the heroism of Rizal are not personal fight.
If you think about it, Rizal did not need to fight the Spaniards so they do not want the Spaniards so that he can be affected in the occasions where he graduated from the Philippines.
But instead of removing the eyes and play blind about what is happening in the Philippines, he wanted to return here and join the fight against the "Indio" which although both Filipinos are not that kind of state of life.
The lack of own interest and pure love for the country and concern for the fellowmen, this is what helped Gat Jose Rizal for all.

He has a good life and is beautiful but he left his extravagant life to solve the fight against the Spanish Filipinos.
That is the very big lesson that our Pambansang Kamao visited our race.
In the current time, there are still many of those who have money and "cowards" - not in the Filipino masses, but also offered himself to serve and join the new fight of the current country.
