Youth who are ready for office's initiative, "hope of the country" against pork barrel.

The group of youth expressed their support on the planned travel's initiative against the pork barrel system which was first announced by former Chief Justice Reynato Puno.
"This is the time for the citizens to be given by the people because of the failure of the Congress to give the law that will lead the pork barrel system," said Einstein said, a alliance between different groups of the youth.
It can be recalled that the former chief magistrates voted those who initiated the million of March to use the Republic Act 6735 or the initiative to use the Republic Act 6735 or the initiative to give the law to protect the any form of pork barrel.
Puno believes that the lawmakers have lost the lawmakers to become the guards of the country's funds. "
Along with this, Recana said that protests still continue to protest and other actions even if the amount is going to move forward.
"It is only one of the things that we can do to fight the continuation of the pork barrel system, this should not be an obstacle in the actions on the streets, he said.
As a matter of fact, militant groups of the youth are calling for other groups, Anakbayan, and other groups of youth to work hard to achieve a race's uprising or improvement of the country against pork barrel.
"We should bring down the wild pig that we are calling for the filipino youth and the citizens who made history and unity for a lot of citizens in the road, to intensify the protests and unity for a study of corruption," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo said that in what the current administration goes down, he said, "a councils of" integrity, against the pork barrel, who can fix the current government and will be punished with the leaders of the country.
"The people are worried about the current leadership of politicians from pork that are really tired of corruption, poverty and understanding leadership of the few, we need to start again," he said.
They also agree with the use of a citizen's initiative, because the Congress or Malacanang cannot be expected to dismiss the pork barrel.
"The approval of the country budget for 2014 and continue to defend lawmakers even by the Aquino government, it is clear that the lawmakers are showing-addicted to pork barrel scam, he said.
In order to fulfill its initiative, it is needed to collect 10 percent or more or less 10 million registered voters, and three percent registered voters, and three percent registered voters.
If this rainy season comes, the Commission on Elections (Comelec) has already launched the public discussion about the proposed law and will be put in a disadvantage.
The group of youth believe that there will be no sufficient number of signatures of the youth for the initiative.
"It can be seen even in the data of the National Statistics Office that the number of Filipinos who have aged 18 to 30.
In fact, he said, the groups of youth under the Youth Act Noguides with the campaign.
"Exam, we were able to join with a huge amount of action," Recana said.
