That is more than a way that the church has passed before to know that he is far from afar.
You always say something.
They were already detained in Batangas.
So what happened to the men, what happened to him is that, "I am with the history that the bird was forced to reach the Heritage Village, which is why he is unique in the Heritage Village, which is why he's unique to be loyal; she is very crazy; she is very crazy; she is very crazy; she is crazy.
Outside the church, the role made in his mouth is still going to earn.
You are still a win.
Very small; very low; like other old churches, are still the original owner.
And there is no change in the altar.
We are not saying that what we are saying is the amount that we are saying about the amount that we are saying, and weigh the things that have happened to that, and whatever it has happened to that, and whatever it happens.
This is the first church in Balayan.
Filipinos are taking advantage of it, which is why the National Police riding the room was returned.
Thirty-up to the church is to point out that in the Second floor pressure, while more than two roads have become a call center.
But some of the parts were neglected.
Last night, an estimate of Two were built on the side of the church in the entry of those too much.
There.
Like it is just out of the youth.
Do that, in the thinking of the cough Church, it is possible that the old person can go to school; he / her former lover.
As if as a case, it is a little bit there.
It does not want the law to be approved by the National Power Corporation of the Philippines yes to build a stroke due to the land of the burned control.
Even if we are thinking of Father Ed, they have grown full of food in the table, Two Wives are already filled with each other there are really the trouble you really want, "is it really?
To protect.
It is still two roads here, for the prisoners that they will not lower than ten years for whoever will come out.
The front of the church became slowly terminal at the front of the church.
If we do not give a mother a good respect, it is as if we do not have respect for the highest government there in the doctor that we should force them to force one of their staff in a town that makes them to stroll and an artist.
It was said that it has been more than six decades of the residents in Balayan.
The day is true that the day is full of things in the church now and it is not only known because I have something here for the vehicle.
Get outside the church.
They have been in a house for a long time; we are really like that.
That's why some of our blood went down and the time is the position of our front of the church.
At present, the issue has not been neglected if the front of our church changed.
Here, it was discovered that the supermarket was standing near the side of the church in front of the church.
It is not like a pattern in spite of Father Ed regarding the explanation that this is approved by Ramon Alcantara's ten o'clock in the news.
Destroyed.
Still too.
That is the perspective of my history.
You will push through with the plan of the former comment and school at the side of the church in front of the church, I am saddened; I am saddened; I am sad because this is sad because in this time, it is sad because this time it should not be destroyed.
You are the former building.
Last August, those who were really connected to Arvin Amistoso, had a born again Welfarther with the talk of the XT'boli police for rain in the supermarket.
But the only thing we see is the cough similar to a teacher who might have been able to go back to the motorcycle, but they say that you have not yet done anything, but because you have not yet done anything, they say that they were able to take care of each other, but when they were able to take care of it, they said that they were able to take care of them.
We also made Singapore's residents in Balayan for the first time of the Lopez family last September.
There are two broken plastic bags.
That is out of renting out and for abroad.
And it is not just funny that it is not only the one who saw that the fight is really being done, which is why they have been going for a long time.
That we were together with our fight.
It is a big part of the church in Balayan, which is why we need to take care of our lives again because they know that the lives of the illness that will start and end in church, we can end up in church.
Covetous, fur.
You will get a Smart of communication and will get married until he got healed.
We were able to look down; he / she was able to look at the person who took their lives a while ago in the church that was still a church in front of the church, which was allegedly being swept in the value of the church that will build the supermarket.
It seems like a ring if you have something.
I am not able to see that you are on your ring of ten yes to the poor people who are at the sea for a long time.
Major-Only, the person who takes care of the surrounding you like that is for your ring that is your ring in church, Dante's.
We tried to feel the statement of the priest who have been in the church, Father Ed, a hobby but accepted it.
Three months after the supermarket took the supermarket with a statement, Arvin AOIL; William said there was a plan to build the church in order for the bidding that we can do with the bidding, all of us, because we have one thousand.
Even if you are big even if you are small here in Cavite.
It is a big thing that the customer has made a big deal, especially those people who learn to investigate the protest that you don't know, to use the help of government agencies that we can see.
We already went home together with the people who know that it is the attitude of our airports and Two points to make it laundry in the streets.
Even if a gay person can do it, I am the same, so what's important is to talk and do not just have a mistress.
