She is very beautiful.

There is no thing that will cause our lives, or even in the lives of other people when it is more beautiful but not for the goodness.

29- there will be a heart ailment and good intention for each of the fares and actions.

Three things in the life of a person are important: The first is to be affectionate; and the second is to be observant, and for the third, you should leave without any doubt, and how to give no regret, and how to have no doubt, and how to have no regret.

Life does not have a lot of assurance; it is better to make sure that what you are going to be affectionate and thoughtful, that good attitude is strong, and easy to sustain them, but will be able to remove them from eternal happiness, but will be able to get off from your muscles and wake up.

Good manners is very important that it might not cure the big problems that we will face at the whole day, but this can be done in choosing the right motive for unity, helping, and friendships that can be considered a peaceful and reasonable.

A good deed is not an equivalent to this small service that is powerful, and the result is a simple action that is better, but it is hard to do something bad to do, but it is hard to do something bad, but the goodness is good and peaceful result.

There will never be belittled as long as you are not capable of getting up, you need to be small, you need to be small, rather than you want it to go up, instead of being noisy and his hands are numb.

Because there are many form and aspect of the life of a person, like the length of life, healthy body, success, happiness, and events, it is based on good manners and a good heart.

This is what a person is like.

For each day, life is that we are giving us many opportunities to taste the straight path that has a good mind and movement; we are in our budget if we are in making a bad way and connotation.

.

I have no other religion, in fact, what I believe is spiritual knowledge and most important thing that I have not seen and my own heart, my own heart, and my own heart is my own heart, and my only psychological status is my own heart.

Nevertheless, the people have no reason and are selfish so that they can forgive them.

If you are good, the people are being accused that you are being accused of having a secret which is still good.

If you are honest, the people will abuse you and you will be honest, however, you should be honest.

If you have found happiness, the people will be jealous of you, however, you will still be happy.

The good thing you have done today will forget the future.

Put all of everything that you can do ever since it is still not for four years but it will still be done within the best of your ability.

Your eyes are open, because in the end, all of these are between you and the Lord.

However, it was never between you and the people.

Good deed can cause trust and a good mind creates a good mind that is good for love.

If there are questions, there are answers.

What is your feeling if you are able to do good to your fellowmen, and what you feel if you have something wrong to others?

- do you think that you are worried and have worry about the things that you have experienced?

- do you feel sadness when you do not help and do not care about others?

- do you feel that he is the one who does not miss him (guilty) if you do not want to make it good?

- do you make the difference in the life of a person in your duty?

Success or failed?

Whatever it is, you are in your power to choose and this will be your fate.
