Inday bottle and Yammam, Teng, both are popular in TV Patrol and in number 1 in his ratings.

Postanes and his mind.
On March 25, 2015.
In showbiz.

We both were able to see the Pilamscape Entertainment Television, ABS-CBN, Dina Bonnevie, March 16, and Pilipenko last Sunday, March 22, Yamnesty. "
Alonzo is currently looking forward as a traitor, who stars Alex Gonzaga, Inday, Alex Gonzaga, questioned the story for the first day of it, because of the skills of Alonzo on her scenes in his scenes with Alex's series.
There are many critics and netizens who are calling the said child who is called a new child, which is why all the character of Inday who does not feel pity but, especially when the character of Inday who is having a difficulty in life, is very happy, especially when the character of Inday who carries a bottle and newspaper.
Uy, that the two-Men here of Inday, Matteo Guidicelli and Kathleen, died while they were all classes in their taste last Monday on Monday based on the data of Kantos, and further increased in the following days.
That is why Monday to Friday before the TV Patrol of our relationship is the super-year-old dwarf, Inday, together with the dwarfs, in her gamble in life.
Too much, Coco Martin and Julia Montes is also impressed by Coco Martin and Julia Montes and Tanya Montenegro was abandoned by the Filipino, "Wansapanataym."
When we watched our mother in a Sunday, it is like a big embarrassment in our mother to make it look like a huge mystery which was really beautiful by Production. OPLAN), which was not saved by Dreambato, and Production.
In the story, Younghusband is mad at the deceit of his father to her mother that she didn't want her mother who has been looking for him for a long time, and Tanya Montenegro was not being searched by her father, Yungga, and she had no longer believed that she had been looking for a little bit of money from the earth and Tanya Montenegro was the young man who had been looking for a long time with her father, Maroons.
Because there are many cases to monitor last Sunday at Yammam, Teng, they are one of the Christmas show of the Kapamilya network and the rival station in the rating of Kautasan in media: 45 in the afternoon, Wansapanatayes and Joel Mercado and under the movie they are going to go to a famous university which is going to be sent by Avel Suntingon Elementary School.
Let us wait for the struggle of Yami and Tanya Montenegro against the enemies and their love Split if it is certain that all your love is for all.
We are the war.

Peter Ledesma,
