Members of the 9th Infantry Battalion were choked the money from the candidates.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
NDFP-Bicol.
14 March 2013.

The National Democratic Front in Bicol received reports from some of their friends and allies who are some groups of military under the 9th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army from the provinces of Albay and Camarines Sur in exchange for giving them fake "permits.

They are just pretending to be a representative of the revolutionary movement and illegal movement and illegal use of the name of Romulo Sapitula, and the spokesperson of NDF-Bicol, Ka Greg Patiño and to save money and threats to the candidates.
Two mayors in the province of Albay and two vice mayor are asking for a few sacks of rice, some sacks of rice and other stuff after they tried to gather another candidate for the position in the position in the province of Camarines Sur.

This is said to be a part of the 9th Infantry Battalion are part of the proliferation of the Marcos regime and the AFP-PNP to discredit the rules being implemented on the scope of the military during the jurisdiction of the military as the spokesperson of NDFP-Bicol and to those who are the Botchok in the region.

It is even proven by the 9th Infantry Battalion who has long experienced the rotten tradition of corruption and corruption in the ranks of high-ranking officials of the AFP and PNP where their personnel and weapons are used in illegal gambling and drugs, extortion, hold-up and other crimes.

The candidates are warned to coordinate with legitimate representatives of a democratic country and honest service to follow the rules in relation to its own pocket and to give information to the concerned supervisors of the respective territory.

It is the purpose of the rules of democratic nation to make sure that they take care of the rights and interest of the people during the time of the election of the election, maintain peace and order to protect the candidates for different kinds of budget for the country.
