Aquino wanted to give because of the "failure operation" in Mamasapano.

Macky Macasaverted!
January 30, 2015.

Along with the controversy has been made by the PNP-SAF in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, the group Suansis called to investigate the possibility that the American troops were involved in the said operation.
The different members of the Special Action Force (SAF) of the Philippine National Police (SAF) of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25, asked for different parts of the Special Action Force (SAF) of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25.
According to the group Anakbayan, Kilusang Mayo Uno (PPO) and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), it seems that Aquino was the one in his speech in the television last January 30 after they encountered the members of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the Moro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF).
The government of the Philippines and MILF are currently investigating to make an agreement with the politics and economists that will be implemented in the passing of the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
They also criticized the arrival of Aquino in Villamor Air Base in Pasig City to meet the arrival of the remains of 44 police commandos to go to the opening of a car patient in the opening of a car patient in Sta. Rosa, Laguna.
"Wash your hands.
According to the anomalous group, in live, Aquino, he was just impressed by the operations against alleged terrorists from 2002 until this past week, he also said that not all times were ordered by the operation.
But he mentioned that he had a relationship with former SAF Director Police Director Getulio Napenas Jr.
"In the repeated coordination of the coordination, the director of the SAF," yes, Sir. "What we just say is that, there is a need to be alert with other branches or their chief, to prepare properly, to prepare properly," Aquino said.
According to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Yngentech, it shows that Aquino's leadership is weak and not just a simple coordination with the problem.
It was said by Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bayan, the President was used to ensure that the big operation is focused on the filing and arrest of the two terrorists, even if this has a big implication in the peace talks.
"He could not explain why Salas. Mar Roxas and PNP Chief Espina did not know the operation, but he said that General Purisima explained to him the complicated plan," said Reyes.
Reyes further added that Aquino is just pointing at the blame for the PNP-SAF "which can be seen for him, or he is really not telling the truth," said Reyes.
"Instead of forcing himself to admit his responsibility for the death of 44 police commandos, Aquino chose to show that he has no involvement in the operation," Elmer Liscano, chairman of Lam.
It is said that Aquino's message has no belief and he only wants to save himself, together with the high officials of the government and police for any responsibility.
The call of Suansis called for defense for defense and an identification of the investigation about the fight.
"President Aquino avoided the command responsibility. It is hard to accept that the operation against the Jemaah Islamiyah is difficult to accept if they were killed or if they were killed or if they were there in the area," Amanda Amores, who is the chairman of Suansane.
It is also worried about the effect of the fight with civilians.
"What should be held accountable, not only the chief of SAF, should be the chief of the entire PNP and President Aquino himself," said Liwag.
American troops are also involved?
Aside from the failure operation, the militant groups are also questioning the presence of the American troops that were confiscated from the pictures and video of where they were included in Heval and rescue operations.
"Aquino also criticized the possible violation of the US in the incident, according to him, he has no information about it. Trauma Hospital in the United Nation's leader," said inauguration Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.
NPA Party of Philippines (CPP) said that President Aquino and high officials of the PNP have been sacrificed to the police who were killed in the fight for the campaign war on top of the US.
According to CPP, it appears that the US has a direct connection with the operation in Mamasapano, Maguindanao against the two terrorists who carries the US $7 million.
"There is a strong basis to believe that the failed operation of the high officials of the Marcos regime was not responsible for the military's drug pusher which has been led by the military by the US in the Philippines to catch Marwan and Usman," said the CPP.
According to this, the military used the AFP to cross the Smart of Jolo, Sulu, which the AFP first said that he killed Marwan last February 2012, civilians, and religious people died from the said guard.
The CPP added that it is possible that there are American troops that are included in the actual operation.
"The military forces of the US are one of those who were going to be the first to send the military assets as one of those who died from the killing, and one of those who died were killed, and one of those who died were involved in the said place to get the killed American soldiers," said the CPP-American soldiers.
