Yes.
This morning, it is a good thing that we are going to talk to each other; we are talking about it on this day, but, we have seen that if we are going to be seen, we have seen that there is a product that we have seen, that is why we have seen that we are going to see that we have seen that we are going to see that we are going to see that we are going to be in-Homicide; "that is the only thing that we are going in.
Even if we are all over and then we have everything there and then we can see me in the afternoon we can go to.
That is the old age of old children, who are already dead, whose condition will be ruined;
Isn't it right when we should put this kind of business what we are doing in.
Here in giving way for the business, V V.
In the 'side, is it that Paing is here in the end of a few days.
Yes right.
We saw in life.
Covetous, proud and proud of all.
Is it still different?
No one can do anything in the heart, to be able to do anything, to have the first commandos to go to jail but not all the food that we can sell.
I will try.
Let us tell us.
That is why there really is really a need for the five-year-old people to have five good news so we have a lot of French fries.
Development is different; we are complete; we are complete, that's why we can't say that we can't say because there is a good thing.
.
In the room in the office where the strong Jilian is very strong; I still do not know if it is in the house call centers, i, the department, who put some other food in a call center, very different; and very different; that's good in one side.
I said.
For example, he / she's an example; he / she went to my house so at school in the corner of Barangay.
Past the amount made to the barangay, there is nothing wrong that it is not just one of them and that's one of the food that's like that.
There is no problem to do that, when they are going to sleep, that's why they're going to sleep, that is why they need to earn permission from our school, which is why it's just a business that we have to earn even just in the yard, that's why it's just like this obligation, even if it is just a small place in my house.
"That's why, in front of our house, we are in front of our house yes, even if there are people who are pointing at that kind of computers and what is the one who is calling him as a month, which is the result of what you have been calling for a month, which is the only thing that you have been hoping for just a month from To?
Why it seems that the cut off was impossible.
You are applying.
What Tita Imelda was in the corner, even with many.
All the mistakes are in the chaos that happened again in Onok Island now that I am avoiding just a month that we hope that we have been telling me to have a brewed my motorcycle.
He is busy with each other; we are eating; I am eating too much of course for the high girlfriend.
Now I even say that we should just do anything.
More.
"Francis would be recognized as you, you are the one talking with that you are really the one who started at your motorcycle with the sale of those who are going to talk about how to teach on how to teach them.
The productive day, they add more things to you, Paolo Ballesteros, shrimp; and godmothers; Oh, Paulo might be given to each other for the next salary that we were given to.
