Jun Lalin: Lani, is almost SOLD, in Europe, April 22, 2016.
I will only be open to the age of Dr. Love, which he dressed as the host of Anne Currimao.
According to Newcastle, Arts Dolphy theater in the Pambansang Kamao in the Manila will be held at the finals.
Still complete is the Humalig) center (judges) who are Martin Nievera, Lani Marcado and Toni Gonzaga.
The finals, at nightfall, was the one who is waiting for Lani so that he will leave the Philippines again.
"After I Love, at nightfall, we are going to leave, but we will not go home to Las Vegas because we did not go home to Las Vegas because I did not go home to Las Vegas," Lani said when I talked in the taping of I Love.
Lani Noguzzle a charter change "that is why he has a lot of places going to Europe to have a concert.
Even if you are not like that Active people in the Philippines, he remains to be bought from Filipinos abroad, a few of the cts of Lani in Europe.
The judge and judge of Lani was able to help me Dr. Love, at PM, to dismiss his concert tour in Europe.
This is because Tristan (The Filipino Channel) of ABS-CBN abroad is severe, that's why her fellow citizens, Lani when she came out of the said show and sometimes, it was once again.
It is not yet clear if there is a "traslacion" Sonza, against her name Grace Poe, that's why she went home to the country.
Yesterday I tried to call Sheryl Cruz, but the cellphone number she used to text me to thank me about the good thing I have written about her (not "the one about what he said against Grace, huh!
The Facebook account of Sheryl, that is the reason why I sent her youngest child, but as of Taba, she has not responded yet.
Because of being silent for the mother and child, the doubt that there is a "tanim-bala" they say will affect the candidacy of Susan Roces.
Karla Estrada and my type, "the episode is nice, where they will guests and Melai Cantiveros have not supported Vice Ganda.
I am very entertained by the episode, but the other episodes, seems like there is something lacking, huh! The other episodes of Magandang Buhay, duh!
Is Karla isn't lacking in chemotherapy, Melai and conscience?
When the TV of TV was the one who was about to be able to know, I wake up early to watch the show of Kris Aquino.
This became a Magandang Buhay of "that, I wake up early for a few days, but yesterday, I chose not to wake up early and I let the episodes.
My friend, who was able to go with last Wednesday, was the same comment as if there is something lacking in the corner of Magandang Buhay, she was surprised that Karla is a bit good, duh!
Should there be a change in the line of Magandang Buhay?
Or it should be more effective so that aside from the life of life, the morning will be better if you watched their start of show?
Oh no, Kris continues to miss in the morning!
