Eric, naturally, it is natural for gay BE is natural for gay.
It has already been a tree for SM Megamall the day before yesterday where Presinto Dos are held in the movie Thand Tanim-Tropas.
Noisy inside the cinema while watching the movie since it is happy and the popular management of Eric Quizon, most Crawford, Karangalan Village, Martin Escudero and Angeline Quinto.
We are very entertained by the entirety of the movie that the director Joel Lamangan said that it is difficult for her to be a gay son with a gay father who has a famous father who has a famous father who became famous in the movies of Nora Aunor, Vilma Santos, Sharon Cuneta, Bea Alonzo and Mark Lapid.
It is ready to watch Kathleen, like she is similar to Dolphy when she talks about the remake of Fahama Fadamson, she is the one to be treated.
That's why all of them, especially Mother lily, are very happy with the good feedback in the movie.
After Premiere-night, we were able to go with Kyoto, to answer the spread of the issue related to him in a show of his show because of the foul system.
This was denied to be a lead in the interview, lily said that there is nothing with the incident, "says," probably, the person who created a person "the show of a person" the show that I was a show.
"It was really like that, I really seem to be crazy, they seem to be crazy in moving forward," Midnight "and Roll hall, so it seems that they are trying to make a lot."
Kalagayan is showed to us by a few pictures of his performance wherein he was able to enter the allergenic, and covered it.
She also made it in the campus that he rode in the National University recently, but he did not block or even fell.
"There is nothing happened that was fell on by the Ipit Gang" or gay, whom I have had a long live, "so, all I have been with and with my colleagues, I am respecting all of all.
"It is not that I can prove or discredit. I know how important is every instruments," I myself, I am careful with my things, but that is part of the show.
"I am, when I give me a show, it is not far away from how I was able to play the" Ipit Gang "in the part of show.," I said that since I was young. "I took him."
The singer / actor also clarified that there is really a form to the political system when they have a show in National University but it is said that it is not a reason for him to run amok and throw stones.
"There is really a joke, just from the start," on the first band, there are many band "that is.
"That's why we need to go down because we need to stop" the show-for a point, because, they are fixing a problem, "said Kovalev.
"I was just surprised that someone came out of something like that, so for me, I will be the good treatment against me.
"Because of course, I do not have a bad bread, but if there is a mist, I am sorry.
"But like that, I am really like a show that since I do not choose things, I know how important is this," said the serious statement of Kovalev.
