
Dictator in Malacañang, new mayor of Manila.

It is a puzzle to the officials of Malacañang and even the people why President Benigno Aquino III supports and destroy all the possible candidates for the presidency this coming 2016 elections.
He can no longer run for office because only one term is what he can cross on the Constitution which is the person who can decide on President Aquino? And why did President Noynoy follow?
Is it possible that the President has a secret which is holding this person?
It is the ambition of the people that dictates President Aquino to be the president so he destroy the names and dignity of all that he can fight in the election two years from now.
He is revealing what they have done while they are trying to hide his weakness.
But no matter what he says to PNoy to do all the defamation to his possible fight, his rating of the survey's survey is not increasing, that is why all his opponents are not enough.
Maybe the President might have been next to him now because they do not want to beat them two but he might be surprised that he is not the betting of Liberal Party.
Of course, President Aquino is sure that it is his camp who will replace him because he does not want to repeat the President that came before who was imprisoned because of the buza in politics.
The anomalies in the administration will surely surface when his term is over and if the elected president is over, he will surely be safe from prison. "
The citizens are already angry at the crooked Daan "of Malacanang, that's why they are ready for the possible release of people being hit by the current administration and even the citizens who have been used for the own welfare of the KKKK of PNoy.
If there is a dictator in the palace, Manila has a new mayor of Manila but former Mayor Alfredo Lim is not able to return like those convicted by his camp which was released by the Supreme Court by Mayor Joseph Estrada.
The new mayor of Manila is Secretary.
If he speaks that he is capable of getting fired by an employee, he can be proud that he can walk even if he can be proud of it because he is proud of his eyes because he is proud of the committee of the committee to spend money from the city.
But the department head and even the employees of the Manila City Hall are mad at him because he is often not in his office and the documents that he should be seen are piled up.
He inhaled the salary of the employees so that the family is trying to get away from their families while they are trying to borrow money from the city hall because there is a doubt of many people, "Mayor Serna io" (new title).
He often teases the department head that he is not the one who recommended to get the position, aside from the time that he will wait for the officials outside his office, that is why they cannot do their jobs.
