Lireo.

"When I go outside the house, I do not know if I will be able to return to life.
On the tricycle or jeep, I have already holding my breath, "it's as if you'll get rid of the drivers, you think you will be able to get out of the boundary, you want to get a lot, but I will experience a lot, but my heart will be attacked.
And the street, in the smoke that you think of the barparty of Butig in this, it seems that they are going to speed up the vehicle, which can be exiled by a vehicle, which is why our wealth in Carbon Montenero, "
Even if I rode the FX, the air conditioner was cut off, but in the virus, I will be arrested, the passenger who is at the back, and the passengers at the back of Ebola virus, is surely being searched by San Pedro.
And if crowded, even if I am driving while strangling him, his mother will still board his mother.
"I am also happy that my co-passengers are decent and their co-passengers will get better, but when we arrived at the top of Quezon Bridge," when we arrived at the top of Quezon Bridge, "in the end of the gadgets, it's good that we left our breath,"
Inside the jeep, you thought that I was already carried away when I was riding with four youth, who were quick to pull my bag, but if they were carrying an ice pick or knife, I would just give me an ice pick or knife, I will give what I want.
Sometimes, I thought you will just get along with our fellow politician, but I do not know if she has sins to the town, maybe the riding-in-tandem suddenly crossed my body.
I have also tried LRT / MRT, "
It is better that it is better to walk just, "said, but even if he is at the Pambansang Kamao, I am going to Patintero.
It is also difficult, if it is rainy season, I can't see the road from the flood and peace there, it might be a manhole. "
So we are asking for the rent, many of our followers are in abroad, so they are just abroad, thank you very much, wake up to many destination within one day, "said, just pray that your pilot is not sleeping and drinking a Red Cross.
But, maybe, especially in the sea.
Just do not leave the house?
It is good to dream, isn't it?
