It's time 100 as propaganda and business.

Just like what is expected, Malacanang is celebrating the relationship of President Noynoy Aquino in the position of President Noynoy Aquino in the 2013 time, 100-year-year-old person in different parts of the world who is influential.
In his speech in Lapu-Lapu City, Aquino said in the English language that he is in English which is said to be the face of the Filipinos. "Tyo,"
Just like what is expected, the statement of Presidential spokesperson Edwin Lacierda last April 18 is positive for the President: "The World Health Office of the Pambansang Kamao in the Crime Operatives) of the First Class We, which is the Pambansang Kamao, President Aquino, Pambansang Kamao, President Aquino, Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines."
Before we finally believe in the statement of Aquino and Lacierda, it is better to examine the short articles of-year News Director Chito Chua-Eroela, he / she was being carried by the face of the regional division of the South China Sea, the name of the regional director of the South China Sea.
It is clear that the reason for the appointment of Aquino is not a result of a deep research, but a shallow research, the information shared by Chua-Eroela, it can be said that it was noticeable that it was a piece of argument because it only explained that it is positive.
Even though there is an official of P5,000 that shows the said economic growth, it cannot be denied that widespread poverty continues to be faced by many citizens, the salary of the workers remain low while the price of important products and services continue to rise.
Aquino pushed the law about the Reproductive Health and the one responsible for the cybercrime Illegal Drugs Act, but he also signed a temporary restraining order (TRO) of the Supreme Court because it is one of his promises when he was still campaigning for the President.
About the current territory of the Philippines, Chua seemed to have forgotten the issue in Sabah, wherein the statements of Aquino are showing lack of deep hope to protect the relationship of the Philippines in Sabah, he chose to protect the country of the Philippines and the spokesperson of Malaysia and the spokesperson of Malaysia.
If there is a value in this list that was made into a short time, this is to show a total of positive outlook in the world, that is why it is not surprising that there is a negative conservation in the world, however, it is not surprising that there is a huge difference in the world of North Korea, but in general, it is not surprising that there will be an expert of the leader in North Korea, but in general, it is not surprising that there will be no negative conservation in the world of North Korea.
And if it is time to scrutinize 10 years of time to release a list of 100 to influential individuals in the whole world, this is a good thing that it would not be allowed to stop their sales from New Year, because every year, 100-year-time is being prepared to stop the interest of its readers.
And because the population in the Philippines is 100 million, a lot has gotten a lot to the market in time to sell the editions he is included in the list of Aquino in the final research, the 2013 time, the 2013 time 100 pesos, which can be launched in the pipe.
If Aquino wants to know, he should not look at America, especially since he is from a vacation that is not a thorough investigation for his leadership to be examined.
