"Because of" small "COLA: Wage board.

"They even have a little bit more."
This is what Roger immediately said, the general who was hidden by Kilusang Mayo Uno (BTAC), from front of the office of Regional Wage (MCMC), in front of the office of Regional Wage, its reaction to the 30-increase in the said office instead of giving a meaningful wage increase.
Those who are going to gather out is in front of the office of Wage board to condemn their "small" COLA, despite the request of the wide number of workers who will be proposed by the workers who will be proposed by the workers who will be proposed by the laborers.
According to Task Force, the 30 pesos of COLA, which will be given to regular workers, can be given enough, even if it has been brought to P22, COLA, which will be the noise last year.
"What we are asking for is a meaningful salary, but what was given is just a coins," said Soliba, of the immediate 20 pesos increase in COLA and P10 million after six months.
The latest 30 increase in COLA is just for the National Capital Region.
That's why it is definite that they are calling out to separate the Wage board, according to them, this is not the source of the interest of those who are taking advantage and are becoming instruments in addition to the salary of the candidates.

"This is also a proof that the Wage board of a meaningful salary will not be given, that's why they should just separate them by big capitalists and by the government so that the salary of the workers will not be disconcerted.
The group also said that the flow of salary continues to slow especially in its real amount since the Wage board hit in 1989.
Even in the data of the Asian Development Bank that published in Agmailig, 2011, the Philippines is getting the slow increase in salary of the Philippines in the entire southern East Asia and there is a biggest problem in the increase of the workers compared to the increase in salary of the workers.

It is believed that, along with the refusal of the government to give a meaningful salary to encourage the foreign businessmen who will invest in the country because of their small expenses for the salary of the candidates.

"The role of Wage board in the implementation of the rules of the government is set aside from being offered by the rules by the anti-workers that they will implement," said Soleta.
The regional Wage board of regional directors of the Department of Labor Law Development Authority and Department of Trade and Industry) two are from the sectors of workers and employers who are both chosen by the President and with English every five years.
So what is being insisted by them is to the dissolution of the agency because the workers do not know its members, because the Wage boils of the workers has no liability.
The group also threatened a bigger protest in the coming May 30 to condemn the alleged action of the government in their salary and request to serve the proposed law in the martial law in the Congress-board-board exam.
