
Ongoing is the downfall of the LP.

What about Mar Roxas's ambition to become the president of the country?
This is now the question of many of our countrymen after the consecutive failures of the government for the consecutive problems of the country.
It's because the weakness of the Aquino administration who is a leader of the Liberal Party on the calamity that happened in the country where the lack of plan and ability to respond to the needs of the people is discovered.
It is obvious that PNoy said in the television first before the torments of typhoon Yolanda, all the things of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, even if it is prepared for the proliferation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, even though it is prepared for the proliferation of our countrymen in the moment after the said tornado.
But the storm has finished all, our countrymen are still surprised especially those from Tacloban, Samar, Capiz and Palawan.
In the incidents that happened, the people saw that this government is looking for the government to be blamed for the death of our countrymen who have reached more than 10,000 pesos.
This is if the government is just going to say the real data.
Because of the weakness that has been used by CNN reporters around the whole world, our citizens also found out the lack of ability of the state in action of the calamity, this is an addition to what kind of leader PNoy, Mar Roxas Et's.
In short words, the Filipino people can't rely on the current government so it is certain that the people will be punished with this incident.
The LP and PNoy are now covetous, which is why the President would increase in 2016, because they are sure that the President will be increased because of the time of need, that he is the one as basis of a good and caring leader of the country.
Also because of the said incident, it is certain that there are a lot of cheap politicians who are going to travel now to other parties or people because they know that the ship of PNoy is already numbered especially since there is no Priority Development Assistance Fund or pork barrel they are hardworking.
