I am sorry, "Alan Peter CAYETANO?

Even if Senator Alan Cayetano seems to put his soul to the enemy of the Lord, he will do it as long as the ambition of becoming the president of the country would be fulfilled.
This is a clear meaning and message of statements that Binay will say with a famous enemy of Cayetano.
It was then that the issue has exploded again which has been used by those who are from his 23rd cab that Alan Cayetano bought using his PDAF, he immediately taught the Binay that he was the one responsible for the poisonous chemical against him.
It is also clear that even the issue of Ghost of Taguig City government is also criticized by the Binay family so it is certain that the conflict between the two clan will worsen.
Cayetano can clearly see what his ambition to be the next president of the state, so all the issues that he can lead to, he will shoulder it, no matter who wants to fight or be hit.
It seems like this is already known in the world of politics how Cayetano will play because last 2013 whether it is being pointed out that it is being pointed out by the Mega Job Fair, Loren Legarda and Chiz Escudero to get the number in voting in the election.
Even the wolves owned by Mister Alan was surprised when he was surprised because he did not have a big business that can earn.
Certainly, it will surely reveal the hidden secret of Alan Cayetano and that is what is anticipated in the destruction of Binay because the people will win this because they can scrutinize people who want to be president.

We salute Quezon City Police District to the leadership of Police Chief Superintendent Richard Albano.
Their successful operation against illegal drugs is one after the other.
It is clear that the QCPD has become diligent in the campaign against illegal drugs that's why their struggle for these are small.
In the whole country, only in Quezon City only able to sell big fishes and those affected by many shabu and those are admirable as well.
Albano is hoping that our chief PNP will only be included because aside from its good protest against drugs, it is possible that he will raise the down image of the national police (ALNAs Womb of Alvin Feliciano.
