
Kennedy: The MILF attack on the Our outposts (My Central Mindanao went to a part of 3).

After we talked to the troops of the 61st Infantry Battalion who were decapitated by MILF in Shariff Aguak on the 5th of February 1997, the pickpocket was ordered by Major General Raul Urkupina, the perpetrator of the 6th Infantry Division, our stay in the area.

At first, we thought that we're going to go to 1-2 when we go to Manila because of the needs of the situation on the ground, our service there is needed.

There was a 15-year-old Contingent of Scout rangers in a small location of Barangay Tuao in the said town.

Although he is satisfied with the High School which is full of members of the MILF.

Every day they are greeting us by an improvised fire that where the bullet was put on it a few hundred meters from our camp.

I am happy before because I have been able to be with one of my boyfriend who has been in a relationship with the 61st Infantry Battalion, 2nd Lt Dexter in the province of Bohol.

He was also the one who gave me a point about his decision, and its mission.

"We are the most deacons of Battalion here, there is a need to step down the projects which are allocated towards the camp because some members of the MILF are forcing them to be included in it," he explained.

So that I memorized the place, I have a father to my boyfriend around his camp to study the terrain of surrounding.

In North, from a distance of one kilometers, the MILF) will be found in the West Philippine Army at the West Philippine Army and one of the members of the MILF, which is why Salaziristan, and two pieces of 10540,803.

In South Korea, there will be checkpoints in the around Likod Center in Eastern Petroleum will be found in the Provincial Office of Maguindanao Police and even the headquarters of the 61st Infantry Battalion.

It is only a small place where my new hiding place was small, in my opinion that I am just 25 percent, 25 that I don't want to stay in the hut with the troop of 61st IB, I opted to have to go together in his wooden bed, I opted to keep my favorite combat against him.

In every corner of Guimaras, my troop was on his post, more or less than 40, so we decided to fight in case we tried to fight back in case we tried to fight back together.

Almost every day, my ranks and the troops of the MILF protested because they did not like the presence of the soldiers in the area because this is the obstacle to whatever their evil plans are.

One day, I asked my cousin, Lt Aquino to send a vehicle that I can use for my administrative cases like Mount Matutum or in the nearby towns of Isulan, where many have been imprisoned.

We talked through our nickname Usahay, 7 HF in radio.

"I let us go there with one another person in. Karangalan Village, I am also giving more advice for a week," Lt Aquino said that it was in our camp in the Sultan of Barista.

I don't socialize.

The 1 / 4-up to 1512 Military Ubers which is better known in the name "Kennedy on the Armed Forces of the Philippines, I really do not know why this is their name in the US military since 1960, the year when John F. Kennedy as president in the US of A.

We are two Kennedy in the 7th Severe Actor, one of them has exceeded the vehicle of 7Smokey 4 or to ex-84 or from ex-84 or from ex-84 or one another Kennedy on who will use the vehicle.

In Scout Ranger, Commisies, the vehicle's growing vehicles is already normal, like Lt Aquino doesn't want to like a rust that looks like rust that seems to be the vehicle.

That is also the reason why I also did all the way to improve 7Smokey 4 for his last issue on 1996.

Scout rangers in the pride of P151.

"You save Kennedy!"

It was night on the 17th of February 1997, we had dinner at dawn when our viand came from the pond that was not far, not far.

I grew up and went berserk on the afternoon and there was a looming rain in that afternoon, we saw the dark sky.

I grabbed the positions of my troop and asked how they have three positions with the guards.

I immediately examined myself when I was in a park near the gate of the gate.

At around 8: 00 at night, when the strong rain came, we decided to enter our room as well, we decided to enter our room.

I was able to carry out that on the side of her wooden bed and we were sleepy by using it.

Around 9: 00 at night, we were surprised by a strong explosion.

"There will be one who will still remember,"

"Agawan" came out! "

"Brad, married!"

"The enemy!"
"Position!"
"You are going to fire a fire!"

We did not allow the command and alert in our Nihonggo.

I feel the grandchild of a hard thing in my back and I know I was hit, I was the second I experienced that kind of feeling.

I do not know how much it is right that I want to be arrested.

"Boyfriend, you will stay here first, look at the flashlight to look if what I am right at back is severe!"

I was thinking that maybe my husband might have a hole so I will die slowly.

When he pulled the flashlight to the flashlight, she peeked at my back while he saw the influence of blood.

"Bira, do not worry because it is just a small actor and you will not die!"

I am still doubting.

"Bira, in front of, is it passed through?"

"It is just fine, I call it first in radio!"

Because I am not convinced, I let him call the PRC 77.

For me, I put to make sure that I can live even if I am looking for the mirror of Lt Ambo and looked at my face and back to the right actor.

The bullet that was hit in the past was severe, a caliber .45 gun that was put in position in Northern sectors is also busy in using his weapon to support the defense.

I also thought of a lot of things in that time and I thought of the Barett rifle.

To be able to talk to the troops, I am screaming outside.

"Where is the Barahs?" "Gaby, you are okay there?"

"Anhere, sir, we are okay here.

I can hear that Calaguas Gaboy is also doing anything, even if it is dark, he has made something to do with the attest person.

When I saw my troops that was fine, I remembered my good Kennedy.

"Nel, Kennedy!

We were three of men who got married with Pitpit.

I do not know, even if laziness is muddy and we did not move forward, it's as if we were able to push through and seems to be my Super Man!

I was happy when we transferred to our vehicle but I smiled because I felt that we were fighting for a truck.

"Well, we are success!"

"It's back to a plumber!"

Gambling.

The exchange of gunshots almost reached for twenty minutes, 10-millimeter mortar which led to Salunoy.

I was able to talk to my husband who was managing the troop there.

"Do you do not want the call for a fire for a fire because you are on a gun line," he said.

The stun gun line was really dangerous, that means that, the bullet of the actor, who was flying in our position, had a failure, and if the Forward wasn't used to our position, and surely, we have grown.

I have a big trust to Lt Ammunition) because he was a graduating of Artillero of Bangsamoro Basic Law.

When the First X-1090451.

"Dr, sir?"

"My God, my God," my prayer is severe for my boyfriend to not be short.

"Amazing,"

It was as if the bullet arrived in the collision of 7.0 magnitude when the exchange of gunshots lasted for both sides because they had a lot of bullets.

Yet, it is not yet known, Lt Ammt wants to make the blood of the bullet that is very dangerous before.

"Baba, we are still 50 years old!"

"Boyfriend, you might destroy all of us!"

"

It seems that that was the reason why I looked for the wood to be amiable before answering.

"Buay Bira!

I could even hear the bomb of the bomb when he passed through the air in our pillow.

"There will be one who will still remember,"

The roof of our hut may also be washed away from those who are lined up in all sorts of establishments.

"Fire for?"

We have a lot of bullets before we stopped the 10-millimeter mortar.

"Con fire!"

"Amazing,"

I went out because there was someone who didn't want to pass because of my feeling, no one was answering, but I ran to the position of praises.

I saw the pork barrel that was wearing a bonnet.

"Who now?"

"Gaby, sir, does not want to stop!"

I ran to Calaguas Gaby and knelt in his back to remove the feet.

"

"Yes, sir, you are the same."

It seems like I want to laugh but I still worry many things.

One of the things I went to their hut was when I saw Calaguas hanged on his position.

"How are you?"

"Sir, Binoe and the black bikini that I sold here outside the hut! The opponent thought, that is the guard's guard!"

It was an exchange for my troops that no one was hurt from them.

"Uy, wait, Kennedy is right?"
