
2014 / 3 / 21.

Two kinds of reporters.

In an interview (2014) 1, it has not been hidden (and it is also not clear that he rented a young color and shape in the actual color and shape of the actual color and shape in The Link, Makati City, Louie Cordero and the workers, with physical work (strength).

It is talked to all the food we're going through with the AFP, and the value of every one of these is about 1.1.5 percent compared to Acting price), it is a huge amount of its price compared to 'Wage of ordinary workers in Manila.

So what if the amount given by an artist is very big compared to the salary received by their employers, "the common defense of an artist," this will add up to his name and race, while you will remain to be named.

During the time of its worsening economic crisis, this is the relationship happening between the pro-Filipino artist and the pro-candidate, but he also has a good idea that he can earn a good idea, but he also has a good idea that there is a good idea that there is a good idea that they can make it until the owner of the economists and culture of capital.

Until the general made the general and economists are in control of the government of the countries who are submerged in debt, there is a big part of the workers who will make it to work in a secluded area, but it is enough for him to return to their future school, but it is difficult for them to return to their future school, but it is much better for you to return to their future jobs.

In a close line, the civic works are overflowing with the needs of Taiwanese people and workers in the current year or a few days since it is just right to receive a small salary that is enough to return to him and will be able to receive a small salary in order to return to him again, together with his other kinds of work.

Becoming slippery and seems to be acceptable to the actor's reason, "that's why it's only right that he is the one who is taking advantage of art and culture so it's only right for the workers who are taking advantage of art and culture, which is why it's only right for the workers who are taking advantage of art and culture, that's why it's only right for the workers who are taking care of or not), he will believe that his view is over and not).

As of now, an artist who is an actor, is reasonable, of course, according to his type of serving, but this does not mean that he (and the process being implemented) is just that, if he is the pro-mannered family.
