The mystery is said to DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman and the statements of the Pope!

Postanes and his mind.
On January 22, 2015.
In opinion.

Why from Social Welfare Secretary Dinky Soliman, we are asking about this?
For the theme of Randy's theme, Pope Francis showed and showed his appreciation and love for the children and elderly especially those who are sick and poor, especially those who are sick and poor, especially those who are sick, especially if they are crying.
They are also children, women and elderly) the primary root of programs and projects which are directly put under the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) headed by Secretary Dinky Soliman.
In the past times, based on the experience of our countrymen who need to support the DSWD, they always fail in what they are expecting.
That is why there are more children and elders who chose to rest from some institutions, Foundation, and other non-government units (WBC) instead of being imprisoned in DSWD.
The noisy "Queen of Secretary Dinky Soliman was released from what he is doing, he stayed away from what he is doing, which will benefit from them several times which was not arrived from them.
Did DSWD complain several times?
And after several times, the hungry victims of the calamity have attacked the warehouse of DSWD because the relief goods increase while many of them are hungry especially the children and elderly?
Naturally, Secretary Dinky Soliman continues to deny the mentioned negligence and anomaly in their funeral parlor because of us also equivalent to resignation.
But the truth is that there will be an obstacle in the eyes of the public, Secretary Dinky Soliman denied the allegations of negligence and corruption, the voice of Pope Francis will remain as basis and the fork so that the DSWD will wait for our poor countrymen.
If Secretary Dinky has a conscience, maybe it is not too late to straighten out the rotten trend in his department.
Instead of all his time in thinking of what is the color of the "Ipit Gang" that will be put in his hair, it is better for him to think of the most effective way on how the people will feel what he is saying.
Especially now that his department has been able to amend 96 percent or P957 billion pesos in 2015 national budget.
If the message of the Holy Pope will be given to him even if the 12-year-old young street identified as Glan-Lelle?
Do you have something like that, Secretary Dinky Soliman!
Policemen to the Papal visit?
Here are the without conscience.
"The policemen who worked on duty last Papal visit should accept P2,400 kilometers in the entirety of their tour in duty.
They are insinuating, that is still small if compared to their monitoring.
In spite of this, there are really all work that they have done when they eat and will not leave their positions just to show the whole world what kind of police we have.
Even if we are the combination of the police in their monitoring of Pope Francis.
But they are expecting from 2,800 pesos, but suddenly, P700.
Sonhmmmp!
To whom was P1,700?
The pain that you are going to have lumps?
NCRPO chief, General Ronald Valmoria, sir, is it possible that you throw the revelations on it!
There are a lot of broken umbrellas in Manila.
There are increasing number of broken umbrellas that seem to be helped in the city of Manila.
During the time of Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, there is a huge sum of a high-wheeler truck in some places in the Bulang Malinao, Manila.
But they are the youth, who are often arrested by the second social Welfare and Development (MG) that is headed by Mr. Jay dela Fuente based on the directive of Mayor Lim.
But it is still different now, wherever you look back, you can see that there are children who are experiencing heavy plastic bag that has a huge plastic bag.
They will see in the bridge of Quiapo, Santa Cruz and Jones Bridge which is only a few meters away from Manila City Hall!
There is also under the LRT in Lawton, and Metias, also in the stretch of Roxas Boulevard.
Walis in fact?
Aren't you seeing that, tandem Isko-Erap?
Wow, because of the increase of the homeless on a speeding jeepney in Manila, you will see and know the state and governance of a city!
He also criticized the lack of programs for the street children of the leaders for their safety and jurisdiction.
No wonder, due to the number of confiscated youth in Manila, a young street was shot by a police-Pandacan recently!

Is it that what the authorities are doing now in Manila to stop the homeless having a broken vase!
Instead of being rescued by Milan, it is just being shot!
Madame Honey Florentino, I am just asked by me, is there still someone to go to Manila?
