
The prevalence of harassment and harassment of the farmers of Basey, Samar.

By DBP.
October 15, 2015.

Their problems do not end with the lack of public service.
The victims of typhoon Yolanda were also kidnapped by typhoon Yolanda.
Harassment from their ranks.
The farmers were calling on October 10 from Basey, Samar in local.
In Bombo Radyo station, they reported the move of the military in their place.
A sign at stake, but after they fall for the radio, they themselves.
You received violent words from the military.
Leni Sabulao, captain of Burne "in Brgy. Mabini, Basey.
The alleged threat of Lt. Col. George Domingo of 85th Infantry Battalion is said to be a threat.
Battalion of the Philippine Army, according to him, it seems like there is a nap to report the took place.
The military is facing the said place.
"They got some parts of the words uttered by Domingo."
You are worried, you reported to Bombo Radyo.
You will be wrong if you really love the NPA (New People's Army) than the soldiers.
So I will call on you, they are the ones who complain, and they are the ones who complain.
It is getting hurt because when the soldier went inside the NPA, they are losing weight out of the NPA.
"Place," according to Domingo.
It was said that the military did not hesitate to involve other organizations.
Just like the group of human rights.
"We know that the National Democratic Front (MMFF) Karylle.
The National Democratic Front is a member of the National Democratic Front.
The NPA will support the NPA, and they are the ones who complain when entering.
"A soldier," said Domingo.
This was criticized by Jun Berino, spokesperson of Katty Go.
According to him, it is possible that they will be named as supporters of the NPA.
It was reported that the farmers left Basti because of the entry of the military.
And conduct an operation in their area.
The actions of the AFP are not new anymore.
Operation under the program against insurgency and Oplan Galugad conducted.
They enter the community in the name of "peace and development.
The citizens themselves report the violation of their rights.
Lie to the military operations.
For the verified report of Katog-SB, there are cases of being fired.
Of 85th IB, this February.
A 14-year-old house was hit, and a 14-year-old man was hit by a bullet in the head.
Young woman.
And just like what happened recently, there are civilians who are still residents.
He is being harassed and charged with American rebels.
Domingo stated that they occupied a school in Brgy. Mabini,
According to him, it has permission to the declared mayor and the barangay captains.
"The barangay officials hopes they are temporarily living together.
There in school because I can help them there when I have brought there.
"We set up that, I also talked to the declared mayor, let us tell that,"
He said.
He defended, the NPA might attack, now if they will be attacked by the NPA, now.
When they are in school, why are you going to blame the soldier, and why?
"Do you not blame the NPA?" Domingo added.
It was denied that Berino is refuted by him, showing being a nuisance.
"Domingo is the statement of Domingo." If he can say it to the public, he can say it to the public.
What would he do when she took a nap? "
He calls his responsibility, even their first call for him.
The operation of the military and the death of their community is left.
