Where big sister!
If he does not want a child New Year to look, they will become brave, living here in the former new payment in Luneta to buy some of our firecrackers they will go to the New Year.
The fare is still free to transfer, so people are ready for the important agreement the incoming New Year.
What if aside from those who have been cut off, many of them have been cut off from here in the middle of the Luneta!
He is also sure that he will be hit in front of the Quirino Grandstand for free call for free.
The Peria came open to what to do.
Those who are not for twenty minutes should be exported while going to the New Year to greet the New Year to meet; we call him out of the streets; and they are calling out that the food we go to are from each other.
Maybe you really think you are really you.
Why?
What are we ready for the fire that there is a fire there?
There.
Very small; we were not left behind; we were not able to leave anyone, we were not doing anything, to look at the ayes; and Yoyo,; and Yoyo,; and then.
Similar to us.
Four.
It is different if you do not like that in Luneta, he was asked to be between the five-year-old people, but they expected it will rise up to now that there are still no more clothes yes to me when I return.
Even if they have not yet given a lot of things, there are a lot of people who are stupid; we were called out by Mike taking advantage of the security guards.
What we are talking about different near Fist is not worried that we can see that that's why we should see that there is a petition for them to be able to ensure that there is a proper time for them to be sure with cigarettes here in Luneta.
It is good that we have not been recorded dead for a long time, from the bones, that's why there's one hour that is why there's a need to wait a lot of things to wait for July.
They pass here for four hours which is open to pick up;
The law is that we also have the training of different parts of different bones, but can we expect that this is one of our companions here in Luneta, which is why we are calling that the colorful and circles; we are calling the colorful and above us to be open there.
New.
You are okay a lot.
