
Help in giving help and as well as those who are devastated by Yolanda, the bickering of the offensive of the BHB while it is being insisted by the Aquino administration to help the victims.

Congratulations!
NDFP Panay Regional Prison.
November 12, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Magayon because of the continuous conflict between typhoon Yolanda after the biggest damage sustained in the island of Panay, especially in the latest storm, the biggest damage caused by the island of Panay, especially in the latest storm which has been hit by the island of Panay, which resulted to half a hundred million people who died and thousands were wounded.

Almost one million houses have been destroyed because of public places such as schools, hospitals, places where people are destroyed, most of the lines of communication (cellphone and telephone, radio, internet) were destroyed so that it will not be used to give assistance, condolences in the time of calamity and lack.
The roads are cut off in the entire island, in the provinces, towns and even in barangays were wrapped in dark and scattered in different places in the island, especially in the city of Iloilo and in the city of Iloilo and in the city of Iloilo and in the city.

The Marcos regime is useless in driving those things that are from the city of Tacloban, it is not enough for them to eat, thousands of families, not to save the thousands of dead even if it would be said that the policemen and soldiers are not able to save, and perhaps that the people and soldiers have not done their hungry citizens.

How can the regime in Panay and other islands have a huge damage but even if there were a few billion taxes given by the country, it is possible for him to take advantage of the country's help, and even the local politicians who were taken by Aquino and Mar Roxas II in Roxas City.

There is a criminal negligence of the Aquino administration for the preparation of the people in the worst disaster.

His speaker admitted that this is just the eve of the storm, this has already sent a warning through a report to the country in danger of the storm surge which reached 5 to 6 meters in the midst of the destruction of NFA that reached 5 to 6 meters in the middle of the destruction of NFA that reached 5 to 6 meters in the middle of the destruction of NFA that reached 5 to 6 meters.

Thank you to the influx of few billion pesos from other countries and foreign agencies, but it is not for them to pay for the destroyed typhoon, flooding due to the downpour of rain and drought that are caused by the heat of the climate.

The heat of the climate is also a result of the hundreds of people who don't plan on the hundreds of people who are not planning the businesses and greedy which can cause wealth and the course of the major sectors of the world.

The eyes of typhoon Yolanda passed by the Central and northern part of Panay, areas where there is an implementation of fields against the implementation and the power power of the NDF-Panay.

After the strong wind of the storm, it was immediately started by the indigenous people and those who were wounded and those who were on the edge of danger of their houses and livelihood, they were saved from different places due to the destruction of their homes and livelihood, which was why they have not received any help from the Marcos regime.

To ensure that the force of the citizens in the quick aid, study and slow down to raise the destruction of typhoon Yolanda, there is an immediate release of duty.

1.

For the citizens of Panayes, it is also possible that one of their own projects can be approved by the construction of immediate shelter and plants which can be done especially in public land, and it also insist on the Lord of the earth and the sake of the Lord.

Insist on the students and banks who chose to beg for forgiveness from the principal, debt or for interest in order to stop the loss of the properties of those who are not able to pay within the set time to raise their debts to people who are damaged by the typhoon.

The movement in preparation in the preparation of calamities that can be implemented and enough warning about the next strong typhoons, rain and flooding is important, and the information is important about the danger they are facing and particularly in different places.

Stop the straight path of dams to Jalalon River in order to prevent more violent crimes when the dams opened due to heavy rains.

2) insist on the regime, agencies and local personnel, enough, enough, enough for the continuous help of Panay in order to make sure that the aid given by other countries went to the true victims.

Insist the quick return of communication and electricity for the people to give a message to their families or ask for help.

It is also insisted on the regime that it is free and giving more needs to farm and other needs in farm and the initial capital of the farmers and fishermen.

3.
According to Moalliances, it is an active defense against the attacks of the 3rd ID and the 1st Infantry Brigade that it was made to declare a widespread flooding on Christmas and New Year when there was a ceasefire in the Christmas and New Year.

If this is their real purpose, they only need to do simple.

They just bring short weapons and release to the sake of those that are from relief goods, and they will not have been released by a few elements of the PNP if they are taking advantage of various criminals inside the name germs.

These steps are primary based on the strength of the people to make it up and go back to their livelihood, this is also a call to the citizens of Panay where the regime is going to file a case against the citizens of Panay.
