
Edward Perez and Director General Deona are going to die.

Not only in the harassment of our space is meant for our space, there are times when we are also recognized by some of the officials who have exceptional intentions, just recently, by the National Conders Foundation Foundation as "2014 dignity of a Bayan being dee for Women's mission."
After the award, Mister Edward Q. Perez, Mingo, Churping Sudcaren, hoping that he will continue to help the women through giving support to the women through giving support to the women through giving support to "Ipit Gang" which was recently built by the Pereque which was recently built by the Pregoner were owned by Pregoner were held.
Mister Perez, with a degree from Master in Public Administration from the Manuel L. Quezon University, have their school diploma that is currently being monitored by the doctor in Public Administration.
Aside from the award that was acquired, Perez was also a favorite columnist, Keathy speaker, Inc., speaker and intellecce speaker in various gathering or occasions.
Because of that, many, make sure that this will be considered as the leader of PAGCOR.
Keem@-@ up of Social Work, sir!
Entice the President.
In the compost of PNP Regional Director (5) C / Supt. Victor Pelicans Deona, the personnel of Masbate National Police Senior Superintendent Jacinto Culp was arrested by the illegal gambling dens in Masbate.
What is painful is that, it is only here, APD and the people of Adik-3, from Perla - 2, with Perla - 2, and Chu-2.
Examine it well, General Deona, if your people are not deceived by your people, they will catch each other every few people just to show that they have something to show to you.
What is painful, is a junior officer that was sentenced to understand the Bicol Bicol and those introducing themselves as the bagman of Atejano, who promised the stubbornness of General Deona, and then the happiness will continue!
You basis, General Deona, this is the list of those who are taking advantage in Masbate so you will know how you can guarantee your officials!
Biboy Sese and Jie Yuson of 1st Dilawan, Benjie Lim, Rex Infante, Boyet Lim, Julius Camba, Goldella, Goldella, Goldatas, Jojo Aum and Jena Lupa.
What according to you, General?
