Where are you right now, I am here in any point; I am the ones who'll take care of.
I am in Makati, I am stupid; we are doing all that you are doing there, how can I fool me; I am just taking care of me; I am just taking care of me.
Very small; we are asking about the fishpond; you are asking the fishpond and you will not even pass here to us.
Yes, it's okay that it's okay to scare or that.
That's why we still haven't seen each other; he / she didn't go ahead, right?
"You are okay, you are not the one who said that you are not stupid; we are okay with that fishpond; but it's okay that at the fishpond, but for sure, we should be sure that we are going to stay here.
What happened to the fishpond.
We are just different; we are just small; we are just small, but only a little yes to us, that we can see that only one thousand a thousand, which is probably one thousand, will be considered as a thousand today.
I am visited at the fishpond when we are looking for someone to eat while we are looking for an appetizer when you just say that you are just calling me, you have a good care for me.
Let us look at the amount that you are asking about.
We need to stroll.
Yes, we should also bring you to you to drink it so that we should drink it, okay, we should be drinking with anyone or what you're with or what you're with or what you are with or what you want.
Who is with your friends, they will call them yes, tell you to sleep.
Even Dodo, do not worry about it so that we have a lot of drink with Dodo, Dodo.
Let us bring her father, alright.
For the family of them yes, just include that if it is his family to bring him here.
Just tell them all of them or going to be happy so that we will be happy with all of us here is complete, that is when they are strong when it comes to you.
Why are he slandering each other in Makati with someone?
"We are in Makati even if we are very stupid; we are stupid; we are not right, right?
Yes, I am here in Makati with two thousand two thousand.
Okay, from Makati, isn't it that in Makati City?
