
Malacanang attacked the women.

By Filipino Weeker.
March 1, 2012.

In spite of the violence that suffered, Gabriela who is more aggressive is the women of Gabriela (Macky Macasac.
Women are members of Gabriela who are Gate 7 of the Palace Malacañang, while the Presidential Security Group (PSG) attacked their 126 anniversary of the Aquino administration in the slow price of oil and basic commodities.
Because of the expected involvement of women protested, it was violent that the PSG and the members of the Philippine National Police (PNP), before they have a program.
"It was obvious that the troops of the PSG and PNP were shocked and got annoyed, that's why we forcefully pushed their children as well," said Lana, general secretary from Gabriela.
The group formed the price increase of petroleum products, the 6 increase in the Liquefied Petroleum gas today (March 1) and the impending price increase in public transportation.
The police are going to travel to the militant women from front of Gate 7 going to front of Centro Escolta University, before the Mendiola Bridge. (Izzy Canillo).
TRLinmei, general secretary of Gabriela, those who do not want to treat themselves as members of the Presidential Security Group who ordered to be taken away by militant women.
According to Linmei, it was first reported that the protest conducted on the protest on March 8, international day of women.
Linmei added that they will not stop in Malacanang as long as Aquino has not acted upon the incessant increase of petroleum products that they say will have a big effect on the primary products and services.
"PNoy continues to remind the weekly increase in the price of oil," said by Linmei.
The group calls for the government to stop the price increase in the price of oil, which is called "big," which is called by the oil Added Tax Reform of oil and controlling the prices of basic commodities.
In line with an attack in Malo'clock, the members of Gabriela from other parts of the country, like Baguio, Legazpi, Bacolod, Davao, Iloilo, Iloilo, Iloilo, Iloilo and other mayor of the southern part of the southern end.
