
Binay, Americans do not back down?

Will Binay accept the truth that his popularity will fall for the filipino masses and this is only his ambition to be the president of the country?
This is certain that Binay's problem will be faced because for sure he will fall down again in the next surveys, wherein the majority of the people who say that Senator Alan Cayetano and Antonio Trillanes, together with the former allies of Binay, Vice Mayor Ernesto Mercado, are going to get back.
Binay is surely feeling the things he is doing in different parts of the country that people who are supporting him especially more are the politicians who are supported by the people of the country.
We know all that if you smell good in politics and up in the fight, the people are full of support, especially when your ship is already full, it is like you have an avers that does not want to come closer to someone else.
This is certain what is happening to Binay because it is obvious in all surveys that his chance to be the president of the country and this is what he should face if he will accept the challenge of the opposition to give way to the new candidate of the opposition.
It was also noticed that when he launched the new party, UNA, there were no giant names who joined this few months and that is an indication of its spread.
Of course, along with the acceptance of the hope that his will win because life and fate of his loved ones are at stake, will be at stake.
It is certain that if the people who are working in 2016 will win, he will be given to different complaints and this is what he should make sure because if he is wrong with the decision, she will surely lose all his hard work for almost 30 years.
Aside from the examination, Binay also requested that it will be silent in politics and talk to his enemies to save his clan and hard work.
Maybe only his only wish is to get in Makati with a few hours because it looks like this is promised by the LP and other groups who are different from Binay, to Ernesto Mercado.
The election in 2016 is still far, but Binay took more worse than former Senator Manny Villar because it was not only destroyed by Noguera but they are still being crushed.
