
Who will be the "Ka Yap at the straight path.

The Palace stated that PNoy is on top of the whole country in the coming days.
The issue that he will discuss is about the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
It means, PNoy has already controlled his boss in order to make it look that illegal drugs is not illegal.
It means that PNoy is going to prove every citizen that DAP is not bad, instead, it will help our poor countrymen.
In short, it is PNoy's attention to all Filipino to say that the DAP did not use or use the DAP to touch the neck of these kinds of lawmakers and make it next to him!
"That is what our President is scheduled to do in the coming days, according to Secretary Herminio" Sonny Coloma.
Disgusted every moment, make sure that I am wrong.
It did not say that the President made up the people!
Umm, what is the difference between that?
Entice the President.
In a gathering, someone asked me, "who is Jerry Yap"? "
"Why?" I said, don't you know that he is the former president of the National Press Club!
In fact, you can read Facebook that he will go back to 2014 to bring back the dignity of NPC.
King-mother, Burnham, "is the former and planning to return as president of NPC?
Well, then, you don't have a little respect for the inhumane who are like women!
God, and Joseph!
So, who does not understand?
Who else will be, "what is being done in NPC is not too much to help the fulfillment of some important projects of the National Press Club.
As a matter of fact, he is tired that is tired from the project of NPC for people in the media.
At this point, the ears of the person I was talking to is a nuisance, to the ears of the person I am talking to.
"Is it that.
If it is true, he said, that the reason why it will return to NPC "Jerry Yap is to bring back the dignity of NPC, what if the integrity of an institution is true and he will go back to the president, without a word if a woman gets to curse, especially in Facebook?
Which if the PPID is, you will think that he owns the NPC?
Hesitant, you will be able to finish for a long time, make it free.
It is not right that I will answer your questions like that.
Even if I have read it in FB, it would be better if Jerry Yap himself will explain to his words!
Hmmmp!
