Foreign ones in the US, are widespread in the Philippines.

By James Moros and Kenneth Rola A. Guda.
There was 7, 2012.

Different kinds of drones and Unicef of the US troops are being used by the US government, which is being used by the air station in the US (Wagedia in the Philippines).
Evacuation, running, fear that these are not new in many community of Filipino people.

In the end of Mindanao, bullets of bombs are roaming in the middle of the encounter or not the military, the use of excessive violence, but recently, there is a new danger that will be seen in the sky of Moro Mindanao.
Last February 2012, four leaders of the government confirmed the arrest of one of the Abu Sayyaf in Jolo, Sulu, using the "Ipit Gang" and US-Satan "
This drama that is in the category of Unisan, Vehicles (uites), who are usually used to make the US's military from a high heel can also be used in the operations to attack and sell bombs.
Up to 15 rebels were killed in that operation last February 2, together with the Malaysians who were said to be "terrorists" Zulkifli Bin Hir (PMC), Jagua, ah), and Commander of Abu Sayyaf, along with 12 other members.
According to Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin, the use of the attack of drones, and called "
But there are groups that are alarmed in the use of drones in the attacks of the AFP from the community of Moro "" that's what they are proud of that they killed ASG (Abu Sayyaf Group) using their human human rights to the community of Moro.
According to Indyed, the grader is confirmed to have happened in their community in Sulu.
"What is alarming, because it is being done by the US to direct participation in the actual combat operations, using facilities and arteries of our national sovereignty that, is a violation of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), and violation of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA).
Aside from the group of Indye, there are still many who do not believe in the official statement of the AFP that the previous attack in Sulu is not riding with two attacks in the Philippine Air Force, Captain Joenel Pogoy.
Pogoy was first imprisoned by the military for two years because of his involvement, and stupidity on corruption of Air Force.
It looks like a control of the drone that was filed by the US government (Wagedia in its bottom.
Pogoy said that if there are no enemies being fired against him, 'Text held of OV-10 will not lower than 500 pesos from the ground level, but if there is an attack from the opponent, it should fly higher than 1,000 pesos from the ground level.
"He also said that the OV-10 during the operations in the evening will be higher only because of its terrain and respiratory infections can be achieved by OV-10 - even if OV-10 is doubting, the only barrier to be achieved by OV-10) even though it was being taken by AV-10) even if the Padillas get used by OV-10).
This is not the first time that the American troops are using a drones in the Philippines last January 2009, many residents of Pio V. Marasigan, spokesperson of the National Democratic Front (NDF), which came to the camp of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and PNP in the region. "
"In the report of Jose Rapisora Command (of the New People's Army's (Masbate, there are high officials of the AFP and PNP in the region that arrived at the camp of 507 Pukan in Uson to witness the UAV and explosion of UAV," the citizens witnessed the UAV.
For Banica's, it is clear that the US government troops are clear to the war against insurgency and government.
Last March this year, the NDF-Tawi-1 stated that the use of the Armed Forces, Angel 12-1 "by the American troops and Filipinos, based on the AFP troops, according to the AFP, according to the forces of NDF-0, the use of uch-up in the operations conducted by the AFP).
"Along with the activities of 13th US Air Force, their secret is a secret which can be applied by" Surveillance Response "or spy on to make a survey results of their natural resources; and to be a fencing and one of the conditions brought out by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas," the statement of Banker last March.
The AFP also said that in 2008, the AFP is also using the opinion of the American troops against the MILF.
"Nueve 2008, in the midst of the war against MILF, there are two opinions that fell in Maguindanao and North Cotabato which have been found" by the crash site in Maguindanao and North Cotabato, which was also found by the MILF, "said Indigestion.
The American troops suspected, the American troops, and not the elements of the AFP, are the ones who will make a drones to gather and cause damage to the citizens.
"When it happened, the attack (Kaibigan, North Cotabato), they themselves (Philippine government), said that they were the US government), who went to the hospital to be exported, to get it (" Pavones), "added to the residents of the incident.
Their evidence was said to be very strong against them through a few hours of Kawamib and two high officials of the military.
Colonel Felix Castro, deputy Brigade of the 103rd Infantry Brigade of Camp Lanao in Marawi City, and Maj. P Javier of the Western Mindanao Command, that the American troops are not allowed to enter their barism without permission.
"What else can the use of their things?" Asked Indyed.
If the active use of spy or drones in the operations conducted by the AFP are true, it can be said that the American troops are used to the soldiers of the country, but they cannot join the operations of the AFP.
Use a brutal drama.

Even during the time of the administration of George Wa businessman, it was first used by drones for the operations conducted in the Middle East, against alleged terrorists.
The current president Barack Obama continued the said programs, which according to the investigation of a bird, the US Armed Forces, which is being used by the US Intelligence Agency (CIA), which is being used by the US Intelligence Agency (CIA), which is being used by the target enemy of the US, or the program that is composed of the US Intelligence Agency (CIA), which is being used by the target enemy of the US, or the program that is formed.
According to the study of the Bureau of Yngentech, Jilian is, a non-governmental organization based in the City University of London, the civilians who were killed in the attack of horones in the country is Pakistan and up to 20 percent of those who were just deceived by a drone that was only civilians in the said country.
"2 + 2 meeting" between (Voltaire Gazmin and Philippine Defense Sec. Voltaire Gazmin and Philippine Foreign Affairs Sec. Alberto del Rosario, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and US Defense Sec. Leon Pantukan.
Meanwhile, according to the reflection of the Armed Forces of the US, it is estimated that up to 2,283 civilians were killed in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights Council to complain a case in the United Nations Human Rights
Many groups in the US criticized the program in the US in a summit in Washington DC last April 28-29, 2012, according to the Saligang Batas of the US, especially in the Saligang Batas of the US, it is contrary to the Saligang Batas of the US, which is why it cannot be denied that it cannot be denied to anyone without any price hike.
Even Propaganda of Philip Alsola, the UN Special Rapunzel-governmental organization, Arvin AOIL), criticized the program that was sentenced by the CIA and a government of the US in buying individuals and groups that he wants to really use.
Strike, prohibited - PNoy.
Despite the record of the US in using ice, it seems that the acceptance of this program by the Aquino administration in the Philippines is totally complete.
Last 2009, during the time of the administration of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, he visited the Philippine Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in the Philippines.
Coincidentally, Panilaga, according to New Yangker, is one of the most avid supporters of the program that's in the director of his words, the program that is the only game "of the US (" an only game "of the US (" an only "game in town.") for an effective fight against the enemies of the US.
Meanwhile, on the statement of the public, President Benigno Aquino III is not advised by President Benigno Aquino III the use of the US for a disastrous scandal during March 20, Aquino said that it cannot be used in the operations conducted in the Philippines.
"They are here (government troops) as advisers of them, they are here as supporters of the government that they can't join in operations conducted," Aquino himself said that his administration is allowed by his administration to raise the dancers of the country in English.
Fight against insurgency and seen one of the reasons why the Aquino administration is pushing the intensified operation of the US in the country, because the government is having a hard time to fight the insurgency and National Democratic Front of the Philippines-New People's Army-National Democratic Front and MILF, he wants to be more active to oppose the American troops.
"We Are, which is a any decision being made in the Amercis But-we," I was the one of all neighboring countries, which is a defense for the defense, "Aquino said," said Aquino.
In other words, Aquino considered as an enemy of fellow Filipinos who wish for change in the Filipino people, even those suspected to have the brutal attack and Surveillance Response ones of a foreign armed forces to stay in the side of the country.
