
The Sabah. Andola, the Bangsamoro Basic Law Agreement and Juan.

David D, Angelo.
Peace - Peace Agreement, Mindanao, Noynoy Aquino, opinion - opinion.

In the past four months of news about peace, thank you, it seems that the whole country has been shocked with the whole country, but this March 2013, many are asking the whole country and I know that many are asking, disappointed and surprised, because of Sabah.

The issue of Sabah, meanwhile, one of the questions that is difficult to answer when I attended the "issue and coffee in Bulacan State University" where I even said that the previous administration is at the back of Sabah.

In the past week, it seems that the contents of the news will be the same with the news of Sabah.

According to them, Sabah is ready to die and they are ready to die again that is why they think they are in Taguig City, Metro Manila, which is why they are the only ones who are ready to die because he is not included because he is in Manila.

I, I believe that Sabah is going to leave Sabah but what the personnel of Sultan Jamalul Kiram III did is wrong, not timely and violation of the law of our country and the institutions that they started and in placing of the whole country and for Filipinos in a dangerous situation.

It can be irritating that some of our fellow Filipinos want to blame the President, he is accused of all sorts of things instead of supporting the strength of Malaysia, and if we seem to be forced to recover the strength of Malaysia, it is as if we're trying to recover the strength of the fishermen because of the slow movement of the fishermen.

I was asked to ask myself why these are really happening, who can he see all of these events?

Let us see some truth on this issue?

The third party-halo is the third party that is appropriate for the peace talks between the MILF and the government.

It is found out that the MNLF veteran fighter jets are going to support and will support him to help the personnel of sultan.

The MILF is very quiet and it seems that there is no official official.

President Noynoy's different group is continuously being criticized by different groups.

The election is approaching May.
