
It's dirty and not fair for the government.

Senator Jinggoy Estrada is saying that he will release the truth about corruption that is surrounding the government.
If it is true that Senator Jinggoy is holding a bomb against those in power, he should do it immediately.
Anyway, Senate President Franklin Drilon himself said that cleaning the government is happening.
Senator Drilon's statement became clear after the Department of Justice and National Bureau of Investigation joined Senator Jinggoy together with two more senators, Janet Lim-Napoles and others who are involved in the pork barrel scam.
Worthy.
If what will happen between the opposition and the administration will happen, that is where we will say that what we say is true and cleaning the government.
This is what the citizens prepare for the opportunity to scrutinize the right service to the country.
And in the next time for choosing the leaders of the country, they will guard the names that are not right and worthy.
"That's the reason for him to be in the ballot.
Teeth on the eyes.
The pork barrel scam is serious because money from the country is stolen from it.
The trust of the citizens in the government is at stake.
Became the law against corruption and corruption.
The public funds and trust of the people in the government are both missing and the law is annoying.
So, the fight and eyes are only right in the teeth and eye on the eyes.
Until the thieves and corrupt are blind and blind.
It is part of being prayerful.
The plan to be done by Jinggoy about the request of everyone should be held accountable for everyone who should be held accountable in the Congress.
According to religious people, they want to clean the cleaning and this will happen to what Jinggoy will do.
"That is if this will push through.
Everyone does not like the means of choosing the government who they want to insult.
The action of Erap's son will reveal the whole truth.
We'm not praising it, Sen. Jinggoy.
But this action is important to maintain cleaning the government.
There is a problem.
There is only a problem, Bro, with the action of Jinggoy.
One of the problems is the release of evidence for the rightfulness of the allegations on top of the plunder case.
Could it not have difficulty to release documents from the government?
What happened to those similar to him was strange.
Like a "gay" the evidence served against them.
And all agencies of the government are moving against those charged with senators and their accomplices.
You can see, the documents are part of the documents.
There are those who borrow from the lower part.
Even the primary suspects in corruption and corruption are still plans to make a state witness.
Fair.
Hopefully, we can see a fair justice on the pork barrel scam.
And fair justice is not only about the orders connected to Napoles and a few senators and congressmen.
One of the cases is about 180 congressmen and majority of the senators.
Those involved in Malacanang should also be included.
And if it is acceptable, corruption and corruption in the past 20 years will also be included in the past 20 years.
It will be said that the time is time to file a case against thieves on the end.
And there is no limitation on filing cases for all the stolen wealth from the country's funds.
If those who are being charged with cases are the enemies of those in power related to the election in 2016, where will we be picked up?
It smells of smoke.
Do you know, Bro, what is happening every time the term of the president of the country end?
And when the election arrives?
According to the employees of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, especially the Bureau of Customs, it cannot be denied that the collection of the tax will not be denied.
Why?
The employees have explained.
.
For Customs, it is said that half of the supposed collection of the assets and tax will pass every time the term of the President will end.
This is also what is happening every election.
The employees said, the thieves immediately put the use of the businessmen and to focus on the end of the power of their boss.
The extortion will continue, especially those who have control in Malacanang, to the businessmen before election for their campaign.
It is said that the amount of tax on businessmen who hit the BIR is allegedly removed.
Ran after them.
Who will complain about it, which is more than the pork barrel scam of Napoles?
Wait for it!
