
The school of Manoli Films.

School in Thailand, World First Class the former, owned by a Filipina in different knowledge and ways of teaching, was collected by one of our fellow citizens, Riza Split, which became a way to have a branch of one of the prime of a famous and famous school in Inged, and Broch-asa Parish Church.
In Thailand, the NBP is living in Thailand who taught him a big university there before he has already built his own school.
The desire for his children to have a quality education is the way for him to visit his own branch of Brooks who went to the said country.
Because of his dream for the children, Riza studied the kind of education in different parts of the world, until he knew one of the most popular school in Inged and lightning.
"Broch-fi is the one of the Islamic Liberation Front in England, one of the Top Rank Promotions of the Top Rank Promotions of it, according to him," he said.
Because of the good image of the said school, Riza, has a lot of trials, before he was able to convince his owner, he would be allowed to build a branch.
"He / she was not able to avoid his / her sister-in-law, who was to be ten o'clock in the garden, Thailand is the same place in place for Fight IT.
One of his problems is the gathering of the capital to be spent on the construction of the school.
"Financing is a problem of Mpost of the Finediting to serve as my own resources, so that it is not like other business who can borrow from the bank but Tell," I was impressed by the challenges to him.
It did not last long, the dissweat and perseverance of Riza, because it was year 2002, he has already been built a Brooks who is not only because he has a name, but also because of the quality service that he has.
On the current success of Riza, she shared to me what he / she thinks was the key to reach his condition - "I was able to reach his situation," I was able to go to his position, "I was able to look at her.
But I'm sure, he / she was able to step down to his / her sister-in-law, so that you have a clean heart, he is also an actor-an actor, he is also an actor-an actor, "the end of his language.
