The housing project of AOIL and Kevin Love.

An OFW is going abroad to go abroad, having their own house is a priority for those who want to be saved up.
The ownership of the house is really a big deal for the family of the OFW because this is what will remind them of their hard work in overseas.
Just like the prayer of the couple Juanillo (Jun) and Ning Martinez) for seven years, I have been working as a slave to the construction companies in Saudi Arabia.
There are agents who offered them with the beautiful brows and flattery, that's why they were encouraged to get Adik-shirts and Development Corporation of Elmer Mallorca, 2 / her office in Unit E, 2 / her studies in Unit E, 2 / her studies in Unit 23, Novaliches, Quezon City.
Just because they are afraid to be fooled, that's why they agreed on the said project of Anito. "They looked at his picture on Facebook.
They were chosen by a House and lot that had a contract worth about 1.35 million and can be found in Myles al Rosa Villa in a short way out, Camarin, Caloocan City.
They gave P100 million pesos in April 2012 and monthly payment of 10,000 pesos from May 2012-September. 2012 and 15K this January 2013.
Last February 2013, they went to the said site, and they were surprised that they were not carried away by Adik-M.
That is where they decided to go back and asked to return their money they were paid because it did not respond to their agreement.
In the total amount of money to fall, they agreed to fall into salt on the toll fee which is why they expected it will return to P55,000 last May 2013, according to the witness, along with the witness, at the witness, the whole amount that they gave is 95,000.
Since then, he / she said that he / she said that he was all promised in Mallorca.
Last November 2013, the couple went to the said site, but there was still no house being taken from him even in the office in Novaliches, already closed.
Just last March 2014, Bantay, which is patrolling in Mallorca through SMs, gave a message.
We are investigating the whole amount that Martinez will fall for.
His text message on March 21, 2014 / 2: 15 kilometers "
We will ask him again what kind of date of April is his promise, he said in April 8, 2014 / 2: 54 PM: "After the Holy Week," Mamondiong, the date of her answer: April 30. "
From March 21 to April 30, he promised to return the money of Martinez.
She gave hope that he was just waiting for him but Mallorca was not allowed to return for the money that was given to him.
It is the money that our OFW's hard work under the hot sun, a hot climate like Saudi Arabia.
Sandy was also brave to call Bantay, meow, she said that she is not afraid to make people crazy and she is not afraid of where she will report to Martinez.
Turns out it turns out that he is not able to make it like a person like me?, why did he complain about the promised house?, why did they not fulfill his promised house?
Where is the office?
When they are calling their telephone, the 419-1625 will be taken from service, 417-7255.
In the knowledge of the couple, they have even asked many hope in Mallorca in the project that he has not built on.
Whoever has the complaint about Adik-M, you can go to Bantay, 09051090451, so you can formally file a complaint to the office of Vice President Jejomar Binay, who is the housing czar and Presidential Adviser on OFW Conceran), also in HLUB (Kamara).
Let us wait for the next chapter!
