While we do not have in the latest safety of Zamboanga and Michael is not lacking in just one month in Manila.
Ah, it is a good place that's why there's a point where we can go to school; we are the ones who have happened in Zamboanga and we are here at noon.
By a person.
Later on, I was still with the meeting secretary.
A four male companion, who was with that, of the script that was a while ago, was able to go to school;
Mother.
Are you the officials of the morning who will only give what is important and what's important.
Ate Vi.
He is still young.
Come with me already.
This morning, it seems like the four of the children are in the morning.
Well, what else can we look; we say, "I said," I said the key of the bitter key.
"He continues to swim and then they will do it to others, so as they say, he will continue to go to school; he said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was very well-tempered; he / she said that he / she said, he / she said that he / she wants to go to school, he / she said, if you want the services.
Alright.
Which is the safety of the people.
We have also seen each other for each other; we can see each other; we are very proud; we can count on what can be the management, which is why they have something to do to Batangas.
We were able to look down; he / she wasn't able to look down; that's why he / she wasn't able to see each other; that's why I heard that it was outside two road a road.
That her conscience is wrong.
On the other hand, September 31, the twenty-ighty-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-ten-year-old children, who were all sorts of age, were able to make sure that they would be able to make sure that they would be able to make sure that they would be able to make sure, or not, Luna said.
You do that there, they thought that they answer to the needs of more than Two people.
Who are now here in a different place at noon where Raymond B. is you.
That's why our yes, this will go to each other after we have known each other after we have known each other last night, so we have no pillars of you.
Even if I told me to just tell the said Secretary, I still continue to say that they are not the only one we are saying, they are still not doing any steps; we are still doing anything that's why I am not doing anything but I feel the address he has done.
They still haven't able to go out of the area here, but I was still not able to go out, but I was not able to go out, which is why I am going to be alone at a overpass; Gulanggani; she said that she will just be a report to all the people.
I thought that I heard tomorrow the store earlier yesterday, and that is where all the things happened.
I have been eating this in Zamboanga because it's too much for you to just stay at the same morning in the store that we are busy together with our store so that we can be able to find out what the Model Shop needs to be cut down; so that we can be able to find out what the Model Shop needs to be cut down; he / she said that he / she said that he / she came to me.
Maybe the safety of the students should also be known for the needs of the government here.
Needs your needs.
Let us just don't look at each other; the grass; here in the grasses here in the grassy parts, are going home to each other and on the way home.
Between everything.
Your voice is our voice; as long as he goes to the Philippines, because it's just Sunday to go home to the Philippines, which is very small; for me, because he has many thanks for me.
