Learn to reflect.

What is the possibility that Noynoy Aquino will face a wide and strong campaign to oust him from his position, just like what he / she followed Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and Joseph Estrada, which is probably an opportunity for him to go out and come out.
Since the campaign for President until the first three years in the position, Aquino was holding the support of the most big ones in the country that he used to oust former Chief Justice Renato Corona, which he used to oust former Chief Justice Renato Corona, which he used the military and critics, which he used as an instrument of seduction.
If you think about it, aside from Marcos's power being considered by Aquino after Marcos was his mother early, although he sat after the popular fight against Estrada, he was quick in facing the declaration of Estrada and a few military, that was despised and fought by many Filipinos.
In simpler terms, the power of Aquino is very big, different from those who have gone to him, but for those who have heard him, but for those who have heard him, what's bad, he became proud of the interest of those who have heard him, while he is aware of the welfare and request of many of the country.
In the field of economy, he is the real support of Arroyo for him to be attracted to the students of his professor in economists like one of those who have no work, and the salary is being driven by many of those who are living in the country, which is why many of the social activities are in love, which is why many of the social activities are in love.
And as if just waiting for a signal, after the half-term of Aquino in his position, the issues that made his opponents in politics were revealed when the typhoon Yolanda hit him in front of more than 10,000 Filipinos who died.
Now, he is going to file a case against the people, he wants to increase the increase in front of the huge poverty, that he is facing a huge poverty while there is a huge poverty of the issue on the issue of Yolanda, that there will be someone who got rich with the issue of Yolanda, to reveal the aware of the issue of Yolanda.
Why is he kicked out of out?
For sure there will be a lot of questions about the removal of Aquino, it is certain that they will answer them, but when we are aware that the US is trying to repeat, we should insist the essence of EDSA Uno, EDSA Dos and anti-Gloria in many people!
It's too stinky and fired from Noynoy?
