
Aquino is using the most low form of the anti-Bugnay, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 25, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program: Aquino, to be in the form of anti-NPA (CPP-NPA).

The Liberal Party of the Philippines was criticized by the Aquino administration in the use of the most intelligent appearance of the anti-Botchok, propaganda in their hard work to give up the constricted streets of the citizens which is the root of the armed conflict in the Philippines. "

This is the reaction of the PKP, on the initial statement of Malacañang, saying that the Bagong HRO) is not interested in the peace talks and it is said that the queen is not interested and they are going to travel the domination. "

"If the leaders and members of the Bugnay, the legal desire to become rich of self, they should just work in the government budget, and let them just work in the government budget, the military forces and big and big covetous," said the KP.

"The largest bandits in the Philippines are those who are in the Marcos regime, and the accomplices of the big businesses that need to be elected as the result of the election, flying and receiving favor from the state of the filipino people."

"The Marcos regime seems to be the most low kind of propaganda in the most low kind of propaganda to the armed movement of snatchers, qualified, and belittled the legitimacy of crooks which are built by the citizens of the nearest place," said the KP.

"In different theories, government agencies that are pushing the laws and regulations which are pushing for a long time in the field of economists, politics, security, culture and others."

"Aquino got annoyed and his accomplices in the fact that the government is taking advantage of the power of politics of the people and the citizens who will control the rights and effects of the people," said the KP.

"They are easily irritated with the truth that most of the politicians' politicians and politicians who can make these policies," according to the PKP, the armed politicians who do not want to follow the rules of the democratic government budget is only a few.

The KP has just laughed at what Aquino spokesperson said that the armed movement of the armed movement in the launch of the primary offensive continues.

It is desperate to lower down by the Aquino administration and the armed forces the current force of the SEA Games because the fact that there will only be 4,000 pesos up to 5,000 while the truth is that there are only 6,003 weapon which is the BHB in 1986 in 1987.

"While he continues to remove the initiative of the Filipino people, it was scheduled to be increased by the filipino country, it was scheduled to reach the peak of the height in the 1980s inside the controversial administration of Aquino, but it will be guarded by the Spanish masses before 2016."
