Erap destroy the followers.

Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada was able to put it in order to defeat his opponents, former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim.
The name of the former President to the residents of Manila is asking for good and promises to help improve their livelihood and state in life.
The Manila City Hall was beautiful when former Nueva Ecija Congressman Atty. Simeon Garcia is trusted by the mayor to become the administrator because it becomes a eye and ear to the events happening in his office.
Mayor Estrada is saying the wrong steps made by the followers of the mayor, whose only wish is to acquire money while their boss is submerged in shame.
Estrada's image has improved by the police and teachers when he gave them the allowance.
The vendors were happy because they were not robbed at a few areas in Manila where they were working.
Mayor Erap listened to the complaint of the poor people when Atty. Garcia took his City Administrator Mid. Garcia.
The ability of the new administrator was not identified because he is still not showing-off because it seems that he is just following what the new "Little mayor of the Mayor Atty. Edward Serna io, bar of Maxims Hotel.
Maybe Mayor might just report that there are many charges against him because of the signature of the documents that was served to him by people who are pretending to be on his side.
One of those who destroy the image of Mayor Erap is that the retired General Roberto Calinisan, the personnel and his collector, GenBob, Avenida, Quiapo, and Divisoria, are everywhere.
They are the ones who collected the money they are going to are selling and trying to collect taxes that's why the names of the police are being ruined because of the coming or payola they are asking for the group of Calinisan.
This group of Calinisan should stop from those who are going to buy because they are having a hard time to live in the head of sweat just to live in the head of Calinisan, which should have been used to live in the house because he has an unexpected pension from the Philippine National Police.
Maybe it is just right for Mayor Erap to lead to Mayor Erap in relation to the wrong steps done by the people around him who say that all their faces are all of your face!
Those who are like Calinisan and Serna io should be gone to Manila City Hall so that Mayor Erap will not be put in danger.
