Masbate 4P's investigation, Rizal PNP cases.

Read this, DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman!
The past Christmas is sad for many of our countrymen in Masbate, particularly those from Barangay Bacolod, Milagros, who is a member of Conditioning (CCT) or better known as 4P's (Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program).
The reason, many months have passed, the arrival of the amount they received from the said program of the government was stopped.
What is painful, they do not know any reason or explanation from the DSWD why it suddenly stopped or they are not receiving anything.
They only know the poor 4-P's group that they have been removed from the list because they were carried by their group leader!
We are just asking the current leaders of the MSWDO in the town of Milagros, Mrs. Ruth Rosero Sia.
Is it legal or official to remove the said 4P's members?
Who left their names from the list of being a candidate for a long time, but for a long time they have not received, the money is still in DSWD or in another pocket?
If it is true that the news about them is true, it is just right now that there is a "traslacion" who was leading the fund, to whom from it.
Order to happen this?
Is it possible that the money that should have been used for a living on 5 / 6 is the money that should have been allowed by our poor countrymen for a long time?
I am expecting, Mrs. Ruth Roselle, who, as soon as possible, take care of the problem.
Entice the President.
Because of the continuous operation of "Banies" of Bong Sola in the whole province of Rizal, many have been suspecting that it is true that he has a blessing by PNP Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Rolando Anthem!
"What, Colonel, is the truth, is it right for the operation of Bong Sola?
What happened to the "number" policy "of the PNP?
In this, make sure that the operation of illegal gambling in a province will be revealed, where the people can report?
In Regional Director?
Umm, what if all of them seem to be influenced by the slow action?
