His voice in the internet.

A 14-year-old girl is Pakistan and his deep thoughts on her personal thoughts on her personal thoughts, "she is brave, she has the right to study, play, talk and tell the opinion.
In the town of controversial group of Taliban in power, music and television are prohibited, music and television are always hidden, and they cannot talk anything, especially against those with power.
But it was insisted that the right as a person was insisted, as a child and stated that all his thoughts on the internet because of that, the Taliban's voice was serious in front of his own school inside the internet, his life was in danger.
Here in us, there is still a 14-year-old young age, Jan Eric Medina, who is said to have been said to have been assigned, but his life is more fortunate, he does not need to pay taxes.
She was able to give attention to his opposition to the cybercrime law that Jan Paul, at his young age, was lighter than him who expressed his true feelings through the internet.
Alaska said, even if the Philippines is free from the Philippines, compared to Pakistan, where the grave was shot in the head, he was very weak because of the cybercrime law.
It is a big issue on cybercrime law, thank you and has a Temporary Protection Order (TRO) against this, temporary but there is a need to review this law and make peace according to the current events in the world.
The effect of new technology in the way of communication through the current time is too fast and wide.
And our laws should be caught up by the law to be attacked by the law.
It is not just about cybercrime, but also in all laws in the Philippines that has something to do with our dealings with other countries.
If the laws will not be after, they will never fail in our needs, according to the person who is calling them to break it.
It is not good news that the victim was shot in the head, because the child was saved, the Taliban said that they will do everything to kill the young activists.
According to Jan Medina, she will not stop to insist on his rights as a child but she admitted that she was distressed as to how his mother himself was worried because of the cybercrime law.
It's a shame that this voice in the internet is a waste of our future, what is being done to them, only a few like what is serious and cruel violence in his surroundings, are only a few similar to our dreams, are we going to let our dreams be free tomorrow.
