
Lord!

In the latest report, the number of more than 100 were killed in the earthquake in Visayas and it can still fall down until the search operation of the authorities did not end.
It is possible that the earthquake can be counted "because it seems like there is someone who wants to humiliate and worrying about all of us.
With the number of the broken buildings, why are there a lot of churches or what we called "the house of God.
The National Historical Commission (Nido) reported that it is estimated that ten historical churches of catholic were destroyed by the earthquake in Bohol and Cebu.
It is good that there have been no classes in public schools and schools because of Eid, Adha (equivalent of Sacdice of Muslim), if not, more will die.
Every time there is a tragedy, the leaders of the church is saying that we should wake up in Maysilo, and we might wake up to church and pray to make the accident.
There is a report that three to go to church and praying to the Our Lady of Light Church in Linaw, Bohol who died after being buried by the river that collapsed?
Isn't it right that, they are saved and still alive because they are in the church and praying to the house of God "when the earthquake has happened, why did the earthquake happen?
We really do not know the will of God's will, "the three who died, when they are praying, that's when I died anymore.
As they say, why is it that when a person gets kind, then he gets the Lord's Lord, there is someone who wants us to humiliate us from God.
It is said that we say that we are saying that the church leaders have said that they are not the ones who wants to wake him up by Maysilo, which is why he let his ill-shirt to make his anger felt?
Different scandal involving the church, there are leaders who are receiving payola in gambling in exchange of criticisms against illegal activities, there are those who are implicated in the sex scandal.
There is a use of religion in politics in exchange for financial help from candidates.
In the end, there is a church that is too much if he received a "favor" in the mind of the P10-B pork barrel scam.
If they want to pray and make the handkerchief of Janet Lim-Napoles to the "Black Nazarene," the image is being sent to his house by priests while millions of devotees were being carried to the procession and walking in the procession when they got closer to it.
There are still some who are happening and rules in the church because of worshiping money and fake gods, which is why the "Ipit Gang" is horrible.
God is jealous because he doesn't want to be with someone else to give the time for him, not the one who is experiencing disaster or tragedy.
He is very angry with the fake gods like money, material and things such as the attitude of many leaders in the church that is why it's time to discard them.
Lord, forgive us.
