
Who should be responsible for the Mamasapano massacre?

The Board of Inquiry found out everything last Friday in the result of their investigation on the tragedy that happened to the Special Action Force (SAF) commandos in the mission of the Special Action Force (SAF) commandos in the city of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25.
There are 44 who died from the troops of SAF, 18 from MILF and six civilians in the said incident which held a doubt in the sincerity of MILF on their negotiation with the peace panel of the government.
It was stated in the report of BOI, President Aquino, the resigned Philippine National Police Chief Alan Purisima, and the SAF chief Getulio Napeñas confirmed the "writ of command" when they attacked Oplan Exodus, and build a mission to PNP-PIO Director General Leonardo Espina and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas.
Purisima allegedly violated the suspension of the Ombudsman when it was transferred to an official mission, Aquino also made a mistake in talking to Purisima and to give the "signal" in the implementation of Oplan Exodus in the time that his close friends in the PNP have been suspended.
This is just some of the allegations that will be seen in the report of BOI.
It was not easy for Benjamin to bring the high officials in the investigation, but he did not fulfill his promise to the media before reaching the report that the investigation done by the relatives of the SAF 44, "they already knew the truth."
But we can't make everything happy, what the group of BOI knew, in spite of what is discovered in the report, Roxas remains in the side of Aquino, he is a member of the tragedy, he is a member of the tragedy.
Instead, he blames Purisima and Napenas in not following the directive of the President to tell Espina his mission and coordination with the military.
According to Justice Sec. Leila de Lima, the President is the Chief Executive and is not able to condition the president "commander-in-chief" because the PNP, "Ipit Gang" "believes that the said failure should correct the said failure in their report.
De Lima probably forgot about the speech given by Aquino to the people who graduated from the Philippine National Police Office (Comprehensive Final) in Silang, Cavite last 2013: "I am still clear that I will not be harmed in our order."
Former Senator Panfilo Lacson stated in social media that according to the Constitution, the Commander-in-chief of the all chief of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. "In a report, Lacson also questioned, that a former PNP Chief, how will be a part of the conditions brought by the commander-in-chief, the PNP who is a" Armed Forces "?
For the most of all, I am worthy of being honest in implementing the investigation, and Roxas and De Lima, who is part of PNoy's Cabinet to be part of the president's cabinet is enough explanation for the continuing defending of Chief Executive.
Let me clarify that I do not blame anyone because there are investigation being done by other agencies in relation to the Mamasapano massacre.
Remember that we can only hope and pray that the truth will come out and the justice to be responsible for those who should be responsible for the tragedy will be implemented immediately so it will be sure that this will be fulfilled, in the right condition and opportunity.
This is the law of life, that whatever you do, you will comeback to you.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
