They call it: A message to the US.
By Arnold Clavio October 23, 2016, here is the time that President Duterte became a statement in front of 400 businessmen and Chinese in Beijing, which was also attended by Chinese Vice Mayor OPLAN LS.
"My separation with the United States,"
"Bad in military, being in social media but Mayanta.
"Fight of the only daughter."
These statements have no increase, no liability, but like what is expected will be open to other interpretation of Duterte after.
It is clear that he mentioned the word "separation" from the United States for Filipino, separation but like what is expected, that is not what Duterte wants to send.
"According to the President," I "" the "my government" or "my Country" said that it can be said that he is personal than an official.
It is also possible that he is just lying to the Chinese in front of the Chinese or show respect to the host of Country or to make more investments in the country.
It is impossible that one statement of the leader of the country will immediately end with any alliance or relationship that has been completed the two countries which is sacred, and only the majority of the most members of the Senate may end up in it.

I have been saying it for a long time, based on the initial incidents, "do not immediately read what he went through in the poor way.
Perhaps, his style is different, but as the elected president of the country, the citizens should just trust him because he is not a result of the fishermen.
Even from the start, I believe that Duterte knows all the words, and whatever the reaction or result is for the majority of Filipino people.
It is as if many should get used to it, especially the critics or not supported by Digong, in his announcement on the controversial statement regarding the relationship of the Philippines in the United States or to extrajudicial killing (EJK) or any issue.
In general, I am thankful with the actions of Duterte against the government of the United States for a long time which is waiting for a leader or leader that will be relieved from any enemy of America in the country like us.
It was brutal or rude to others, it is only right after our being kind or paid for them by a few administrations that passed by, they seem to have been the spokesperson of many controversies or violation that they have done inside the Philippines.
Aside from the 12 senators during the time of former President Corazon Aquino, that became the reason for the American forces to recover the two based on the Philippines - Clark Air Base and Subic Naval Base, Duterte, the next day, "they did not hold it on the neck.
"It should have been finished for me," the policy of America to the Philippines, we will be given free "cans, sardines" but we will be the one to use our loved ones "
We should always be at a disadvantage.

And it is time for us to make our government know that we do not have the same with what they are thinking.
As an ally, it should be equal and not a low kind of treatment to our Filipinos by white vinegar and it is only done by Duterte to get what is right for us for the long time that we have been paying for us for a long time.
In the end, Duterte might have personal anger in Washington but not in Taba Saba a.
DC, thank you. We, a Filipino citizen, as the independent citizen of Tibagan, the Philippines, an only daughter-for US!! My Country, the Philippines, is a state representative, a state governor, PRESambag 2.
Lord, I will take care of it.
