
Reporting, Raya Capulong.

It's too much anger from the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) who thought that when you are imprisoned, this is for them to suffer the sin that they have done but in the case of the imprisoned criminals in the Philippines, well, they have been doing all kinds of criminals in the Philippines.
While their victims are grieving outside and almost getting angry at the search of money to pay for their search for justice, this is as if they are still living in the five-star hotel like Mayor Herbert Colangco, who is a suspected robber with the bank.
Just imagine, I was holding my eateries inside Bilibid and was able to record a song inside the prison and he even did it with a record companies?
So much money and jewelry, along with these are the crooked path that was discovered in his cage that is even worse by a five-star hotel.
Aside from Cologne, there are 19 other people who are called high-ranking people, who are living here in a vacation inside the NBP, they are living together with high-caliber guns and even you will really think that they are the prisoners.
There is a lot of computers that there is wi-fi, there are alcohol, air conditioner, which has a sex game, and there is a sex game, which should have been used to be cowards because of the severity of their crimes.
After all and justice Secretary Leila de Lima has started it, it is just right that he will have a real outcome.
First, there should be an order to be neglected in any time that they have spent the prison and bring back the number of their time inside the prison.
Second, it is needed to make sure that each one of them will suffer inside a small and-shaped forest in the dungeon exchange of the prison within the time that they have their own prison.
Third, as early as now, the NBP personnel should be arrested and immediately file a case against them so that they will be together with a riding-standing criminals.
They should exchange all the personnel here, including the administrative personnel because it is certain that these are allies of those who are taking advantage of their classmates.
The toll fee is needed in the whole system of Corrections, and the personnel here from down until the height is needed to be removed and replace by new personnel who have their own principle.
Because in my opinion, Secretary de Lima discovered that this is not only happening in NBP but in other countries in another country.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and suggestions, you will just email about gum .Hala Bables. Hala Bcases of Gil towards AOIL.
