Refund has been released from the severe price of Meralco, Gabriela insisted.

The group of women who are Gabriela in front of the office of the Manila Electric Company (Meralco) in Kamuning, Quezon City asked to request for the pension increase of electricity in December, according to temporary restraining order (TRO), which is the decision of the Supreme Court.
Meralco started to collect payment for an additional P4.15 pesos per kilowatt hour (k k (k V), the company was forced to buy a higher electricity in a different plant in order to conduct a month if APEC was held.
The Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) was allowed to increase fares in different months: Php 2 in December, P1 in February and php 2.44 in March.
But it was stopped by the Supreme Court because of the petition of the group party-list under Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan Muna, Auto, ACT, and Gabriela Women) and another congressman against the height of charge.
According to Meralco, they would just raise the increase in line for those who have violated it or maybe it is just for the same price hike on November.
"Do they repeat if Meralco file a case against Meralco, shouldn't it be based on the actual abuses done?

They said, it is not true that Meralco was not losing because it had Php 17 billion worth of Meralco last 2013 only.
Meralco should have added the current amount of electricity because it is very high on where the Philippines is the most expensive charge of electricity in Asia.
"Meralco and the government of Aquino did not have a heart, the citizens cannot determine how to tighten the small price of electricity and other needs," according to Salvador.
Salvador added, it is better if the mechanism can be included in the New Year's formation of Meralco so that it will immediately be returned to those who paid.
If we will wait for the next bill, it is certain that Meralco will earn money from the people's money.
"When they are in favor of their income, Meralco was very fast, but if it's the budget fund, it is slow," according to Salvador.
Gabriela from different form of protest continues to spread to the plea to lower the electricity supply and Meralco will file a case against the people.
The said group is also preparing especially that the scheduled hearing of the Supreme Court is coming in relation to the petition of Gabriela Women's Liberal Party and other teams to dismiss the 34.15 per kilo of Meralco.
