Former covetous, became a business lesson in the name of Jesus.
By Zaykit, August 4, 2016 "One person with Calamansi is a majority of" most. "Chambers (Lefur.
"Talaba, all of you, and the entire town of Israel, who is the name of Jesse, who is the name of Jesse, who is the family of Jesse, who will return to the dead, because of her, this person is standing in front of you who has no disease.
"He was the stones that you have abandoned, which became president in the basement of the heavens, that they had no safety at the basement of the heavens, and when they saw that they were together with Jesus." (About 4: 10-13).
In the past issue, we saw one of those who will be able to respect the Holy Week along with the 120 of those who joined in a house in Jerusalem.
The men spoke in different language and all of the things that were heard were amazed, but if you think about it well, isn't it that the change of the personality of the men of Jesus will be amazing, after that day?
Because first, like what the people are saying about 4: 10-13, they are corrupt; those who have no education, are the Pharisees and teachers of the Saligang Batas of Jesus, they also explain to the people the connection of Jesus that's why he / she also explained to the people the connection of Jesus.
And brave, those who are not afraid to be imprisoned, are not afraid to be arrested by the authorities even if they are trying to study about Jesus, they are not following, they are giving more attention to God instead of following the will of the people.
A friend, if you recall the night that Jesus was arrested the night, Pedro was arrested and following her Lord, there was a mixture of worry and fear in his heart, that's why he / she was kissed by Jesus.
But there are different kinds of things that we can see in terms of actions that are in this book and it's no longer afraid to know that the person who is against Iglesia's name is still strong, and they are making miracles for those who have sickness!

Friends, all of them are changed by Espiritu of our Lord in heaven and all of the first men of Jesus, aside from Apostol, they have received the last book of Bagong Tell (Jesus Christ, that they accepted the death of the son of God.
Former covetous, who is always fearful, became brave and fought for the Eyebank Foundation, which is important for the Holy Spirit in life of every christians, and in the actions of the whole country of Iglesia Jesus in the world.
Friend, in this kind of time, let us follow the history of Etau.

May you read what you've read so that your feelings will be strong in searching for the real relationship with Jesus and truly respectful of His Espiritu.
There are many more following, God bless!
