
Intensify the fight against corruption, to overthrow the corrupt Marcos regime.

Guide de Guia.
Put Southern Tagalog!
July 11, 2014.

The US President BS Aquino won't escape from the issue of widespread corruption and corruption in the administration of the cabinet and senators who are involved in the pork barrel scam, while he was defending Jinggoy Estrada, Bong Revilla and Juan Ponce Enrile, to take advantage of the lawmakers who are against the Aquino administration.
It seems that the issue about corruption and anomalous transaction will not die so that they can't handle the anger and decision of the citizens as well as the people who are involved in corruption and corruption are not included in the corruption, the citizens will not find peace.

It should be remembered that the pork barrel scam should remember that only one of the proposed issues of corruption and corruption is still there, there are more than P10 billion that is being used by the lawmakers and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), which is estimated to be more than P10 billion that is tainted by lawmakers and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), which is estimated to be more than P10 billion in favor of the current administration in the Philippines.

The legislative chamber that can be guarded in the country is the preservation of the corruption that is being used by the corruption of the country's government, which is why they are using the power of the country's government and the preparation for the upcoming national election in 2016 to clean the implementation of the government corruption in 2016 to clean the implementation of the government corruption in 2016.

The down and corruption of the Aquino administration should be fired, which is continued to be given to the citizens, the National Democratic Front of Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST) and also the issue of corruption in 2016.

NDF-fi is also calling for the national goal of the citizens to bring down the Pambansang Kamao in the country, and this is the real economic growth of the people and the society who truly has responsibility for the citizens and the government budget that has a responsibility to his citizens.
