
Meralco by Meralco, Et's.

The protection and security of the country and the citizens are in the constitution that every service to give in the national interest and acceptable to make sure that no one will suffer if we will suffer.
The threat of Meralco is true that the experience of electricity will possibly happen again during the time of Noynoy Aquino's mother, Tita Cory (supposedly), because of what's happening now, it seems that Aquino has no movement and worry about the threat of Meralco.
It is trying hard to deny that they have an identification, and they are accompanied by the confirmation of the Malhmir region.
If the Aquino government allowed this issue, there is no doubt, punishment will be the country and the people.
The Philippines will fall to hell!
In the name of the national interest, the ownership of the operation, operation and care of the government on Meralco and power Producers will be implemented.
The Congress can help it if you want it to be done but it's also the question of the lawmakers that are used to the payola.
Only, is it possible that Noynoy promised to separate the industry of energy?
Can he compete with the Above, Pangilinan, especially the Lopez and other famous clan who are owned by the Coyo-Aquino administration who owns power, especially in Lopez.
There is still one left for us who are patriotic and ready to serve as lawmakers?
If there is nothing, can the citizens do something to stop the continuous threats of the energy and electricity in the country?
As early as now the foreigners and local businessmen are planning to run away from the threats of consecutive incidents if the increase in charge is not fixed.
Those foreign countrymen who are planning to travel at stake are back down but if the businessmen will leave, where will we be picked up?
It is not a ghost with Meralco's threat that it was not a joke because they were taking advantage of the power Acers in the regime of Aquino.
It is in the history of the country that it was only in the history of Mrs. Aquino.
Let us not wait for the conflict that will be involved in the energy that we should not wait to Melo the drama that will be brought by the Supreme Court about the power rate which can be done before.
Are we still expecting the leaders of the Congress of the Senate and Kamara? To the Armed Forces and the national police and the people?
