Word.
What is it?
He / she was fur, a sack and cup of time is beautiful but it seems that he is taking a taste of each other.
"You will make sure that this is because he / she is low.
Do not money to buy word because of too much nails.
The pipe was fast, and it is ready for a doctor's difficulty like that, like that, I don't know why I don't know why.
Of course, we will hope in the report or what is the first agenda if I will agree with what is the things that they say, that is why I said that it is right for you to rush me, but what that is right, but what that is right, but what kind of man is here in the house.
Because it is more fiery.
You should look like that, the plan.
And actions like that.
Full of the bridge.
I believe that the Montenero were finished that's why it's in his life.
That's why it's the reason why brother Boy Abunda is impressed because he is impressed.
Bira will have already been the only last but he does not have anything to dominate, nothing else.
.
"That's because you are very cold-time in the church that's why it's okay to say that this November one is the celebration.
I was so tired of that.
It is said that on Saturday, Mother Ping doesn't know what kind of soul that is really loved on your life, whose lives are the ones who really love your life, whose legs are really different; we also say that we are our fellowmen, but there are many who have died.
What does not know?
"Isn't it that only those that get hurt are the ones who have been killed; not only my family; that you have no one of your family, that you have nothing to do with me, but for how I think about it, I am also a strong rain here, it's also a strong rain here.
So this is what is this year of Brigada Eskwela to put this in an illusion that this is all the food that we are eating with each other on the beach with the box office that's why he / she's the one who takes care of us.
We were too eight years old because they have already known each other, but there are those who do not know that they are going to be held in Phase 4, but there are those who do not know that they've been known to be under a cringe at least in Tuesday inside the clothes; this is the successful shape-hearted people.
I said, sir, what I am asking for is, if this is being celebrated, we are celebrated, we are celebrated, the one who wants to take a mistake in the social gathering, and what you want is to be done by Leo yes, what is the only thing to do now that it is prohibited now.
Should the celebration be known as a celebration because it is not over sadness because this day is not over because this day is not over because he is a tricycle terminal.
It is a free call with no motorcycle.
A piggery, where do you live-in line, should now be the same with what we believe in them because of that.
It is pitiful because what happened to him is pitiful, it seems that we are not like that, right now, right?
We are very pitiful; we know that it is really prohibited for you to go with the exam but they really know that you are really sad, and if you are really sad, it's as if you are almost sad, and sometimes I am about to finish the brows as well because we might end up in brows.
One hundred pesos in the bus.
An expert worker who might make a bait.
The room was watching one's room.
Four o'clock.
Or, but what they are saying is that the reason why we are lonely and not because we lose in our village is what we need.
Husband, who was left behind, isn't it?
Back to you.
Still!
Choose another.
Different.
If we lost interest; as well as a person in our life, we have no right to think that we have no right to think that we don't have any right to think that he doesn't have to think that he has nothing to think of you.
You are going to sell even a person who is telling you busy.
What is it?
Thank you for a love between God, deport, pre-3618.
I am always looking at the alphabet; that you have a voice, you have a voice that you really love me, don't you need me because you really love me, because you love me very much.
!
That's okay.
I was able to say something like a person who was mentioned by Pareng Larry Boy who have forgotten that there is no name in a family in Yolanda, right in Cebu.
Who should pray for them, and then they can remember nothing from them, that is why this day is not good even if it is okay if we change.
One more than four others were surprised to remember all of those who died, especially you, "you did not say.
