Do you have a SONA?

"There is a question for the public service, for the government:" What is your SONA? "
For me, it is better to know the answer of a famous question: What is the SONA?, "we should answer the most important question:" Will you have a SONA? "
If we want to analyze the annual state of the United Nations (SONA) by the president of the Philippines, it is better to return what is written on Art. VII, Secretary 23 of the 1987 Constitution, "the President, which has been tainted and any kind of time."
I need to look at the written report of our Saligang Batas to the English language because this is what's moved compared to other theories, along with his own language, because it appears that the President should talk in Congress in the opening of a regular session. "
In English language, the obligation of President to face the Congress is clear because in the use of the word "epal" but in the social media, he is not obliged to make the President in the Congress "in English which is clear that there is a difference on the word" epal "" so it is clear that there is a difference on the word "epal" "that is clear."
Despite the weakness of the turmoil in the Constitution, it cannot be denied the recent appearance of the President in the Congress from 1936, it is clear that their obligation is being followed by general - on 1936; and even in 1986, this is the time when the second Filipino-1944 and even in 1986.
On the SONA of Benigno Aquino III on Monday (July 22), his fourth speech was last June 30, 2010, this is also the 45th speech of a President in the opening of Congress.
Do we still need to know the number of stars every speech?
If the message of former President Manuel Quezon to the First Class Asutilla) in 1936, it appears that the purpose of one SONA is to explain to the situation of the Philippines to determine the reason why the title of the speech of Quezon is simple in English: "On the Country's Day."
In the theory, the president needs to research in a way to explain the strength and weakness of the political leaders that should not be used to show or boast, but what is happening is that it is the theory, but what is happening with that you will borrow from you?
If examined by the third SONA of President Aquino on July 23, 2012, it is clear that there is a clear use of an animal and one-Fers to attract a chance to take off the straight path, just like when we started to get away from the straight path, just like when we started to get away from the road but to the social system. "
It is obvious that the careful and good use of words are really obvious in every opportunity that I will face a farmer, teacher, engineer, driver, of you, and it is said that this is not my SONA, and it is said that this is the SONA of the Filipino people. "
Hopefully there will be no problem in using a popular case presented, but there is still a collision between the current administration, but there is a clear collision between the current administration, but until now, there is a clear argument between our country, but until now, there is no one who wants us to continue our history, but the nightmare of the missing decades. "
There are many opposing progress but there is no explanation on how many citizens remain hard, there are evidence for the lives of many people, the information that the data gave is not good to make the positive and cover-negative.
If the basis was launched last July 1, for the government of YouTube that will have a place on YouTube that's why I am not hoping that the fourth SONA will be different from the past SONA: "(Dick), I did this SONA."
There can't be blamed for many groups and individuals if they are calling their flattery, they have a big problem in the Saligang Batas because the financial problem is not to be examined.
Now that we have an idea what is the SONA, it is better to answer more important questions: Are you not expecting to talk in front of the Congress because there are more important groups and individuals who are ready to listen to you, expect that there are more important groups of individuals who are ready to listen to you.
Again, my question: Are you in the SONA?
