!

The history of the reforms are widespread in the Philippines.
Although it has been two decades have passed since former President Corazon Aquino implemented the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program (COP), the farmers who have long been aspiring for the land for a long time will still have no relief for the land.
According to Fire P last 1988, we shared to the small farmers the total 7.1 million hectares of the country within 20 years, but until now, thousands of hectares still remain in the hands of the Lord and businessmen.
Different ways are being used by greedy so that they will continue to control the land that's happening for the two decades that they are planning to give protection from the farmers, and waiting for the sake of the earth, which is supposed to be given protection from the farmers, and waiting for the sake of the earth, which is expected to be given protection from the farmers, which is why it is proven that its beneficiary is worthy of the country.
Al the lack of lack of benefit from the farmers were closed in history, but despite this, former President Gloria Arroyo was implemented on 2009 when former President Gloria Arroyo was implemented on 2009 by former President Gloria Arroyo when he added five more years in the said program.
Now, under the leadership of Benigno Aquino III, it is still in the hands of the private companies in the Philippines, based on the record of bird Foundation, around 9,324 hectares that should be provided by the Aquino administration every month, which is expected to be distributed by the Aquino administration, when it is scheduled to pass by the PETR.
According to Aquino's previous SONA, he himself was able to finish his mother, but the data was started by his mother, however, the data was released by the Department of Agrarian Reform of DAR) but there was an estimated 921,800 hectares of land that were not distributed.
It became a big problem in the 2004 when the 2,000 Cambot who cover the 380,000 hectares of land caused it, 1.7 million and instead of almost 12.1 million pesos will be the beneficiary of the Black Nazarene.
There are many loopholes in the same cruelty of the farmers by the farmers who are similar to the farmers by many cases of Land conservation, example, that if the said programs are being driven by the farmers to give space to the said programs, this is the more enriching private corporation and the landlords.
The landlords of Aquino will also be an obstacle to the landlords.
Even in spite of the shortcomings of EdPER of the past three years, the path that the Marcos regime is taking down for the reform the fund allocated for hold of DAR in the next year from 30 billion employees of DAR, a Salik, which will add up to the slow verification of the land.
Meanwhile, according to the Congress, Genine Agrarian Reform bill (GARB), which is made to improve the cooperation of the farmers in the jurisdiction of the farmers, the free distribution of land, and giving enough funds to start all kinds of funding.
The data and decisions of the government are proof that the promise of Aquino will be successful under his leadership, under his leadership, there is still a trace of Aquino who is going to protect the private companies and underogatory like his relatives.
In the continuation of the PETR, the condition of the thousands of passengers will suffer more than a few decades that they were deprived of their own land to create a new history that will create a new history - not only for the farmers, but for the people.
