
Should be forsaken by de Lima Si Rojas; my favorite dizziness.

National Bureau of Investigation Director Nonnatus Rojas insisted on his statement that he was able to run to the Palace, so even his son Justice Secretary Leila de Lima and President Benigno Aquino III did not stop him.
Admirable is admirable because he has delicadeza who is not like De Lima who is not just like de Lima, who is not just taking a stand in order to resign from his duty even if Atty. Lorna Kapunan, the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one to choose, is the one who is the one to choose. "
The word to be able to choose during the time of a Japanese against the American those who are taking advantage of his fellow Filipino to be saved from the Lupit, Japanese.
Even the magistrates of Court of Appeals said that de Lima is saying that de Lima is saying that the media is asking the media that he is saying that the media is just asking the media that is why he is happy when he is famous in the stories of journalists, especially those in television.
During the first time that de Lima was not yet against Justice Secretary, the director of NBI did not allow him to talk about the cases they are holding but for de Lima, this is not possible or only because he is the only one with the authorities to talk like that?
Last Wednesday, the members of the NBI showed their grudge against the government before de Lima showed their support to Rojas that he showed their support to Rojas who has a strong resolve which was criticized by the President because he cannot be trusted.
Next to Rojas's resignation is the NBI Deputy Director for Civil Service Edmunso Diangco, that's why it's time for him to serve the said office so it is not timely for de Lima to follow the steps of his followers, delicadeza?
Um!
It is not only hard work and diligence in the chief of Plaza Miranda Police Station, that is why the management of the church in Quiapo is impressed by the church where the church is standing in Quiapo at the time of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada in the time of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
Usman's discipline was taught by the vendors and the personnel who refused by Minoras and Basilica Minore of the Black Nazarene) because he thought there will be no effect on the stubborn ones who are going to earn so they can earn so that their family will earn a lot.
Meanwhile, Anicete and his personnel were not able to show the goods of the nasty vendors or hang on the road such as the first chief of Plaza Miranda Community Precinct.
Anicete understands that their capital is still a connection to the 5-6 which is why he cannot make it hard to make them hard.
