Stupid, Kotong, criminal and skyway 3.

Two to three years will pass by the government to do different roads in the Malparts of Metro Manila, only one of the skyway 3 who will come from Makati City until Quezon City and Caloocan City on the projects that will be done within the said time.
Because of this history that started yesterday, it is expected that there will be more severe traffic in vehicles and people on the road to be done, the surrounding areas will surely be affected.
"That's also the traffic flow.
Criminals!
Many are thinking of a lot of people in order to ease the traffic, one of these is about the school, controlling the private vehicles and distribution of enough number of traffic enforcers and police.
The government hopes that the citizens will cooperate with it so it is possible that the latter will make a strategy against traffic.
Classes on 4 days.
The Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education agreed to let the four days in college as well but many of the private school are not allowed or just thinking about high school students, elementary and pre-school.
The private school said, how can we fill those who have no classes if there are typhoons and other kinds of calamities?, there is a set time for the research that led by the Department of Education (DepEd) and CHED.
Not prepared.
But what's easy to see in the problem is that school is not like that in order to let 4 days pass and it seems that the school would not be given enough time to prepare them as a response to the flooding.
It appears that everything was sudden, because the government decided to decide in driving the projects, the preparation is not that easy for the corresponding response of the school.
Stupid.
It seems like the students who are going to be affected are the projects that will be affected by the projects.
How will you not make the difference if only four days will be spent for the studies?
If it was only then that there is no problem, it is exported and our ranks of school in other countries, will not continue or worsen the condition of our students?
Already green.
One of the controlling in the traffic is the prohibition of private vehicles in a day in EDSA or in possible Metro Manila.
This is aside from the number cowards being implemented in the entire Metro Manila except for the days of Saturday and Sunday, MMDA Chair Francis Tolentino?
It is acceptable.
But, you should know, chairman, that the government does not hesitate to exchange for this.
"Is it being used by private vehicles to avoid traffic that are happening everywhere.
It is possible that it is possible for public vehicles to simply catch the thickness of their faces, police and traffic enforcer if they will just go outside their line that is scheduled for their franchise.
Too much, Bro, what is happening in LRT and MRT.
You are riding a derogatory and too much suffering, especially if you have luggage, or sick or pregnant or senior citizen.
Traffic Police and traffic?
It is clear that the traffic police and enforcers are not beneficial.
That is if they really do their duties to fix traffic.
But what if the arrogant people like this are in the side or dark parts to catch those who are accused of violating traffic laws, but what really is on their minds is to have a commission in their faces who are still in power!
Remember that almost money is on the mind of those who are on top of the top, not the fixing of traffic, the instruction of these to their personnel.
A few advice.
In order to lessen the traffic, Bro, in Metro Manila, the number of students who are working in their provinces from the school of their school in Manila are going to be less than their studies in Manila.
Because what is happening, Bro, when a student works, they are usually asked to be asked by the First Family even during the third year that they are in school in Metro Manila.
How will the government help the students that will be protected?
If the government can ensure the safety of the citizens from robbers, kidnappers for ransom and other public vehicles, perhaps many people will learn from the public to just use a private vehicle.
And the traffic enforcers and police are hoping that, hopefully they will not extort the legal and illegal manner the first to be attending to the streets to guide the motorists and the citizens.
