Christmas gift by Noynoy, additional expenses.

Many of our countrymen are full of noses this Christmas.

Why not, the huge increase in the price of oil is high, which is cooked by the products but despite that, the prices in the market still increased.
How big is the "vote buying" by our peso now?
My grandfather and grandmother said, that time when they buy one thousand pesos, they are almost hunchbacked for bringing goods.
Now, it has been ten thousand of them, only one finger was used by them to get stronger!
In the interview with President Benigno Simeon Coyo-Noy Aquino III (Bira 3), the construction of our economy is really slow in his good location.
Include the news that we are almost leading the entire Asia in "economic downfall." It is really envious of us for our neighboring countries,.
Yes, due to the severity of the governance of the regime of Aquino, there, a few billion dollars have passed again in the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and this is just the end, in South Koreans or exported Bank.
It's because it's because it's because it's as if money will buy-370 individuals.
Okay, if the military and police are modern in our police, but they are asking the people of the people now?
This was the last, the cabinet members expressed his cabinet.
In the arrival of the year, the fare will be increased by the running coffin of the DOTC! "
Onse, Philippines - the bad service of the MRT is really bad, what is their faces to increase the fare!
Reversed.
If they are charged by the electricity and water, when the price of the New Year 2015 came, when the price of the cooked and made of electricity will increase, what is the basis of the economy of Aquino?
Is it just because he is sad because his Christmas will be clear, that's why the people will get up to him?
As your intense Noynoy, your Christmas gift, additional expenses for the country while your allies, your allies, your followers, the followers of your agency, are going to have a bonus to the self-tempered!
