
He is still in the custody of the strongest military - Poverty.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 26, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) stated that there will be no idea of the law that will be punished with the abuse of human rights to the rights of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), 27 years after he was removed from the famous dictator by Pag-mindedness of EDSA.

"It has long been insisted by the victims of the law to know their fight and giving damage to the abuse they experienced during the time of the law," said the KP, as the reaction of the martial law, "however, they have more complaints."

"The Filipino people have long been hoping that the punishment for the most becoming a tight man, even the corrupt and most corrupt and most corrupt and most corrupt and most corrupt politicians, are in big businesses," said the KP.

"Included in the most becoming a cruel suspect, Colonel Gregorio" Gringo Honasan, and former Col. Panfilo Lacson, who are both members of the former Secretary of the Depensa ng mga Bayani, "said that Juan Ponce Enrile, the administrator of Marcos's cage.

"The AFP is one of the biggest obstacles in the struggle to achieve justice for the victims of the abusive military during the time of the military and under the Marcos regime," said PKP, "said the AFP who fought against the regime of the law of Marcos."

"Also in addition to this are the identification of the AFP, including General Jovito Palparan which is responsible for the series of anti-budol Gang in the past years and the military remains protecting them to be punished for the incessant crimes in the entire world."

"It was tainted with a hypocrite if the declaration of the support of the AFP to the law enforcers, the PKP," said that it is not appropriate for the abuse of the law, the AFP, who are involved in the martial law, the AFP, who are involved in the Oplan Galugad conducted by Aquino, are increasing in fear that the law were dismantled by the military. "

"
