De Lima talks frankly and the new appeal of Duterte to the UN.
By Ellen Tordescription of August 22, 2016 - Senator Leila de Lima directly denied the accusation of President Duterte that he is involved in the formation of illegal drugs.
In the press conference that he did at the Kamuning bakery last Saturday, de Lima said that he would be ready to resign or be shot in front of Duterte if the President will give the true evidence on what he accused at him.
"He said to resign.
De Lima advised Duterte to analyze the information that he is receiving so that she will not be embarrassed, "I will not want to be embarrassed to you and I do not want to happen, that is for you.

Whatever the evidence you are doing there, I am telling you that the evidence, "that is not true and fake, is not true.
"What can I do to you, who else have different kinds of information," can you face them right now and do you want them to be true to you... I will have to be true to you?
There.

It is better that I believe de Lima on the accusations that he is related to illegal drugs, "that is about his relationship with his driver, that is why he will not complain, and that is what is important is that he does not ruin his work as an official of the government.
I am worried about what the President is doing is preparing for the campaign against drugs to be embarrassed even if there is no evidence of evidence and murder.
The whole world has noticed what is happening in the Philippines that President Duterte is getting annoyed and threatened that the Philippines will leave the United Nations (UN).
"Mayanta is being deceived by the United Nations... if you are rude to you, we have left you there."

The UN founded on 1945 in the 1945 in the Philippines and the Philippines is one of the founding members or arrest of the organization whose mission is to choose peace in the world.
Last week, two officials of the UN are Agnes Devanadera, UN Special Rapisora, and Dainaga, the UN Special Rapisora, and Damayan Lagi, the UN Special Action Force this health which shows fear because of non-stop killings connected to the campaign of Duterte against illegal drugs.
Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador Panelo also answered that it is better to go here in the Philippines to see what really happened instead of talking in New York that Callamard received the challenge of Panelo.
That's why the rules, the government needs to invite the UN experts before he can enter it in order to see the real situation.
Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella has issued a statement that the President did not like the meddling of other organization with the problem of the Philippines.
