We celebrate Christmas, not enough.

Many of the officials of the government are all capable of giving pity that the crime is increasing because of poverty but they do not have any action to give solution to the long-time problem of the country.
In Manila, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada is trying to fight the poverty through the show of the change in order to give the dreams of every Manileño in order to improve their lives.
The mayor is giving attention to the flow of traffic, strengthening the forces for order and peace, livelihood, livelihood and proper collection of taxes.
But some officials of the city hall (others even have no direct role) and some barangay chairman is destroying the trust of the citizens especially the Manileños of the former President.
Because, Mayor Erap does not want to see the poor like those who are getting addicted to sweat on the road to earn a livelihood in a clean way but there are people who are insisting that they are close to the mayor and they are using the key to vote for the poor.
There are some of the chairman that they are searching for their jurisdiction that is why they make sure that those who are selling the sidewalks but the truth is because they want to collect "Atong" and when they do not give, they get rid of it.
Some officials (chairman, councilor and watchmen are also accomplices in the spread of gambling especially in video karera and drugs in their jurisdiction but if they act, they thought that they are really important to their citizens.
Only money is after it was made up by the expenses in the election.
There are also councilor of Manila who are pretending to be a good official in the government through helping the voters.
But what they help is all lies.
My goodness, officials should stop this, instead, they will help the mayor and vice mayor in the desire to improve and fix Manila.
Will the councilors make a form of form but nothing are worthless to give concrete solution to poverty?
Crime will not be gone, gambling and other illegal activities if poverty continues to prevail.
Congratulations to my Jewel Reyes Anne Pascual, which was a Her elementary level and resident of Tayuman, Nini, said, Santi and Kuya Heinhardening.
