Where is my conscience?

If President Noynoy thought that his fight against corruption in the government was successful in the initiative of some senators, that is where he is mistaken.
And it is a big mistake, I agree.
In his / she thought that he is succeeding, it is certain that he would inherit the Pogi "traslacion" and a proof on his coming SONA.
There is also someone who is with Aling Gloria to teach him the blame for all bad luck that I love in the Philippines I love.

Why is there a big mistake?
Because it is not just an equivalent to Pogi "traslacion" and a proof that he is an ally filed against plunder and corruption.
The clarity that there are 13 incumbent Senator who is involved with Janet Lim-Napoles scam and many are allies of PNoy.
Ex-Senator is still different because many of his allies are still different, and his followers and allies in the Kamara and his children in Malacanang are different.
It is clear that they are submerged in the Pageist, Benhur al list and Ping list, but they are not in the list of Doña Conchita Morales-Carpio so they can also be charged with corruption and corruption.
This is Budget Secretary Butch Abad, a architect of Disbursement Acceleration Program and it is also not on the list of Doña Conchita, even on the list of Madam Justice Secretary Leila de Lima.
When he was captured by the Commission on audit Grace Pulido-Tan, why are they only being shot by senators, it led Abad's doing.
It's only three senators who are allegedly sent out the paper canals in the DBM of Abad.
Kitulaan, PNoy?
Disrespect of truth and justice, "PNoy.
And if we hold the truth and for sure, the people will not forget us.
Even in the election, it is even if the government is left behind.
In other words, judicial system, "PNoy left in Malacanang, that he should be treated.
As early as now, the remaining handling of the position is only two years and it should start the search for the countries who have no effect of the Philippines for the declaration of the criminal cases.
"I was calling for a text message.
Because he / she was sure of her being imprisoned, his anger will be brought with him all his followers.
Ehek, hmmmp!
That is where they will be experienced in Champoy, the taste of Filipinos for those who are pushing the lies instead of the truth and abuse instead of justice.
"Isn't it, Secretary Butch Abad, haunting, haunting!
That's why, if it is PNoy, I will prepare for an investigation and file the other senators, congressmen and members of the cabinet, next to those who are going to act on them.
This is to make it up to the feelings of the people that he feels like the truth and justice.
That is where the trust and cooperation of the citizens in the government should start, for us to change and progress already.
