The opposition is in the ocean near the sea that's why I know he is Paulo.
My wife grew up pregnant with what he had a drinking buddy, he had a chance to check up on the ground that's why I am okay with my first child.
I always take a check up.
It's okay that, on the other hand, they are not able to see each other on the other hand, "
About eggplants, he is riding the hospital.
Why did you not call me?
It is all over if they have a sound in my heart.
I just let me have seen me.
Yes.
Okay.
Already asleep.
I noticed that he has no plans on the breast and then on the telephone, I thought I was surprised with my child yesterday in my mind.
Of course it's out that I got out of rice for me not to be surprised, of course you will be surprised by your older brother who is not given to us by his family or all.
I feel that it is okay if I have no fare, I am also talking.
He / she was very lonely; he / she was not far from that, but I was not far from that, she was okay to look at that, but he / she was okay to play while the child was playing, he was only playing with his playmates.
He teases him that he would be sold, he / she has tons of people; they are hungry; they are hungry; it's as if he / she is still hungry; it's as if he / she wakes up, which is why he / she wakes up, with a huge body.
Ah,
I thought it would be a big thing that I would get bigger because he / she has not yet passed away and he / she was still not able to see him / her for a peso, he / she can see him / her to Noguera and it seems that he is just a normal school that's why she's okay.
Nothing more than the success.
When we talked for a high school where we lived here, we went here in Bulacan for a high school.
I did not go inside because it's as if he's the only one talking about it, so I said.
Now that he goes to work because he might be hardworking; he can still not be helpful to your parents, that's why he / she didn't want to be helpful to his parents, that he / she only stopped many things that's why he wanted to take a life for him.
He entered me and he was just looking for a life and he was only left alone in her siblings in Asia.
It's because she's at home when she's already the eldest.
Hmmmp!
My second, what kind of job is, I really say if he is drinking in the house now, I feel that I am the one who helped in the house that is why I am in the house where I am in the house, she is very kind; he / she thinks that it's my blood, my blood, sir), to pay attention to the bills of some water.
You are very tired that's why we are tired; we are very tired, under the rice harvests; because I really do not have anything to change; we really do not have any other motorcycle that will happen next to him that he has a wife, who looks like a couple, who has a while.
That is when we are joking when he goes home to me if he has been an artist who is an artist; so that all people do not care about him what he is doing, he does not pay attention to him.
Even if it was noticed that it was better for him to tell him that maybe he is always looking at him, so I told him.
Do not pay attention to you as long as you are in a peaceful life, but I said to him that it is normal.
Zero.
What he said, I am looking at the indigenous people who are looking at each other everyday so the hard work is really six-six but in a true love.
Two.
"When you are riding a bus, you think you have a headache to you, even if I continue to have a trip, I still do not have a meeting, that's why I am still a lot of things that I will call.
Yes, of course, of course, I do not have anything to do, that's why I still love something like this.
Covetous, fur.
Because he has two problems.
It's a waste for a bus that will be broken into a bus, and then there is a plastic bags that will be seen in the hospital, it's as if someone who takes care of the hospital is very weak; not just going back to others, maybe because of your girlfriend, the Whole will go back to the Whole so that they would not go back to the Whole.
March twenty-year-old; he / she went to the March year-old, because you want one one five hundred eight people.
He was speechless.
We will sell it because we might just be able to make it only for fare.
Nothing.
