
The image of the Philippines is the robbery of the Salisi Gang in a Dutch body of the Salisi Gang Group.

By Boy Abunda.
March 6, 2012.

All kinds of style.
Here is the bad news related to the robbery of the Salisi Gang in a Dutch hip with the Salisi Gang Group.
It was scheduled on Wednesday last week when it was hailed by the all style Division in SM Baliwagan, Bulacan.
The construction of the group is usually in the area for four o'clock in the afternoon because it was stated in our contract on SM Marketing in the Mall of Asia that each contestant has been washed away.
But it was past five o'clock when it was still no shadow of the all style Division that's why our imagination has played.
Once before the start of the mall tour around The Netherlands, the manager of the group who brought them to the Philippines and brought them to the Philippines, Arlus said, why did he get carried away here are these Koreans.
Santiago also said that she took advantage of the production of the mall tour and sister of the production of the mall tour and sister of the machine of writers, Ludivides Bautista, that if it is possible, the NBP should stop the mall together after going out in SM Marikina City, the very first place of the height of height.
He / she was wearing.
This is because there is no money coming from overseas but ex-mindedness, that meaning is only things or product or service in exchange of commercials.
Artuz was sent to exasled because he spent P58,000 pesos for her ticket to the airplane of the members and she knows that he will not return to him anymore.
He has other expenses but we agreed that we will stand this.
He / she was wearing.
What is why Santiago was completed and placed under the fulfilment of her plans?
But it wasn't the case but a member of the all kinds of style Division in-Tropical Convergence Zone at the corner of Scout Borromeo and Panay Avenue were robbed.
According to Arlus said, after guests and dance to a liter, "together with Jilian was together, they went and order the food in the area, but before that, he was able to make money from the bank near the Food Park.
But he / she's been robbed and forth when he took his son who is a member of the group.
The cellphone, money, ATM and civic works, video camera and other valuable things were taken from the mother and child which is why they are not following the end of Balikatan because they need to report it to the police.
He / she was wearing.
According to Arlus said, his visitors have been saddened and sad about the heinous incident.
"Walis image of the Philippines?
What will the whole world say in the Philippines?
But this is also happening in other countries that is why it is really widespread in our country.
Poverty is one of those pushing bad people to do not right.
That's why there is a need to cooperate with all sectors especially those who have money to become proud of the poor.
