"We will be able to break-off; we have to talk to each other; we talk about it because the employees are experiencing poverty.
It's as if we are talking about something like that, a little bit more; we are tired with the rain and then Villa-Diaz, there is an exchange of hope for the title of Two people to be able to accept the First Quademia of Two Wives.
Let us talk, that maybe, it's cheaper, whose sister-and-government are making a knee so the National Security Administration would be with a job with the farmers who will be with a job and we will be with Miss Philippines.
You will personally give to me.
This is a good opportunity to do.
They sometimes know if I have mentioned the audience 'worth of Iriga letters for us.
It is the former Fajardo who went to the legislative chamber.
Two four or we will see rain.
I do not have a cellphone that we do not have a big problem, but we have not yet seen any big problem in Cavite Nueva Ecija that we have a couple in Isabela and this is now in Bulacan.
Two have not yet been problems for now.
For now a mechanic is, but I said a while ago, we have an idea that the arrival of the five members of the 'Cemetery will be implemented.
Bring a clarification on what is being shown in preparation for the dark things to happen.
We are very pitiful; we are the biggest problem, our biggest problem is our right name.
Because our water is coming from there is a waste.
As of now, they are Zailon and Calayes; we are still young.
This is where our irrigation is coming from here in the parts of Bulacan and then, we are calling the local government.
We were able to say that there was a payment for fireworks and then that's only a voice, which is why he / she was always being taken by August when we were always in August.
Two people are being supported by us now.
That this November.
Third floor, what we are calling on is what we're calling on this November.
You are applying.
That is why there is a different kind of gate in the gate with a small needs of Two people.
And going to that's where he's taking a bath in that Administration as the leadership of the administrator of Joker still.
Very short; we can show that all the plans that I give in, we will accommodate the small things that we are calling for, we will be able to make an outing; the advice of his friend Boy's advice, whose advice is Boy's advice.
But in the other part of what you will fulfill, the reserved water for you will not be irritated with us, which is why it's being annoyed by one to be annoyed by one who are applying for a tricycle driver, which is why he was able to fight back to a tricycle terminal.
That is what you are doing now.
We went straight to myself to us with the men.
Ten-in-four are wounded, wherein they were there, electrician who was there.
Okay.
As early as now we have already talked about what we are farmers, and we are delightful to the governance of what happens within?
Do not think first.
I want to send a long distance that's why he was able to go ahead, on Monday to his aunt.
It's because we have friends who do not want to be the one who wants to go to ten years.
Even if you have to save the new technology, these might be able to send money because when there will be no rain here, we can't really do everything so that they can see everything so that they can't do anything so that they can't have any case.
I used to go to Saudi since he is going to support or all of us in a resort because she really loves me to serve as a resort; but if she really doesn't have anything to serve, he / she really doesn't have an idea that she would really have an outing at the door when we have an outing.
.
I do not have something like that, because we are our countrymen Star, also in big places, which can be disconcerted; and Yap.
For its subsidy, it is only right that we are asking for what we are applying for.
You don't have to be cooked like being stepped on and in case he has a voice even if he has a voice.
We can't take advantage; we can't take away that we can't take it from the financial loss; we are always the first of our farmers in the house because they are always in the house because they are always looking for their food.
Second, he might even ask anything.
Sometimes it's only a problem if this has been used for what we did for a plan and what we are doing.
It is supposed to be harvested which can be harvested with Marquez to be our farmers in line.
You are like mung beans.
You are concerned.
Easy to sell it.
Sometimes, you will be prompt.
They have a big chance to be able to catch up with Marquez.
What are you?
Houston Rockets, Houston, last Sunday to school Samar.
This is indeed the problem of the farmers, like that.
They are repeating ourselves because they are not doing anything.
Those I do not want to repeat, what are the video that they have lost, so they don't have any idea, any of the Chairman, which is not only one of the Chairman, who is not only one of, who is not only in different parts of the Philippines.
You are going to make the Philippines so that you will be placed there.
Beside us to sleep with us, what will happen is what we need to buy.
It is raining there that they will be sold, that's why they earn money.
There are Eric, who seem to be four years old and has sent the report on Saturday.
They are the ones who voted here, who are similar to each other; I have a lot of training as well as they have a lot of training.
Yes, then our farmers can be brought to what they are getting addicted to, it is big that the Department of Department will make it when it comes to the 'game.
Here, you have not mentioned anything that you are from standing and that is the typhoon Two years since he died.
In their school, Mommy, what I saw now is what we saw right now, which is why in the province, it is really free to be affected.
Covetous, deport; versus ha Information Office.
A pattern in Central Luzon is being said to be a person who will really be hit by a friend here just like that.
You seem to be able to pay attention to those who are able to pay attention to these kinds of places in crowded places.
You are close to each other; we are very small; don't you sympathize with the lot you want, yes.
All of you should be placed in the beginning of fear.
It can be seen for two pesos there that I have told the truth about what he / she said earlier that we should have a little seconds after we talked to each other every time we have talked to each other and a farmer in a while ago because he / she said that you should be first.
Rolly Nana has been exhausted; we are given the same age to the farmers whom I do not know, whatever we need to lead, we say that we can lead to our aunt because we have nothing to choose from there because it is a Filipino Year even if there is no Ernie Manio.
When it comes to the crisis, because of the crisis, our farmers are full of water from duty, how your farmers are lacking in duty, and then those in the province do not listen to them because that is Jack.
"Who will benefit the things that you will benefit from the hours that you should adjust, so that you can no longer be cut off, so you don't have the advice to eat while Juan is very hard to do.
That's why we are not happy that we are not happy that our fellow countrymen are not happy.
It's a good news that we know that we are ready, we are ready for what we are saying when the viand of your viand is to make sure that we need something.
You will go to Saturday and year term.
