There is no angel in the Senate and the palace.

It is as if there is no angel when it can be seen in Congress and the palace.
It is already different when they are living in the West houses to call.
It is sacred because you will not allow you to enter there without a decent appearance.
More than more, the bosses of the citizens are living together.
And there is nothing when saying that the citizens are the bosses of the people in the disputed areas.
P100 million pesos for the impeachment.
Senator Jinggoy Estrada broke down on what and where the 50 million Priority Development Assistance Fund led to each senator who voted in the removal of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona this past year.
But at first, when he was in the middle of his departure speech about his post, the high value to the senators who voted against Corona is no doubt.
And this will no longer be erased in the mind that even though Jinggoy has heard the message of Jinggoy's message, it is hard to make it back to another meaning, even Jinggoy will be able to make it back to the barbells.
P4.8 billion pesos for the trial.
The people who have heard in the minds of the people who have heard the complaint of Jinggoy already has P450 pesos released by the powerful in the months of January to May 2012.
This is the time of the hearing of Corona which led to the removal of him last Mayor 29, 2012.
This means, all the congressmen who will be disappointed with Corona from the legislative chamber are benefiting from the huge money that they are from.
And with the senators who became greedy with PDAF, the senators had additional PDAF, P58,000 pesos per hour.
Who served as congressmen, will there also be an additional PDAF?
Drilon and Abad are not okay.
It is not necessary to clarify who the money released by Secretary Butch Abad by the Department of Budget and Management and Senate President Franklin Drilon related to the impeachment.
What is important is it seems like they are throwing dirt and holding the money that you are holding in these times and the money that they are thrown away due to politicians who will be thrown away for politicians.
Jinggoy does not need to say who are behind those who are behind the fact that the P58,000 pesos and PDAF to the senators and P4.8 billion PDAF just for the congressmen and senators.
271 congressmen.
To complete the revelation of the Tuwid na Daan, the 271-71 senators who are involved in those who will be involved in PDAF will not involve the issue.
The lower and obligation of the government is not needed to investigate and file a case.
I know.
What is important now is to go to barangay.
And this is talking.
It is proven by Jinggoy about the widespread hope and playing with people in the public funds.
Even though it is hard to erase the intensity of Jinggoy and some of his colleagues, they have something to do with the pork barrel made by Janet Lim-Napoles, that the news spread will not be forgotten.
And Jinggoy does not need to talk about who are behind Abad and Drilon who are behind the mud using the money money.
Very horny.
There is only one thing to do with Jinggoy about his post.
The whole truth will only be seen in the internet if this will be followed by the appropriate cases like what is done to him and his fellow senators.
Until the case filed in relation to the burial, it will remain to be broken.
And was a bag.
Straight path.
If Jinggoy will not do the filing of the case, who should be the one who should take care of his opponents?
Is it enough to tell the Tuwid na Daan that the name of Jinggoy is responsible?
If we will go back to the impeachment, there are times that the root of the record of the bank against Corona is suspicious, like a small woman and other appearance of the people.
"Tuwid na Daan, is it a move to know the truth about Jinggoy's death?
If this will not happen, this means something.
"I will not respond.
This means by the Tuwid na Daan towards the court regarding the decision of Jinggoy is easy to understand: No one can be transferred to the cross.
Hehehe!
If this happens, the country will be the pitiful ones.
They are just playing with the power and money of the people.
But when will this kind of trend come last?
If back then there is EDSA 1, now there is already a million of March.
It is scary to think that the seat of the million of March is not just going to Congress but in Malacanang.
Remember, that!
