Lamut, By Rey Marchil, October 3, 2016.
After President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte took a statement on July the incessant expenses of the government like the roads have no consideration and local officials, many of our countrymen are hoping that the councilor and local government will stop.
But it seems that some of us are numb about the sentiments of the country; they do not care about the politicians who are going to be followed, aside from the policy that he should be followed, except if it is the policy of being a thick and becoming an outburst of marble, which is why there is no feeling.
In the Armed Forces of the 116th National Police Office of the Philippine Civil Service, currently heading to the shore of Boracay Island in Paoay, Aklan, up to 60 employees of a municipal hall in Romblon, Aklan, reached for 60 employees in the province of Romblon, Aklan, up to 60 employees in the province of Romblon, Aklan, two days ago that their fellow countrymen were deployed in service.
In the story of those who want to confess, on Thursday, the group going to Boracay; although there is no official declaration about the Palace in Malacanang, it was like a long weekend for the children of the fake few. "
According to you, my fellow countrymen in Romblon, March, Women's Month, this month will be held today, but the said team building in Boracay is going to be raised in the celebration of this theme, but I don't want to think of the funds for March, being the act of September-October.
And there is a theme of your brains, public service, public service, and concern for the people, both employees, and nature, and concern for the people, I do not know - that is what we should ask for our countrymen.
It is just the trip of the country, why don't you put any activity in the country, like this... "Tor Sebureaucracy in their country and will have an important information in visiting the two shabu laboratory that they have saved as a" crime rate. "
According to Alejandrino in the former leader of the Hampton of the Philippines, it cannot be considered as a military official of the former rebel Party of the Philippines, Madi went to a local official or employee of the shabu lab to immediately report to the authorities if they do not know the appearance of these.
The mayor is also hoping that from the visit of other LGU, they can use the new knowledge about the campaign of the government against illegal drugs.
"It is not like the usual" team in-building "and" LMB in order, "that the truth is, all of our allies, and prize to those who are allies, and prize for the allies," will be put in a lesson to the country that he works for.
