
The UPP-INTECAYETANO!

A gathering of television is what was once moved by my attention.
During the time of the campaign for the election and one politician is being sold by said commercial drivers, nothing is different from the latest words left by the politician in a long-term "" "" ""
In our life many times that we have been hoping to be happy and be happy, the path that we are taking in order to achieve it just like the Filipina OFW, Gina, is also different.
Gina's family is only poor, that's why when she is given a chance to leave the country and work as a domestic helper in Singapore, she immediately accepted it that she will bring comfort and "will eventually come to her family.
"Our life there (the Philippines), it's simple, that's why I went here," my husband lost a job, so we talked that if there are times that I will go abroad, the reason why I went abroad, "he was able to go here."
However, she thought that it was not a long time that she will bring her joy because the treatment of Gina's employer to her was calvary.
"" The former owner of the Chinese, is with two children, he has two children, sometimes, I am sleeping at 12: 00 in the hour, "when I was already sleeping, I was already sleeping in my salary," when I was already hungry because I was hungry. "The story of Gina was emotional.
In the hope that he will be met with more beautiful opportunities in the said country, almost two years and he stayed in and endured his employer.
"Everything I endured in hope is that I might see a better employer," he added.
Not long before, the chance that Gina is waiting for was that, she saw a boss who has a heart for those like him, who helped her so that she will slowly start.
From the bad nightmare of his past.
Again, his travel is started towards success and happiness that he is hoping for.
There are many people who want to be happy, but there are times that they are looking for it in wrong places, things or situation that they think is good or good, but what's important is that they are holding the key to the happiness of what you desire.
