Filipino worker as a nurse, Nanny, "

By Joanna.
October 11, 2014.

(Part of the testimony of the actor on the Dilawan, he / she has already known each other.
After a travel to Canada, Germany and United KimXi.
In the pen of Geraldine Prayt, together with Calamudi, co-Canadian and professor in Canada, Dula day, based on 15 years of research on the 22-year research in Canada and to his partner during the 30-year celebration in Canada and his partner during the 30-year Labor Law Policy "(COP) of the Philippines.
"
- a goodness, illegal Filipinas in Canada.

According to him, as proof, a specialist Filipina in front of the two paper that was born in relation to the care and care of the family is out of being out of his character and rights.
In this point, "Nanay" said that "Nanay" will become the sole truth of their own children to become Mother / her own relatives in another country.
Prayt and Johnston in the three purpose to attract "Mother" in the Philippines, "said the justice of their families and relatives, which is usually seen by the leaders of the US, Germany, Russia and Saudi Arabia, which is being blamed by the members of the Philippines, which is why this is being blamed by the members of the Philippines, which is why this is being blamed by the members of the Philippines, which is why the character of Philippine Foreign Affairs Rep is being blamed.
But is the leader of the policy to become domestic workers abroad. Fight IT.
In this point of view of the embassy of the Philippines in Germany, those who have been holding their way from Berlin, November.
In the arrival of "Mother," we want to go back to the briber is the complaint of illegal Filipinas and the lack of justice under the tandem of Discipline Office at the end of Dr, in the survey and aims to build a survey, unity and relationship.
Thank you, thank you for an intensive care of Hooters Restaurant to thank you to the intensive care of the Pambansang Kamao?
"Publishing back," Nanay "
It has been more than 6,000 pesos that has been away for more than six months in the speed of 24-month-coloured house for two years or more than Lola Guarda, she left the two children in the Philippines to work as a house helper and nanny of the old and children in Canada.
Monina's stories are featured on Dilawan, Michelle, Joweelyn Jumilla, Joanne Angelina Quinto and her daughter, Michelle (Joanna Lerio Bompat, her daughter who was separated from her daughter, Michelle (Joanna Liminangcong), who was not able to send a simple dream to her daughter, Michelle (Joanna Liminangcong).
Meanwhile, the story of the couple Canadian, who needed a partner in the house (Patrick Keating and Hazel Venzon), and Rep / agent from the government of Canada and the Philippines (Keating and Lex Marcos) are living together.
In Dr, the briber is the brightness of a travel inside the annual process, which is usually used by the theater but instead of the space that is usually used in the presentation ("Pogi") at the lobby.
The left lobby of shingles in a low floor served as the brightened up for different parts of the Montenero and a conversation with another group of Tausug for each other, they can listen to the route of Calanoga), while one of his supporters is in English but some of his followers are in English but some of his followers did not hear in English but some of his followers did not hear in English but there was a huge interpretation of the director and the actor.
It can be said that it is a heavy and an old person who attacked "being a victim and a famous story of the briskly, but this former is still alive, and this story is still alive, and it can be said that this story has become a way to discuss the complications of cybersex dens which became the brightened up.
The lawsuit against the character of corrupt workers is the challenge of broken chairs for Filipinos, Canada, "heaven" and for the Canadian, the Filipino (OFW), "like the Nihonggo."
It is estimated that an estimated 35 million people in Canada, 80s, Filipino or with Chinese residents passed through Liwag from 1993 until 2009 or more than 4207 to them and will finally live in the Philippines and have been left alone in the Philippines (Tantos).
In this data, the Philippines is coming out as the opposite of the needs of a pencil in Canada to the Philippines, it has been an issue on 2012 for 33,000 Filipinos, more than 1,000 square meters from Canada who have a permanent "house" in Canada with his family.
As the suspension of the status of illegal workers, particularly the house-helpers of the elderly, with disabilities and children, with the questions in the Philippines, with disabilities, the effect of the two policies, in the field of economy and culture of the two countries.
It can be recalled that illegal activities involving the relationship of those who give jobs while the Philippines are benefiting from their services, the Philippines is benefiting from the services of a remittance of the Philippines, the Philippines is benefiting from the country who has the highest treatment that reached $24 billion (2012).
That is why, illegal Filipinos are called "a new hero" by every embassy and the president of the country, this is the problem of our society, this is the problem of our society, that is why it's my problem that we are opposing because according to a few thousand cases and statements gathered by VC.
The primary things in Canada are the primary equipment of Canada for the filing of the opportunity for the Filipino workers but it is clear in its provisions that the obligation of a boss in the house of the employer, a lot of Filipinas, which proves the violations of the employer, Joanne Angelita Doren.
The relationship of those who give to the Philippines and Canada to the Philippines is complicated, as they need to face the question by the Filipinos, which is why the role of the Philippines' role is dependent on the veins of the country, which is why the role of the senior citizen in the Philippines last 2013, which is why the role of horny's role can be included in the root of illegal immigrants. "
At this point, the relationship of the Philippines-Canada is going to be given to the councilors of the Philippines such as the lack of land in Canada, which is higher than the salary of Canada, which is higher than the salary of Canada that is higher than the wages of the Philippines but in exchange of illegal activities in work such as violence of women.
On the other hand, it is said that an truth is that the government's refusal of the preservation of the cup of P in spite of the scope of Marcos from the time of Marcos until the current of 1974 Omnibus Election Code.
As a total exchange of service, the funds of illegal immigrants like Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo Scam should be tainted by the Overseas absentee voting law (2003) for the representatives of the sector in congress last 2010. This is in spite of the huge amount of tax in congress last 2010.
That's why illegal Filipinos cannot help to think that he is going to milk the government and the worst action is what is happening in other countries, the most serious action of cases brought by agencies, plunder, low wages, violation of contract, rape, imprisonment and death penalty.
The history of the workers from the colonization is long since it is related to the implementation of illegal Filipino workers in different parts of the community in Saudi, 2013), based on the Lapian ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino, 2013), the struggle of Moro Islamic Liberation Front in Saudi, 2013), to be able to study in America.
As a project for the art of arts, which led to the real world and its complications for the members of the indigenous people in different towns, it is time to express the experience and struggle of more or less 15 million MT.
Even though Mother Milagros was not directly said, a Dilawan, with the alliance between the Philippine Womb of the Philippines, this is a big step in front of many cases of violation of the Philippine Womb of the Philippines, which is a big step in front of the Philippine Women's goal in front of many cases of illegal gambling dens in front of the local government to serve as a equal strategy of the economy of the country.
It can be recalled that the Magdalena, Carta for Overseas Filipino Workers (Republic Act 842) three months ago, this was signed by the Philippines but not in Canada for the local 1.5 million house helper, the International Convention Center (2003), the International Convention Center (2003), the International Convention Center (2003), the International Convention Center (2003).
