
Lovi, Rocco is super busy in vacation, even lock the lock!

It can be seen on Lovi Poe's face that she was alone in the vacation of Rocco Nacino in Europe, the actress was able to tell us about the story about this.
"There are many people in Europe, he said," he said. "
"But Fight of IGAPAMORE by the Holy Week, we went there where we were little.
"The message of the crown of Jesus.
"Enticing's GAPAMORE by the Pamadan be given fun.
"Well, also included in the" But, "
What else will they have been to in different places?
"We, to the Vatican City, that was the most in place I have been to.
"We are all worried about the Pope... we were little at the mass at Pope Francis so that it is a good timing, everything has a good timing."
Rocco, he / she was really proud of that form of their form and he was posted yet in nude in Facebook fan.
"Yes right!" Lovi laughed and laughed.
"IT's fun.
"So, the Kapuso actress was posted yet?" The Kapuso actress laughed again.
"We, Rocco, I was able to get the feast, so we have a lot of us that we are not losing hope.
"He / she" he / she was the one to be included in his studies.
"Hey, we are really the only plan to be in Seal my sister in London, But," we was we, "we'll be able to go to, which is why he's going to be a Catholic Church,"
There are times that they are going to do something in nude which have been posted by Rocco who is able to see too much.
"Yes,.
"He asked me as if he / she was able to catch me as if he / she went to the Eiffel Tower.
"WILwe, I was able to watch out, that's when I went to school.
"But I have also had a point, thank you, thank you to the Eiffel Tower," Special behind bars.
"It seems that I am just dreaming, because you know" he / she already knew.
"But Fight IT.
"He / she said that he / she was in the same age, he / she could avoid the one that took place.
She could not avoid that... that she was being given for a disadvantage.
"And then we went to the doctor-lock Bridge."
They also lock the lock of the said area which is being visited by those who placed the locks and giving up, threw the key to the water?
"Will the will be," the actress just answered again.
"We, in London, London, Paris," she is talking to other places that he will go to Rocco.
Did he have new acquaintances and personality of the actor in the two weeks of his vacation in Together?
"You know, here is it that I am proud that I could not avoid him in a Street of Rome, our First Division.
I saw a sigh.
"I want to buy the case of the love one so that Rocco is going to bargain!
"I wonder that I do not know how to bargain and all of which started to bargain, I was just watching.
"It was already finished for a low price because he was able to respond to it, I said that what you really came from is really good!
"There are two more, duh! It is still two of what I received."
Rocco is the one who paid for this?
"It is no! I have paid, of course.
"Epal's, my Purisima, I don't want to raise him up, okay!
"We, a boat named We, a boat was we was impressed by.
"Krrrik," we are just full. "
"That now!
