Roxas being involved in the gambling and PPP) program.

Here in us, make sure that you are hard when your life is really bitter.
The head is painful in thinking how to make the stomach pain, the back to sleep is painful but it hurts a little bit painful but it can only be a thrift shop.
But this is the more painful thing that the masses are experiencing, especially our great workers who are paying taxes as their feet, hips and knee because it causes food in MRT and LRT.
"Why do you think," Sushoy, Tangere, since they used the said mass Transit since 1999 (LRT), that is why we only have been used in an elevator and an escalator.
While the LRT is going to extend to Munoz, Quezon City, only after two months, he has been used for two months together with their escalator in an elevator.
We are extremely saddened whenever I enter the LRT station, because I can still see the steep stairs going up to the tram, I want to back out.
Here is more, we feel that up to night are tired of going up and while on the trip, the congested, hot and unusual smell came from the sweat of the passengers.
I just thought, what they are calling the mass Transit or for the masses is opposite, while the project is baffling is contrary to the public service or PPP program) that is still not moving.
"It's just all," said barangay officials, no one was sold, assigned to a cave!

The advocacy of your servant, the fight is to fight illegal gambling, that's why we mentioned it, fine, that seems to be cemented and without fear with the policemen.
Paraloy, we are surrounded by our AOIL there in QC, the fine of her face, fine, which is why it is exposed to be under the entire Quezon City, and based on, they are in Barangay Batasan and Fairview.
"What do you think?
Oh no, what we are moving towards?
I just can't think about it, how can our police go directly, when their badge have no use?
They cannot force them to catch them like the fine drop of money from the poor so that they will have something to gamble.
It's not just that, the gambling damage will also damage the future, aside from being lazy.
You act, Secretary Roxas, because you are destroying you fine!
