
Number Rementibureaucracy, Nunber 1244; "says out from the eyes of shouting.

By Filipino Weeker of November 6, 2014.

The recovery of the citizens of Eastern Visayas or different space is being taken away by the citizens of Eastern Visayas, one year after the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda in Leyte, together with different activities of the New People's (International Airport), and accompanied by various types of calamities in Leyte, we talked to them.

Tacloban was looking back to the top of the destroyed boat of KR Guda in Tacloban City, November 8, and not to go back to the field, but not to go back to the farm where the sun was piled up early, from different churches.

An estimation of 20,000 people went to the Nazareno, from different parts of Samar and Leyte, they came from different parts of Visayas and Leyte, and for those victims of Yolanda, who were also complained by the local and national government, from rescue until the rehabilitation of their crops and houses.

In the acceptance of the people in Tacloban to Dilawan, the flyer of "Noynoy Aquino, all of them, are all forced to fight," many of them, were made into a picture of the people who also joined.

Aquino was once again held at the end of the protest of the People's Surge. KR Guda, who was briskly, in Ormoc, Leyte.

This is due to the anger of those from Tacloban to the administration that it cannot be denied that Yolanda hit the first days and weeks after Yolanda hit the city that is headed by the mayor, Roxas himself, is the enemy of the Aquino administration.

Up to now, the official who has been dead in Tacloban has left more than 6,000 people in the talk of Tacloban, the true dead (May 23) that reached to 18,000 have died before.

The program of the People's Surge in town hall is clear, the message of the people there: A part of the desire of justice will rise from the position of President Aquino, they burned the division of the people who died or has a taking of life.

After the rally, I went to one of the ships in Tacloban which was washed away by the storm surge caused by the ships that were not yet done by the ship, which is why, there were houses of P5,000, the owner of the boat promised to pay their houses to 10,000 pesos to 10,000 pesos to leave there.

Like them who are living in the temporary rehabilitation center, who were asked to leave because there will be an operation of Road 10, or the people living in the said government, "

The day is finished for remembering their homes in the entire city, beside their houses, on the road, there is nothing enough in the number of tragedy that they experienced and are experienced by the citizens here.

(LPG)

The farmers from Samar were able to make an inspiration while they were crossing the San Juanico Bridge in Tacloban City, the fisherman and other colleagues from Basey, Samar.

At the arrival of the afternoon, the scene is already a protest, after a short collections of the DSWD, thousands have marched towards the near building of Kapitolyo, office of Governor Dominic Petilla, of course, the sister of energy Secretary Jericho Petilla, who once promised to resign from his position if there is no electricity in Leyte last year.

Many residents said in different towns that we have been to.

The call for Aquino was the cause of the thousands of members of the People's Surge and immediately closed the office of the office, it seems that the employees were afraid of their doors open, "that is not the church."

It was owned by the citizens! "Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), of the microphone who was reported to have been seen by the protesters, but they did not see anything like a little pusher and knocking it, and they also left.

In the day, for me, the thousands of farmers' worth of farmers and other sectors from the areas of San Juanico Bridge are going to Leyte.

It will be remembered that, and they have started to use the torch of the longest bridge in the whole country, they are able to make an inspiration from the whole country.

A long-year-old man was held in front of the Astrodome in Tacloban City, which became the evacuation center of many residents of the city after the typhoon last year, but not as victims.

(LPG)

From far away, it was able to reach the old rice field which hit the black rice paddies in the town where it was watched over by the rice companies in the town, which is why it was given an operation by the mining companies in the area, which contains an operation of the mining companies that hit their land, according to Jesus.

Together with the delegation of the WInocencio Street, we went to the mining area, we went to the area of mining but we were not allowed by armed security, according to Jun, they had no livelihood because of the typhoon Yolanda, they reached more hunger from the typhoon Yolanda (LPG).

Meanwhile, Mang Roque of Brgy. Hagdan, Leyte, in the continuing experience of his family one year after Yolanda. KR Guda, Leyte, was still very fresh, but she was still felt that their situation was left behind.

His child was seven years old when he didn't have a capital, and he was not able to help his fellow farmers in one afternoon of August 23, which was why she was gunned down by some armed men who attended the funeral parlor in an underpass in an underpass in an NGO) who attended to the mountainous part of Carbon Corporation.

"Many residents, now have seen a rally in the mountain," who else helped, was the one killed, "said one resident.

The People's Surge said that the 20th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army had something to do with his death before she was possessed by the members of the farmers, the rebels, their only weapon is a bolo that was given to an NGO connected to farming.

In the new town launched by WISM in one place there, my mother is talking about the 4Ps (Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (DSWD), and if you join the list of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), how can I let my children have a job (after Yolanda), "she told her that her husband has no job (after Yolanda).

It is figured out that Caringal, in many barangays, had already been hanging by the military, but the people were brave.

One of the hundreds of cross in a mass was held at Barangay San Joaquin, Palo, Leyte.

KR Guda, Barangay San Joaquin, Palo, Leyte, November 4.

Of course, that is not the only reason why he remembered it every day when he remembered that, there is no one to eat while there are days when we cried, and even those who were listening to each other, are addicted, more than 400 people died, in the barangay.

In the church of San Joaquin, a mass was found by other names of those who died, but most of them were written in the cross.

It has been placed here and there is still no doubt why it happened, and why, after many of them died, they still did not feel any help from the government.

Jenelito Vir (the left) of Gabriela New York, together with Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, from the Scud of WISM and People Surge, November.

4, meow, Tacloban City, November 3, it was November 3: 00 noon when we arrived from the airports of Calbayog City in Tacloban.

Marissa Babao of New People's-R Guda confirmed, in the road of Tacloban, there was a number of women who want to look into prostitution in front of a tricycle parked in front of a tricycle parked in front of a tricycle parked in front of a tricycle parked in front of the road.

We: Why are we there?

Man: There was a man or was pointed at the woman who was seated in Riyadh) for a thousand.

Then check you in front of P175 percent three hours.

We, ah, that's how we will go back.

Of course, we will no longer go back to the next corner of the road, a private college story, a lot of those who are going to travel to prostitution are students of the family who are living there, up to 30,000 pesos per hour.
