The fight for the Senate investigation.

A fight against firecrackers is expected on this day in the investigation of the Senate in the declaration of the Makati City Hall and 2.
The invitation to Vice President Jejomar Binay to attend is Senator TG Guingona, chairman of the Senate blue ribbon committee, who were able to investigate, "in exchange of abuse and mistakes in the government, including the" government official, including the "government-law, including the" government-Illegal Drugs Group. "
Binay earlier stated that he can consider what the invitation will come from the Blue Ribbon, Mother committee, not just like the earlier invitation that is just from the subcommittee for the opposition to be involved in the declaration that VP Binay is involved.
So the big question is VP Binay remains in the hearing that he knows the intention to destroy his honor and credibility, or he will continue to disregard her honor and credibility, or he will continue to ignore the senators because the investigation is not good?
If Binay will choose to ignore the hearing on this day, Noble emre-6, which is being treated just for him, the public can still believe that there are "bandits who will be exposed.
Last week, United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) Foundry by General JV Bautista and UNA interim President Representative Toby Tiangco in speaking and sent out the session hall.
Why?
But this Thursday, Bautista and Tiangco already plans to appear at the hearing that was armed with a gruesome end to talk in the name of the Vice President, aside from this, Bautista said the witnesses who continue to be crushed on the name of Binay.
Last October 2, Cayetano expressed that he agrees with the suspension of the rules of the committee and let Binay be questioned, if the Vice-President will attend the hearing and he will also agree to cross.
The investigation in the Senate affected the rating of VP Binay, but he is still the leading rival for the President in 2016.
The objective of the investigation of the committee is to the issues of the irregularities in the government, so that this will not be repeated again, but the examination of the anomaly is showing a clear and severe perseverance of Cayetano and their ambition to lead the country in 2016.
At this point, most would want the senators to see the investigation of the irregularities in Makati, and stop a waste of money from the people in the Makati, and to stop the senators that Binay is guilty, and let it pass the direction of justice.
