For pen: A unique is of creative, in creative.

By Tomas, Santos-August 21, 2014.

The Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) launched the "traslacion" Caraving for pen pals with Bayan, "a widespread project that is pushing the country on the 25th of July 2014 in Cgame, Recto Hall, PUP Sta. Mesa, Manila.
In the leadership of the center for Social Work (CCO) of PUP, those who are taking advantage of the cruelty of the books and writing which are made up by the prime of books and writing which are made up by the prime made of books and writing which are made up by the machine of books and writing, Bob Ong, Jun Cruz Reyes, and Lerio Bompat.
It is the goal of the pen pal to ask for understanding to the youth the importance of writing; how to give importance to writing; how to give importance to writing; and how to write.
Also included in the issues that were discussed in the value of Civil Defense or Literness or the ducks which are pushing for the people who are living in the city in order to fulfill its goals, the caraving is going to fulfill the primary college and university in the whole country this year.
When the duck and feeling are distributed?
According to Bienvenido Meca, National Bureau of Sining of Panumbuyon in our time, it is different from taking care for the usual gathering of the writers in our time because its goal is different from the people who are linked, which is the only appearance and use of language.
"This project is aims to restore the writing which affects the readers that is important because in our time, this is important because in our time, it's more important to the people who are guilty," he said.
According to Meca, it is more than the people who are leading the country during the time of the Marcos dictatorship because it caused the heart's foundation of writing and expressing the heart and spirit of the Filipinos because the downfall of the Marcos dictatorship which served as the destruction of the country, is not enough.
After EDSA, the training of writing is prevailed in writing which has a connection with the civic works, he said.
Technology is the responsibility of technology.
It can be said that the influence of the internet is big, particularly on social communications, in the lives of the writers, there are only a few publications about their writings in the present.
According to "Bob Ong," known writers, the new technology can be a big help in writing to "Buddy," the person will meet his capacity as the writers, and will be able to achieve the readers.
According to Manaykit, a little more opportunities, "there is a big difference in print in online because more than many are reaching the end to a short time.
"What I posted on Facebook is that I will spread it on social media, I can clearly see the difference; because if you get angry, it's not easy for you to get angry or for a long time before it comes to you, he said, he said.
According to Eyebank Foundation, the professor of the Filipino in the university and a piece of writers, it is not important if a new writers will take advantage of her departure and post of his writings, online or he will remain in supporting the paper that was published in paper.
"Your problem is your problem," what you want to say, is that it is a problem of how you will say, "says Atalia.
Search for the country.
It will continue to conservation in spite of the bad weather and typhoon southwest monsoon because it cannot stop his advocacy which can be considered as a way to search for the country.
Virgilio Rivas explained, director of the Institute of Cullat to PUP, this way of searching for the country is a response to the challenge of the country's challenge to create new consciousness that will create a new town that will create a new town.
"We want to let you return to you the appreciation of the duck meat so we can get what you want, let us go to our place, that is the thing that you want, that is when we will be the one to turn the top of it.
Rivas also added, "in searching for the country, we are receiving the challenge of Aaahhated to accepting this challenge, we are ready to become a voice of our hero, that is why Reyes is always alive.
