
They are intentionally destroying Pacman.

After the Bureau of Internal Revenue, at the mass media, the boss in Malacañang now made the advice of Malacañang now to give the Pambansang Kamao, 8th Division World champion Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao not to bring to the media the complaint of the abuse of the BIR?
It was also said by Secretary to the Midnight Cabinet Rene Alhorny, who is also a politician, I mean, President Benigno Simeon Aquino III will also advise on his visit in Bohol so that who will start fireworks in the mass media, BIR, isn't it, Commissioner Kim Henares?
If you are on the shoes of Manny "Manny" Pacman "that the capital is blood, sweat and life just to earn, then you will be happy for you to file a case against Pacquiao for other bills but what you are doing is being destroyed by his personality and life.
The Magracia of Carta, OFW, is really wrong because the government is only recognized by the government of Filipino workers in other countries to work and to treat them as an Overseas Filipino Worker, that they have to be registered to the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration.
What if only the few moments that they are working like Manny are our countrymen who are living like a few weeks until their game is only a month up to a month until they are living together in the countries that they visit.
What's worse, is that not only Manny but all of our players who have brought home honor to the country and put up the recognition and respect for every Filipino.
For sure, we are laughing at the many countries, by their citizens because of what you are doing to destroy Manny Pacquiao, it is certain that you will reap comments and criticisms on the world of sports, especially in boxing, you can do with whatever use of our Pambansang Kamao.
And then you show him now that his complaint should not be brought to the mass media, you are the one who does not want to listen anymore when it was wrong in 2009 when he was saying that Pacman will file a mistake even if it is not a little bit there.
What you blame is Bob Arum of Top Rank Promotions to be the one holding every fund allocated to each fight of Manny in America.
You do not have the same with each other for the first until three fight of Manny in America, he does not pay taxes there, will he meet with him and will not be jailed?
Are you thinking that you are being destroyed by our Pambansang Kamao?
