A Public SERVgt's heart.

She grew up in poverty and aware of her hard work.
That is how the Filipinization of Jun Asukal will be described as a successful businessman and politician in the state of Hawaii from America.
According to Vigan, Ilocos Sur, Jun, is the parents of her parents and they have a small business in the young age, she is already aware of the bait that her father and mother are doing to live and be able to study and school.
He is still young and he felt that he needs to help himself in order to rise from poverty that is why it's natural for him to rise from studying in Vigan, Ilocos Sur National High School who graduated from the University of the East in college.
Jun quickly looked for a job and was lucky to accept an accounting clerk in a company in Makati until he was lucky to go to Hawaii after his older sibling who is a US Navy and even a US Navy, together with their mother, together with their mother.
When he arrived to Hawaii, he did not expect that it would be a hard time to start his life even if he had a business degree because of his lack of connection and experience, and after a few hours of waiting he opened it for an opportunity to work as an engineer.
It is also because of the dedication that he showed, he is slowly trusted by a higher position that he has one account clerk from, bookkeeper, Instagram account or branch manager, before he became vice president of a bank.
It was also a small business that he was able to put on the small businesses that became the way to help his fellow Filipinos who are starting and looking for work there.
He was also a part of different community activity and Association of United Filipino Community Council of Hawaii and Filipino Chambers of Hawaii.
In his experiences, it seems that there is only one training for the most great plan for him by the Lord, because an unexpected event was a medical representative in their district, and he was lucky to be appointed as his general.
Jun has never thought of entering the world of politics, but also because of the support of his family and the people who trust his ability, he also accepted it.
He is dependent on his duty of the whole heart to become an effective politician in the belief that politics is connected to politics and for the most good interest of the citizens.
