Older brother, thank you very much.
Full; we have reached us when we have reached us when we say yes to the entirety of our country the entirety of our law, we should not leave while we should not leave while we wake up until the time of New Year.
Yes, there's a possibility that we are ready to be ready for the entry of the New Year.
Jersey, fried foods.
We know that they will be the one to leave when we talk about it.
In Manila and these needs to be a bit of city's Day.
Two pesos will always be the ones who will support the voice, but instead of the Contact Policy ", Gwernafiled, Gotoc; and if we still have something.
They are facing not each other.
We are very proud; he / she has to go to position but what kind of position is, we still need to sing a checkpoint or what kind of things that I have to face, but most of the things that I have to face to different groups in different parts of our islands.
We are anxious; we are aware, there are those that we have to see, because we have something to look at around five o'clock; we still continue to monitor those who are going to monitor that is why all the government will progress with the government that has an Intelligence of Subic.
I will see all that we see and follow any threats, this is a part of all the things that he wants, which is why I am not mistaken, you are not mistaken, we are mistaken as wrong.
We already had a mechanic and watching me for the high blood level of other places, he said that he has a threat of income, Roderick Toto, all other countries, but most of this, he was not in Mindanao at midnight in Luneta waiter that was also in Mindanao.
This is the movies we want to celebrate and talk about it is true that there is a good reason why there is something.
That is why I am really not over there who joined the I have to join the years, is it true, Batangas City.
In line with each other; the Davao City also has a threat that some of my colleagues have a threat that they will be placed in the same age as the target of the police to close the group of checkpoint here so that it will not be pity.
Why are you in my room anyone?
But what should our countrymen do for them to see them, so that even they can't request them for my sister, we can't request for it to my sister, rather, we have a lot of children who are looking for us to look at God.
Yes, especially in every point, they will go to each other; rather than the places that have been mentioned last report.
The most hard to do our fellow citizens, they continue to witnesses and be alert and join.
In the other surroundings, I know it is dangerous to buy our policemen in dangerous number of our soldiers.
So, all later will be helped by more than a million-million that later we all of the places are being called to be the one who is called narco-C-T).
They have been able to discuss now that they have seen what happened around them if they have a love to see the movements of other people who are not a joke in their area.
With things that should not be done.
By Lanie B. they did not know from the authorities and the policemen.
Very small, deport, similar to military and other places.
Well, we will give it a little bit, "cowards.
That's why we are very pitiful; we go to sleep while you are still in a report that we can do with it.
We can do.
Yes, Two people are not able to go to school; we can make the paper complicated but to all of us later.
No matter what happens, I will just check on the situation here in Pag-asa Island where there are some youth who are going to protest here in their toll fee.
We are anxious; we are calling the politics; this is what he is calling on to serve it, which is headed by his former Maucuses, we are going to eat.
They were able to look down; we were able to reach each other, they reached.
We tried to ask them for them not to continue because I was carried away by the people that they are taking.
But they are not in the terminal so they insisted and tried to go.
So I reached the hope of all sorts of hope; that's why they are at six o'clock.
September.
There, it is already there where it is spent on the road.
However, it is good that it is good to go to B wherein they almost have a fire in order to sell it.
They have been allowed to go down in Pag-asa and be more patient to ask them by my God, that is with your older sister the same.
They were met by our lot that caused you to be a big sister of the military.
In number in the next few days, the glass was full of white vinegar.
Okay.
She was carrying Aguilar, she said nothing.
A team who is part of this is a Medical Center.
And the doctor did what they did.
They tried all the youth to go to that kind of group, who are similar to the same group, who went to the eight hundred years to be able to sleep.
That's why we really need to neglect a lot because they are full-tempered; we are proud.
That isn't it before the children can be allowed.
Do I check up with them well, ah, they are okay no one is a bit of peso and one another.
You should have put a pattern in a pattern in life.
There are no number of people who are proud to send the rice; Contact Policy "because I do not have a visa.
They ran away from here and the faces of the children were good, I have no important thing, that I brought food and it is the water that we came from sweat.
Their agreement was increased when they were able to get out and have a uniform that was the night when he was gone.
Let us talk about the things they have done and my request for them to go to them, whose news is our news, they will go back tomorrow, including the ashes that they have not yet returned.
Just go back and admit it.
Our plea in reading their reminder is that they can do it well and do what they can do, so that they can take care of the urge to enumerate the two.
This step is really going to help and be better for all of our plea in the past.
That there were some who entered it, they think they are living in a way to humiliate their feelings for the cement and love for the people.
Because it is better to get married to whom they have done, maybe because of their success, it seems that they will go back to the fifth floor, we will be allowed to go back to the fifth floor, we will still allow you to not go.
Do you know that we are stupid; our call are poor; it is hard to stop the call.
Here the children are on the same way, isn't it right that we continue to have a request for online analyze it's good that there are other ways that can be allowed.
Giving something to everyone is that when you are in a point; we will look straight and look at his feelings because it might be better.
Even when the Padillas pay attention, I don't want to let go of millions, to our country and then, in the month of Batangas, I will still go to Jam, which is the sole gratitude for every soldier every corner of every soldier.
One Ekyong Fernandez will gather in our place.
Yes, the strength is wounded.
Especially in those that are placed here in Mindanao that I am not the one who is going crazy in the meeting Break, they are continuously investigating it in the eggs of Zamboanga.
These are just a few of them in Mindanao.
And there are our soldiers who will watch over there in the office of Hide by Oas.
We are being showered with each other and our friend is grateful for the vice that we are proud of; we are doing this even by the citizens and our countrymen.
Ah, what are you soldiers who are in service to you and to go back to the blind Lord, all of us continue to study that my sister is tired.
He / she grew up; he / she was too much; she is too much.
Covetous, deport; Hambi'll be deported; so that I will defend you again next to us.
Okay.
What?
