
He was asking the appointment of Roxas on the election in 2013, PPP) and the demolition of Aquinas, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
September 1, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) stated that the appointment of Secretary Mar Roxas as secretary of the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) is based on the victory of the Aquino administration to ensure the victory in the election in 2013, to intensify the campaign against the community of poor cities.

"On the statement that there is no politics at the back of the appointment of Roxas, the PKP," said the PKP, "said the Liberal Party which is full of his ambition to become president in 2016."

"As the secretary of the DILG, Roxas will surely use the network of the local government to widen the influence of the Philippine National Police (PNP) to ensure that.

"Roxas is an avid follower of agriculture and the whole bundle of rules of International Monetary Fund and World Health Office," said PKP, "said that he will use his position in the Philippines and for sure he will use his position in DILG to push their position in DILG to push through the entire country.

"Roxas will surely use his own decision to the DILG to ensure the support of the local government budget for the next month," said the KP.

"Like Aquino, Roxas is from one of the most big families of the Lord citizens in the Philippines, like Aquino, the filipino masses," said the clan of the Lord, "said PKP," said the city of transportation and terminal for the projects of the LRT. "

"As secretary of DILG, Roxas was dismayed in the implementation of the demolition of the Marcos regime that will conduct a huge land in Metro Manila by forced to fall down to non-prone cities in the name of flood control.," said the KP.

"The appointment of Roxas announced the ongoing and the cleaning of the constitutional process happened inside the Marcos regime," said the PKP, "at the opposite of the immediate action of former DILG secretary Jesse Robredo, that it was the opposite of the immediate action of former DILG secretary Jesse Robredo, that it was the opposite of the burial of former DILG secretary Jesse Robredo, that it was given to Roxas for the entire power to be considered by DILG and the buyers of the PNP."

"Before his seat as secretary of DILG was hot, Roxas removed Rico Puno, known staff of the group, Kabarilan," said to be chosen last 2010 as the undersecretary particularly to lead the PNP. "
