The case to be filed against the group of Karen will be prepared last night, he / she was still holding him / her because it was still in front of him / her in the office that can be given, Commander Star Magic and PDP-M-A, one hundred thirty-four years.
A way to go to a road going to a way, not on the face of men is what was written in the night of City.
The reasons why don't you give him to the hospital in Germany is for you to wait for him right, but the people who are responsible for the desire to lose weight that is thirteen years old.
Because this is what we should focus on.
The trouble is done by the soldiers.
I call the mother.
Paulate plundering.
Report it last year.
Some of the residents in Manila are now holding the third operation of the room and in the town of Zamboanga City before it was said that Paolo Aquino said that he continued to live-in-law, and he said that the Department of head was being prepared for his position in jail.
That is when you run away from my friends who violate the law, but I still have to face those who have resigned from the case of Aaahhmm, which is a violation of public funds that we have to fight, we are against the side and Hala which is a public tricycle.
Popes.
That's how I use a lot of people; I am sorry, sorry!
"We, when they are in our office, we are going to talk to our office because there is nothing for me, that they do not have a temporary band that's why I said.
Here is the office that's going to go to the office so that the group will do something like that, such a little bit in Batangas.
There are a lot of two hundred twenty four of November that I miss you to undergo ultrasound.
Fur.
Nine-four pesos.
No.
But it seems like the scene in a taxi is that you can see it, Manila Zoo.
Upon the arrival of Zamboanga, he went with the checks; he / she was also not here.
It is after eating in Tuesday.
That's why do you think that we are the ones who look at each other, whose name is very low; we can't take advantage; there are those who do not have Mindanao who are not in Mindanao; we have no idea that there are those who are residents of Bicol.
President of the Philippines - it is the two of us who also ask for help from the government to help the principal until now that they are still sleeping in the organization, if they are still sleeping in the organization, they still do not have an agreement to go through the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
In line, we should monitor the help of R; we should monitor the help of R - we are talking yes, what are you going to help but it seems that there is a disturbance that has not arrived.
Even if they were all at the corner of Mindanao, I did not have a contract with the contract they did not go with in walking, I was also coordinating with each other, that's why I am going to be the ones to end the peace.
Already.
Which is supposed to be given to those who do not care about the other people who do not care in Manila for the incident that we are living here in the Subic Gateway Park in Batangas City, here in the incident there are some who left Zamboanga City going to Manila and father, who are just going to go to Manila and father.
In Batangas City.
