TV Patrol, July 26, 2012.

Pray.

I know you are tired, but as they say, this is the real way.

31- be calm to always pray for the sake of you in order to achieve our glory first.

Remain talking with Balled from the depths of your heart, "you,", instead of talking with your heart, your own mind, and for each other, all your truth will happen to you, all the truth is from you, everything will happen.

This is good news.

You will ask you and you will be able to open your feelings if you will try to open it because you and the Lord will only have one and are going to each other.

Whatever thing is being experienced in your mind is a communication with your events, you are the only ones who can do it to yourself and whatever else will happen to yourself and whatever happens to your life, and from your good deeds, you have no one else.

You are the only one and from your minds, the founder of your own world.

Start to know yourself that this is one of the body that has a body, instead of a body that has only one car in the journey of life, we ourselves are only one of the people who are looking for spiritual trust.

Only the only thing that is standing between the people and what he wants in this life is the desire to fully know his own IOS; and the faith to believe that everything can possibly happen.

You will find this if you believe that this is just one: My life is full of nothing until possibility.

If you hold it well, you will wake up early to watch your own events and will be happy to fulfill your scheduled glory.

Any force that is behind our back and any force that are in front of us are small things compared to the strongest forces around us.

My professor.

I am taking care of me, it is the most important task to myself to know and understand whom I am really, what I am going to, and where I am going.

I am taking care of me, to live with my ability and make sure that all my tasks are good while I am alive.

I am taking care of me, once my time will not be wasted even if my whole mind is no longer a moment, and instead, it would be better if I do it in greater help that I can possibly do.

I am taking care of me, that I never will do anything that I keep on or think of the rough or any abuse of others.

When I take care of me, I never will do anything that I can make others understand and take revenge on it.

I am taking care of me, that I never will do anything that could be done for the last moment of my life.

I am taking care of me, who really became aware about my own mind, consciousness, Kabarse, truth, peace, peace, and glory.

.

If there is extra attention, let us allow a prosperous state of love and, if there is a darkness, let me have a dark lab of light.

Jesse Guda.

The city of Balanga, Bataan with his own tribute and only Pag-asa.

Postanes and Jesse Guda.

And 10: 17.
