
The Pad of the Filipinos through the depth of martial law.

Francisco de Jesus (Ka Kiko)
Young Alyansang Makabayan - Manila Rep. April 4, 2012, last Sunday, they are commemorating the Holy Week or Sunday to worry about the pain experienced by Christ in the hands of each other during his time in Israel.

Christ himself, who according to the holy document, is a carpenter, who is being treated as a carelf that is being raped by him, because he himself, in his hobby, will be seen in his training at that time: The few leaders of the religion of the Jews as well.

Because of what's written by Christ, he was accused of "rebels" and "revolutionary taxes that could possibly revolt against the Catholic Church and to the leaders of religion, and this also caused his sacrifice and death from one of the root of extreme poverty in one of the root of extreme poverty.

Just like the Roman Catholic Church in the Israelites before, causing heavy traffic to our Filipinos, the path that we are taking towards our long time is complicated, the path that we are going to achieve for the huge masses, it is becoming a burden to the huge masses.

What we continue to ask for us to ask for alms from the national issues that we want to help in the development of our economists like what we want to help in the development of the Philippines, it is also because of the US where we won't progress in the field of industry and widespread agriculture.

The meddling of our government is also the government who also run to the masses, which is also a big effect of the masses, that is why the government does not have a source of income for some public utility vehicles that do not have a source of income for some public utility vehicles that do not have a source of income for some of the citizens of helping our government.

This means, we will be saved by the government for their responsibility of society?

One of the additional burden to our military is to bring their military to go to the Philippines a way to protect the American soldiers in the Philippines, which is also a way of monitoring the American government in the Philippines, which is what we buy at the war in the Philippines, which is why we have no idea that those who are fighting against the US will happen again, which is why we have no idea that those who are fighting against the US will be repeated again, which is why we have no idea of the American government in the Philippines, which is destroying the national traffic in China.

They also act on those based on the Philippines and in other parts of the southern part of the East Asia, a big obstacle on the improvement of the development and its national democracy is a bit of democracy.

A powerful US will also bring pain in other countries, just like North Korea and in the Middle East, where they are going to follow the international media because they do not want to follow the international media, especially in the countries in the Middle East, where they are going to follow the international media because they do not want to follow the international media, especially in the countries in the Middle East.

We will see that not only the Philippines are losing rotten and capitalist countries, but also the wide-national community!

The suffering that will be given to us by the US is more painful and we need the country to succeed in order for them to overcome each other, especially from the ranks of youth and those who are involved in the leading country for you succeed.

At present, the youth Alyansang Makabayan, which will show our weapon is to express our blood; our medals are our blood; and we are the most great success that our death will give to our death.

There is a great level of Bombo: "There is a need to drink one grain that gets closer and grew up and a new crops are cut off," this is a great lesson to our Filipinas, "this is a great lesson to our athletes.

The red stars that are pointing out by our blood is the light and height of martial law that will bring us to the great success of the national democracy that has a mental problem with a prosperous life!

CPP-NPA-NDF-NDF!
