If you are that selfish so you will receive a long time until you are not giving it because if you do not like it, you will also reap you.

Erning down to their chapel in Barangay KimXi.

One night, in the side of December, pastor San Mateo decided to visit himself in his house, after he / she went to the door of Erjas because she was thinking that she brought her two chair in the kitchen, near the window of the stove.

"Here, we Pastor, near the stove and heated with the stove, it is clear that there is someone who will drive," said Erjas.

A pastor was not able to answer, Erjas told him about different kinds of topic so that the pastor was able to stop crying and tried to pass by a few moments when they were just sitting on the burning of the stove and continued with a few moments when there were no more moments between the two.

After a while, the pastor was standing up, carrying a bit of wood beside the stove and laid down on a piece of wood which was approaching to him and put it away from the fire and put it down from the fire, until it was slowly stopped from fire.

Erjas quickly pushed the trees of wood so that if it is returned to these kinds of burning lungs, it's as if the pastor was standing up again, which is why I still have the way there, which is happening there, which is why, "said this.

"We are wondering," we thank you for your visit, pastor, "the response of Erjas.

But before the pastor went out of the door, he expressed it, "no matter how bad the lungs will be taken off, that is why when he removed it again, the smile was seen on him again, however, in a few moments, a smile was seen on the remains of Erjas and carried away from the cold incident.

"How was Erjas, can you rely on this coming Sunday?" Asked the pastor to Erjas while going out of the house.

"There was still a pastor, I was there." Said that an agreement was done by Erjas.

That's why he / she was able to step down.

One of the worst illness is that it is not known and there is no identity of anyone or a person who has a person, and is far from his fellow person, the success of a person depends on this, if the success of a person depends on it.
