Maxine, desired to win in Miss U!
By Ginger RL. September 15, 2016.
The preparation for Miss Universe which will be held here on January 30, 2017 is now thoroughly preparing.
The day before yesterday, there was a resolution for the ground host for a few hours of the Miss Universe.
Some of those who talked to him are former beauty queen, our bet for Miss U, Maxine Medina is already preparing for almost a month.
He has started many study in preparation for the said competition because the Miss Universe will be held here in our country.
"Of course, Bishop's hness, Communications, social media, and of course, this is celebrating history, Philippines.
"Of course, when I worked out of town, I thought about what I can share to the events," the Miss Philippines-Universe stated that what he started to write.
He is preparing for the lower part of the lower part.
He admitted that up to now she still has bashers and various insults thrown at her, but she cannot be affected.
"I am used to now, isn't Maxine.
"I was able to send them as my youngest child for my ex-for me, it is better to listen to so that I know what I am going to know.
"
He thought before that he might have a hard time because of this in his own country, but he is full of gratitude that he will get the Miss Universe crown.
This is said to be different because this will happen to our own country.
"It would be better if we repeat what will happen in Las Vegas, and Pia (Pia) will still have the crown to me if it is the transfer.
"It is different if people can see that people are in front of them.

Philippines to be Miss Universe, "Maxine stated.
He always pray for him to achieve it, the rosary given by her mommy when she was still young.
Even if it was said that most of the Miss Universe 2016 was on, the Miss World 2016 was not affected that will be held in us.
On May September 24, the finals night, wherein forty countries were included in the Miss Global 2016 crown.
They introduced them to the media two days ago and some of them seem to have a fight are the candidates of India, Iran, Cambodia and Brazil.
Our candidate is Camille Haro who is Cum Laude of UP and their famous portion of the division.
CEO and National pageant Director of Miss Deaf Bicolandia 2016 was greatly thankful to PNP Chief General Ronald "Bato" de la Rosa because of the security given to their candidates.
"We talked to him / her, I said, we was deceived when it comes to our security.
"The other day, PNP Bato sent the police security.
"He even wanted to send a fire truck and for the emergency, but I said, he does not need to.
"Because, it is already too long and it is just parked and there is no need to fire a fire security than us, Iditures during the same time if there is an emergency.
"He is still finding out where he's going to go to, he was allowed to go there to the police security," stated by the ULINTEL.
What he knows is that he is one of the judge, General Bato, but he still does not know if he / she is.
One of the things that they are in a judge is Senator.

Manny Pacquiao.
At the PICC's the finals, the host will host Derrick Monasterio into Miss Universe 2005 and Analie Gilda Batungbakal Catiis.
You are just continuing to focus on our showbiz radio program in DZhao, the showbiz Talk that is it.
I am with my colleague, Moral-KMU) from Monday to Friday, 6: 30 to 7: 30 in the evening and we also have a Sunday at 9: 00 at noon.
Aside from AM radio, everyone can watch all the programs of DZhao in Cantnal, July 18, and starting today, at Skycable, we are also at Skycable.
