"Aquino, can't be trusted by Coco, the fund.

President Aquino should not control the funds of Coco's fund.
This is the response of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) for the president's plan to release an executive order for the controversial fund, after meeting (Aquino) with a group of farmers from Davao on Wednesday.
According to Rafael Mariano, chairman of KMP), if the president wants to help the coconut farmers, he should support the proposed law to form a trust fund given to the legislative chamber.
"Aquino could not be trusted.
Aquino's nephew of Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco Jr., who led the Philippine Peace Authority in the time of the Marcos regime, filed by Cojuangco the Aquino in the elections this 2010.
During the time of the law of Marcos, the tax from small coconut farmers from the small coconut harvests he was used by Cojuangco the funds to get a huge influence in San Miguel Corp. as well as the United Nationalist Alliance Bank.
Last year, the Supreme Court decided not to owned by Cojuangco the money that was in Hala B.
The KMP) is also worried together with the plan to catch the sale of UCU B, according to KMP), according to Kibalabag, its implication is a big implication in the suspension of the coconut farmers in the fund when they sold the fund from Coco to the fund.
Mariano also said that the government is not the funds of the government.
"It was the money of the small coconut farmers who were forcefully sent by the dictator (Ferdinand Marcos) and the uncle of Aquino (that Cojuangco)," Mariano insisted.
Nestor Villanueva said, spokesperson of Coco level 1) brought back to Amin (WHO) that the said executive order of Aquino is not different from the Presidential spokesperson of Marcos.
"We will not accept any executive order and it will only be given by the authorities that Aquino will be helpful," the end of Villanueva.
Their call is that if President Aquino is really serious to help the small coconut farmers, he should support the proposed law of Asibars, the House Bill House Bill 1327 or Genuites before in June 2013.
"If it is really the interest of the small coconut farmers and it can give the coconut industry on the mind of Aquino, he will give his whole support to the passing of the law, its goal is to return to the true owner of Coco to be returned to the true owner of the said owner.
