De Lima Devera of the 2 Chinese DRL HQ. Bernard Taguba, Tina Mendoza, October 11, 2016.
Two Chinese people confirmed to face the legislative chamber that his group gave drug money to former Justice Secretary Leila de Lima as support for his candidacy last election.
In the sworn statement of Peter Co who read his lawyer, Jaymar Sebastian himself talked to her so they joined a business with illegal drugs.
At first, he refused because he does not want to be betrayed by his co-workers outside, but last 2010, Co allegedly proved that it was transferred to De Lima when he was transferred to De Lima when he was transferred to his fellow Chinese escaped to offer contribution to the secretary's candidacy.
It has reached 113 million pesos for the candidacy of De Lima that there was a chance that former BuCor OIC and the flow is using drug money.
Last March 2016, his nephew / she was able to visit her and threatened to be charged to free her niece and his family, he asked help from JAD "for the freedom of his nephew and even their 4 vehicles that also needed for the campaign of de Lima.
On the testimony of Vicente Sy, he was able to give up about 1.5 million pesos for the candidacy of De Lima.
Sebastian was said to be the one who talked to Sy to join the operation of drugs in NBP, which is why he did not follow the campaign of De Lima and at first he did not follow until Bilibid to return to Bilibid to return to Bilibid.
In Sy's affidavit, he proved that it was the severe influence of Sebastian and the connection with de Lima when he returns to NBP, because of this, he was forced to follow Sebastian's desire.
Sy also said that in 2014, he himself saw de Lima who entered into a shack in and the security of De Lima was supposedly inside a shack in the said year and it was said that Sebastian had a meeting with the leaders of other gang and attended this to de Lima.
"Jaymar Sebastian said to us that we should sell drugs for us to gather funds for the plan to run for Justice Secretary Leila de Lima as a senator that he gave birth to the drug lords which led to Sy's testimony." According to Sy's testimony.
It was said that the right hand of former BuCor Chief Rafael's flow of George is asking for P1M for allegedly to de Lima in exchange of appliances that they put in Bilibid.
"George for one million pesos.
