Yes, i'll go ahead; he / she said, "I said," I said that you are free for me might be free for me, perhaps, you are free to me, maybe that's no payment for that.
Yes.
Did he have a lot of arrogance; he / she seems to send a text message to the text; she can send a text message to each other; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was only able to enroll to school; he / she was only able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was not able to enroll to school; he / she was only able to enroll to school.
That is why I am having a L-A, she said it is sacred, "on the telephone.
I said that they are just good to enroll to school; and deport; last yesterday.
Ah, do not hesitate to say for anything.
"I am here not right here.
No said, do not enroll for it, according to you, when you drink there, you will not escape and I will get it from that so that we can achieve what we have been waiting for.
"Why is it that darkness in your room, isn't it right," asked the question of the question that I can't do, that's why you do not care, that's why you should not care that he is also a police now.
He / she was able to go to school; he / she wanted to go out, maybe later he was not yet seen.
One one.
What is he doing?
He said it was an end of the end.
Beside me.
Zailon, men, who are fond of stupid; and unciation; we can just wait for him to Gelo, yes.
Okay, just wait for him because he is pitiful.
Here, I was able to send it to him that there is a strong influence to him there, and what I can hear is that you are getting angry or nothing else, that is why you don't have anything to talk to him, that is why he still has no idea, that is why he is still not there.
I said that you have no strength to you, right now, I said to him.
I'll wait for it because it is pitiful if he will not go to school.
Yes, that's why I am stupid; we are saying that I am telling, "I said," I said, he / she didn't want to know that he / she was not able to know, he / she was not able to know that he / she was not able to know that he / she was not able to know that he / she could not be able to know, but I could not do anything, I can't do anything.
