So what he is saying is that, with that, we really want that, at the T'boli, V-nosed;
Because even if you say it again, it will be like this in love.
In the lower part of the pressure, he said that the canned goods are expensive!
Yes, instead of it being passed on, they will be held on top of a love one in love, it is time to give a limit to the surgery which is said to be over.
His partner, like that, before we need to look at it, yes, the space has long been the space for a long time, and that is the only time that Jobelle the mall would only have a few fighters.
For them, they are cheaper by medicines for each other.
Instead of telling the patient.
He / she even bought a piece of songs.
You are like that.
Yes, when I was not carried away because he had no money on how you found out.
Yes, "I said to our doctors to look at our doctors, who are very low; don't you stay there in Agriculture.
I should do it because we are going to do that we are going to do that we are going to accept what we are going to do with what we're going to do or to be able to go back to us.
It is okay that we already have four applicants, that's why it's good if they are not a problem if they do not have a problem with the eyes, but they do not have any problem with the eyes.
Use them to determine.
Reporting, Francis "that we will give an assurance that it will be expenses for free.
Because what we should do with the T Vs.
You are Jasper hour for free.
Covetous, dearse, who else.
There are two Filipinas who have six-six-six-six-year-old child, but they were only seventeen years old.
You are applying for a case, because he / she also has a point, he / she didn't understand what he / she was riding with me, which is why he / she wasn't able to understand even if there was no other time, he / she didn't know that he / she wasn't able to see each other, he / she didn't know that he / she didn't know anything that he / she was going to be known; he / she didn't know anything that he / she didn't see any kind of illness, which is why he / she didn't see any kind of illness.
But Francis already happened to me that's why I really had no session at that time.
You really don't see anything.
I was still hospitalized for that, and I was given me!
"It seems like I did not go to my eye anymore, and, after that, after that, I thought that Jake was the one who gave the medicine.
What light?
So what they say is that, what's lacking is for me to look at me; we were brought to me, "of course he brought me" at me right now, "at me.
Because there is really lack of rope station that's really in my eyes to look respectable; I am sorry; sorry, I am not yet charged.
She said, the doctor said to me.
If we are going crazy, we can go crazy; he / she said that it's not every day we wake up, that's why we should just try it for the meantime.
Because, as a sticker, now is the true cellar.
Then, if it was then that we have a police as well as the One IGAPARK.
I have no child but I remember that it's because I have a serious illness, so when you have a severe illness, I was called into a part of a part of your cousin Lynn 'oy.
Very short; he / she said that she has been able to send her inspiration since now, I am being able to use an inspiration from there, which is why I am with an inspiration to eat while I am in the eye, that is why there was an operation of it.
"It is still okay yes, at the end of a simple person, he / she was also being used by an inspiration but recently, after I stopped it, it was okay until now, I was okay," I asked.
That is okay but it is okay but you know that they will push through with our yes, but be able to refuse.
Choose.
Do you even go with you?
"Thank you very sorry for the Burger King, naturally, that is the color blue in yellow party, that is why many of us are so many of us that are so many of our farmers, which is why we should also greet him.
So that you will not be able to buy a few in college, our visitors are the ones who are astonishing, Medical experts and Calanoga; Medical experts and others to Medical Center.
"What are all of all, they say that the number of those who are going to come to the Medalibis will arrive that I am running like that, and Joseph, seems to be familiar to the pork barrel.
And we were in the afternoon.
Leo will be okay to wake up for her blog to drop off.
So, I think you are asking if you know that the ability of his older sister was very beautiful; we can just not have passed by, you will just not have passed by each other until midnight or at midnight, you will still not make sure that it would not be embarrassing!
He has a wide Medical City what he wants so that there will really be a person of many.
Even if it is said that you are going to that, we will not be able to look at that.
Let's head head to Pampanga Development Foundation, in that point, and then the bread you text, you will not sure that you are going to be sure of you, Francis.
For what, we have, Michelle, for the family.
Ah, it's okay no matter what kind of August is sorry for August four, he wants Francis to go there.
Well.
According to the ship, it was said to be in the boat.
Seated.
What they are doing is something photocopying there.
The coming ship is divides and patient.
It's a big viand for a big viand; that's why they are not a big difference with the doctors when they say that they will not send them to six to six days.
Four stories are like that, they are going out of the ground that we are very confident; we are very confident; we can't go down to the doctors to go down until their mission is going to build, but after the mission, which is going to build, C D).
It is a huge sum of the international hospital ship whose legs are very big, so it seems like the person who can speak there is very derogatory so as well as the salary that they are going to buy; he / she grew up to each other's things.
They should stroll like that, isn't it?
Not yet done but how to be followed by a hold-up; so I said that, to those who are not fond of hurting the fare, because we say that they are just going to see each other, we just call me, that we just call them, "we should just call them from there in the station.
Yes, what is for sure, for sure, to be sure that he will just give way to the remains of his older sister, who are not from here on the lips of his older sister, as long as they are not from here, that's why they're not from here that's why they are lucky that we might be lucky.
Given to the expanse of the expanse, which can be exported; hence, they were able to pay attention; that's why they were given salaries; we were given salaries;
My God.
Yes, we have the eyes.
We have a lot of people who are stupid; because I am our blood pressure, because we are our blood pressure which are erased from our blood-minded; and how we can go to us, we are our fellow countrymen.
Ah, it is possible that John Francisco will buy them.
"You can say, if you want to add up to that, we don't think that we are not the only ones who are going to hold-up; we are the only ones who want to take a glimpse of those who are going to hold-up; we will be the ones who are going to hold-up; we are going to stay in the hospital.
If you call a lot of people who want to have a check-up, I will bring a doctor.
Let us see until he / she will look up to his salary, whose salary is very high; he / she calls you as a lot of people, and many of them.
Why did you bring a doctor?
"We are anxious, maybe, however, I am starting to repeat, but what I am starting to serve as a big sister to know that they will not be prepared for in the office of the 'office so that they should know that they should be prepared for, ah, for the process of hmmmp!
Ah, hopefully there are many who go to the things that we are going to go to Brad, not that what they are doing is not doing anything that is being done in a laboratory, which is the only thing that will be taken by the blood and what the blood will get.
Very small; we can just go back and go back to just like that, that is why even if you are in the hospital, you say that you are in the hospital.
Later at a garage, and we are together with Ytype, who will be left alone; she might be at fault; he / she had a point, to Noguzzle up before sugar.
Ah, is it as if we are able to get along with each other, that's why they are proud and distressed.
Everything might be the same.
What really is it?
Well, we are very pitiful; we might go to the hospital because you immediately go to the hospital.
There are a lot of politicians who are Arellano University P).
Ah, it's okay that they had a text message.
So yes, every Sunday, they are just waiting for a Sunday, and we are just waiting for the child to be finished; we will be able to finish all kinds of dates; and fog; and what they are doing.
This may lead while they are still waiting on that kind of doctor.
That is it!
!
