The first victim of Martial Law is the first victim of Martial Law.
On September 21, 2016 - one of the bitter and most dark places in the Philippines will be remembered, although there are many hurtful words in the Philippines, especially in the hands of the foreign contacts, different wounds caused by the Martial Law under the late dictator, former President Ferdinand Edralin Marcos.
"They are not hiding anything, harassment, harassment, shouting and murder made by his own fellowmen, we are both of the president in the position because many believe that he will be a good" father of the country.
So when the public is behind the forehead of President Marcos in his declaration of Martial Law, a deep wound was left to the Filipinos - even if it was not the first victim of Martial Law before it is not a person, but the truth!
He needs to burn the head of the people, he needed to lie down, the truth needs to be given a reason just to give a reason for someone who love him, those who love him, take care of whoever you love, those who love him, take care of anyone!
Until now, the number of the Martial Law built by the Martial Law is ongoing, that the wounds left by the dictator is the same.
Many are still alive and burning, together with the family of the killed and suddenly have a trace of trace, how the people who did not fight back against the harassment of a person from democracy were not against him, "Ibon with Loy, someone who is going to fly," Inocencio Street, "Ibon, someone else and crying."
But if they have not controlled the media, if they could not hide the true events in society during those times, if they do not hide the truth, it is impossible that the more than a decades of domination will be resolved.
It has happened that before, the citizens will not allow this to happen again and the smallest sign that the shadow of Martial Law in the hole will be the fine of those who live in the town of our birth and those taking care of democracy.
In the current situation, the people are calling on the truth to protect the right and true!

Do not surrender him!
