Just because of the US $5-M? SAID also worked!

It is sad what happened two days ago in the ranks of our police, more than 50 policemen of the Special Action Force (SAF) were massacred in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
In the video they watched on YouTube, the appearance of those killed by the SAF 44 is pitiful, they were not shot and killed in the said encounter but if the victims would not have been killed in the encounter instead, there was no one who got close to the encounter.
It is also possible that they have been killed in the fight or encounter after they were shot at close range, which is why the police was hit by the police.
The bad thing is that the police got robbed.
What really happened in the place? Who should be blamed or who should be responsible for the death of the police?
Of course, first, those who killed the SAF (SAF but are they going to be able to answer, how are those higher officials who ordered them to attack in the area, should they not be removed from their position, should it not be stopped, that is why it has happened to the PNP - after he got fired from his post, after he got fired from the failure.
I am sorry, for me, the official should be responsible for the said massacre because it did not happen if he did not have the command of the higher officials of the killed SAF who are currently happening with the Bangsamoro Basic Law of PNoy.
The dialogue to the leader of the SAF and not a solution is, but only one thing is needed, all officials who are behind the release of SAF were responsible for them to arrest Zulkifli Bin Hir alias Marwan and Commander Basit Usman by the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist group that both have tons of US $5 million to the American government.
The officials should investigate this because, it is possible for the SAF to use the reward for the US $5.
Oh no, because of the $5 million "that happened, many lives were lost, hopefully we are wrong with the suspicion but is it not?

At last, Station Anti-Illegal Drugs of the QCPD Kamuning Police Station 10 is also hit by the criticisms that all they are working on are not and instead of their mandate to catch pushers.
There, the SAID boasted to restore the arresting drug pushers in the area of responsibility of Station 10.
Could it be said that maybe they have not agreed on the "price, which is why Senior Superintendent Joel Pagdilao, QCPD Director, who ordered the station to work - catch the number 1 criminals in their jurisdiction.
So there, the SAID was forced to work and there were considered a station number one drug pushers in Barangay Pinyahan, they were arrested after the sale of shabu was a police who pretended to be a buyer.
Wait, there are some who were able to confiscated their mother, one kilo of top of the said station, that's why it means that there are several kilos of shabu, that is why it means that many sachets of shabu are only one sachets of a number one thousand pesos!
Anyway, it is good that the SAID-Kamuning Police Station 10 will have a use, but maybe, until now, there will be work there!
Okay, we salute the arrest of Top Rank Promotions to be real Top Rank and cannot force the Top Rank.
