To the friends who prayed for the pictures that we are here, isn't it right, that it's not right, but it's just right that when we're going to be able to meet, it's not right that he would be able to find out that when it's true that he would be able to meet, it would be easy for us to be able to meet when we were able to find out that there was no one who was able to be able to meet when they were.
And of course, a group is trying to cover.
Two.
I am too tired; he / she is very horny; yes.
Audience would be able to give a February.
The father was removed from the Church and they are saying that they are very proud; we need to take care of them each other.
What can we say there?
We said that we have mercy and will fetch the law that we are doing.
Here?
We are crazy; we can answer, let us answer there for a few years.
Especially in the water that was cut off but by online games, let us continue to change?
It has been a change for P5 million pesos if there is but only the young youth are only temporary, but here, they are the ones who are stupid;
It is only now that the one who takes care should be drooling.
To a private school.
We will be given permission, if they are not interested why they can ask permission from it.
It can be said that now that they will really come true, they will really come from the streets; rather than that, we have more than five of them.
He / she was able to look down; the eight four-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight bullets, which is probably a high school, perhaps, should I understand him?
This is the fragrance of hornets.
There is a wide leaf.
Here, our government will review this so that he will continue being a ducks on what kind of duck are, who will be distressed.
But he / she was annoying, very fur.
In the present, Paul said that, Dr. Love, what can we look at that, "we can see that we have been looking at by a few decades that we wake up to, but put it first, that is why it will be clear.
Covetous, fur; we are afraid that they are afraid.
Let us go to education.
They are losing because it will not be rainy for you.
Our answer is that yes, what is right when we look at it.
Come true.
Now, PO 1: M for the one to be named.
Those who are working right now, like the Pope, are not able to do anything according to education.
The possibility that it is possible, that it's okay, that's why it's just right away from the constitution that it is not chaotic at that high school.
Covetous, fur.
Hmmmp!
Mateo, if there is an identification, who will be able to pay the payment, which will be given to the payment, which is to be given the payment, which can be given to a teacher's group that was last night.
That is a good question, what are the pitiful ones to look down.
Here, there is also a law that is also a law that is also different (every Saturday, whose legs are low and different.
Ah, we are very pitiful; we are calling me to be very angry.
Yes, he / she was very hot-tempered; he / she was the only ones who took care of them.
It is already the corner where he went away and if ever they are not allowed by our barangay councilor, it is probably a high school.
We also do not want to talk to each other; we can see that we are calling those who are calling the position, and will be given to those who are calling.
To those who are going to be affected.
What we are saying is that, when they ask for help, they will ask for help from the Doctor, I am going to wait for the Doctor Love, who will be able to make a point, which can be a good thing to send a L-ten; we can be able to get the L HQ.
On the other hand, he / she was secretly talking to.
You are going to be alone here, they are the ones who are calling the Development Assistance Fund) for the continuous training of their training as well as the issue of the country.
There are also whole afternoon there, tuna,.
Those who are from Bicol are just different; we are very different.
Tocino, hik, and even if there are still a small amount, the dog gets broken and it's still good that I don't want to let it happen, however, I don't want that to be a single ghost, but I cannot say that there are five ghosts who are going to be sent to the High School.
We were almost eight years old when they become helped in six-six.
That's why he / she was able to step down.
"We are Zhmm, isn't it?
We are anxious; the trash can be broken; and the trash can be has a high school advice for us.
Let's go to space, so that's why it's so low.
Quezon Avenue, we are making eggplant now that is why they can teach them that they do not have this because they are too much to teach.
It's like that, in the law of cake, do not think that it is an eight-year-old person, that we can take advantage; we can take care of the police so that they can do five, they need five years and it is okay that they do not know how much.
That's why he got up but it was not only two decades.
They will not be able to leave but they can teach on yes, we are really gladdening to see that we have an excuse that's why we are expecting that we have no idea, the questions of the Agency).
They are crazy; we are very strong; if they can be strong.
It is the end of cancer to the grandmother, this is an end to the expenses that DepEd will be able to share to the students party treatment for those who were oppressed or such a public school that we need to show to the person.
In a program by a government from the government, it is not that type of gunshot wounds in the name "what I am referring to here in crossing the family program, that is okay because of what we give, that is okay with what we give.
We are anxious; our fellow countrymen who want to continue the studies that they want to continue, that they will not stay here in the crossing family except that, we have something to call 'PHigh School.
This is not over who are the High School Bucho when we saw that there are private schools that can be given to the public school.
Okay, look at that it is just near that it is not expensive.
They have been in school so we thought it is like a "tanim program for Television, six Two Wives.
Two five-six.
For us to have a high school school program, we will be able to send two five-year-old Two people who are like their grades in number when we get out of their grades in number.
That's why.
Here in schools, it is not really high.
For its insurance, they are full-tempered; classes in IGAA there.
No matter how important is DepEd said that this child is not right in the outposts that we should just go back to our past, we are still thinking that we should go back to our country, we also do not let us go to school, we also have a private cellphone that we also have two public utility vehicles.
You said, we have a text message that we have a coffee, budget; budget, so that we can leave the books, we are going to leave every month that we're going to leave every month, "of course, as long as you ask that your text message to Tito if not.
He said that they do not need to talk to each other; we are not just like that, but when it comes to that, in the issue of being a little bit, they can go to each other, that is why they still do not have any income.
It turned out to me.
This is but the students need to be a lot of students.
"It's okay that it's okay to have a problem yes, just make you know that it is equal to English Science High School; we know that it's not true that we are not mentioned by Vivian, which is why they say that you are not being mentioned by Vivian.
There are some of our possibility that Bolet are very pitiful; we are able to catch up; but what is the only thing that we are after, our teachers are slowly going to go slowly.
Sara will serve as a question, that is also what you know about the preparation because there is a person who's calling them for a long-time promise, that is why we still do this vacation but that's why we have the training that we have.
Training is also a training but many of them are being called by Two Wives.
In our place of course, of course, when it comes to that, of course, the teachers are part of the main teachers, what kind of new teachers, and of course, fellow teachers, who are currently a teacher.
Covetous, fog, teacher.
Ten are, they are really the key in Angga, public service to call something that is why I am an Apple, who is Apple, there.
A teacher will remind them to say that Two Wives are what they want to say.
What can we finally release from Ate Mateo, who will chase it to Secretary Robredo, because according to him, it's good for us to leave education because there is no reason for us to be left behind, that is why there's no reason for us not to push through, it's as if we were not able to push through.
Because I repeat, where in the Parola yes.
The world is low; as long as there are three people, who are at the same age, are stupid.
The ball was good of it, like that in Africa.
I agree, right?
Supermarket with me before?
"When we are going to be filled with us when she will be given a chance, he will give us a chance that we will give us a chance that we are our friend, sister, and if your daddy is here, my daddy is here in my aunt.
