Case involved by the judge should be held accountable by the SC Bakag for August 29, 2016.
Supreme Court Justice Ma. Lourdes was on the defense of the judge who dragged President Rodrigo Duterte in the trade of illegal drugs.
In fact, the two high-ranking officials of our government have not yet finished yet because before weekend, PDU 30 has not yet attacked the Chief Justice when he was protected by the arteries and not him.
We can't blame Chief Justice Sereno in defending his colleagues in the Judiciary as it is his duty, but if there is no sufficient basis, the Barangay magistrates should be given to you.
Just like the case of a judge at the Makati Regional Trial Court, who wants to be fired from the Supreme Court because of the allegation that the complainant met in a case against five big companies that they have failed to pay its insurance.
In the record that we received, it was reported by Judge Alfredo ino Subia, of Branch 138 of Makati RTC, to the SC-Office of the Court Administrator Fr. Uy, chairman and CEO of the steel Corporation of the Philippines.
The complaint's complaint is rooted on, because they were forced to give $M for a favorable decision in exchange of a favorable decision on his case against five companies that they had an insurance.
It was also stated on the seven-page complaint of Uy to the SC justices in July 20, 2016 when the judge did not fulfill the agreement that he will end up with five insurance companies in relation to the injury they burned in Balayan, Batangas last December 9, 2009.
The reported companies of the collects, is the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (Izzy Ping Lacson), Asia, Philippines Corporation, Malipayon.
While the case was still alive, a Rolando Espinosa of the Philippine Drug Group of Comesies who assigned to Uy, and told to be able to admit to Uy, and told to deny the motion to submit his insurance so he will give 113 million pesos.
The two were able to agree with a short payment since 7million pesos was the first payment for the remaining 77 million, according to Uy, he handed it to palm inside a car parked in the parking area of SCP.
In the case, Judge was dismissed by Judge Inmotion to remove its insurance last January 18, 2016 but the lawyer only received the order last January 26.
It was immediately filed by a motion for Reccision, the motion for an insurance so that the company of an insurance was released again by Subia last March 21, 2016 but the insurance for its insurance last April 19.
For an unknown reason, Bia suddenly issued an order last April 26, 2016 who would inhibit on himself on the case and is asked to be transferred to the record of the case in the Office of the Executive Director for the legislative chamber.
In the view of an ordinary citizen, wash your hands with what happened, but the question is there is no time for the SC chief to do this case?
For me, he needs to take action especially that the image of our judiciary is too much because of this kind of scandals involving the judge.
On the part of Judge Subia, I think he needs to clean himself because he is getting involved in the case he is facing in the world facing.
So let us wait for the Seal for this case, hopefully the progress of cases on the court is not bad for the turtle.
