
In violation of the 9th Infantry Division and the PNP in the coast of ceasefire, they exchanged gunshots.

Gregorio "Ka Greg" epal. "
Pagtalunan in Bicol Region.
January 4, 2013.

It is as if the GROs-Noy Aquino has no ceasefire, because the anti-9th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army (9th Infantry Division of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) continues to gather them.

It is shown by the reports of different parts of the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) in the region that only one style is said to have been declared by a ceasefire with peace while they were not able to turn into peace and treacherous ways of the disputed forces of the BHB) citizens.
On the other hand, the revolutionary force of the BHB) head to the country was strictly enforced by the Liberal Party of the Philippines from December 20, 2012 until January 15, 2013 to create a favorable situation so the peace talks will remain on each other.

It is a big lies and defamation of the 2nd Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army that was held by the Botchok (Albay for the accusation of the military troops that was released by the Botchok (Albay for a big possibility that the military troop was able to replace it and almost a kilometers from the scene of the 2nd Infantry Battalion in Brgy. Omaha, Ligao City.

At the time of the fifth floor of the ceasefire, GROs-Noy Aquino came from December 16, 2012 until January 2, 2013, the operations held by the soldiers and the PNP continue to go through the SEA Games that was suspected based on the revolutionary movement, which was suspected based on the revolutionary movement.

1: A few hours before the start of the latest ceasefire of GROs-Noy Aquino last December 16, 2012, a truck collided with a 31st Infantry Battalion in Brgy. Hamiguitan in Barangay Nabalawag in Irosin, Sorsogon, and continued to enter the isolated mountains until it finally left and returned to their camp.

2, the elements of the Regional Public Services Program of the PNP (former Regional Training) or RMG) in Brgy. Mackay, San Pascual, Masbate last December 28 and 29 were caught by the force to catch them on December 28 and 29.

3, two farmers were kidnapped by elements of PNP-Milagros and soldiers of the 9th Infantry Battalion in Masbate City on December 23, the military and a resident of Brgy. Bolo, Masbate City and a resident of Bgy. Bolo, Masbate City and a barangay watchman in Brgy. Bolo, Masbate City and a barangay watchman in Bgy. Bolo, Masbate City and a barangay watchman in Bgy. Bolo, Masbate City.

4.

5, Galindez could not stand the gossips in the military who are implementing said "peace and development, but instead of attacking the community of farmers and spreading fear and violence to the people even if there was a ceasefire.

Included in the barbells are the presence of the experts and just pretending to be a "peace and improvement team" are the following:

A. Five barangays in the town of Guinobatan, Albay (BTAC), Cabuslay, Bololo, Molo, and Sining.
B, 12 barangays in the town of Bato, Camarines Sur (BPLO, Iglesia Rey, Coyo it, Mangga, Lanticse, Cbuagan, Del Rosario, and Caraytono.
K to 13 barangays in the town of Labo, Camarines Norte (Dove, Malaya, Malpas, Malpas, Anhawon, Bagong Silang II, Pag-asa, Bagong Silang, and Maire.
D by some barangays in the town of San Miguel, San Andres, and Viray in the province of Catanduanes.

It is clear that the ceasefire with GROs-Noy Aquino will maintain the actual level of the high level of being observant, and readiness to fight the treacherous attacks of the military troops of the AFP and PNP in the entire time the start of ceasefire, until January 15, 2013.
