Mr. 44- the employees of DSWD, about typhoon Yolanda, about typhoon Yolanda.

By the letter in making a letter.
April 8, 2014.

People who have been victimized by typhoon Yolanda last November 2013, are waiting for relief goods from the government.
What our agency is always criticized in our response to the calamities like what happened in the past years where typhoon Yolanda, which is part of the consecutive calamities, most of the consecutive calamities, the demolition of houses, lack of work, demolition of houses, and rotten management of the government.
It is very important, if that is the case, let us have a clear perspective and stand in front of these.
The bureaucracy in the government is composed of employees and officials who have the same duty to serve the citizens, but there is a Saligang Batas between the employees and officials who are taking advantage of their duties in one side, and there is a Saligang Batas of the ability of the nation's system which is full of unity by the politician's system which is too open and slow in foreign investment.
The most appropriate thing is that he is called by these officials and their accomplices are those in government to get rich and add power.
In the history of a bureaucracy in this recently, there was a point of shouting that the employees are featured in history, because in general, this is an important example to the employees of the employees who should be part of the awareness of the employees who should be part of the awareness of the employee, which should be part of the awareness of the employee, which should be a part of the awareness of the employee, that our responsibility should be more progressive in the public and not in the politician.
More than three months after the typhoon Yolanda, the victims were still not shouting and there is still no electricity and water level, and there are still a lot who are hoping that the price hike which was built by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) are still difficult, and even the animals are having difficulty in living.
The outline of the official response of the administration is the root of its failures to respond or be meaningful if this is not a simple low leadership, but this is one of the legal leadership given by Aquino, the local leader, who is tied to him by the local government, who were tied to him again, politics and mentality.
It is pitiful because their thinking is very low, that is why it is very low for the citizens to look down from the level of squatters, and they say that it is hard to look at the masses, and they say they are hardworking and thieves in DOLE-out and they are trying to manipulate different kinds of politicians, and others.
Employees of DSWD who are members of the PDP-AP).
With our ranks of employees, Top Rank Promotions will be filed and also in the Middle East even if the government does not feel any power over the rights and dignity of the employees, they are taking advantage of their rights and dignity of the employees that will bring them to their rights and dignity of the employees, which will be brought back to the ranks of human rights, casual and the Filipino Workers or GAA.
Even if, as real public servant of the country, we should not agree to maintain the situation because our government should not allow us to push and support the citizens who have a responsibility and failure to insist on what we see is for our public.
We will be successful if we will be united and together as a real-year-old boy, the leaders of the government of the militants, progressive and progressive in the welfare of the employees of the DSWD.
We are always going to face the natural calamity that we are worried about the destruction of environment of the environment of the earth, big foreigners and local leaders of the filipino people who are aware, and proud of our followers and hands of the people who are aware, and protected.
We, as employees of DSWD, as members of the DSWD EAP, and as an ordinary citizens should be part of the citizens who are destroying and becoming dried in their real power.
