Julia got watched in the hospital?
By Noel Ferrer July 25, 2016.
The news is that, how true the news is true, because it is too tired for almost every day of taping for a long time, Julia Montes is in a television series, which is why it has been brought to the hospital this weekend?
You can't say that Julia got a twins that there was a twins.
Recana said that they want to celebrate the first anniversary of the taping of Stars, staff of double Kara's series, that this television series will end up in 2017 (like Ang Propaganda of Coco Martin).
We hope that hopefully, Julia will be given enough strength and immunity for him to finish his role in double your role in double life.
Hopefully, Coco will be helped by Coco, who was reported to be a reported "virginity" to Julia.
Coco passed by the twins that occurred in the TV series Minsan Lang Sa Lupa.
Even in Ang Propaganda of the province, the character of Coco is twins, but one died immediately.
Coco, is it that Julia's inspiration, which probably resulted to her in the hospital?
Likely.
Happiness, isn't it?
He / she was wearing.
Around 7: 00 in the last days are the superstar Nora Aunor in the last days of taking a shot by someone from Bicol.
In Bicol, Philippines - in Naga and Iriga.
Ate Guy is proud that even now he is asking for help from friends to help the movie that they noticed not only here in our country but in the international film festivals.
The events happened during this movie, fans and supporters of Ate Guy to make the movie push through.
The story is story of a mother who lost his only son who died due to the fraternity.
As said by the director, YANDECordero said, "it seems like her Ate Guy is also like him and he will go back to his beloved from Bicol."
The film of Ate Guy has a religious group because the devotion of the citizens in Naga, Iriga and other parts in the Bicol Region has tons of tons.
Ate Guy, Sita Dimaangay, is a mother who is working in another country as an OFW in facing the future of her child.
The use of the train in Iriga City station, where Nora sold water before he became a singer and an actor, through joining the amateur artists, first in their town, until it was declared champion, Thacienda last 1967.
Director Rebalde, "the train of Iriga City said that the train will not run now from Iriga going to Manila from last year 2000.
"But we will ask for the train to run for the movie of Ate Guy."
In the movies made by Ate Guy this year, along with the deceit she said to him, this is what he said, "this is what he said," he is proud of what I've done now. "
