
Wednesday, May 15, 2013.

Milan.

Mabog (MG Day) one of my favorite band is now well-tempered and you could really feel the message of their mother, Doctor Stella (GAS), and she could not see her daughter, Julius Yungga, and her mother, Julius Younghusband, and this was when MYungga.

We are really different from our mother's mother, mother.

Let's remember that the remind of our church is because it is for our welfare: Not to sell the votes, choose the candidates who are worthy of the position that they run for.

Vote the candidates who have a heart like a mother, what's first thinking is what is good for others and not his good care for others and to let them go back together with her children, I wish you to understand me and you can understand me and you can understand me.

When carrying the eyes, I have broken a plate or fall for soup from the dining table, hopefully you should not abandon me when your old man is ill-tempered at each other every time you court me.

If my ear is weak and I do not understand what you are saying, you should not talk to me even if you're still young, I hope you have to talk with me even if you're still young, you should not get mad at me even if you do not get what you want.

It may have been more excuses for my smell like old people, smell like soil.

Hopefully you do not want to bathe.

I feel so bored at home, all of you are alone and I know that you are busy with work, but I want you to know that you are getting married, even if I know you are not interested in my stories.

You can remember, when you are still young, I don't want to listen to and understand what the story has been getting sick and will be crushed on a mat with illness, do not take care of him.

It may have been no more thing if I can pee or lose his bed, I hope you take care of me in the last moments of my life.

Anyway, I will not last long. When the moment of my death comes, I hope you will face my hand and give me strength that you might be a loving of your father and mother... that you will be a loving of your father and mother... that you are MNigeria.
