
Guingona Lanie B. L. Tilentino Drilon.

Senate President Franklin Drilon is said to have been added on the lengthening list of cases filed by the plunder official of the government.
The plunder case against Drilon is due to the continuous increase in the price of the disputed Iloilo Convention Center.
The ICC was said to be implemented by jumping from a P1-billion peso "which is being implemented," according to the complaint of Manuel Meisy's complaint in the Office of the Ombudsman.
Aside from Drilon, this is included in the case of Meisy's case, Highway Secretary Rogelio Singson and Tourism Sec. Ramon Jimenez.
The three high-helpers are traveling, according to the complaint of Meisy's complaint, he had a regular action that he called "Martial Law in the convention center."
But according to Drilon, Meisy's case has no basis for his accusation.
Meisy's said to be the former stronghold of his office in the Senate is only mad, "because I did not have the wish to be the pet press undersecretary or TESDA Director," according to Drilon.
To know the truth behind the accusation of Megan who is also a journalist based in Iloilo, maybe it should be looked at by the Blue Ribbon Committee.
This is so that the people will not think that the blue ribbon committee member Teofila Guingona did not give an agreement in fulfilling their job.
Because since it was said that the declaration of the ICC was exploded, many are calling out that Drilon and others were blamed on the ICC unit.
Just like the controversial Makati City Hall II, which is also being said, the construction of the building, which is supposed to be investigated is the ICC's ICC, according to the call.
That is why the initial call now - according to Guingona was the Senate hearing for what Meisy's contract was saying "the Iloilo International Convention Center.
The question - the people are looking for the face of Guingona and Drilon in the senate regarding the issue of ICC.
And if they are really brave, Senators Alan Peter Cayetano, Koko Pimentel, and others, the challenge of the people - you should join Guingona in investigating Drilon.
Let's see if they will make a move in the call of the town of CHOKINTEL.
