Yes.
Does the Americans have nothing to do with what they are doing, especially the list of Americans for students, Marlon, who was initially accepted by the U S. a T because of the Philippines when he was caught in the Philippines.
According to PO 3: M a New Year, he said that he has no American drug smuggling against the troops of the government of the Philippines, that it is not clear now that there is no strong winds that will be left behind in the window that was why it was not clear that he was the one who gave him the operation to continue the operation, and then it was done by a report on patrol.
Let's talk to him / her director, that it is possible to undergo a day operation, at the way home, Hughes was very entertained, that's why he / she got mad at her, which is why he admitted her.
He will give an Intelligence Coordinating Council to join them but they were not forced to arrest the operators after they were not doing the number of victims of the typhoon high school inside a month in spite of the possibility that many will die in the operation.
On Monday, one day after the successful concert in the barangay, the Americans were able to go back to a dream because the American soldier was able to breathe more than the heat of the sun.
He / she was able to look down; he / she'll take care of the Americans for the help of the Americans for the help of the Americans.
That is why they bring letters.
There is still no place there in the office of the Philippines.
In this news, I heard that the target was related to the land that was being implemented at four o'clock.
The answer: I know that the right timing for PNoy is right when he knows the American's right operation against the American officials to eat at the phone, but he was stopped from the phone, I tried to pay first that he paid four to four years.
It was said that the two Palestinians attacked Manila earlier but did not stop.
Trying to sleep.
The question: I still don't have text message on this day but you are the only news on it.
Yesterday, it was a report on the gym were mentioned by the CPP-B wherein they are very confident in the Philippines for one thousand.
And international terminal is one of the challenges in life.
They do not have anything to do with the plan and dancing earlier that in the police's chief, they continue with only one director.
Under the Corporation of the Philippines a few minutes.
The system of PNoy has no matter of Gerald Anderson who gave him the called Intelligence Agency.
Where is Maria.
But he did not give it to him.
In his things as a number of number, the operation given to me by Two Wives were given to me by Two who have not been noticing.
Intelligence Coordinating Council, who is rich, rich, rich and rich, very rich; we are also not watching when he gave it to us, not what happened to us.
What we did was seven years old when we did it, but when asked if there was a replacement, I gave something.
Too much.
He answered.
I will know that, to my cousin if there is nothing.
That can we talk about us?
Let's go there.
Let us just go here to me if you are uncertain with the pants and bones; we are still such a few details in the operation.
Defending the former who did not study their relationship too much.
Should be said.
They were the police in the place where I could not give Felix Lopez.
You are forcing you to pay the payment that is clear to be cowards.
That is why I decided to enter the troops.
They have very weak talk about the mountain.
It does not prevail because you are a lot of enemies.
They called them.
And there was something written on his way home.
House, didn't it be used to you?
I asked him to go out and I could not go out there.
Because next time they go, we talked for the security around four security coming back by the people.
That's why there's a plan of drinking the lawmakers that like me are the ones who are like my plan, operators, we need to be under a few months that we bought for a long time.
In Lacson, the patient in the living room was even earlier.
It was a twenty pesos that resulted in the four policemen who were able to attend to four policemen in line, to send people to go to church to ask for a vacation.
ABS-Dick, C-C) to lower Manila in Antipolo who got mad at the race who got mad at them Saturday until the Holy Week.
Brigada Eskwela will be applied.
Me, Two people, who are five years old, will be the one to give a lesson from him.
Olongapo did not leave until we were not able to look at each other; we are not able to look at each other, together with that, they are still alive.
I have heard cigarettes that I have heard.
His mind is one of those who can help to leave, that is already sleeping.
Four.
To be a cent.
For price.
Fur.
We are our fellow countrymen in Mindanao who are always doing what they call to those who will die.
The most beautiful thing is die but it is straight to why I am just for them.
Are we important for the rice that they are capable of?
He stood up for a long time, but Marlon did not commit suicide, but they did not kill it.
A while ago, in the Philippines, it has been said that in the Philippines, it has been mentioned that we have been mentioned that we have been saying that the student who want to get pity from there are small-minded; we are impossible that if there is an Intelligence Coordinating Council, it is impossible that it is possible that it will not happen again.
Ah, it's okay, that's why, the Americans are going to leave for the Americans because we will look at the pictures of Aida Tahanlangit, Zia, to look at the colleges; that is an operation that has happened.
The government has a show off from the pictures that we have known for a long time to have an agreement.
M Riyals and sell the country in Morong and tsunami.
What we are going to watch like this is that they are working on this kind of agreement that is why they did this in a operation here, which is why I have done this kind of operation, which is why I am thinking of different kinds of people; I am thinking.
Tell the Philippine troop for the Philippines.
You are going out at around three o'clock in the office that they have been doing for a long time, which is why they have been waiting for each other for a long time.
If we are going to follow this, you say that there is still money here in our conversation earlier that's why he put it in his conversation until he hit him that's why they really followed him.
After the years, it was followed by public to the Central Western 'ata do that, on what happened that is exhausting, in Cagayan de Oro Zamboanga Sibugay, the other people, National Power Corporation of the Philippines, which is the only thing that they are following is that they are not following his years.
There are many victims of the victims but they believe that it will not last for too long as the entire area of Mindanao, which is why he is in Cebu, that is why it's very clear that he cooked self in the operation and clear that it is clear that Jerrick Lee said that it is clear.
No one is raising them and he is looking at what he did for the possibility of operation.
He / she was able to look down; he / she voluntarily went to his co-year-old cousin, he was able to get it.
Zailon and eight soldiers.
It has been a long time for the government to wait for a long-year-old ten-year-old agreement in the Philippines.
That they cannot enter there just.
Well, there are still something like that, because they know that they are stupid; we know that this is the right thing.
One!
What is the right thing that he should have known for a long time, that's why he / she shouldn't pass, look at the same age, at around three o'clock.
Why did this suddenly happen?
This is what happened to something that happened to someone else, do you read the term term for the government to become four-year-old situation with a simple case of Entertainment Television that they are after a criminal case but the stars are like that.
Bicol, there is something that should be done by the office agreement that Adelbert will leave.
Oh, yes, she's in the house.
It's a bit painful but isn't it?
Right, no matter how bad the people are right; we should first put it first.
He mentioned that, in Las Piñas, he / she said that if you think about it, there is also no solid operation but they were able to end up with them but the problem is near the orphanage.
According to four five, there are no problems that are close to each other, whose breasts are on the breasts of our seminar earlier in the office.
That was done here, which is why he thinks.
"What's just your cellphone that I am going to have a cellphone here to those who are dead, Marlon to know that we are near here in the area of Quezon City in the office, it is impossible that I don't know that we are just near them Baclaran, but sometimes they are in school.
Whatever it is being done in you, the government has not yet known anyone who is mixed with anyone or saying that Margaret cetera; I will just go back to the U Vs in order to drink.
You are the Americans who have helped that, with a text message, those who died were the deceased P: C-C), when we see that we know that the international airport is on their list but they have a big contribution to his head in his position.
We are asking now that the Americans do not have something to do, maybe it's not too big if they are with the one who is planning to drink, but this is the only thing we know, that we do not know what they know now that they do not know now.
This is the rain of this rainy season when the number of those who are seated in the operation are the six who were seated in the operation, which is why it seems that it is being called, that is why it turns out that this is just one thousand, that's why it's just one thousand, that is why the American troops are looking at each other at night.
"I asked the tricycle there, but one should give it to him / her to look at him / her so that we can wait for him to just wait for it.
With what he / she was seated here in the operator he did to me, my colleagues said that the doctor asked me to eat at Skype.
The whereabouts, because I said the operation that many people know is that there are many people who are drinking in the school to make it alive when the one started.
According to him, he is not the basketball regarding this operation, but we do not have a result if there are two years, they are having a noodle house; rather than two years.
This happened here when there was still a solution to the news that the victim of Fire Protection was proven by the negative Military Information Agreement (NT Katropa bench; this is the ones talking about it.
One of the ones who lived there is that, as they say, I felt pity for one of the reasons, give me to school, but for us, we can't do it even if we do not want to go to school; we can see that we are the ones who did not have the role that we have mentioned.
These are the last they use here when they leave.
As well as you are really familiar with the white white April April that was used here in the command of the real Estate Corporation of the Philippines for Maricel, which is even in school at fifty-two in the afternoon.
If eval and Medical Foundation, they are really helping the American soldiers.
I have seen it for a second time but yes, he is mentioned about the person sitting here in the operation.
To live in this situation, but the U Vs have stopped.
I do not know what we know at the Araneta Coliseum, we know that I know about it, we know that we are pitiful.
PO 1 M-A, very small; we know that the Americans do not know that they know something.
Marlon did not know.
He knows that it is not for the Philippines that it is not right for the Philippines because we are here in the Philippines - what we do not know is that we don't know, that's why he / she didn't know that he / she didn't know, that's why he / she didn't know, that's why he / she didn't know that he / she didn't know.
This operation is said to be mentioned that this kind of voice is being asked, so we are still different.
This is clear to him that this is the same part of his friends, the internet doing what he said to me, which is the call for me, which is the call for him / her to go out.
He is asking him about what happened in the operation especially to the details when you still have a chance to go out, because you know that there was a chance that we have an opportunity to share yes, even if we have an opportunity to share yes, even if we are in a point, they will be able to share.
They're going to know what happened to the soldiers, they have mentioned that they have been mentioned to each other, they have said that they have been texting each other in the morning when they had a text message.
Their relationship is needed how he / she is in front of them, who are one of them, who are one of them, whose interest is to make you very much of you.
