On what happened to Anthony, you are shadow.
Please do not look at me; we are very stupid; we should not let me stay here in our place, let us go to us.
Camillo was in danger; he / she was at fault; she was the one who was at fault; he / she was the one who won't go to Germany; he / she didn't have to go to Germany; he / she went to Germany so that they have not gone to Germany for a long time.
Ah, you already have no case, what if the noise is, we can take a bath so I understand how I can understand how I came from that.
Ah, is it clear that I do not want to.
"You really love your voice, what do you do not have a long time from such as a long time, if we are in a living room, we can still see that we have taken my pictures to each other; we can see all her pictures.
Ah, you pity me.
What are they calling him / her?
I did not see.
We were able to point out; we were able to change the waves; I have a change of where she was from before.
Very short; he / she didn't have something like that, so long as you have no idea how to have a picture, that is why we are still studying; we are still studying; we are still studying; we are still studying; our hearts are still studying.
By what?
The care of Jaymar Uy, the noise I ask where he is wondering why there is no signal that is why there is no signal that there is no signal number.
That is where you are here in that kind of age; we can't look at that, so I can't do that, that is why I go down and are here in that way.
Why are we not like that, of course gbo "why do we call it?
Maybe yes, Mark, why are we going to look at each other, so we are the ones who are stupid; one?
"What you say, I can't understand why you have a sack-in-law, we are all kinds of dates; and covetousness.
Why did I call me?
Yes, we are not stupid; we are stupid.
Joy is there for two days only.
"You, who are your companions in-law, what kind of people who are not that kind of companions there are children with that, right?
I'll be able to catch up; he / she can go ahead and go ahead; however, they have a lot of people who are with you there, there are many of you who are with that there are many who are with you there for a long time.
Yes right yes, what else can we do; not all of you, not everyone said.
