TV Patrol, September 29, 2012.

Are you in a relationship?

Health is the most great gift, the most important wealth, and loyalty is the best in relationship.

In a relationship, some of the biggest challenge are coming from the truth that most of the people are coordinating with them to get benefits and they are hoping that they will meet someone who can meet that they are good and love.

They are trying to hide your real goal; the most effective way for a relationship with the truth, is the most effective way for a relationship with a long time to witness the relationship that you will go nowhere, and not a friend who went there to get it.

I allocated myself to you in accordance with the relationship that I am expecting from you.

It is our important key to remember, awareness and choosing.

If you have a awareness to your natural reaction to each other, you can choose the response without more effective - usually, on the right perspective and help.

The usual response is that I will marry, coconut milk, and based on its reaction the result, it is not good that it is not good and based in accordance to choosing the result, it is acceptable and effective.

Make yourself be a habit to be awake in your personal reaction and mind to make decisions, they are pushing you to harm, instead, give your intention to choose the response.

The general challenge is to make sure who happens: You have the mentality that I receive or quick action; or you themselves will prevail and have a limit to your response?

At this age: I have choosing someone to choose, and all of us are in our power to choose the most right thing from other people, even if we think they are right or wrong, even if we think they are right or wrong, even if we agree or not agree to them.

Sometimes, our interests are on the reason of what we want to correct, and fix some of the situations that affects us, what is important is that we want to avoid 100 percent responsibility for our relationship, when there is no one waiting or anything in exchange.

Most of us are going to know our relationship with others what is important is that there are many people who waste a long time in work, and we need to give importance to other problems, and most of our friends, that we can depend on all levels in our lives.

Our relationship becomes a solution for the result, we need to fully give importance to importance of relationships with each other meaningful activities, in fact, the equal amount of action and the relationship will never cause harm, is an effective key to success.

Most of us clearly see the connection between the action and result if we do not see the connection between the relationship and the results.

If there are questions, there are answers.

No matter how many times that you are using it, it will be better if you need to act well, but you will not understand, you will not understand, that the critical and important relationship is to achieve these questions?

The powerful relationship with other people is being made up, so that you can help you to achieve all your dreams in each of your life.

Love.

Work.

Family.

Community.

Socializing.

Spiritual talk.

Financial.

And even if you intentionally keep the responsibility for your relationship, it is just a simple move and if we are not careful, we should have forgotten it.

The simple truth is this goes with poverty in fulfilling, because it needs an effective mind and fares.

How?

We need to treat other people with dignity and respect even if we know that they do not have any right, or even if there are people who are saying that they are not worthy to pay attention or any respect.

Because.

Jesse Guda.
City of Balanga, Bataan.
