Patrolling, July Labiano, 2012, Nunber by Philippine Cologne.

Is it really wrong to get angry?

Victor, or Limited.
It is my habit to think that I am calm at first, it is tiring to get mad at the world and suffering in life, second, people will still see that being calm is a sign of intelligence or ability to have a hole on any problem.
But of course, who really deceived me, in truth, there is a bigger chance to change his strength and remain calm despite the many reasons to get angry, and he also does not want to say when he gets angry.
In the near State of the Nation Address (SONA), it is certain that President Benigno Aquino III will surely present that almost P700 billion will be spent by the government for the poor), that's why we can't lend the corruption in the government), and other things that we have been expecting to believe and should be thankful for him.
So along with the speech of the President in Batasan, the different sectors of the society will have already launched on the road of their own SONA, to expose the real situation of the country - will increase the red flag, will win the red flag.
But, for sure, there is still no assurance that many will ask: There will be someone who will ask if they will get angry at the government?
For the government, it is expected that he is not forcing to listen to the voice of her employer, the participation of the protest is the best way to claim the right meaning of the real meaning of "hundreds of right."
Because if you think about it, we are alive at this time and the violation of human rights continues, the increase in price of commodities will continue to pass through good and calm agreement, not to be busy in searching for "other and an alternative form of mine."
History repeatedly proved that it is the most effective way for the protests to be taken from the Marcos dictatorship from 1986 until the widespread brownout by the students against the budget for a year.
In the end, it is not wrong to get angry and show it to President accomplices in expressing the promises of real and meaningful change in order to remove the trust in promises of real and meaningful changes.
