The congressman's son, will be diligent in his work with Jazz.
Kris, "
We have heard some stories about the issue sent by Kris Aquino to GMA 7 but we asked for a payment not to be written.
It is just intrigues because he was asked by Kris when she attended a shoot-out of How TBe Yang in Rodrison's Day, a couple of nights ago.
Kris just smiled when she asked her and said her answer was just because of course, Kris was known for all that kind of drama that is why we still don't know what is true.
But according to our source, they have a lot of Two creatures.
There are a lot of people who are able to talk about their meeting with Mister Tony Tuviera and Director Mike Tuviera make it recently that this kind of talk surfaced.
One of the things we heard is that Kris is possible to do with my ophthalmologist because Vic Sotto does not want to return to Enteng Kabisote.
Kris is really the Fist of Enteng?
Another thing we were able to know is also with Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza in the said project but we were answered by some people we talked to M-Zet Films that there was no plan.
They still cannot say who would be the lady of Bossing Vic Sotto.
Even the residents of GMA Network, Center also answered that we have not told them that Alden is part of them.
Bossing does not want to say who she will be with.
But what we heard is that they are going to start the shooting of this movie which will be held in Metro Manila Film Festival.
He is just quiet on whatever bad relationship with Barbie Foracza and Kiko Estrada, that is the same with Kiko, Jazz, and the lady Jazz.
The latest news we heard, the son of a Congressman has a zealous suitor.
The Jazz's parents are super closed because it is not yet paid.
But she is said to have a good suitor from the Kapuso actress, whom I don't know and they might get married.
The suitor I am referring to is the good and famous actor, Javi,, son of Cong. Albee Benico, of the 3rd district of Negros Occidental.
The latest one we heard was, Javi is very lonely for the family of Jazz, which is said to be from Manongol because it was started by the parents.
As early as now, Javi is already preparing for his birthday for the mother of Jazz.
The Jazz said, it is not priority for him to take advantage of the show that he can wait for now.
She first wants it to be first in showbiz for first, especially that she is still busy with a liar's liar and pushed her in a checkup to her studies.
Jazz wants to finish school that is why Tuesday and Thursday in studying.
