
There was an Ebola "kicked in the hospital where no one went to the wake.

Actually, our national life is confused if we have entered the disease of Ebola.
It is certain that this will happen, Bro, based on the experience of an Overseas Filipino worker who just came from Nigeria and it is believed that the Ebola virus has died.
First, he was denied by the doctors and nurses to the two hospitals that were taken to him because of the suspicion that he had Ebola until he was accepted in the hospital who was first refused to accept him and eventually died there.
Second, despite the doctors' explanation that the victim died due to the illness of the liver and not in Ebola, no relatives and neighbors who sympathized with him in his orphaned.
"Isn't it difficult to sell there?
ALL-Masa.
Almar Tungpalan was cut off, from Maddela, Quirino, a seaman who came from East Nigeria and was sick when she came home and of course, she had a fever because he was sick when he arrived in the country.
He was brought to a hospital in their province and was accepted but the doctors and nurses suspected that he was transferred to a hospital in Santiago, Isabela that was why he was transferred to a hospital in Santiago, Isabela that was why he was transferred to Quirino Provincial Hospital.
This is where he took a sample of the blood and others to be examined but the doctors and nurses also have doubts that is why they put it in a blender.
After six days, the pain in the liver has not Ebola but he was just sent to De Vera Hospital for corresponding dialysis.
But the doctors and nurses got nervous with the belief that Almar was nervous, which is why he was not immediately admitted but because he had an illness in an ambulance, he was accepted until a few days.
No one went to the wake.
When the body of Almar was brought to them in Barangay Villaphao, Maddela, did they think that their family had a severe fear of their neighbors and neighbors who were also scared of even their relatives.
That's why no one went to the wake of the belief that affects the Ebola virus from the dead.
The doctors' explanation did not work with Ebola but to the liver.
Be true.
What if it is true that the illness of one of our fellow countrymen is true, what do you think is what will happen?, at the airport now, and in the port now, it is full of fear that those watching the OFWs and foreigners will feel nervous, and if there was an outbreak of Ebola?
Maybe the operation of our airports and port of the refusal of the people to monitor the Ebola virus may be exported while the hospitals, transportation, business, work, work and others are going to be affected, work and others.
What if the signs of Ebola in our barangays are getting worse?
We cannot deny what will happen but what happened to Almar.
It is the child of tofu, the government should already make a program regarding the Ebola and cleaning of our training against Ebola in the municipal hall of our doctors from the Municipality of our doctors from the Municipality of our doctors from the municipal hall.
Everyone should take initiative to rise and get involved with Ebola so that we will not experience the death of around 5,000 people in the countries Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Mali.
