While the residents are continuing to pass in Banawe, Cotabato City, even if the cellphone is still worsening between the M PL-80s; and Calanoga; we are deport; Rayton; and Calanoga; and Bien Unido.
Although she does not have anything to do with what happened to him.
In Mindanao after the dead after the dead, an M-INTEL-Commander of live from the mercy of Mindanao has a one.
Traffic.
Now, we are anxious; as long as around three o'clock in Manila, you can help each other because, as they look at the slow service between our fellowmen last week, he started to be transferred to the death of a First Class's Commander.
Because of the pet animals, the residents of the barangay failed to change it, Cotabato.
Because the children are next to be between Morong and southwest monsoon in the corner, the bandits with five years old will leave.
We, even us, are our Filipinos, even us, have a lot of others to fulfill it except how I understand the cousin in the place between the house of sadness in Mindanao.
In Pikit Cotabato, for now.
That's why it is still ongoing that there is too much evasion and something really is.
A lot will be saved from the area of Domingo in the past few days for those who are dead so that they will leave Topnotcher in the hopes of Commander Falcon.
Last night, he went to the victims of Barangay Rom.
Then.
I am really a lot of poor people.
This morning, the residents were going to go after several times that they heard some goats on their boat.
He did not see that the length of the river is needed to be erased in the middle of the different kinds of establishments, and deport.
Yes, the lower part of your business, whose businesses are low; we are the ones between a ticket and drinking.
The fight is said to be poor here is the same.
Many of them have a lot of friends in this place, which is said to be part of the camp of M Riyals, a receipt should really be rotten.
That is why the road going to the place there are those who are watching the group that is offered in Morong and landslides.
He is a lot of food in the questions that are scary.
What may it be?
Yes, who.
But if that is like that?
Chairman here is with us here in our place, which is why according to him, it is not new to stop this matter of business.
The venom on the company, because in this place, is because the fight between the passenger here is a good thing, there are times that there are times that there are people who are really watching over the opposing groups.
