
The farmer of Hacienda Luisita, no lot of land, is wrapped there.

Macky Macasaverted!
April 8, 2014.

A boils of Filipino farm which are members of Amin Barangay Balete Drive is behind the wall of Tadeco, which serves as well as the land owned by Tadeco, Macky Oryang.
The head was shot, even the hands were arrested, he was arrested, and currently being threatened.
This is what the farmers in Hacienda Luisita, now, in spite of the decision of the Supreme Court to share the thousands of hectares of planting because it remains in control of the Aquino family.
In fact, the two corporation was also owned by Cojuangco-Aquino to the land that the farmers of the land should be taken out of the land - the Tarlac Development Corporation (PCG), that it was first taken out and built a fence in some hundred hectares of land even before the final decision on the distribution of land.
It seems to be a big contribution to the barangays of Balete Drive, Lourdes, Cuya and Central Mapalacadao, in Johannesburg, which is surrounded by a fence in a fence in a fence in a fence near the ground where the land used to be distributed, but not included.
In Brgy. CDO, up to one hectares, which has been fenced by Tadeco, including the land being planted with farmers, which are being planted by the farmers, that they were planted with "pahayagan."
According to the alliance with Filipino Bukid in the hacienda (Ammunition), in spite of the statement of the Department of Agriculture, they have been distributed and put off the production of sugar, "said Florida," said Florida, as the chairman of Ambo.
It is Martial Law.
The wounded were identified as Ferredo Corpuz (equivalent) and Jerry Mesa (lower). Macky Macasaels.
Starting last year, there was no quarrel against the guards of this corporation who wants to leave the Filipino farm which are digging the land that should have been used for a long time.
On the initial report of this article, George Gatmaitan's, Gerry Catalon, Jaime Quibuao, Alvin Moral and Leoncio Cenes, farmer and soldiers assigned in the area last April 3, 2014.
In the story of the victims, they would only want to talk to one representatives of RA Cruz, a survey firms that will be distributed, when they were suddenly arrested, they were the ones charged with coercion and violation of the implementation of Republic Act 657 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Law.
"This is a proof that this was the last incident of DAR and killing of us, it is clear that they help DAR and landowner so that they can stop the hacienda," Ada said.
The worst incident was what happened between Jerry Mesa and Ferredo Corpuz, Marcelino Lugay and Odelia Hernandez.
Based on the story of Feraris of Filipino Weeker, it was around two o'clock in the afternoon when they found out that the owner of the company, and confronted by Renato Mendoza, the guards of the farmers in Brgy. CDO, were angry and confronted by the guards of the farmers in Brgy. Crib.
"When I suddenly got hit with a hit, it hit my hand, when I arrived in my hands, he was punched by her husband, he was punched by the side," Ferredo, she tried to stab him by the guards.
"They will really kill us," he said, according to him, the police responded, but instead of stopping him, they were arrested by the police, they did not do anything but they did not stop it. "
They were brought to San Manuel Police District-Station station that the wounds of Ferlooked after he was brought to the hospital around 9: 00 in the evening, I still need to drink medicine from the hospital until April 3. "Before, I still need to drink medicine from the hospital until April 3.
After eating the farmers, the guards destroyed a shack that was built by the farmers who served as the office of Ambullets at present, still blocking it and built a checkpoint in a broken vase and houses of the farmers.
The guards of the Grets Star Security Agency, agency were denied by Tadeco, to give a statement about the accusation of the farmers.
The guards of Tadeco - armed, and some, a few, had a cover-on their faces.
As said by the residents of Calaguas, Mapacadao and Balete Drive, violence continued and threat to the armed groups around the houses, this is proof that the armed groups around the houses, as proof, they are screaming, "the NPA came out."
It was also proven by Ferredo, "I noticed, since I went out of the hospital, someone was surrounding my house," he also said that there was a threat to kill their leaders.
"I heard, while I was on the vehicle of the police, they will kill them, Rudy, Rudy and grandchild Letriro," Ferredo added.
The new law to reform the land?
Because of the failure of the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP), and even the leaders of this program, Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) said that the new law supports the distribution of land, Rafael Mariano, chairman of KMP), who remains firm and is not being implemented by high land.
"It is earlier that the 6,000 hectares of Hacienda Luisita, owned by President Aquino; Hacienda Looc, Roxas; Yoyo, Batangas; and IOS in Batangas; DOLE and Del Monte, Mindanao," said Kovalev.
It seems that some barangays in Hacienda Luisita have forgotten because of the continuous control of the corporation which is owned by Cojuangco. Macky Macasaids.
In the case of implementation of reform in the land, based on the decision of the Supreme Court, it was discovered by Ambullets that even the land that they distributed to farmers in a way to approve of the farmers in relation to the farmers who agreed to monopolize the farmers who agreed to monopolize the franchise.
The proposed law of Aaahhu-list is still set on the legislative chamber, Genuine Agrarian Reform bill (GARB), while there is no new law to implement the true reform in the land, the farmers and Filipino farm in Hacienda Luisita, continue to stop.
"I can't rely on (President Aquino Aquino that he is pretending to have no idea about what is happening here in Hacienda Luisita, but he is really the one given the land to the farmers, but he still has not given the land to the farmers, but he was still taking the land to the farmers, but he was still being asked.
Ada said that they will still continue their crispy stove, while they are on top of the conflict between the farmers, he should not let the land spread again, and if we do not leave his position, he should not just leave his position, "said Ada.
