Ex-MMDA chairman, extremely saddened by the MMFF 2016 By GOSalas.
The former MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino has also gave reaction to the eight films chosen by the Severe Actor of the Metro Manila Film Festival 2016.
The former Chairman of MMDA is able to talk to the former Chairman of the MMDA from DZhao yesterday and he said that he is sad about this year MMFF because of indie films which have been chosen by the Severe Acation Committee.
It should have been said that there are people who are living in movies in order to see the children, feared by the former Chairman Tolentino, that the 2016 MMFF does not want to earn because they say that the actors are known to watch the protagonist.
He supports indie films, but hopefully, they will be accompanied by some commercial drivers.
We can see the trailer of film contestants in the MMFF and we were happy with a docking that is Christmas beauty queen, seems to be clean because it was 12 years since it was formed by the director Babao.
Many say that the viewer would not burn because there is no artist who is known.
There was a former between us who was a trailer of wood, and it looks like Nora Aunor came from here.
The women are happy to know where Eugene is the 2 of Eugene Domingo, but she feels incomplete.
The Seklusyon that seems to be disturbed.
We are still very entertained by the trailer of movies released by the MMFF, Enteng Kabisote 10 and the Abangers being ignored, Super.
They caught the interest of the people to watch these movies.
For the eight Filipino contestants in the MMFF 2016, the movie Oro has not yet released a trailer.
This is the movie of Mercedes Cabotahe, together with Irma Adlawan, Jomake sure that we do not have interest in the movie Oro.
We have no plans to be charged because of the foul odor of Mercedes in Mother Ignacia, no matter what this woman said, she does not need a movie industry.
It is still important that the movie industry will have a big respect for Mother lily, not to Mercedes Benz.
