Done by Toh!: Prince Stefan, who is still shy to taste John Lapis!
Gay for gay, okay!
On September 11, 2016 as bears, John "Chet" Lapus is happy in taking out of former StarStruck which is part of her now in the movie working in the movie working in the movie working.
"Yes, he's the one from StarStruck who is already out.
"He did not change, he was still a" Prince who was my daughter-in-law, "Tell that's why we had an affair with GMA in the past.
"That is why, when you ask him now, he will tell the truth.
"He / she looks like that, too much, and I can see in the eyes," look like Net.
He added, "he said, he is very good at acting, who went out of this movie, because, he has no idea, he is already out.
"He is free.
Prince is the person being linked to his gym, Paolo Amores, but, if there is a chance, will he give it to him?
The response of Net, "Giuliani in Chance?

"Ah, wait a moment, I think.
"Humm, maybe yes, I agree.
"Maybe, in the four cast, Joey might be the only one I will not pay because there might be a foul and lightning.
Aside from Prince, what he will be with for the gay men is TJ Trinidad, Edgar Allan Guzman and Joey Paras, who else is his type of person?
"It's because that's because we are very busy." Isn't it, when your troop is missing, it seems that the slope of the slope of your chest is missing.
"Maybe, to Edgar Allan, I give in to it after three times of integrity.
"Prince Stefan, even just a month, is it possible that TJ can live even if it is normal, immediately!
"Yes to Janella, the case gets junked?
Many fans of Elaella are asking what will happen to the length of Elmo Magalona from Janella Salvador now that their Kapamilya television series is almost over.
For them, they want the two to be given a follow-up project, especially if the said series will be good.
But, even the two do not know what they will do.
It is said that Elaella Ilao is said to be nervous, especially that through Regal movie mano Po 7, the Poe Marlo Moros and Janella, who was torn apart because of the entry of Elaella tandem.
Of course, as proof of this movie that will fight against the upcoming MMFF 2016, he will speak with the partnership of Marlo and Janella so that the audience will get better.
"That is really the fear of Elaella fans because the co-tandem might not be drowned in forgotten or to dismiss the hard-in-tandem that they really support.
