Miss Universe, in the Philippines, is already being faced with By Noel Ferrer July 20, 2016.
Around 1: 00 in the post of the gift of the manager and beauty queen, Jonas Gaphorny, you can see what he said "Tell of the said town."
Crawon, they said yesterday because in the Department of Tourism Office, Jonas went with the Miss Universe 2015, Pia Wurtzbach and some of the Miss Universe, led by their president, Paula, deep sigh.
Altaserv paid for the Miss Universe to host the Philippines of Miss Universe this year because there will be a little bit delayed because there are still a lot of evidence that we need to do.
There are a lot of things that should be fixed before the Premiere beauty pageant was happening in the whole world.
First, fix the security issues.
We should show it to the whole world that they are the ones who are on top of it and do not let them remember the daily killings of drug pushers in the Philippines.
Second, fix the traffic so the movement and flow of transportation and activities of the pageant was fast and good, because the traffic is too tight, the judges and candidates are not yet complete.
Let us fix the PICC or CCP or at the Araneta Coliseum or Philippine Arena or wherever it is implemented.
The candidates attacked properly so it seems that the candidates will not push through, hopefully the candidates will have an extensive spread of land for the promotion of the Philippine Tourism from the agricultural sector.
Our local government should be given attention and bring goodness to our local government.
Despite this, Maxine Medina needs to pour in and fix the ambassador of a fervent prayer and Break that I am going to win, which is why he can't win.
Danielle should show that we can go back to jail, wherein the collision of Encantadia and the province is already started yesterday and the win, the TV audience favorite.
For sure, there are those who peeked at Pilot episodes of Encantadia, but there are still many who stayed in the side of Coco Martin especially since his uncle has passed away from the story, Jaime Fabregas).
