Anti-INTECAIDs of libel, he leaves there!

It is as if you can't expect from the amen and the people to have a true journalism in my loved Philippines.
This is in the middle of a thorough investigation or release of some lawmakers in the Senate and legislative chamber to remove the proposed law to remove the legal criminals in free journalism.
In other words, it seems that the law will continue to jail those who would be proven guilty of "libel" or "defamation," said in diologists, radio, television, internet and other parts of the journalists.
In simple words, it seems that the proposal to push through libel to make civilians or administrative cases will not go forward.
Napoles!
The senators and congressmen have a reason for their not supporting libel.
They are focusing on the news coming out about the P10 billion Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
On the list of Benhur Luy in the said post, there are present and past 25 senators and 150 congressmen who are involved.
Napoles has its own list which involves 20 senators and 100 congressmen.
Majority of those who are involved here are currently seated and if they are not seated now, wives, children and relatives are seated on the effects of the dynasties.
With what he is calling, Bro, evil or relatives of a family or relatives who are positions in the government, in the election or the effect of an appointment of those seated or by the Commission on top of the Senate and Legislative Chamber.
The people in Malacanang are included with those who are from Malacanang.
Against those who are against Deo'clock.
Coming from the individuals or aunts, those who are implicated in Intramuros.
They are still okay to push through when the opposition who are still in the opposition of Napoles is still being endorsed by Napoles.
But when their names were taken out of Benhur Luy-list and Napoles list, the son of Ambulong, the true colors of the inhumane corrupt and plunderer has started to come out.
They do not want it was revealed that they are included in those corrupt and what they even want is to be imprisoned, through the status of libel libel, the journalists and people who want to let free journalism.
Skin.
According to the Supreme Court, the officials of the country should not be sensitive which are contrary to the rights of journalists and people who criticized what they are doing.
This is said to be a part of the public's lives and Summit is a part of the rights of journalists and the people who criticized them especially when the citizens are owned by the citizens in power and money which are being handled and livelihood by public funds and leader.
Public funds and leaders were just put in position by the citizens to take care of the power of the government and the public funds for the interest of the citizens.
It was said that they will never claim themselves to personally claim the power of the power and expenses of the people because they believe them by the people by the effects of law, "public office is a public trust."
No.
It appears that many officials of the town still cannot understand their seat in the government through the effects of the said law in "public trust."
That is why, instead of answering and explain to the children of the people, he will file a libel case for them to file a libel case for them to be imprisoned and no longer go out of the criticism of the people.
Because at the time, a government official filed a libel case, next is the prohibition of the court to discuss the corruption that is the cause of the case.
In other words, Bro, through the court, the government will cover the eyes of the people about corruption and corruption while holding a libel case.
And the people are sick.
Left there.
If the public and leader does not like that, they should just go back to their position.
They will not allow to say that they are elected by millions of people, especially now that many believe that many of their children are seated in the government through scheme.
They just came back to being an ordinary citizen and they should not force themselves as officials of the country.
There is no place for the people who will not receive criticism especially since there is truth to the severe robbery of money and abuse of power.
If they will file a case against them, they should not leave their position, so that they will not use their power and money that they have to use, in case there is truth to the criticisms or accusations.
It is time to put the government in order for the effects of power of the citizens and journalists to meddle with all the events in the government.
