What Tito Sotto's problem is right?

Atom Araullo.
Last 2010, Tito Sotto made the protest of the students against the budget, "said a ghost," said the senator "kristo" by a senator "kristo" by a medical exam. "
Students did not stop, of course, they rushed to Mendiola and received some hundred thousand pesos worth of budget from Congress.
Just recently, the people witnessed the objection of Sotto to the RH bill when he suspected that it caused the medical treatment of her daughter that died early because it's under a democratic country, that's why it's the only one who made his speech.
Many complained about what the senator did - or his administrative staff, but instead of asking for apology or admitted that she had a mistake, she should have been made to talk to their side, according to them, she should have been used to talk to their side.
But the highest statement released by Sotto's side, particularly from the chief of staff of his staff, Hector Villacorta, "Even Our Lady Oe Are, all all Souls' Day."
It's a shame that Villacorta, if yes, he might have done it when she is addicted, even if it seems that his needs can be heard, it would be proven that it would be proven that the politicians like Sotto did not get his knowledge.
If the logic in the camp of Sotto should be followed, it does not need to work hard on the role being linked by the data to be taken to Wikipedia, it is also not necessary for a senator to become a senator without a future punishment until the issue has subsided.
But it seems that it has been a long time for the comedian to stop the comedian for a few days, Sotto explained why he has not wanted to be one of the Salisi Gang that caused him to be an actor and make noise of it, but he wanted what I will fulfill, "
It would be embarrassing to what Sotto insisted that he is also embarrassed of Dolphy who does not have a gay times for the movie, and on how a reason would be the reason for the gay and a lot of discrimination among the anti-discrimination?
Maybe that's what Tito Sotto said to the groups of sectors which are destroying his personal experiences in fighting for a high budget for education, for free and honest journalism, or for the rights of those who are at the hem.
But Sotto also denied said allegations against LGBT statements as well as his refusal of not talking about it, similar to his refusal, there is a budget from university.
And like what was mentioned, Sotto does not want to escape the issues being thrown at him by the politicians who are crying in front of the camera, it is not listening to the perpetrators who were caught wrong in the act - they should not be fooled.
