De Lima, for P7,000 pesos - House WILINJ, Tina Mendoza, September 21, 2016.
More than 70 million were said by former Justice Secretary and now Senator Leila de Lima in drug operations in the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) since 2012.
This was revealed in the cross examination of three witnesses which were presented by Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre III, identified as Herbert Colanggo, Rodolfo Magugba and former acting director of Bureau of Correction (BuCor), Rafael Rflow.
According to Rflow, he took P5 million pesos in the house of De Lima in the Sousa Street in Parañaque City, particularly last November and last 2012, we were able to personally accept the driver of the senator Ronnie Dayan. "And we were not able to accept the person who will be bitten by the lady named Ronnie Dayan." And we were not able to make a point that he would not be able to finish his / her sister, fifty million pesos, "according to Maganto.
Colanggo pointed out for more than 60 million pesos was given to De Lima by his personnel such as Junell Sanchez who came from P3 million every month and one hundred pesos every month and one hundred pesos per month and one hundred pesos every month.
"Ysrael, since October 2013, P46-million), P46 million pesos per month), I have not included 1 million pesos per month, that's why it's only one year since I reached P14 million to P16 million in the concert to share to Secretary de Lima," according to Colanggo.
"Hey, 46 million and P14 million, 60 million," according to Colanggo.
Aguirre assured House Majority Leader Rodolfo Fariñas assured that they will file a case against the people who have learned to have gone to the spread of drugs inside Bilibid during the time of De Lima in DOJ.
"We are going to file a case against We Are, who is going to file a tight case but of course we will file a direct cause and of course we are not going to file a tight case and of course, we are not going to file a tight case," said Aguirre.
Meanwhile, aside from the loose sale of drugs, de Lima was also seen by the former Justice Undersecretary Francisco Barista, selling of women and their children.
Aside from De Lima and Barista, Cologne, former BuCor director Franklin Bucayo insisted that he received a payola about 1.2 million every month from 2013.
The hearing lasted for more than 11 hours and will continue this morning.
