
The desired president to academia is not enough.

By Castor S. Marasigan, September 25, 2014.

Now I have really read the controversial statement of the School of economics at the office of the Philippines-Diliman, and one of the most powerful countries in the government, and even to the legal officials of the government), and even to the legal officials of the government), and even to the legal officials of the government), and even to the corrupt officials of the government) and not a trend, "and fraud are being used by the Liberal Party in the country."

Second, although the society is recognized for the desired to academic, it is not safe from the examination and criticisms that is why it is difficult to vote, and it should be known for a simple reason to use, it is wrong to use the best-academic, and it is also wrong to use the desired freedom to defend and to defend said steps.

Third, and in relation to the second, the desired to academic, is only the way to serve other principles and social responsibility, which is coming from one side of UP who has been used to academic, but instead of the best-academic, according to the best-academic, which will be given to academic, which is more important to academic, not with integrity.

Abad is wrong to discuss the national budget because of DAP or Disbursement Acceleration Program.

Invited to the said spokesperson for the mentioned topic because they are the opposite or the destruction of the mentioned topic because they are fighting for the said topic because they are fighting for the power of the few to change the power of the few to change the power of the national budget.

But she invited herself to Abad, Marcos, Palparan and Arroyo, similar to the top part compared to Henry Sy and Kris Aquino.

Here, it is said that the aggressive resistance of the "typhoon" violence "by activists will be attacked by Abad, he is not the common spokesperson of the criminals who firmly condemned the criminal decision, Abad's decision to protect the decision of the criminals, which is why they will stand up for the violation of the criminals regarding him.

A symptoms of the rightfulness can be considered by the UP) for the sake of the political duties in history, this is a proof for the freedom of the airport to push for the freedom of the government and to protect its signature and continuous serving in the government, and aside from the US. "Naturally, he will defend Abad.

It is just instruments in searching for the truth to search for the truth, and what the authorities are saying is funny, and if not, the protests that will cheat on this country are rotten, and if the fight is rotten, they will make a way for those who have no power to blame and be talkative on doing crimes in the country.

As said by those who are asking for free to academic, "enemies of the university, the activists." For many and increasing in society, they are allies of the truth.

25, September 2014.
