Place for state of calamity!

The local government should not need a difficulty in declaring a state of calamity.
This is to immediately respond to the problems they are facing like typhoon Ruby.
It is a big help for the actions of the LGU on the declaration of the state of calamity, especially if you think that the national government is taking a small amount for this no matter how bad the devastation of the calamity like typhoon Ruby.
In the incident, the national government is prepared to have a billion pesos as help for those who are hit by the typhoon.
Small.
The value of calamity fund of the LGU) is small, especially the poor in these, especially if it is thought that this is only five percent in their whole budget for the whole year.
Remember that there are people who are calling the First Class in the province, city, municipal hall and barangay.
These are the only ones who somehow have a huge fund for the calamity.
Because the calamity fund is only 5 percent, even if the First Class LGU) has a huge amount, it is still easy to run out if within one year, the calamities will attack.
The funds of the Special Action Force, third First Class and Fifth Infantry Battalion are even harder.
Included in those who have the most small calamity fund are the towns and barangays who are all farmers, fishermen and put in a mountain the residents and the Internal Revenue, which are just depending on.
Declared.
Included in those already declared a state of calamity is the provinces of Albay, Camarines Sur, Masbate, Catanduanes, Cebu and Capiz.
We can be considered that this province is active in response to calamity that arrived or come to them.
This is a sign of the non-raising of the LGUs to their citizens and the national government should also help them immediately.
Don't waste.
The citizens should not have a few hours for the financial condition of the state of calamity.
The citizens should not wait for their interest to push for their interest.
Because there are events that the state of calamity happens more than the local officials.
Included in the problems of the citizens are politicking the local officials of the state of calamity.
They are urging the children of tool to send their own members, relatives, friends and voters and party mates from benefit from the funds.
The citizens should remember that their rights are the equal treatment of them and the politicians have no right or power to add-up beneficiary according to their own desire.
The rotten system will be stopped if people insist on their rights and release their voices.
They went to MNC.
The media is ready to help those given by the politicians to be possessed by politicians.
Just trust the people in the media and the palm of the media is open to other information that they will share against the deceit of them by the politicians about the funds of the country.
The truth is, the use of calamity fund is full of corruption.
We know that there are cases that are also dead for a long time before the storm arrives in the list of those who died.
The mayor was dismissed from position for a long time because Yugoslavia was treated at that dead.
What he did was worse than an accident.
Media, PRC versus Governor.
There is a problem on the current report that Ruby will report.
The government does not want to confirm if those who die of typhoon or not the reported dead are dead.
An example is 20 people drowned after being reported by the Philippine Red Cross.
We also reported dead who were not in the list of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council.
Gilber, Baylon, was reported to us by his fellow barangay who died after being criticized by the days of believed to have seen them in Biliran and Leyte.
Of course, the government has a reason in controlling the information: So that those who die have a connection with the typhoon and for sure.
But the media and PRC should not wait for it.
Especially if we think about it, the government is really slow.
One more thing, what if he control the number of victims like what he did during the time of Yolanda?
What is the truth and the victims?
