It is said that it is not just the supply of electricity but also in the water that may have become a problem now.
It is said that there is a big chance to put water on a path of Angat Dam, they will fall down the water in Metro Manila two more than four months because there is also affected in the supply of electricity which is used in power and relief because, Junior has also been affected.
Meanwhile, at the line, maybe you want the residents to get pity for the results of the result of July twenty one hundred twenty two thousand pesos in the result?
Because of the experience that is being experienced, it will only happen at that night of up to Bulacan, what is happening is that the authorities are going to repeat, which is why the authorities started to repeat, which is why the year has started, which was replaced by the water from the houses from the house.
It will also be the next rain here of the hope that the Philippines might experience a L HQ on the same time that what happened to the incessant supply of water when it is possible that the motorcycle they have experienced that is why they were forced to play the two bottles of water for a long time.
You are having water in the Office Taba.
I really do not have any feeling.
Drilling, very small, little by little, just a little bit of income.
But there is a different perspective or on the table of Dav, especially if it will continue to change.
Who will depend on hatred on the table which can be done by Waco.
Fuck, covetousness and the water.
Just postponed the investigation.
I will push through.
He / she was just white; he / she had an answer, who has an answer, very fittest!
I really want to push through because it is very hot; we are very hot; so that other end of end will continue.
One more thing, aside from him, Gab, in Laguna, it is still normal to put water on me until he / she was just alone.
Apparently, in the latest survey, it might be one of the one to be included in the motor because it was immediately far from a disaster that the operators have been far from a calamity.
It's her.
But if Pacis said that there is still no four months that is why it is immediately laid down here, he still needs to prepare for it, because we know that the heat here in the office is looked at.
Only four who have been used to Ma'am, we have help that will be saved from water.
Because it is being done in palm, this is how great the supply is affected including the supply of electricity.
If in the past one hundred pesos worth of electricity will be given by the electricity, he will be able to step down from the motorcycle Labo on the road, which is only made up by its power.
The protagonist's protagonist is hoping that the supply of electricity will also be lessened because of the extreme heat when it is really affected by your television because it is really affected by him.
It was said that in his big times, this was experienced by Lacson several times that reached five minutes.
In some parts of Isabela, it has been a few parts of Isabela ten hours because of it.
I implemented the law in the free Corporation of the Philippines A TJ.
Maybe yes, what the talk of them say is that I will go back to my favorite now.
That is why the end of the letter of prayer is deaf and Meralco for the back, using the motorcycle factory of his own Joey Dulce.
To make it up to the high towel.
"I am the call center of babies who do not think of anything, and how can we do the water is more important if the weather is hot.
Water is the water.
Very small, deport; because work is a job.
He / she is beautiful when taking a bath in a bath that is why he / she grew up.
Nothing.
