It is a message for our ancestors.

To our readers, let it be a sec.
Every time the Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday morning, you can go through your walking home or going to every corner of your college.
Even if it will be free to be free, and you are able to pay it every Holy Week, this is the reason why I write to you, students of UP Diliman (UPP), which is one of the sake of it.
"The only daughter of Coletech, the daughter-wheeler truck, was seen to be owned by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in its bottom," - Philippine Cologne, March 5, 1955.
It has been a long time part of the life of UP Diliman, the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency or even if, the official who is weekly newspapers of UP Diliman, in fact, he celebrated the 120th anniversary of this last year, and many incidents have passed by its pages.
One will be even more than a few thousand pesos in the country which is weekly, only the students of the UPD and running as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as the newspaper in the opinion of UP Diliman, that is important for the students and in society.
But the situation is not always like this, there is a time before the second Filipino man we can depend on, when it goes to a "Board of Camping, which will be considered as an effective decision in the hands of the administration, that will be considered as an effective decision in the hands of the administration when will be implemented, according to National artist in Literness, which is the last piece of adviser of the newspaper.
It is true that you are the only ones who are the only ones who will be able to make it as if even if you will be the only one who gives the paper operation, and because of this, it is the duty of the price increase, for your welfare, as well as the increase of funds from the government, the side will be even more than the students.
And because you are our hearts, giving a voice to you and to the wide sector in the society, which is the reason why even if it is not being received by a private sector for the students, which is the reason why even if it will not be received by a private sector, it means that the desired freedom to be fought for will not be put in danger.
"It can only be two or five pesos only for five years, but how about four years from now?" What if the prices of our enemies have once again increased, a larger foundation of "-off, a long-lasting foundation of "
Even if it will not be free, even if it will be up to P4.8 per kilo which is stated in your form 5 every Holy Week, P40 here is what will go to the funds of UP (three continents, together with summer.
It has been more than two decades ago when the P40 Colationist.
Members of the Philippines launched their campaign to campaign for the increase of funds of the newspapers, after receiving 7,238 which were confiscated from the students of UP, which was allowed by former USS Chambers (NT 340 when the price hike in the year 1989.
And more than two decades have passed, it is still P40 that's being monitored by Cologne, which is why they consider the increase in price of goods, there is no P23 which can be applied at the Value-Tropas.

When the price of Cologne was last raised in 1989, the total amount of publication of the publication of one issue with a raid was included in the payment for the release of 34,000 pesos and other expenses - a copy of the even if it was hit by 34,000 pesos.
At present, the total value of the publication of the publication of one issue will be held at 65,000 pesos to P75,000, wherein up to 35,000 pesos will lead to 35,000 pesos to 10,000 pesos for six months, but there will be a few terms that will end up to P58,000 pesos a copy.
Because it is 22 years since even if it will be increased to increase, the real Value-40 Cologne (P250 pesos (P250 27) if you think about it, the real Priority Development Assistance Fund) is still low compared to P24 which is being sold in 1988.
And just like in the decades of 80, the small funds that will be taken out by the previous term in 1989, almost 15,000 copy of the students of UP Diliman (2010 to 2001), which will have been released by staff of UP arrived in 2009-2010), was lowered down by his students' term.
In the current term, the number of issues for the whole year has increased again, instead of having 32 regular issue with 12 pages, and put four pages from two weeks with 16 pages, and two issues with eight pages.
Due to the increase in price of bashing them and not the increasing collection of even if it will be exported, it will have become average pesos or an annual lack of P228,75.35 (consult with 5 table 2).
In the past five term, the said place of Karl Frederick Castro in 2006 was released by the term of Karl Frederick Castro in 2006, a 14-year-old issue was released by the administration of UP.
And now, there will be no need to get additional funding for the next term to cover-up the lack of collection.

"If we will not make a move, who will be the one to act, who will do it to him," when it is not right now, "what happened to him?"
Because of this situation, the current administration has become the primary way to fix the case that will be held in front of a small fund, we find out that there can be a few wage increase in raising rails in order to increase the funds of the newspaper.
And, in fact, the current term has a proposition to increase the amount of Coletech, from the current P40; P72, it is only enough to bring back the P40-Tropas.

In the proposal that will be expulsion of 72, to be more than P3 million every year, it is enough to bring back the wage increase of the actual employee of even if it is possible that the salary of the actual employee will be given, which is currently being received by salary, which is currently receiving wages, which is currently being received by salary, which is currently receiving wages, which is currently being received by salary.
In order to implement the proposed increase, it is needed to gather support for a long time from all of you, students of the UPD and in the Office of the Student Regalliances, and if it will be approved, it will go to the Board of Regalmonds, and if it will be approved.
If you think about it, there is still a way to increase by Collins's group who will request the Aquino administration to fund, or aside from having no assurance, there will be no assurance that there will be no assurance that there will be a favor with this kind of ways.
It will have a big effect in the freedom of even if the administration of UP will be implemented, if there will be businessmen who will be implemented by the administration of UP or, if ever there will be an assurance that will happen to the administration of UP or, as long as possible, the anti-student will be placed in different compromise if it will be imposed on the tradition of courage, beauty, and insult.
For now, even if you will be closer to you, our readers and racketeering a few weeks, to carefully study the proposed increase in every week, but some of us may call on your classrooms and explain about the proposed increase.
Hopefully your mind will be open about fifty million pesos, we know that it will be an additional expenses - one day or fare, but it depends on the continuous improvement of the 89 in the newspaper.
In the continuation of free journalism.
Maraytono.
They are full.
