34, the provinces in Palawan, graduated from poverty.

August 17, 2016.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, August 17 (Pia) - it will not be given a chance to send a chance to study even if they are inside the prison, being implemented inside Palawan Provincial Jail in the programs of the Department of Education (DepEd) Palawan Schools).

It will be recalled that there are four persons under the province of Palawan who graduated from the conducted Dugong Bombo Radyo, which has a theme of "youth from the K to 12, even signed at the K to 12, even based in the year 2014-2016.

Marites Andoy explained, education Program of DepEd-Palawan which is an alternative Learse System (ALS), Actor and Eker), who is formerly known as a non-Formal education program under Dilawan, program.

This is a program for the exam to convince to convince the ability of the people who are not studying or able to finish elementary and secondary from the formal system of education.

Those who have passed or he was able to finish the typical passenger or school diploma that there is the signature of the Secretary and will prove their end to the said pro-father and the unqualified to continue the next level of studies.

The ceremony in the end was held recently in the Provincial Jail Management Division (PJMD) Building that was attended by Cesar Sammy Magbanua, Chief of Staff as representative of the governor, Pedro J. Damayan Lagi, Health Program (Ruru) II of DepEd-Palawan.

From more than 1,000 cases being documented by the PJumuad, four of them chose to study and finish elementary school through ALS while 29 to the female.

According to Leticia, Liao, Administrative V V, PJMD, it did not become a hindrance to the studies of the Nido, this is not a hindrance in the days of Saturday and Sunday, and particularly on these are the primary issues that are similar to the schools including Mathematics, Science, English, Filipino and Arsociety.

Liao has added that the disputed province of Palawan is not just the same way for those waiting for the decision of the court but one of the solution is set aside and giving a new hope in the legislative chamber that continues to face the life that has a positive outlook this (Pio / OCJ, Pia and Mimaropa.
