Transformation of BOC.

GIDs. LR is slowly being fooled by the Bureau of Customs.
From the down image, now slowly come out of the country.
Because of his forehead, the caught making illegal drugs and what is happening now in the Islamic Liberation Front is the opposite.
Since it is possible that there is a widespread brownout, to the management of Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, we think there's no space for each other.
One that is falling in the hands of Biazon's personnel is that not only the amount of goods, but other items used like drugs.
Rice is the former favorite to be smuggled in the country, but this was stopped when the alert BOC agents caught the P.5 billion smuggled goods in Subic recently.
Due to the capture of the said rice, the personalities who were behind the attempt to take a fight were also filed in court.
Some of the products, like onions, did not get away from the black eyes and like the police dog who seem to smell the smell of Biazon.
The people who tried to defend them were charged with BOC port under Col. Malon Almeda and Byron Carayell.
In the record of BOC, nine drug syndicates were caught and millions worth of drugs were confiscated at Ninoy Aquino International Airport.
The drug user is charged and jailed.
With what the current administration of BOC showed, there is no reason for this agency to reach the dream of change.
They continue to gather the "straight path" which is being endorsed by President Aquino, the day will come that the BOC will receive praises.
When the public continues to see the current administration of Adelana, there is also no reason to erase the corruption.
And when there is no corruption, there is also no reason to reach BOC on the always shape of the tax of the said agency.
We also believe that under the management of Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, Adelana will surely be the model agency of the government.
There is a presumption that others can say, but that is what we've read because of the good upbringing by the Biazon administration.
