"Are you ready to stop the protest on August 25?"

A widespread barbark was held this August 15 in different parts of Metro Manila to drilling the objection in continuing the system of pork barrel in the country.
It was led by number of Abangenos that various groups are making noise and have programs to join the higher public to join the gathering of August 25, on the eve of a year anniversary of the million-March.
Included in those who are conducting a barbark in front of the Supreme Court, UP Manila, Elpidio Road, National Disaster Authority, Department of Agriculture, LMedical Center, Sandiganbayan, Barangay Guadalupe (EDSA) at noon.
In the afternoon, around four o'clock in the afternoon, there will be a social gathering that happened at the Philippine Wgens "University, Philippine General Hospital, Philippine Military Hospital, Philippine National University, Blumentritt, E. Rodriguez, Sto. Domingo Church, and Philcoa.

"Aquino shows the signs of the too high-elected mayor of pork barrel scam (who is too high on power), and now that the Supreme Court had a very much difficulty in order to defend their illegal number.," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo is the latest statement of Aquino, "he is open in the Saligang Batas to lessen the power of the Supreme Court and to strengthen the term of his fight.
Every year of March: A year.
Meanwhile, the anti-year-March only has a signal of August 26, which is a sign of the widespread objection in the system of pork barrel in the Aquino administration but despite this, and despite his posture of the Supreme Court against pork barrel, he remained in reconciling with the government.
Which is why, in August 25, All Soul's Day, they are calling for an extensive protest, to insist on the garbage system of pork barrel scam in Roxas Boulevard near Lunet Park, a big program that will be held, while the signature of the most number of people for the New People's initiative will be gathered.
According to number of Abangaron, which is one of the members of the activities, they are trying hard to widen the support of the protest and initiative to widen the signature of the signature campaign which aims to raise the law which aims to raise the law which prohibits them to step down to 73 million pesos or pork barrel.

"In the past year, we started the crusade against corruption (and) on the system of pork barrel) and the DAP (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and DAP (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and the Supreme Court (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and the National Security System (Priority Development Assistance Fund).
Included in the steps of Malacanang is to maintain the pork barrel, there is a formal attempt by the lawmakers and representatives of the department to the cabinet of Aquino.
"They have not yet hit the fight because we need to go out again, stand a stand and signed against pork," Gordon even said.
Aside from number Abanglement and number ScracadNeediting, it is also included in the destruction of the group Volunteers Organization (chickenifer Edrada, Whisticulate and the bandit group under the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, progressive and progressive countries under the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.
Different personalities are joined in the formal launch of the planned protest that was done on August 12, including Bong Bernadita,; VAdona, and Bong Leste and ACT-budol Gang and ACT party, Representative Antonio Tinio.
Aside from the barism earlier, the said group of a People's Congress will also succeed in the approval of the proposed law that will be deceived by the People's initiative.
"Instead of talking about the second term for Aquino, or the partnership and allies of the politicians, we should talk about his plan with DAP, and to stop his plan to bring the DAP-like DAP," Reyes said.
