
The KP has criticized the giving support of the US against DPRK.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 13, 2013.

Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Marcos regime in the middle of a bigger presence of the military of the US in the Philippines when armed arguments in Korean peninsula.

"The Filipino people insisted that the ones who are going to stop the rehabilitation of the US will be stopped, a vocation and discretion, the Bayan of Korea (DPRK) and those ordered by the US in Asia-Pacific," said the KP.

The proposal to allow the entry of more government troops in the Philippines was stated yesterday by Voltaire Gazmin, Defense Secretary of Aquino, who said that the additional presence of the military troop in Korean peninsula which led to the possibility of building based on the US as a "extreme heat."

"The Marcos regime shows a thorough investigation of the American owner," said PKP, the Philippines insisted that if the armed arguments of the US and DPRK are obliged to support the US under the Milan at 1948) of 1951.

"As early as now, the Philippines is going to serve as a number of military from the US as a result of the policies of the US government to give a facilities for resting and leisure for the military troops under the Special Operations Task Force-Philippines (JO-P).

"It reached out that there have been no increase in the level of the US in the Philippines since the military forces of the US last 1991," the PKP, said that there was no embarrassment for the Philippines' sovereignty and policies of the Philippines and became the reason for the real slave of the Philippines in the Catholic power of the US. "

It is insisted by the KP that it will only bear to bear a peaceful resolution to the armed conflict in Korean peninsula through the removal of 30,000 troops of the US in South Korea, for his rights in making the rights of DPRK and for its rights to the economists and economic growth.
