Praying: The right of the Filipino people to watch and comment on the president.
By Ellen Toribio, June 29, 2016, on Thursday, before the president of the Philippines.
Rodrigo Duterte will take responsibility on Thursday and he is going to live in Malacañang.
All controversy about what he said during the past months, from the campaign until today, is not too much as well, what is important is the start of his taking advantage.
Because of his bad experience in the medicolden, after he was elected, he decided to have his adviser that he will not have a roving.
It was only PRE4 that I will pay to him and that's when he will get another station and media to get the news that she wants, that she would not talk to all the media, "what she just wants to talk to all the media, that she is not like Mocha Uson, who is not known as Mocha Uson, who is a member of the group Mocha Uson.
If Duterte wants, he will talk to her right, "that is his right."
Meanwhile, the media, there are many ways to ensure the work of the people to inform the people what is happening in the narrow-mindedness of the people and other officials because it might be better than the president's cursing.
According to him, he doesn't want to live in Malacañang because he can curse or say that he would always go home to Davao.
I do not know if he will withstand the coming days or many times a week, he said, "maybe now.

He will also get used to it here in Manila.

Many of the controversial statements of Duterte during his campaign.
Three to six months have already gone to six months to lose the crime.
These past few weeks, many were killed.
The police said that they are involved in illegal drugs.
He did not mention what he was going to go to Sprateng.

He might have taken the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) because he will wait for two years before talking to China.

"It's just the Philippines and China, not included in other countries who are claiming part of Spratings.
Aside from the media the controversy after the election is about his appointment as well, there are things that are not desirable and the most controversial actor Gina Lopez, which he placed it as beneficiary of the mining industry.
It is the right of Duterte to buy his partner in serving the country.
It is also the right of the Filipino people to guard him and point out if they saw something wrong.
That is for the goodness of the filipino people.
