The crocodiles and all of us free.

Arrived, Atty. Gigi Reyes came home from a long rest of yes, he had a rest because of the stubborn ones, the crocodiles were the saint of the pork barrel scam.
Now, almost everyone is calling for a state witness to the mistakes made by the pork barrel queen Janet Lim-Napoles but he is blaming three senators - Enrile, Estrada Revilla.
"It will not make your mind because of the list of Commission on Audit (COA), 98 percent of lawmakers are benefiting from the transactions made by Napoles," Mar Roxas said, according to Mar Roxas.
Why is Atty. Reyes' egging on the three?
Why is it only a state witness what Malacañang is looking for, DOJ, Congress of the Senate and the Legislative Chamber, why are you not to start the plunder case of Napoles?
Upon the arrival of Atty.
Do you have done some help to the victims of typhoons and calamities?
Look at EDSA in the worsening traffic, look at the passengers of MRT and LRT, look at the congested and stinky airport, look at the appearance of many other houses of squatters, look at the new graduating.
You are the only ones who get rich while rich!
Tell all, Atty. Gigi, for what?
You should be blamed everyday of Mar Roxas for billions of pesos that you put in Congress, only five fingers are the equivalent of what you have done.
Now, it's as if you are the crocodiles in the New Year, do you not have a shame?
We think, Capi was put in uncertainty because of the sudden interview with her by the media and the truth could be answered that the truth became faster to the taste of General Alan Purisima.
Just like what many are feeling, it is only one of them, Capi's reaction is natural why he was fired by Tugade in spite of the good upbringing.
On the other hand, many are also doubts, and we are sure that it is also felt by Caping that because the arrested was Lee, maybe or there is an doubt that there was an attempted cheating.
Because instead of praises, what wanted Lee was caught was the award by Capi, who was fired from his post and transferred to an intensive fur.
Because of the interview of the media about the sudden departure from him - Capi was released by Purisima, who was accompanied by PNoy, who was accompanied by PNoy, who is requesting the public.
In truth, many Juan were not confident with what Purisima showed and the President, and to say that what they did was right, they are still investigating the criticisms against Capa.
"I am not stupid that it's only normal, stop criticizing the pitiful ones, Caping.
Because no matter what happens, the citizens will feel pity for Caping and anger in the PNP.
