The third SONA of Aquino, full of fraud!

Mary Joy Viado.
Protest spread upon the estimation of 14,000 members of different sectors of the third State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Benigno Aquino III at Batasang Pambansa last July 23.
Contrary to the progress that the President boasted in his annual report, those who joined the "SONA of the Bayan" said that there is still no meaningful change in the situation of the citizens in the second year of the administration of Aquino.
"
The Bayan gathered the violent dispersal of the estimated 6,000 policemen in the ranks of protesters, more than 90 were wounded in the said encounter after the protesters tried to reconcile!
"We on the legal way of March to March in the Congress.
"There is no law to progress!
Featured in each half of the SONA of Aquino is the improvement of the economy in the form of 6.4 million pesos increase of products and services in the country, and 44 times of increase in the Philippine Stock Exchange.
The president also boasted about the influx of foreign contacts, positive outlook of the country, and loaning the government in the International Monetary Corporation of $1 billion in June.
However, there is no concrete proof that the condition of ordinary Filipinos' condition will improve, according to Xs Liza Bisayan, senior citizens known by the bird Foundation, which can be considered as any kind of financial status in the country.
According to the last record of the bird last April, 10.9 to be signed with the strength of the country, or 4.5 million Filipinos, those who remain unemployed, on 19.4 per hour or 7.1 million Filipinos, continue to search for a lasting work or a higher salary.
It can also be considered that the industry of Business Administration (ASG) in the Philippines is said to be considered the improvement of the Business Administration (ASG) in the Philippines because the salary of a vigil in BPO in the Philippines is still low.
"
The strengthening of the industry?
Aquino also announced the strengthening of the industry in the country, particularly agriculture and mining.
In 2010, the government is importation of two million worth of rice, this year, only 500,000 pesos in the government, "Aquino said," we should not be swayed by the weather... that next year, we can be exported by rice, "the President added.
A bird was ordered to break the statement of the President about the part of the rice of the Philippines because the said statement has no assurance because the World Trade Organization won't have an assurance that it can be imposed on a product of a country, Bishops again.
In relation to the reforms, Aquino presented that the implementation of his administration is in thorough implementation of his administration at the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP) that was first implemented under his mother, former President Corazon Aquino.
At present, it is estimated to be 11.3 billion worth of land that is scheduled to have been shared before after the term of the President is being implemented by farmers, according to the Department of Agrarian Reform.
"By data.
Meanwhile, Aquino also presented that his administration is the support of his administration for his support to corrupt service, including education and health.
The president also mentioned particularly the 44-year-known increase in budget of State Universities (SUCs), from P25.8 billion this year, Aquino assured the response to the lack of infrastructure and equipment for the educated countries before his term.
"The leader of the budget for SUCs) is the direct part of the largest hip of the United Nationalist Alliance (Whmmmp!
According to the Department of Budget and Management Council, the 37.1 billion fund of SUCs from 2013 is 68 percent of the P54.6 billion peso proposed budget of SUCs for the next year.
Meanwhile, the intensified Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps) is also able to donate to the current health services of the country, Aquino, the primary goal of the program is to improve the condition of the programs that will benefit from in exchange for a few conditions such as regular consultation to the hospital.
"A long time has a huge impact of our 4Ps, however, it is still good to have shown the number of 1,672,370 7 that are not forced to have been absent from poverty, Production, Aquino, who are not forced to live because of poverty," said Aquino.
Poverty will not be solved by giving money to the poor families under the 4Ps, Bishops again, there is no assurance if they will come up with poverty or change the situation of their lives.
In the SONA of the President, some of the primary issues were not mentioned including the passing of Islamic Freedom Fighters (FOI) Bill which is the continuing violation of human rights under Aquino.
The FOI was initially filed in Congress last 2010 but it did not pass through the legislative chamber after most of the lawmakers did not show up on the third and final reading on the proposed law.
"With Two 1st Lieutenant. Aquino, who was an ally of the human rights in the Philippines.
In the record of Karuhatan, 99 cases of political killing, 107 who have been prisoners and 231 illegal abduction and arrest were recorded under the administration of Aquino.
"Aquino's third SONA in the third SONA, the development to be led by the administration of Hacademic, the development to be shown by Aquino, Old Statistics Authority, Chappelle," said UP Diliman, Cuya and Kevin Arguaving.
