Patrolling, July 8, 2012.

Katangian Street is a prosperous leader.

The quality of life of a person is in the right proportional relationship with the chance that he will improve, whatever field is focused on.

The leadership is a rare and important trait of a person, if there are no leaders who are going to lead and will become a leader, or the society, this is what is happening if this is not good and has no concern for the welfare of the leaders.

The true condition of a society is only right based on the kind of his leaders or those who lead the government, who among those who lead the government, who are the leader of the community you're taking, is also a kind of management that you will achieve.

Whether this is peaceful or not, it is in this kind of leader, it depends on the prevalence of guide of them, if they are problems instead of the solution.

The saints.

1, a good leader is a person who does not have to put off a foul or his integrity and character when no one is looking at it.

2, a good leader has a unique morality and strong spite for the truth.

3, a good leader has its initiative to gather and show business to achieve triumph for the sake of all.

4, a good leader is not always hope and always waiting for what will happen that you need to answer.

5 - a good leader is not negligent and is always focused on new things that matter to the progress of the country.

6 a good leader is taking care of his honor and name of his family even in private and public eyes.

7 - a good leader is not making a headache, be doubly careful in changing the new weather, for allies, from the party, and in the level of service.

8, a good leader cannot be defeated, no time for those without meaning and not helping, and always be in a meaningful work.

9: A good leader, the environment will be diligent in change with poverty, corruption, and gag.

10, a good leader is not excited to pull and sell any amount of duty, and all of the things in fulfilling this.

11, a good leader is not lazy and always in entertainment, gambling or vices in the body, but in service to the people.

12, good leader is humble, affectionate, and most of giving importance to small and common people.

13, a good leader is always focused on the hardworking and hard work and cooperation.

14, a good leader is a model of a model and a model.

15, a good leader has a positive attitude and meaningful scenery in life's beauty.

16, a good leader, respectfully and put all the service to the country for the top of the discipline and repression of bad acts and fraud in business.

17, a good leader has a good goal in the advancement of the country, especially in making good guidance and rule.

18 - a good leader is leading for supporting the products, harvest in agriculture, fishpond, taking care of damp and vegetables of their own country.

19, a good leader has become a good leader, and is ready to fight for whatever happens to anyone who will become the snake which will be taken care of.

20 - a good leader is loving and applaud his own language, tradition, art and Filipino culture.

21, a good leader is truly a real Filipino who will be with God, to borrow money from, just, and patriotic.

To prove the real leader, he needs to make sure that the weight of his scope in his shoulders and sacrifice will become a burden to all the people who live in our country, that somehow there are still people who love the people and will not be focused on personal benefit or for enriching their duties.

Do you have known to respond to the good characteristics?

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
Postanes and Jesse Guda.

And 9: 57.
