It is out of Order: Karma of Gloria.
Bulang Burgos July 22, 2016 year 2012 when Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was imprisoned after the Sandiganbayan filed a warrant of arrest due to the non-graft case that has something to do with the alleged P366 million fund of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO).
Included in the accused are the accused of GMA as a close friend and former PCSO General Manager Rosario Uriarte, which up to now is hiding and suspected to be living in another country, Uriarte would be the one who will withdraw the money which will withdraw money from Conejero (CIF) of the agency.
GMA and Uriarte are also included in the plunder case the four members of the PCSO Board which is believed to have been allowed by the Sandiganbayan to use bail but the case of the Ombudsman and the National Bureau of Investigation (AFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), that it means that the four PCSO board member of the Philippines (AFP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) admitted that he was able to bail her while he was able to run for bail.
The lawyer of GMA has filed for four times for the court for four times but it cannot be avoided that the Sandiganbayan done to GMA and President Noynoy Aquino did what he is behind.
It can be considered that a favorable decision of the Supreme Court to GMA about the vote of 11-4 and was finally dismissed by the plunder case of the former President and gave way to the release of Gloria after four years imprisonment in Veterans Memorial Medical Center (VMMC) in Quezon City.
GMA also did not feel bad about the tension because her sickness was worse in an cerned, so he affected his food, which is why it needed to be used by the brightness.
If I will be asked, if GMA did something wrong, he was able to pay it because of the hardship and pain experienced in the four-year-elected president which consists of a lot of integrity of the former President.
Even Senator Panfilo Lacson who experienced severe or solution to the Arroyo administration and was forced to hide for 14 months in another country is supported by the decision of the Supreme Court to GMA.
"GMA behind bars, which is almost four years old to be under an administrative case to be under an amount of physical injury.

Even President Joseph Estrada is happy with the decision of the Supreme Court to improve the condition of GMA with a severe illness and illness due to the tension.
Hopefully, the good fate of GMA will continue, and this will only happen if all the role that he shows and do as a congressman of Pampanga will continue to be forgotten about the fight against the people who served him.
