It's good to have a heart.

By Marialyn.
February 17, 2012.

In the city of Naga, one of the youth who became a teacher and a teacher identified as Aristeo Cordero is one of the extraordinary culture of the local government in Bicol, once we say that the said controversy is already passed and maybe he / she might have been living in the act of the said controversy at the same time.
It is surprising, because if we will be discussed, it is not only right to look into the weekly form of local followers, it is fine, if the readers of Cordero will only happen, if the readers are going to be full of intrigues.
Cordero and Filipino refers to a few admirers (dwarf) of the international coalition being thrown away from the same word, but in his colorums in the same word, "if this is being reckless" from the same word "," he / she said, "
The ingredients in Callejon Dos are written to the most frequent newspaper and local government of Nabua, Bato, Bula, Loakan Proper, Purok Penguin, and RTECAAP), this was initially published in the towns of Nabua, Bato, Bula, Baguio City University in the last part of the year 2010.
It is almost easy to be used by an alternative but to serve as collectors of its resolution from the Bible because he is really being choked by some if it is in paper where she is in a role of the world until Lerio Bompat.
Through the fhated image of the image, along with its naked bodies, Cordero is also having a snake who is attempting to berate people who are agony "in accordance to the sake."
I said, at the other hand, he / she said, that he / she was being treated as an insane man.
She is not telling the white.
Told me, he is also the one who will be called by colorums.
You make sure that you are applying for you, Papal.
It was the first time that she took a glimpse of his absenteeism.
(Taba Are) first.
The collections of the Hacademy.
The bark in the whole world.
Some into Hacademic, Are human rights.
There, the white vinegar.
Taba Are that's why he / she was very quiet.
In Earth Are, an ally of the children, hmmmp!
She thought that she'll be known.
"Ayoy," translation of Marayes).
It can't be denied that it can't be denied for the co-alect of Cordero.
It is possible that they will reach other voices that can reach other voice, just like the traditional politicians that are becoming a competing with depression, for example, if you will not hold on the suspicion that it will be given to a marble, like "the judge"
Uruguay said that I am going to be ill-tempered, and waves.
It's a good outcome that it will be given benefits that will be eaten.
He will be cheated on, puzzled "on the edge on the cage he is playing, gton for every hair.
For the accident that they are holding, the collections of an accident.
I grew up on the water, it is persistent in the source of the sun.
It's an accident that can be used for so long, they can count the laxs.
They seem to be an expert who turned it into a pillow.
You will be able to make sure that we are going to become subservient.
(Rain and fire act on me.
On a point of PhpFish, its coercion.
"There was a fight, wind, so that we have a taste," epal.
Hair-tempered and my body, my brain, my brain will be raised.
Water, we have a job, flood, and my heart.
Able to go out, to be a person.
To be able to go into a distant place.
The death penalty is being replaced with the Pambansang Kamao.
"Epal 'Day," translation of Marayes).
It is possible for Cordero, real Holy Week, it is true that even if he goes to the etiquette of time, it will be seen that there is a common faith in order for him to end up with the amazing discipline in the start, from the "Puon Digaynon,":
In that point, she is still returning to someone else.
They need to search for people.
Salt was the original taste of salt as well.
The cold or colds, it is obvious to be involved.
Alamping, caught in pretending to be pretending.
That's why it's feminine garments.
Because of the sword.
It's as if it depends on the sweet words.
It is an obstruction for the bottom of the bottom.
(Now, there are still some who travel.
In order to find out things.
And original words to prove it.
That it's natural for us to be sexy.
But doubts will prevail.
And becomes more afraid of the sword of the balist.
Just like this.
Being a millionaire.
"From here"
In spite of being new, modern, or so-called modern in a future to be dismissed and there is no assurance, those who are going to do with Cordero will hope to be honest in his tongue and will surely have a heart.

