President Aquino, very shy and propaganda.

By Danilo Arana, Arao November 23, 2013.

Every time there is a protest, expect the hurtful words that I usually say that some friends activists will take care of their skills to cover the interest of the people.

The content of propaganda is really important, the words that we want to give is clear so that the message of the masses is clear, how can you get the attention of the masses, how can you get their support?

In the case of President Noynoy Aquino, he needs to consider the high trust and approval of when examined by the data of Pulse Asia and the Social Weather Stations (SWS) from the time of several controversies of his administration, it cannot be denied that it is a popular way that he is popular.

But what is the approval of his popularity, it depends on the belief of the person you are talking to, for example, the public can say that he was not able to reveal all the mistakes made by Aquino, even if it's not impossible to reveal to President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, the President followed him.

Because of the low rating of Arroyo, it is clear that anyone compared to him looks like the saint, including Aquino!

This is also the issue of the current "fame" of the President.

Whatever is your political belief, it cannot be denied that an effective use of the main direction of the Aquino administration is to make it look like a special treatment of the Aquino administration, and if there are no corrupt officials who are riding in the streets, there is no hard time to look straight at the right time in the right path, "and if there is no assurance that this situation is not acceptable.

And because the people are getting tired of corruption, the Aquino administration is forcing himself to coordinate with poverty, and even if there is no clear change in poverty, and even if there is no clear change in the financial status of the society, it is an effective propaganda that the government is facing where the Aquino administration is facing.

But not all effective is true, there is still no longer equal between the officials of the government and the Filipinos who should be serving for example, why there is still no clear poverty and other problem of the country?

In this point, the inhumane treatment of activists should be examined.

We often hear the words, "there is no change under Aquino" every time there is a protest in schools, factory and streets.

This is just a simple reason, it is clear in the evidence that the social activities will still continue in the issue of corruption, but also in the issue of corruption, some of the allies of Aquino are facing a lot of scandal.

A relative of a relative in exchange of a contract with a foreign company, construction of expensive houses in a famous subdivision of a official, playing in the casino for another official even though it is clear that it is prohibited in the law to enumerate all the controversies.

Well, even Aquino himself has issues of issues, especially the programs that he is trying to implement, especially the prices of basic needs, especially the Filipino sectors, which are used as a propaganda in the government to gather the blame for a thing that cannot be seen.

Oh yes, it looks like the use of inhumane words in English even if they don't understand the concept should not be blamed, instead of having an image of "capitalists, in the end, the ordinary citizens should just accept the routine in the situation outside of anyone.

As of now, propaganda of those in power is effective because the support of many people from them is still effective, but it is slowly being implemented by typhoon Yolanda which has been mentioned by a former local official who needed to remove from his position after his statement on the took place.

Propaganda is also not allowed to protect the conflict between different agencies of the government which are going to the resolution of relief goods and other form of our countrymen who have been affected by the typhoon.

Even if it is worse, the lack of ability of the government to help those in need, especially since the early campaign of some personalities who are planning to run as President of the Philippines in 2016 is obvious that they don't want to run for President of the Philippines in 2016.

In the middle of the propaganda of the government, the activists are having their own words to make the alternative routes in what is happening in society and the government that should serve as a Noguzzle up to the citizens, since he chose to be criticized by his style of leadership and cheap charger.

It is needed to be clear that any terms used for him is not meant to be stone in personal attacks.

Every time there is a protest, expect that the increase of propaganda to activists will be expected especially that the government's shortcomings are increasing.
