Robelyn was searching for in the year 2013.

After more than three decades, the entry of "Manila will be shown again to the nails of the light, it is important to see in the controversial cinemas in the next month, it is important to see" Manila which is appropriate for this season.
The novels of the novels "Edgardo Reyes came from the nails of the light" of Edgardo Reyes, this is according to Manila to look for the family from poverty, both of them became victims of chance and cruel and fierce cities.
More than the mirror of the reality, the movie as social activities has a clear side, not only the story of two particularly couples, Julio and Orly's story to rise from poverty in spite of the obstacles.
When we were able to know how the current audience will accept the "Manila..." in the movies we liked, we might be moved to the message of the film that we have liked, and when we go home to their respective houses, and when we go home, it is obvious how we get along with the art of Bira.

It is not hard to see that this is not far away from the experience of many poor people who live in the city's story, they left the province hoping that their lives would be able to recover, but for others, it will only be his personnel in the world of film, Julio Madrigal, and Orly Paraiso.
It is possible that the fate of the two might not go through our minds in spite of the violent demolition of the clumsy, we may be convinced that the actions of Julio, but today, we can convince us to have a stone and wood which will cook and destroy them.
The movie does not want to pay for the poor, but like Julio, many of the poor, who are the ones who want the spread of the crime, but if we really want to understand the meaning of the crime, but if we really want to understand the meaning of the crime, but if we really want to understand the meaning of the crime?
In one part, this is an indication for the art of movies which are separated from the reality in the society, this is also the station of view of poverty, and this solution is not just being experienced by the art of arts and movies.
The disclosure of the movie is not surrender but instead, it is proper to look at in continuing the lack of justice activity that will only change outside the cinemas.
