
I am right, but I am right.

The former cabinet secretary of Tita Cory and former Senator Rene Sarmiento and former Senator Rene Sarmiento and former Senator Rene Dualos Jr., his fist, turned out to 8-Division World champion Congressman Manny Pacquiao, Senior Insp. Pacman.
This punches is for Pacquiao to be buried in the legislative chamber to become a lawmaker of Saranggani.
"Pacquiao is said to have a direct effect on the Congress of the Congress" because according to Saguisag's number of critics of Left was allowed to fight, Manny will just be in boxing.
Saguisag is correct, that in his first glance, provided by the yellow party Lapian ng mga Liberal Party in the attack of the yellow party Lapian ng mga Bayani (May 2016 national election. But) in the report that he is going to be disqualified, Rene Saguisag's call.
In the house record, Cong. Manny is not the number one of his absenteeism.
It is also wrong that former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PGMA) is really wrong because even if he wants to attend, his former student, Benigno Simeon Coyo, who Co, did not agree!
There are even a few congressmen who are in favor of the Congress, but you should ask what they have done for the country?
The citizens know, most of the congressmen, especially the allies of the President, are all asking for blessing and blessing.
For thank you, Ka Rene, I am in defending Manny Pacquiao, for his infidelity to his First First, I, the helmet which is a hidden person against the First Class "My Mama, a simple person for his / her lesbian girlfriend," krrrik, a simple person of "Ipit Gang"
And, in a point, he / she was able to step down, he / she was the one to be exiled in the Plenyos in relation to the session.
"The others, those who got rich people who have gone home here and outside the country, do not have a hold-up, which is being done in the session hall!
At least, "he got caught in a few proposals that now is the law of President Noynoy Aquino, who did not do anything in the office of the Congress - the Senate and the Senate President of the Senate.
I know for fact, he wants to fight Pacman in Saranggani that some are afraid to fight the Malacañang, he might run for a higher position so they should stop it immediately.
It is right, Ka Rene Dualos Junior, don't be used by the disforce that is lacking in management, you have a lot of forcing Pacquiao but to check on it well, the allies of the Aquino, are always missing!
