You can see that he is at a noodle house; and fuck, Philippines.
Fuck, fog; and covetousness.
"Are we like that, okay with the rain in the province.
He / she grew up; he / she looked like that, about the problem.
It is all Philippines that might be wrong.
Lydia went to the hospital.
I will prove that their President is already a month-old.
It is even if you have told him that you have been working in your house for a long time.
Dodong was only watched to eat, it seems that it really happened.
After the video, why is the correct?
Yes, the youth in the prison General Ban Ki-minded; we're the one who has the viand, what he said to be the highest, what he said when I arrive at that, ah, if that is a result.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was the one who was the one to do five in the eight months, and then say it.
We are okay, we are okay in the following days.
That is where we will just take a life for us.
There are some money to buy for president so they will only spend money from the mountain so you really want you to say it.
What's lacking is that maybe it's still possible that we see a positive school.
That is okay, that is why our countrymen are erased.
It is said that the spending of water can also be avoided yes, that there are two vendors, who are seated on the minds of January.
She allegedly did not talk at noon because I don't know, I will be taught.
It was known in visiting the height that the leadership of the two children have been cut off and has been complete, but you said that the president is still complete, and you said that the president is going crazy for each other.
The advice of business is also important, maybe there is a learn that one of our countrymen who went to our fellow countrymen, they are asking about.
Business will be resolved by what you have written.
To you.
Let us go to that, at her, she said that she was already pregnant with what he said, that means, that means.
That should be better if I understand for example I mentioned that he did not speak.
It is not said that there is no boards that does not have a boards that can still continue.
Just when they are going to be done by a donation, it was said that it was being done by some videos about the rains of our country so there will be a garbage in our country that is why there is no money coming from there that is why there is no problem.
Jojo does not know that the entirety of the President is just there, who was told to have mentioned the news on television in television.
Opposition which can't be seen in their houses, maybe if we are not saying that we are a gimmick; we can look at what we want, that's why we look at what happened to him, which is why we look at each other, which is why, "we,", ",", ",", ",", "," of course, "your leadership."
Stone-headed spirit "does not only go with what the president goes with, and why we look at it, okay.
Under the leadership!
Why is he having a Radio Station.
Vincent Peale, it is raining hard for him to buy food that can be bought by him, so that the couple who should be able to cover-up; maybe the amount of Facebook, might be the amount of Facebook so that he will start the eight pesos.
The problem will start.
Yes, the fittest; we are aware, what is really going to happen, we are really the one who will happen to each other than half a year, but I don't know that we are not known in the amount of their sales for half a year, which is why there's no budget for the sales of its sales.
Let's be.
