The military was brutally murdered at the wrong person.

It is in the government to give protection and appreciation of the dignity of every year, rebels, or simple people.
But despite having a law against inhumane who was tortured last 2009, there is still continuing to use the state of the state of human rights violations against the elements of the military after being arrested by the elements of the 2nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army, on October 5.
According to the Army, Pantukan was arrested because he is said to be a high-ranking official of the New People's Army (NPA) and he was allegedly accused by the Army and the Army and his son, Edgardo Rey and wife, Peter Cayetano.
But after they arrested and spokesperson, especially Pantukan, it was found out that the guard was just a guard of Pantukan, and was not being accused of being accused of being the leader of the rebels.
Guard, not rebels.
In a press conference in Quezon City, Maritess is going to reveal himself to deny the allegation of the military that a rebels called his wife, Maritess, to set the military to free his wife.
"My husband is innocent," says she is not Benjamin Mendoza, the name of her husband, who is a proof that he has a witness, but the military still remained stubborn.
"He was a guard of Megaforce of Security," Maritess insisted.
Maritess recounted that he went through the hands of those who arrested him when they were walking home on the house in Project 4, Quezon City last October 5 when they were forced to join the two separate vehicles who introduced himself as police.
"When we were walking, I saw that my wife fell down when I approached him, I saw the child and daughter-in-law, she saw his son-in-law, and then she introduced themselves as the kidnappers, and then they arrested her with wife Maritess.
"They were coordinating with us and handcuffed too long when our trip was ran over," says she was brought to a place in Laguna yesterday, they found out that they were in Camp Vicente Lim.
He allegedly experienced intense interrogation.
The other person who is said to have been with her in-law wife, who is "Luisa Mendoza" who is the wife of "Benjamin Mendoza," has a chance of asking about the said operation of her alleged operation on the neck.
"I said, I am not Ka Luisa me, I am Maritess Chik or.

In spite of Marites's strongly resolve, he was not Luisa, she continued to appeal and said she was the mother of "Luisa."
Maritess, Connie, Peter Cayetano released the future, on October 6, but she refused to go home because she wanted to see her husband when she wanted to see her husband because of the mistreatment of those who arrested them.
"I cannot take to look at my husband's face because his rise and nose are high, his chin and nose are bleeding.
Rey Cortez said, from the National Union of People's lawyers (NUPL) and lawyer of the victims, that the military is not looking for what they arrested, "I want the military to be arrested, not Benjamin Mendoza but Rolly Panaligan," he said.
Cortez said that it is easy for the arresting police to know the victim if he was really the target of their operation, when the military was arrested by the military, the military was arrested by the military, which is when he brought him.
"That thing (WHO) is easily identified by the authorities or those who caught him," according to the lawyer of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and his security guard which is an issue of an agency of the Philippine National Police (PNP) - the SOSIA, or First Class SIA, or First Class SIA, or First Class SIA.
Cortez also said that there was just a call of those who arrested, that they will know that Rolly is a guard of Megaforce and since it was caught, they caught them (calling on the right process of the law in relation to the constitution.
Cortez also added that the victim's victim was tortured first before he was brought to the Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm in Camp Bagong Diwa last October 8.
She was tortured.

In the examination of Doctor Geneve Rivera of the Health Special-Human Rights (MCMC) of the victim on October 11, it appears that he had bruises around his eyes and his right cheek are swollen.
He was also found with traces of blood on the right ear, as well as there were signs that his mouth was swollen, and there were also a few days since the examination of Doctor Rivera, according to Karina, the BJMP was initially refused to bring him from Camp Vicente Lim, because there was no legal medicine.
Brgy. R added, they were able to talk to Panaligan, who said that he was being beaten-up and continued the mistreatment of the place where he brought him.
The military strongly denied that they were tortured, "alias" says, "says," says, "said," said, "said," said by Col. Generoso Bolina, spokesperson of Southern Luzon Command of the AFP, she also said in the court just to prove who was being treated.
Also insisted by Karina, Panilaga, another woman.
"
"No matter anyone, even if he is still rebels, I should not be surprised," Palabay said.
Meanwhile, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) condemned the arrest and said that it is said that they remained in their ranks with the peace talks with Benjamin Mendoza.
