Wade - 2-year-old extension.
By AFP, AP July 6, 2016 - Oklahoma City Thunder, Kevin Manalo yesterday (Manila-time), he went with Golden State Warriors in a clear action which also added to Golden State Warriors in a clear action which is being endorsed by Stephen curry while he should be considered by Stephen curry.
He is asking for two-year-year-law, US $40 million contract, to remain in Miami heat, the person who knows about the negotiation in an interview with Collated press.
The New Year will be a connection with Wade if he will be directed to or not anymore if Wade will be accepted or not.
This is the second consecutive summer season in Wade and heat, the negotiation with the contract is complicated, and the issue now is the state of the person's deal "than the amount.
In the past season, Wade maintained the sacrifice, in accepting a higher position to be able to buy other athlete in the lepers.
It is set to return to the US from his European Union, that they had a relationship with LeBron James and Chris Paul.
Durant gave an announcement, the number covetousness of the medical representative, his step to the players "Traura in a website that he called" Chadversary, "
The 27-year-old man is asking the 27-year-old man who is crossing a fence in Warriors in the objective that he will elevate his personality as one athlete and creature.
"It was said that he / she was pretending to be one hundred twenty-year-called Equal Employment Opportunity or Persist on the potential.

"But-I am also a point, and a point in my opinion of Equal Employment Opportunity or Single Entry Approach where the community community will be taken out of my own journal for my own sake.
"With Tsinelas and," I was not able to go to the Golden State Warriors. "
According to the report, Durant of Two-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-old student (48.7 million euros) contract in one athlete, which was a player, had a contract.
It is a very big bothers that goes out of Durant general and NBA's MVP last 2014, for Golden State which is already preparing for the next 71st 2016-17 season.
Warriors had a wound on the bitter 4-3 NBA finals, with LeBron James, and the Cleveland Cavaliers on June.
65,75.6-0) was able to let bail out of the almost grown up and to Gymnasium in Western Visayas conference, the team was pushed through 3-1 to lead, and grabbed the 4-3 win.
