
Movies of space.

By Rolando B. Tolentino, September 2, 2012.

The Independence Day (Adolfo Sax Junior, 2012.

Adolfo Sax, Jr. is the most powerful director for his generation of indie films which is an unusual supervisor, which is why not like other director such as Lav Diaz, Raya Martin or Sherly Dela Cruz, Raya Martin or Sherrie Anthony Sanchez - it is difficult to identify the commandments of Aliaga because there are so many books or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (NJ).

And here it is again, in his movie Independence Day, the dancers of an incoming island will be found in dangerous islands in the end of Palawan yesterday at night, the dark parts of the islands in the end of Palawan.

The soldier was able to be treated and had sex with a siren in the evening, watching-off, and listening to the turtle, or listening to the turtle, or listening to the radio, or listening to the radio and sadness because he was hiding a huge memory.

In the Independence Day, Aliaga attempted to express the way of moving space: A mental condition and lack of changes in the center and the worsening crisis in the city; and the improvement of the country's brain; the lack of uncertainty of the past and the lack of uncertainty of the past and the lack of certainty in the present, as an example of an assurance for the present, as an example.

That's why even if the world is small and narrow-minded, those who will try to be used in the country are wide and hid in the scope and limitation of space, there is also a huge space, but narrow-minded people are coming from the earth and narrow-minded.

This is the remaining day of riding a soldier in the island, with his small world as well as his small world as well as it seems that he has given the movie in the second part of the movie) and his opponents in the second part of the movie) and his opponents in the second part of the movie).

In this case, the jurisdiction of the bus is expanding while the weather being thrown at the movie as being swept by the space of the soldier even though there is no intense competition in his time - the remaining balance of the soldier is expected to be a part of his way of it, a mandate of the first task.

That even if the opportunity and grandchild will again be repeated again and again, his brain - the people are confident with the poorest memories of the main island, the biggest prison in the future, the biggest prison.

And this is when someone is trying to be different from Alix as director, that his movie is rooted in the traitor, as well as other element of the television and integrity of director, that is why there is a different element of his movies, and others choose their movies, and others.

That's why the hope that they are waiting for the next movie of Alix, because it will become a unique way of selling the story and way of the implementation of the elements to have a complete and full documentary on his movies.
