
Albano, NCRPO?

I have read the column of Attaché Reyes of lily's column here with Remate's title, PNP National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO), Albano, who was referring to the turmoil in District Director of Quezon City Police District (QCPD), identified the PCIlawod, Richard Albano.
Immediately went to my mind, to be a motion of Written In, my eye opinion Director Albano of the media, not only "those assigned in QC but even all radio and television anchs, including those in print media.
Similar to Ateng, who is focused on the QCPD, it was already more than two decades that I was focused on QCPD, before it was CPDC or Central Police District Command, all of district directors that my questions were always hurtful and I want the real story of the case to happen!
All DD of QCPD / CPDC have their own traits that are smart, skillful and some of them have many vices!
As of now, criminality is too high in the whole country, here in Metro Manila, and the right every day, a gunshot in different incidents of robbery-up, murder, shoot-for-ransom, rape - name Lupang Hinirang.
In the NCRPO, as the center of the PNP command, the crime happened almost everyday.
It's okay, NCRPO was also good about his Valmoria, but he is lacking in their tactic and may possibly be in leadership.
That is also what the people think about PNP Chief Alan Purisima, not only the citizens but the political leader, especially in the Senate, Senator Grace Poe and Chiz Escudero are calling on vacation first, General Purisima.
But for the former senator and PNP Chief Panfilo Lacson, it is better for Purisima to resign.
The thing is, President Benigno Aquino III does not want to release him when he defend Malacañang, he was followed by the defense of the chief executive with Chief Alan while he was visiting America.
So if Purisima knocked on the wall in his position, he needs an effective partner in work, particularly the NCRPO, who is the center of the power of the police.
That is where the column of Attaché and I went to the flag under the PCInocencio Albano, chief of NCRPO chief, Manong Richard, is rich in an idea of the crime, "the Pambansang Kamao in order to stop the killings made by a riding-riding (Mingo) is effective in QC.
Where should all the operatives of QCPD to Gurria, his family, as well as his own support to all the members of his police, is there a question for the high rating of the QCPD, police force?
If he can do it to QCPD, surely, there is no doubt, he will do it to the NCRPO!
PNoy?
