
Wednesday, January 18th, 2012, Nunber by Philippine Collins.

The demolition really happened at the demolition and fighting against Brgy. Corazon de Jesus, San Juan.

(This work was published in the issue of the Philippine Cologne last 17 January 2011.
Kevin Mark R.

A photo of Chris Imperial.

A quarrel will continue in the combat, San Juan, in the middle of the impeachment and the first encounter between the members of the Katipunan and the forces of the Spaniards in the start of the Spaniards, he is a witness to the rights of the people who wants to free the Katipunan.
For the second time, the residents of Barangay Corazon de Jesus (Cambot), in the violent force of the police and the citizens of Cinyras, all classes in their school on January 11, were all classes in their school on that day because the teachers had a meeting. "
Around eight o'clock in the morning, the first gunshot of the gun who served as an initial warning was heard in the community, and on the landing of the first integrity, to the residents who were burned down, the violence started, and started to fall.
It is the purpose of the consecutive days that the community of Cousins will finally exterminate the new city hall in the right land where the demolition of residents who lost their homes since the demolition of thousands of residents who lost their homes since in front of violence, it seems that the demolition of the residents of Cuya was ready to sacrifice for the construction of some new buildings.

Broken bottles, stones and poor were collected in the days before the demolition used by the residents against the incoming new team.

Record of abuse.
The police and residents of CDO first faced each other on June 2010 when they started the destruction of some parts of the community in order to give way to the city hall of San Juan, "their houses in the past," said Hera.
Those who suffered from different houses last June 2010 had a little bit more than expected when they insisted that there is no need for the demolition of the demolition, story of Tess Bacolod, 37 years of resident of Cuya and secretary of the people who are living together, local officials of the residents of Cimetidine.
Being transferred by the city government of San Juan is the affected residents of the far Relocation Site such as Taytay and Montalban, Rizal, where there is no proper supply of water and electricity, aside from far from the source of livelihood of the residents of Cimetidine, says Tess.
Residents of San Juan tried to coordinate with the city government of San Juan for them to be given the relocation of the city for them not to be affected, but it is the local government of Mayor Herbert Gomez, 28, who is almost 16 years old and a resident of Cimetidine.
Assurance with the livelihood is the primary reason why the residents of Cousins will not accept the offer of relocation, according to Montalban, 27, maid, and other jobs that will be bought by the residents of Cutud, "if it will be a small amount," the income of my husband, "he said.
The residents of the municipal hall faced the residents last December 2010, however, the two sides did not agree after the local government refused the wish of the residents of Cutud, relocation of the city.
.
In a conversation on March 2011, the city government of San Juan was informed by the city government of San Juan that was not just the municipal hall with a mall, school and medium of his employees who planned to join the land of Cimetidine, recently she tried to keep up the fight between Cimetidine.

After the bloody exchange of stone and dried gas, the barangay team has entered the barangay and started to destroy the houses.

Trace of violence.
It is the content of the news that happened last January 11, especially since the residents defended their homes which are not new for the residents of Cimetidine to experience the ferocity of the police and the medical team in their memories which happened in Metro Manila in history.
It seems that Wellington, Janet and others were able to go back to the past two years ago, the past: Residents behind the bark and galvanized iron, while the police were armed with iron sheets and galvanized iron sheets and water Cannon.
Just this latest demolition, including Janet to the medical team, while his friends are determined to maintain water and different kinds of material things, he is still determined to maintain water or death, and will really help them, "said joy," said Joy.
"If we are going to die in the celebration, we will come upon, we will die while defending our rights," said Derna.
But after the more than three hours of fighting which is called "kristo" of the fight, "31 residents and supporters were arrested, while 24 were arrested, six of them were arrested, six of them were arrested in the protests against the police and residents.
At present, Wellington and the friends of Hera and Janet are trying to go back to normal, they admit that it is difficult to do, especially in their return to school, they are receiving various criticisms and comments from those who don't want to catch up from the classes in the midst of the demolition.
In spite of all, the people of CDJ had no regret on their decision to continue the fight, but we are just going back to Cimetidine to defend the remaining houses of our colleagues, even if there is a "third Batal of the fight," said Derna.
Promise made.
In every demolition of San Juan, he always promised that the relocation of the affected residents is only temporary, and the Estrada family members also promised to join in the community where the former lives in the city of San Juan - until now, does not come true from them.
"It's been a few decades that Estrada was seated in position, from Erap, Jinggoy, JV, and now even if they are still going to learn how to believe them?" Said Ate Tess.
Cuya was only one of many community in the whole country who is currently facing the demolition of demolition so that they will allegedly bring progress.
Like Cinyras, the more than 9,000 families living in Sitio San Roque, North Triangle are in danger of losing their homes because of the plan of Quezon City Central Business District that will serve as the center for business and trade.
In the outline of the program Public Private Consortium (PPCCO), who is one of the "cision," of President Benigno Aquino III, this is the program in construction of poor people who live in the city.
In the continuation of this kind of trend, it is estimated that almost 585,000 families of poor people who live in the city of Manila are estimated to be affected by the entire population of a city government, in the record of the National Disaster Authority.
"Who does not want to progress?" Says Derna, "we just want to get to know our rights under the relocation of our livelihood and we will surely meet," he added.
Aside from this, the residents also opposed the excessive use of violence, that is what pushed them to match the forces of the House team stated in the ArXII in the Saligang Batas where every demolition needs to be compared to the poor people who might be affected by it.
In the case of the demolition of Cimetidine, wherein there are operations conducted in the papers, the residents did not go properly, and in using excessive violence, the local government of San Juan is clear in the Constitution.
Clear to Hera, Wellington and others, that it is not the citizens who are benefiting from the promises of the project of San Juan City Center in the end, not a new city hall is the symbol of a good government, but how can they consider the interest of the people who is the source of his real power.
