Patience, pushing for the president.

President Aquino said he will stay in Tacloban until he is not sure of his own eyes to fix everything in the places destructed by the typhoon.
"We know that this kind of words of the President is that we know it will only be up to words.
During the earthquake in Bohol, he is sent out to sleep on a set time to show that he sympathize with the explosion of earthquake, but there is no bed for the set up where he slept?
He went to a hotel with his allies and drinking.
If PNoy will become the ball and crooks, not in the time of calamity, kindly answer that, Asutilla. Rey Marchil, to your boss, bald people.
The people in Tacloban and some areas in Samar, in Aklan are continuously hungry because the help of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) is slow, which is why some of the elderly and children are slow.
Thank you very much to some private groups "because it will be brought by a sack of hunger.
PNoy arrived in Samar and Tacloban to personally give them a plastic bag and what can be done by a plastic bag that could not reach the day of ten members of a family who were devastated and after this, nothing was gone.
PNoy was standing against the Romualdez has an enemy of his family, PNoy is still angry and the Romualdez has been questioned why his dream, "Zero," of the storm, did not happen.
Isn't it right, we should be angry with PNoy?
This is our president.
It's okay, what he did is approved and do not think about the destruction of typhoon Yolanda and those who go to other places to avoid its lashing.
But he did not say where people need to go to school, there is no place where people are safe but school, sports Complex and municipality.
PNoy said he is ready to eat and fight against cold? "He said, the airplane and ships are also ready.
But after the storm, it has been five days before the few food reached for five days.
This government's action is too high, if not with the help of the foreigners, there might be a civil war where the people are taking advantage, carrying some food from poverty and hunger.
All of you are doing everything that's why I take care of our countrymen, I am sorry, when the president knows each other.
Let us just pray and persevere on yourself and do not depend on the help of our athletes.
