
According to the privatization of the cancellation of it?

By Atty. Remigio D. Saladero.

March 20, 2012.

The derogatory and privatization of the economy of the Aquino administration together with the policies are inherited from the current administration of the Arroyo administration, that they inherited from the current administration of the Arroyo administration, which is showing up by the United States and capitalist countries starting last 1970s.

We saw in the past years how our government served the construction of the corporation or company, like the government of the government, it is important that our government is going to get involved in the rules of the world at present, it seems that if we watch the economy of the world in the present, it seems that the government of the world is noticeable in the rules of the world at present, it seems that the government's economy is noticeable in the rules of the world in the present, it is noticeable that the government of the world is noticeable and rampant in the economy of the world.

Countries who have directly meddling with their businesses in their territory will also increase.

For example, the 13 biggest company of oil in the world are owned or supported by different government, they are not controlled by the private sector but the government is controlled by the government.

The most powerful company of the chemical in the world, the Saudi Bangsamoro Chambers (Corporation) is owned by the government of Russia, the third biggest bank operators in the world, the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is also owned by the government of Russia.

62 percent of the stock market in Russia were composed of the companies owned by the government of China, the companies owned by the government which are worth 80 percent of the stock market in Brazil, and more than 1 / 3 in the stock market which consists of the company owned by the government.

It just shows that the government has a direct act in the world as a puppy of the private sector in business.

We can't allow a lot of countries to conduct the laws to save the financial loss of the businesses of their citizens, the financial bail that was held by the United States and the European Union is an example of these.

What happened to the principle of a free market and with the belief that the government should not meddle with the business, what is happening in the policies of the white neo-lualto organization?

It is clear that this was thrown away by many main countries and they are fighting back in dealing with the economy and construction of the companies owned by the government to join in the United States in 2008, which started the decision of many government to involve himself in business and do not involve them.

As of now, the popular model is capitalize on the state and cannot be carried out by the private sector that is pointing at the United States.

Yes, this is still far from the legislative chamber, the model of the workers, but this event can be used to show to Pres. Noynoy Aquino, the approval of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of his back and being able to leave and leave him.

In a country being a country like the Philippines, the government should get involved in the economy through giving protection to the local industry against the competition that the government should strengthen the companies that are owned or controlled by it instead of selling it to the private sector.

This is contrary to the path of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the advancement and bothers which we have been taking for so long but it is time to pay attention to the events happening in different parts of the world.
