Frankly added, the corner boy who is a president frankly.
By Ellen Torresna) June 5, 2016) the next President Rodrigo Duterte will not have a press conference with the next President Rodrigo Duterte, his chief-of Staff, Bong Go.
"As of course, there is no mistake when I did not have a mistake, that's why I am taking a state of state station" to his press conference, "said Go.
This is the solution of the camp of Duterte in the controversy caused by his criticisms on the media during his press conference, Tuesday, May 31, Duterte asked for corresponding solution to the administration of Benigno Aquino III who was not given a corresponding solution to the administration of Benigno Aquino III.
In 174 from 1986 when the freedom of journalism came back, who is a member of the media who was killed Balcoba.
A sermon to Duterte's answer is this is part of her answer: "Most of those, you know," if you were given, thank you, you have already paid, thank you, "most of those who have died or are receiving regular patrons."
"Of suspension of the Kevlar Helmets, thank you, thank you, to be an ally in the Guy.
"You, thank Are a journalist, thank Are that is the assassination if thank you Are-ang of IOS."
He did not say how to stop the murder outside the law.
Not only "that is what he did in a mess, he was even caught by the witnesses of GMA-7, Mariz Umali.

The conformity was made by the corner of the corner boy.
This is also not like the wife of Mariz that Raffy Tapay who is also reported by GMA-7 said that even if you say it is not surprising what Duterte did, especially to those who know him, it is still wrong, whatever angle we look at.
But what is more painful, Raffy said, there are those who even laughed at what Duterte did, hopefully they just stayed silent.
The speaker of Duterte is in full defense with the criticisms against their boss, Peter Cayetano said, the report on the media is not right, but the media did not understand Duterte.
According to Salvador Panelo, this is not a harassment done by Duterte to Mariz. "Mayor Duterte is not a disrespect, that he became a disrespect, it means that he loves you, that means he loves you, that's why he loves you.

That is not a rudeness in that.
Mariz should be more happy.
Okay?
Last Thursday, Duterte has been keeping a bit more time to answer the criticisms against him especially the call of an international organization, reporters, who should be exported back until he asked forgiveness to the media.
He spoke almost two hours and cursed because he will not ask for forgiveness.
"P Javier," I said, I said it, P / she said that it was me. "Can, my honor, my salary, my mother, to be the one to scare me," my heart, "will not be able to beat me!"
