We are win!
Aries (Aries Cano, Noel Abuan July 13, 2016, the Filipinos celebrated yesterday the win of the case in the international coalition against China but also a few groups similar to the West Philippine Sea (WPS).
"
"It is the all of the High School in the Spratly Islands (including Calamudi, West York Island, West York Island, West Philippine Army), South-West Cay, South-West Philippines), according to the Philippine CA.

According to the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) Secretary Perfecto Yasay, the Philippines is expecting that the decision of the Supreme Court will be favorable.
"
The decision of the Supreme Court in The Hague, Netherlands is after the three-year process which is held by the Philippines to question the 9-dline line of China which is spreading in the entirety of South China Sea.
"Our Lady Are of the Award given to the care of the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines, we was just a call on all sorts of concerned people in the South China Sea, the Kuala Lumpur SEAG) in the South China Sea) in the South China Sea, in the 1982 Uayes," he added.
Yasay also said that in spite of the decision of the CA, the Philippines is still open to the cauldron or one-one agreement.
"In the Philippines Yerates this, the management of Civil Engineers with a bum will be considered to be seen in the territory of Hagdan in the region, which is being monitored in the region," added the secretary.
Earlier the statement of Yasay gathered criticisms, last week that the Philippines is ready to consider the "joint forces with China" in the disputed territory, including WPS.

China is claiming the entire South China Sea because of them said to be a direct line that is contrary to 200 kilos of economic provisions in the Philippines.
The Beijing is not able to join the prestigious contest where they insisted on their route in South China Sea.
Tribunal initially decided that after China will question the Philippines, it has jurisdiction over the complaint of the Philippines and there was a hearing in arguments submitted by the country.
A few hours before the decision of the international coalition to celebrate different groups.
Some of these are members of the US Marines for Good Government (USG), Maruri, and Independence Day, which is existing for different colors as such as color, blue, white and yellow in Bayambang, Manila.
Also included in those who showed support to the Filipinos were members of the Police Community in the Philippines (VCP).
It can be recalled that the country Vietnam were similar to China in relation to the island they are claiming in South China Sea.
Former National Security Adviser Roilo Golez said, he knows that he will be set aside and not recognize China with the decision of Tribunal.
"We, China will be sent to the suspension of the ruling of the Disbursement Acceleration Program of the suspension of the declaration of the international community of the United Nations of the United States?," he said.
But according to a lawmaker who is an expert in the international law, China can burn and cooperate with the international community if it is not negative for the decision of the CA.
According to peace, thank Can even if the organization force of China and the General Assembly initially fought against China and the security Council, the entire international community will vote for China but the entire international community leader of the security Council, "Kabayan representative," explained by Kabayan partylist Rep.

Harry Roque of an interview yesterday.
It can also be said that China will increase under the General Assembly in the United Nations (UN).
If ever China does not fight back to the Philippines because of a favorable decision of the international court, the Filipinos will counter Strike.
"
