Jaclyn Jose, the low and low pressure.
Carla, craving, BE, Alwin, July 22, 2016.
Who would have thought that the world is the world of farmers and movies, "when you recall, there is no mix of the result if the award will be held at the Tanim-Film Festival that was held at the Tanim-Pacific Ocean.
The title was win, Dingdong Dantes, who is super famous in the simple Tagalog and Carla Abellana who is becoming more annoyed at the blue waters like the burial of the former because it was only one month.
The members of the Crime Operatives) expressed their wish for the one who chose the ones who chose one among the ones who supported the winner was an award by the Manunuri ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino, Alfonso, the Manunuri ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino, Alfonso, and Cannes Film Festival 2016 champion Jaclyn Jose.
There are some who climb up the low-low and full of Miss Jaclyn with per hour.
He blames her every time his name is being pushed through.
He / she was even caught in Her black cloth for a white cloth. Emeng Macasaels and a former lover.
The other classmates ers who came to have also added alliances, the grand reception was the grand Queen of Lorna Tolentino, Chongqing, and an actor, Congressman Yul Serdan.
He was not going to be outdone because London is not going to be outdone and based on the Disbursement Acceleration Program of actress Christine Alico, a piano, a piano at CCP President, Dean Raul Alico, and of course, a single-year-bust operation was held at the Wok at Dancers.
Cherry Pie Picache and Bemphysema Roco is recognized as the best actress and best actor for the truth that she will be able to return to Direk Paolo Calma.
The non-actor came from the Aetas and community project named Garry Cabotahe, Estrella Street at least, Bemphysema there as the best actor.
Lieutenant was a famous man in the burial of Director Zig Dulay.
It is intrigues that Arnold Reyes can't wake up as the best actor for the KimXi.
The researchers, whose child is more vegetables in the movie, Alfonso Yulin Den, to make the peak for the category.
The films which can be passed away have already been brought home to those who will win in the first Together Film Festival.
Want to take pictures and the other things that they talked to was the People's Choice, Best Actor, manager Suppliers (Best Actor, vice-law winner as Anna Luna, and Best Actor for Albert Banzon.
Upon arriving home, the trophy is for the Special Award for the Special Award for the Special Award for the Special Award for the Special Award given to Paolo Calma and Ellen Adarna.
The Awards for an award will be received, Viktoria Modesta, 2nd Infantry Batallion, the Special Award for the teen actor, Micaquiao, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor.
The free range of director Dennis Marasigan is the elected top of her pictures.
The Special award which was given to the movie was given to the movie ally and Ingenched Award for the Pilapil.
The festival will be postponed for a Brigada Eskwela from July 20 to July 26 in SM Megamall for 7.
Provincial asenings will happen this August 24 to 30 in SM Angeles Pampanga and SM Cabanatuan; SSeptember 14 at SM Cebu; and October 12, 18 in Davao.
According to Doctor Milagros How, Director Maryo J. V. Reyes, and all the people who became part of the First Tofficial Film Festival, applaud him and many shouting for thank you.
