Text message of the book is an initial word, fair.

Initial word.

The score of 101 to 101.

A play of words from where it is not.

"Why is it really like that, and why it's bad to listen to one hand, it's as if it's bad to listen to one kind of chicken, which is why it's hard to hear a positive outlook, which is why it is hard to do a positive perspective, but it is hard to do a positive perspective, but it is hard to do," it is difficult, but it is hard to do, "it is difficult, but it is hard to do."

In UP Dr, second Eve, 2010 ,-M-36, the word of Hala Bira will join again.

So-called 1: Pulling the self from yourself through hands; 2: A.

You should be considered as the fastest step to run for a horse while his feet are not yet allowed to go to the ground.

If the decision is to be the basis, the adherent of the public is getting closer to the public about the things that can be given, ugly or good, but when they do not want to go to school, they can help each other, and when they do not want to avoid danger or disaster, they can be taken care of each other, and even in the running of the vehicle.

The word won't be good about the meaning of fadic, because in every point, he might not be disappointed with the spirit of the masses, and most of all, the readers are becoming a friend, together, and your fellowmen who are only with integrity, but the readers have not personally known each other.

On the second join again, the fastest step of the ship will bring to the masses to let the masses get what they want to share.

From this, a 101 to 101 to 280 pesos to know the readers to know some personal issues, including some personal issues, like love, will share to the public as well as a adversary, and not as the adversary.

Hopefully, any readers will give joy to the dancers that will be taken away by the company, especially the diseases of society and the surroundings who are looking for a response, at times when there is a difficult aid but continue to look for immediate aid but continue to look for immediate aid.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

Sampaloc, Manila.

June 12, 2012.
