
They were united for Noynoy.

By Campos.
There was 17, 2012.

A week before May Uno was announced to be announced by a alliance between the workers who were initially united and together with different groups in doing this, although it is noticeable that Kilusang Mayo Uno or equivalent is noticeable.
Although his posture is similar to those who were united in different issues of workers, there is a featured difference between President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III.
The last point is important because of the collision that was united in his steps during the All Soul's Day, they will transfer to Mendiola with a conversation with the President.
With a conversation with a conversation, it seems that the leaders who are going to face the face are funny, aside from the workers himself in front of him, Aquino dismissed the call for additional wage and garbage to push forward towards their orders.
However, officials of the cabinet united in the rally of the cabinet members, they said that they announced a surprise "for the workers who were not surprised by the protesters, and also did not be happy.
It has been clear that while the President is conducting the call of the workers in his prepared speech, his personnel even took the supporters of the protesters outside, in Mendiola.
In this kind of situation, even the pro-ranking officials of the Propaganda of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (SWS), will be exported while they need to save their faces, they are allies of Akbayan as the allies of the President.
Through the other hand, we were united with the different groups of making his desire to transfer Noynoy in the process, but Noynoy made the Filipino workers all his statements on the All Soul's Day.
With what Noynoy said, he only separated herself - and even the workers who have bugged him - for the workers, instead of being teased about, instead of being teased about what happened in front of the united country.
Aquino has an additional benefit from the eve of the Asian Development Authority in the country, he showed that he is controlled by the huge amount of the movement of the movement of the movement, he is with them in the filing of cheap and friendly.
