Additional payment for PhilHealth, was condemned by the sectors.

By P2,500.
February 12, 2012.

Filipino workers in the office of PhilHealth (PPETion.
The members of health, together with their patients and relatives, the office of the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) in Pasig City on the impending price hike which reached 100 to 160 percent.
"If PhilHealth are really for the welfare of the citizens, this should focus more than improvement of its own vices instead of the implementation of the poor," said general secretary of Health Organization (ALS).
According to Reyes, from P1,200 per year payment for PhilHealth, the ordinary members of the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), from P900 to Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW), and 3 percent of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, and 3 percent of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, will be removed from P2,520 and may reach up to P120,000 per year.
It is expected that this will be affected by all the members of PhilHealth, including the (1) last surprise of Social Welfare and Development); (2), (2), Overseas Filipino Workers); and (4) employed sector.
Reyes also said, it is the obligation of the government to address the public service for the citizens such as health, instead of stopping the citizens to pay additional resources, it is better to increase the budget of public hospitals to respond to the needs of the citizens especially the poor.
In the data of head, it is estimated that the PhilHealth failed to answer to the hospital bills because the budget of hospitals in the hospital is not enough, there is often no or lack of medicine and things in the laboratory that is happening, so there is still a need to release money from the patient.
"Because there is a small amount given by the government to the health sector, most of the people, it is almost double if the people are taking advantage of their rights," according to Doctor Julie Caguiat, Community Precinct 1 or Compostella Valley, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
According to head head, in the 17 years of PhilHealth, he has not proven that the welfare of the Filipino people is on the most interest but in the income of the Aquino administration to address the health of the citizens.
"If it's the agenda of the Aquino administration to the health, let us allow PhilHealth!
He explained, along with the program Public Private (PPP) of the Aquino administration, the Aquino administration is said to be allowed to go to business in business service, while the continue to build the budget of health.
The health sector of the citizens are calling on February 14 to fight the additional benefits of PhilHealth, and insist on the budget of health.
