The Filipino language, I continue to point in college.

Miss Christian E. Marty.
Said Filipino and ducks are continuing to point in college after the Supreme Court released a temporary restraining order (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission) Number 20, Series of 2013 on April 22.
One of the objectives of "anti-Filipino" to ensure that to remove the course of the filipino language in the leaders of the Philippines, including Cutud, 20, the Enhanced Defense Education Act of 2013, which opened the K to 12 curriculum and 12 years in elementary.
It has already filed a petition against Cutud, 20, National artist Bienvenido Laguesma, some critics and students who are members of the alliance between Filipino Workers (Tanggol language) and League of Filipino Workers (Tanggol) and League of Filipino Workers who have something to do with the national language, culture and system of education.
Some of these kinds of provision is Republic Act 767 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, Republic Act 232 or Education Act of 1982, and Republic Act 756 or Law towards the Philippine National Commission for Alunan, Arts, which aims to make the general education (GE) that aims to be patriotic.
"The Commission on Higher Education or order, which is being taken with the law of the law's Commission on-United Nationalist Alliance, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Assistance Fund), the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency), the Philippine government and Constitution," stated in the said petition.
In addition to this, up to 56,771) teachers and 22,838 employees in college can lose their jobs in case the Cutud, 20 in 2016, according to the said petition.
Despite the TRO that the Supreme Court laid down the implementation of Cutud, 20, the Commission on Audit) insisted that the Filipino needs to remove from college and transfer them to a senior high school.
According to the inventor of the K to 12, the Commission on Higher Education stressed that it is timely to make the Filipino language to be sent to grade 11 and 12 to earn money in college.
"The Commission on top of the Commission on Human Rights where the Armed Forces Agreement (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections (Commission on Elections) to be held up to the high court with the company," according to the statement of Commission Chairperson Patricia Liceo.
Meanwhile one of the primary authors of the petition was identified as professor David San Juan of De La Salle University, which is needed in college for the Filipino to be more aggressive in college.
The continuous control of the teachers to maintain the filipino language is important so that the wrong system of education in the country which is under one system of colorums will not go up to the lives of the majority, according to San Juan.
"There is a need to strengthen the awareness of the students and those who can be taught through the continuous campaign, forum and other activities that will identify and attract the higher number of students who want to act and object until the Commission on Higher 20," said UP College of Arts and Letter Vice Chairperson Joey Mariano.
