
Thursday, August 22, 2013.

"Why are they cruel," wangwang. "

SANSALHE, word "wangwang."

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

The word "molmol" said in English "that what means is" epal "or save, save it, especially to the dignity and body of a person, but in our country, it can be said that the word" traslacion "in our country can say that this means of murder."

When the ship USS Guardian of the US Navy, in Palawan until it was removed from the ship of the Philippines (CNN), the Philippine government of the Philippines (CNN), the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines, "EpiPen."

(Minahan ng mga Bayani, BE, Brad Lenien, CNN last March 30, 2013 / Senior Police Officer 3 / 3 / World / US-Navy-ship-IAS) Branch 3 / Senior Police Officer 3-Ro-Laban).

This is the news from the Philippines: "Manila, Philippines - The Legal Affairs Office (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG).

In our country, the meaning of the word "traslacion" or killing is a bad luck, "it means that what is done to others is bad and because there is a lot of words going to us," or to us, he became a bad-tempered "to the Filipino who became a" traslacion "in English.

That's why there are many news on the radio, newspaper and television who are saying that there is a "kristo" in the highway, and the total news on the X-ray (July 2, 2013) was found around 4 people in English, especially in the truth, from the Spaniards. "

Here is a few steps in the media about the news "traslacion" after the "interruptible load operations" by the USS Guardian of the Tubbataha Reef last March 30, 2013.

Pay attention to how they described what was done to summary execution.

(1) from GMA News: "Boko of 2 Kyoto, who were not able to join in Manila," April 6, 2013.

The Armed Forces of Two soldiers who were not able to hold-up to the Manila Doctors Hospital.

It was also an estimation of being an identification of an identification that happened in the boocherness, "/ her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her / her as well-M / Insp. Malpas.

(2) from dyak, PCCO "Mangudadatu, who were not able to be able to join in Cavite, from-Online on Aug 5th, 2013.

Camp General Pantaleon Garcia, Imus, Cavite - Two members of Men, "molmol," traslacion "traslacion" (PPO) reported that he was staying at by packaging Toyota Hilux (PPO) report by First Provincial Office (PPO) report by 1st Infantry Battalion (PPO) outpost in Cavite City Police Provincial Office (PPO) outpost in Cavite.

This is also the old news.

(1) "2 GALLE" Mangudadatu, not able to go to QC; 8 hours, Taw, married," by Julie M.

Aurelio, Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news, August 25, 2012.

The Armed Forces of Two IGAPAPP), the ones who were not able to be victimized by the side of a corner of a Road in Quezon City.

(2) "the third victim of" traslacion "in Cubao this June," (Pilipino Star Ngayon), PO2 44; UPP-June 19, 2013.

Manila, Philippines - a dead body of a man was found in a sidewalk in a sidewalk in the city of Quezon this Tuesday night, this third month.

According to the police, a corpse of an unidentified man was found by an unidentified man around 11: 00 in the evening in Aurora Boulevard in Cubao.

Investigators said that with stab wounds on the body, there have been a mark of strangulation on the neck and the feet of the victim, who were found riddled with garbage near EDSA-Cubao, the third body of the man, were found riddled with garbage near EDSA-Cubao.

(3) from the Philippine Remate: "Victim of summary, found in Manila" by Jocelyn Tabanglement and Ivan Gadeza, July 19, 2013, and feet of a man who was suspected to be a victim of wood which was found earlier at dawn in Sampaloc, Manila.

Illustrating that the victim was at the age of 25-30, with height of 5 "4 up to 5: 5, wearing t-shirt, wearing a t-shirt which was covered with a piece of t-shirt that was wrapped in front of his chest that was wrapped in Manila / Brgy. Panapaan 8: 07 last night.

Killing, from the body, to ensure that there is no alive life, it would be thrown anywhere, where the victims were found dead, they were hit by a cold body when they were victims of "tiktiks" or "extrajudicial killing."

In Wikipedia, the "Ipit Gang" is like this: "The extrajudicial killings in the Philippines Are, to summary execution of Philippine English." (Hhmm, "/ Insp. Jovie Espenido).

In this article.

(Hhated: / / her / she was not able to finish his / her .10 or / 2005 / 3 / 15 / 90 / 2000.

In the book "The Acting t" of one Antonio Enriquez, this is how she described the word "molmol," a coercion to the public utility vehicle which was being treated as a Catholic priest that's why he / she was being beaten to be a carcaskets in the funeral parlor that was being taken to be a carcaskets in the funeral parlor that was being treated.

(Hhness: / / her / she was not yet known as well as / Insp. Rouel Mena, 575.24 / 575.24 / The Anti-Inged by Antonio-Enriquez.

Even in the documents of the different human rights violations, the word "traslacion" said that it means no matter. "

With the eight holiest part to the "Tanim-lualto" in a book, this is what was written: "About, 400 o'clock in the corner of the state of Police (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, A Public Actor, by the National Bureau of Police (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, by the National Bureau of Police Regional Trial Court (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, by the National Bureau of Police Regional Trial Court (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Martial Law.

In a collision between FLlagas (free Legal Assistance Fund), the Philippine Human Rights (Philippine Human Rights Center) has published this is what is written.

The things you need to do is very confused and you think you are going to be the one to be arrested or to summary execution.

Do the following caution.

1 - do not go out when alone because the danger of disappearance and summary execution will not be kept on or not to go back to the arrest of a person who is missing or hit by the year.

2 times.

10 - if you have an untrustworthy information that you have plans to arrest or resort to summary, you cannot advise you to hide, instead, ask your lawyer or any responsible person to ask if there is a warrant for your arrest.

Even the national priest of the Sining of Panaligan, it was also written when he discussed this poem more meaningful from the territory of the Spanish colonizers. "

Let's go back to the number of holes being referred to by Almario.

"It is very strict.

He is searched by the urge, even though it's cold and punches.

Have a seeker like a animal.

This lungs, Ina Reformina.

Are you imprisoned because of the sea.

Shoot, look after us for a long time.

In our Tagalog lungs.

Mother, guide all your followers?

We were enduring it to die until he died.

Body seems like she does not want to stop.

So if you fall for the cemetery.

.

It is in the awareness of the masses to take care of the word "traslacion" as a murder case, from the murder case, when it comes to others, because it is still in the media, which is also in the media, and is under the duck.

I first found out the use of the word "traslacion" in 1989, when I went back to the Philippines from six-month-month-in-law and OJT in other countries, when he was beaten-up with the murder of one alias Monay, Rizal Alih in General Batubatan, Zamboanga.

And it was written in a letter in a letter: "Dela Cruz" I have read in a letter then that is why, "First Class" Dimasalang. "Was treated as" First Class 19Bonifacio, which was when their enemies were hit.

I am looking for old ducks which are used when the word was used to the flood, which was used in the river with a gunshot wound, a person found sprawled on the river that was hit by a bullet, which is the cause of the word "traslacion" where many know now.

The word "molmol," we can say, is the words that we have written on the top of a lot of people and to tell one of the things that we have written on the top, that is why before they were killed, it might be said that they were killed and thrown in a place with the kidnappers.

In relation to this, there are three laws on human rights that were brought about by the past, related to the kidnapping before doing the arson, and the abduction that was not seen on the body of the abducted.

These laws are Republic Act 97545, or anti-Illegal Drugs Act of 2009; and RA 10353, 53, Anti-Illegal Drugs Act of 2012; and RA 93368, or Human Rights who were not able to catch Realty Corporation (Recruitment and Recruitment and Recruitment and Recruitment.

However, there was no mentioned "traslacion" or "epal" in RA 9345 and RA 10353.

It has been said that the "traslacion" or "epal" will be mentioned once again in RA 10368.

According to Chapter 1, Sec. 2, the 3rd division of the law, "epal."

It means, there is still no law that will be held accountable for those who were held by "tiktiks" or "

But in the time that there is still no law that will be filed against "tanim-bala" or murder, it should be certain that the difference between the two victims of the murder case should be clear, that is why we can say that this is a government official, "that is why we can say that this is a legal crime, and not just a simple" murder case. "

Nevertheless, this kind of violence should be stopped, according to the International Convention Center to Civil Defense Cooperation Agreement) "

"Molmol," according to mercury contamination-Windyhill, Dickinson is (a) to be paid for-up to Iship or its UPP) in the act of Hacons, (B) in the act of HE, NB; (PAR) in the act of Hala which is an exchange of danger).

According to Oxford Dickinson, the meaning of "traslacion" is "the rescue of the" traslacion "or its construction which was used by the supreme republic of the country wherein the ship used to save the ship, like the following:

Republic Act Number 9993 - Philippine Coast Guard, Section 3, powers, Functions. (H) or issue as Permits to the 27th Southeast Asian Games, as well as the Armed Forces of Regulations (Kamara).

Republic Act Number 6106-an act of Amphibious Lopoc, as ambato, to the construction of the Rules and Gaming Corporation (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (Commission on Human Rights), which can be held up to the Value-governmental organization (Commission on Human Trafficking; and which can be given to the Value-Tropas.

The Philippine Coast Guard of Binanganjoe) announced that the goal is: II, RTEL), which is the objective to set aside the 27th Southeast Asian Games, including the carbiness of Hanglement, Pcarelf, Calayes and Calanoga).

Perhaps, it will take time for the masses to make it in English a word "traslacion" (to rescue), because if they have a sin which should be done, because if they are said to be responsible, he should be punished because it is not humane, and it is not humane, and it is not humane.

Being investigated.

Eyes.

.

8 / 22 / 2013 05 in 1: 00 o'clock.
