On Saturday, when I met that in our relationship now, they are confident that we can hear and watch the Doctor with Lacson also in the Philippines there at the association.
A good meeting with us.
Thank you, Doctor Love, and I want to visit him.
In order to walk, we can walk, the company of the elder sister, who is an expert in the fight of human rights; and deport; having a good meeting.
It is said that the health problem is what you are with, so that the Doctor will be able to hear a lecture.
In Australia, it is not only here in our country but in other countries, that is how we turn your teeth right now between DDoctor Marilyn Lacson, so that we do not know how we'll stay in the store so that we can't know how we can keep the coconut harvests; we are going to be very beautiful; the coconut husk.
My hard work, which is being done by our Philippines when she finds out that it is one of the months that you will make February.
It's as if I can look straight; we can give thanks to each Filipino; this is the health caused by good teeth.
Covetous, very fur, was able to go around eleven o'clock at five o'clock at five o'clock.
He / she grew up; he / she was distressed; he / she picked up all the people who imported all people who are important.
It's because of the opening of three to Oryang.
Covetous, deport; and when a visitor is one of the one in the same dentist.
They need to think about it and do it so that, it's not only right that we have to go to Abra; not just like that, there are still those who have to be, Bryan, which is true that there are still three o'clock in the same age as well.
We are anxious; we need to know the reopening of the reopening of the opening of Kovalev.
He / she grew up; he / she went to the crib.
Covetous, filling, fog; and covetousness; there is already nine o'clock.
It means that it is going to be there tomorrow.
That should be considered that good luck, because I know that it is hard to look like there is the airport.
What we should do because of the stars.
Do you really want to fit themselves from the food we eat and the processing is not enough.
Let's be.
Even white will be used.
"We are very pitiful; we will be able to depend on it straight or sometimes I will be able to make it straight at what I am so happy, but until now, it is not only on the glass certificate of our fellow countrymen in the name of our fellowmen on the name of our countrymen.
Ah, in our six-year-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-year-old, ten-year-old, ten years old, and ten years old, that is why it is not true that this is not a big percentage that is why we do not have a big percentage.
There are almost every day that they say that they need to send the order of the people that they need to send to the order of them, who, as Nida Purpura, 37; and four o'clock in the corner, we have a visitor that we are going to go to each other.
But we do not want this to say, since Paul will go home to Ernesto the people who will agree to the people.
I don't have a pitcher that's why even if you are busy with small things; we are very busy with the colleges; Gulanggani which is really important; I am really important.
Maintain our guts.
With the quarrel between not his co-worker, a lesson is a lesson that should be considered wrong to be clean.
Change "that's not what's right on the face that's why he / she gets the same face, second.
The adviser of my logic, you have to serve one hundred thousand for you to live-up; so that we can lead yes, I may lead yes, right?
But, but the Doctor is how we really keep to maintain cleanliness, maybe these are the ones that we want to finish this when we focus on it.
First generations have passed; we are really not given a question, we are really not given a question.
You will be able to take care of that at the time I am.
For the youth, what is the father of those with his parents to the parents of the teeth are the children's names, especially those who are innocent; and godmothers, and Two years old.
Fittest; we can inform all the parents that their first visit to dentist is their First Family.
So no matter what happens.
So there is a need for that, they are dead when your location is important for your location to the narrow-minded people, the children, and the children, only between the poor.
They have not been spared from a long distance; as long as they have the teeth to have the teeth right away, we need to have the teeth right away from the bait that's why there is a big thing that is very weak and with clothes there in the other side.
We are crazy; we are the ones who look for stars; that's why they need to look for stars; we need to take advantage; we will also do it.
I am very pitiful; we are aware that my mom's illness is beautiful but my mother, who was known to have a beautiful teeth.
But failed.
It seems that my job is a failure.
Yes, because of course, children who are young to be jealous cannot be jealous; not only the right path, which is just the right path, that is why we don't want to suffer from poverty, which is why it's okay that we stop it.
One Direction members have two children and that is one of the stars that we should go outside, at the same place, they should go out and go down to the height that I am sorry, so I am surprised that I am surprised by what we want to commit.
You really love that.
Do we have a lot of things that are like this; we are proud of me, right?
The patient has no difference but the patient has no difference but even if they get to be followed before we get followed by it before we can be followed, there was no effect that it can be followed, that's why there was no effect of medicine for the teeth.
Ten percent and because my teeth are really rotten, if my teeth are rotten, it is not good and you really have people.
And you will not get hurt and get hurt with your teeth, a friend or girlfriend, we need to make a permanent solution but you are saying that you are regular plate numbers but I still don't want me to be with the child.
You will be brought to the dentist like to stop if you don't have to stop; we have a regular; no matter how much you have a regular, I might like to be Eve.
But there are times that you need to live in love, especially when there are things that I need to have a check-up, even if you really need to be a check-up, you should think that your problem is to be able to think of what is really their problem and to Momoy.
It is said that you are outside the teeth are the problem in the meeting, that is why it is true that it is true in the severe illness.
Fuck, deport; an example.
The empanada and food in the meeting.
So I am not in Social Work and if he is not our mother, there's no longer a point that we can't see the goats by the internet; it's as if I haven't seen each other for the internet; that's why I can't see that we are the ones who are in the internet; that's why he / she didn't see each other; that's why he / she didn't see each other.
It is too old that, in the span of age, he / she is very rotten; the same is.
I want you to go to you, and then he is out to be saved from Tondo, and then his heart is always being out of me as well as my heart to wake up to my teeth.
You were saying earlier that you have a problem at me earlier, whose name is very small; we were able to go home to a perjury case, and what's the truth is that they have passed through a perjury case, but what is the part of the construction in the front of your Baruel place.
So we are thirty-two o'clock in the teeth to get an ugly trophy.
Do you know that what happened is our root, that is why what happened is that, when we go to the trial, we would really be able to go back to the challenges that we eat, that's why we really go home so I really go home so that I am really going home.
Now, they will just eat the checks; we will look straight; it depends on earth.
We need to be, right, but is really like Break that I am also with me later.
"It's just straight to us to look straight; as long as we have to go to school; we have been to the age of a pipe; what you have wrote to is a man, so the Makati, what is the reason why there is a need to look for the solution.
Signal number one is good to consult to the nearest hospital but their three children.
So what else will you turn your teeth even if we have an outing.
And that.
Then, the cellphone of the three.
Ten before, I first knew what she said, that is what we said.
So the most.
Because of this is the most reason for me, my friend.
Thank you very black, we are fine after ten o'clock.
Is there a need to be an operation of the Contact Policy ".
Reporting, Ted Failon.
I do not need to be removed because he was able to take it off because there's time with covetousness which is why he's really trying to get out of things when older brother doesn't like that, "I am not like that.
After you, she is eating and has gone outside already.
What is happening is all the food that you can join but he is not able to go out.
He will have a cellphone on the teeth.
Yes, PNoy.
Your long distance is also affected, so you are okay now that you will comeback.
Well.
It is really needed to remove those who violate that, that's why he will not be able to go out of a short receipt just to take initiative to take initiative.
You will not have joy.
But how much is the Doctor Marvin's true saying because I still hear this from the elderly.
If you are home for home, let us just wait for it to just wait for you to have vices that is why it is okay with me.
Do you know why it was used to Western Mindanao to be used in Western Mindanao to be used to by Western Mindanao to be used to by Western Mindanao.
A five-year-old one-five-five-five-old people, whose appearance is the arrival of a new one, you should have a new mind, especially since you will be crushed, that is why I should be defeated by Magsaysay so that you should be defeated by Magsaysay.
!
Also.
