
Saturday, June 2, 2012.

The Magistrado "Ang Masa" as an alternative routes.

The masses, "the masses," as an alternative routes.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

An eight-year-old man was eight years old when it started last September 2011, in the span of eight months, the people saw the hard work and perseverance of the writers, which is why every month, the people saw its type of salt in the future, and wants to be a half-time magazine in the future.

The person who gets drunk "Ang Masa" acted as the legal reading materials of the movement of the movement of the movement of the movement, but this is an illusion for different issues and news from different issues and news from different issues and news from different issues of Filipino Workers (BGHMC) and a civilized Congress.

We also published the issue of salt on the issues and resolve of our fellow organizations such as Pagkakaisa ng Manggagawa sa Pelikulang Pilipino (PMT), Zone 9 Nationalist Alliance (PMC), Pukan (PK), PMC), PMC), and others.

However, although it is not limited to salt of the full movement, it is not limited to the content of salt in the society, and most of all, the struggle to change the rotten system, and above all, the struggle to change the rotten system, and above all the needs of a system.

There is a glared up of the social issue and issue of Sonny Melencio, Luke Espiritu, Jhacan, Jhacan, Allan Dela Cruz and Ramon Miranda, women, poor, poor and poverty.

Very horny is very quiet about the publication of the toll fee, which is widespread now and there is a lot of different groups, who are patriotic and coercion.

He also wrote the author as one of the owner of the theater, Tina Foronda, where she discussed what is happening in their union and factory of Gelutat.

It was also published in salt on the series of known workers in history, such as Filemon, Amado V. Hernandez, which is the first government of the worker, who will be in a pile of pages when he gets drunk "Ang Masa."

Also published here are those who happened to the workers from different factories, like Fortich, Arco metal and Gaming Corporation, we also published.

There will also be there and in the murders that happened at the SEA Games, Andres Bonifacio and Macario, riding your servant are the ones who took advantage of the entire salt and a few articles flooded especially since it has been published.

Vicente Barlos and Erwin Pukan, who was able to talk to our servant recently, Barlos Reyes will discuss the law that may happen in the lake in Laguna, but we continue to write to those who are in the lake in Laguna, but we are going to give space to those who are in the lake in Laguna, but we are going to give space to those who are going to celebrate their 25th anniversary in August 30, 2012.

Although sometimes, we have published this article in English, which is usually filled with reading material things, because we believe in our fellowmen the language of our fellowmen, and most of all, our struggle towards our goals towards our society is easier.

The person who gets drunk "Ang Masa, as an alternative salt of the people should not be killed because of the lack of arrogance from the people and for the masses, he is firm with the principle of the workers and for the masses, that is why they continue to write to our writers, which is why they continue to write to our writers.

However, because of the lack of money, it is in danger to die but we should not allow it to happen, this is a great mission as an alternative salt, and his posture as an alternative salt, and its posture.

Let's just let us patronize our alternative salt, let us patronize what we wake, "Ang Masa."
