Editorial Department of terrorists in the town.

The president has already reached a point - what is needed to be treated "by the Bayan" will be considered as the "terrorists of the Bayan."
The president and his administration are trapped in relation to this, it is getting stronger and the call of the citizens to be held accountable and the President to resign.
One day after the bloody encounter in Mamasapano was between the Philippine National Police Special Action Force (MILF), and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF), and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF), revealed to the town the tragic plight of the police, Moro and even civilians, who were full of gunshot wounds.
Grief and anger are being felt by the families, relatives, and friends of the deceased because of the lack of justice and continued taking action by the president of the United States (US) and the US, along with one of the biggest tragedy in the country.
Filipinos have not yet recovered from the tragedy that happened during the time of typhoon Yolanda, and the encounter in Zamboanga between the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) and the soldiers, 18 from the ranks of PNP-SAF, 18 from the MILF, five from the BIFF and seven civilians.
It can't be denied that the truth that the government itself has caused disaster and tragedy during the time of typhoon Yolanda, corruption - the local government of the US Embassy in Mamasapano, the real reason for the former enemy of US Zulkifli Bin Adamr, or more known as Marwan.
The masses criticized the anomalous operation of the US-Aquino in Mamasapano, it appears that the alleged involvement of the terrorist operation of the US-Aquino in the operation was released from the terrorism in Mamasapano, and to the Filipino people.
The peace talks between the government and the Moro brothers have not only been put in danger between the government and the Moro brothers, who have been on top of our Moro brothers, instead, he cooked some other opinions about "all of the people in Mindanao who have been affected, he is sent to danger by the Aquino government.
In the midst of the grief of the families of the victims and the Filipinos who are coordinating with the President, it seems that the President is preparing for the President to save the BBL due to the hope to save himself and allies.
The suspension of the BBL was finished last year, and it is currently being studied by the issues being attacked here such as power, which can no longer recognize the BBL, if they will be able to get peace with the said law or they will just continue to be buried in poverty.
While the government is not focusing on having a real peace - identify the real reason of the armed arguments in the region or in other parts of the country brought by poverty, corruption, property of the Philippines, the owner of the Philippines - the leader of the country will be exported.
In fact, a lot of questions are in need of answer from the government, especially those involved in the said operation and involved in the said operation, the US-Aquino continues on stomping his hands, and alleged to be the cause of the death of Marwan, and allegedly the cause of sending peace to the PNP SAF in Mamasapano.
Contrary to the statement of the government and the MILF, the government should not only dismiss the policemen in an operation which is set up by foreign Americans for their "operation for peace," which if you think about it is an operation for money "and" operation for the government troops in the country. "
On the other hand, it needs to be emphasis that it is not all the solution to the problem that will only cause death not only by the members of the soldiers and rebels but even the civilians, who are full of neglect and continue to guard the call of the citizens.
It is expected that in the coming days, the Aquino administration will lead the advancement of BBL so that the violence that happened in Mamasapano will remain and be imposed on any plans of the citizens and the US and the US will remain responsible in pushing terrorism.
With all taunting and continuous control of the administration, too much is the reason why the victims will be able to intensify the call of Mamasapano, Yolanda, and Zamboanga but also the other victims of disappearance and taking advantage under the Aquino administration, justice.
The president has already reached for a long time, more than ever, the corrupt, liar, traitor, and terrorists have no place to lead the country.
