It is not in our news that the government continues to investigate the knowledge of classes and other things in Dubai in the opening of classes next week because of the opening of classes in Marikina next week.
The government is spending so much for the government to make the name "Toto of the Lord to go to.
You can also see that on the first day of his back to school, he visited Marikina Elementary School where he visited Marikina Elementary School which is why he is a student at Ateneo.
You can see before your picture be seen last night.
Drink.
In the billiards place, six to six months, he / she was four years old.
Here are the countrymen who are taking advantage of the people.
This is sweet.
That the weight of school is on Friday while it is up to June six that the lives of the government will not know that it is not Friday in the preparation of the students in the school because it is better for the President to get to know the Filipinos who are ready to get to know if you are good in the past.
Two men will give when I will not live-up.
This is when I show that the fare is true that the fare is in there to work.
The one who will teach you positive and not all sorts of Labo while there is no help.
To those with us.
The days will cook this day about parents who are not here in Marikina Elementary School.
Then.
According to the stand, these kinds of Filipinos are giving him a new strength and everything that he can see the shouting which is needed for a education in the country, which is open to the president the primary pillars of the poor progress for the country.
An eight-six-six-six.
Five!
Two Wives are innocent.
You will buy.
Nothing here in the end.
Maybe he / she might just be asleep on his umm.
This is before you cut the hard work.
Perhaps.
I've read that, isn't it a house when the government already pulled his five-million pesos, so that the person who gave birth to six-million pesos in a span of six-six cases were completed, a few-year-old man became close to a few years for a few years for a few years for the television.
