Implementation of nation versus high price, demolition.

Different sectors launched a widespread protest to condemn the incessant price of goods and services, as well as the demolition of poor community.
Featured on protest is the attack of drivers in the office of Shell and Makati to moderate the new price increase in the price of petroleum products which was followed by the protest of Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR), Pagkakaisa ng mga Artista sa Kaunlaran Foundation) and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
At first six o'clock in the morning, before the disputed town, the price of oil was raised by the price of gasoline at 1.60 and 75 centavos in diesel.
According to George San Mateo, chairman of Antartica, the price increase is only eight and nine times in the price of gasoline and diesel (two consecutive days since May 14, just after the mid-term of election.
"Since the election is P4.75, the increase in diesel and P56,65 in gasoline, which can be considered as a burden to the lives of the drivers and the citizens, he said.
"As of now, diesel reached P4320 and P54 in gasoline," said by San Mateo, according to the suspension of the price of petroleum products, this 2013, the total price increase in gasoline and diesel that costs 113 million pesos in gasoline and P9.20 in diesel.
Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), is focused on the movement of different sectors of the actual and planned increase of basic goods and service to the public.
The leader of the workers stressed the request of the companies of the water to increase charges, LMB also condemned the passing of taxes for the owners of the Manila Water and Maynilad.
"It is clear that it is a clear example for the number of those who can fly to Maynilad and Manila Water to pull the super-uppers right away, they are taking advantage of the giving of the government to control of important service and products," said Liwag.
Aside from the suspended price of water and new increase in petroleum products, different groups are opposed to the impending price increase in the Light Rail Tranbantayan and Metro Rail Transit, as well as the demolition in the community of the poor.
"The workers and the protesters are really fed up with the continuous increase in price increase, which are going to get along with the demolition of their community, while their salary is being prepared to have a serious job," said Liwag.

"The drivers are against the ongoing demolition, because the drivers are still poor, because the drivers do not give importance to us by the government that they will participate in the protest on July 11 on the third State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Aquino.
Meanwhile, in the morning on July 16, Bayan-NCR failed in Pandacan, Manila to protest the increase in the price increase of oil anymore at noon on the day before yesterday, the employees of the government came out of their office in Quezon City Memorial Circle in order to cooperate with the leading country.
In the morning, it is also in the morning, from the office of the Department of Health (DOH), a group of women from Gabriela to show the protest against the privatization of the Philippine Football Center, where they are waiting for the contract to be held in the Philippine Constabulary Center, which is waiting for the contract to be held in the Philippine Constabulary Center, which is waiting for the World Cimetidine to be married.
Also included in them are the reported plan to be imposed on the same facilities in three big public hospitals, along with Fabella Memorial Hospital who is only a National Orthopedic Hospital in the Philippines.
"The government of Aquino does not care or, even if the government of Aquino has no care or not care of their communities, they will be killed from lack of service," said Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
It is a part of the local government against the approval of the government's properties because it can be easy to improve the health services of the hospitals, but how can you get into a job or small salary, are the rich who have the right to be healthy?, said Salvador.
There are also similar protest in Southern Tagalog, Bicol, Panay, Laguna, Iloilo, Bacolod, Dumaguete, Cagayan de Oro and Butuan City.
It is out that the leading country will only be tasted and a bigger protest will be done in Commonwealth Avenue, Quezon City on July 22.
