Pay attention to the teachers.

Yesterday, the 120 years of the celebration of the World, "Day of the whole world is celebrating a tribute to teachers that we have known as the second parent in our schools.
A UNESCO world is leading the celebration now, with the theme of the Republic of Our Stars, "according to placing a teacher at each country to meet the problem in education.

This was proven by a public school teacher who graduated from Ateneo de Manila University, however, they chose to teach in Public School.
It is now famous in social media the teacher, Sabaral and Teacher Sab of Culiat Elementary School who spent the profession on teaching the poor students and became the idol of the youth.
For him, this is the name of the actor!
250 Youth, NO AD, TARAHA-1090451.
It turns out that there is a lack of teacher in the whole world that reached 1.4 million, while there are 250 youth who need to teach him and write.
In the Philippines, aside from the lack of teachers, there is still no sufficient use or school to solve the crisis in education that education is important in order to elevate the level of life of each Filipino.

The advice of yours truly to the youth now, work hard in studying, because you are all lucky that you have parents who are supporting your studies, while others are still looking for the payment for them to study.
So while your parents are still alive and strong, take advantage of the opportunity to finish school, this is the only wealth that will be given to you and it will never be stolen from you.
Inspiration.
The children.
That's because Mayor Alfredo Lim made a way back then despite the early death of her parents who did not lose hope and supported himself from studying.
We, Shine's boy, became a doctor in the bus, sold pandesal and other jobs just to have money and study.
The capital is your hard work and dedication to finish studies!

Not yet stopped, even if the police is able to go to school, also get some course, like law, Mayor Lim Lim.
Mayor Lim gave importance to each cent that he is working on his studies that is why all his hard work in life has improved.
Amazing!

That is why from being drunk, chief of police, NBI Director, Mayor, Senator, and almost the president of the country!
Mayor Lim's life is really an inspiration in all of these, it just shows that poverty is not a hindrance in order not to achieve your dreams in life that we want to achieve the bitter, but it is a sweet success in life and it is a sweet success in life.
There is also a heavens for the poor!
