
Purisima should have failed.

In other words, it appears that the resigned Philippine National Police Chief Alan Purisima has failed in the Mamasapano incident that led to the massacre of 44 Special Action Force (SAF) commandos.
Purisima admitted in the investigation conducted by the Senate last Monday that he was told by President Aquino at dawn last January 25, 2015 in the implementation of the forces of SAF in "Oplan Exodus" that killed Zulkifli Bin Hir alias Marwan. "
This is the first time that an official revealed himself to admit that he was the one who told the President of the said SAF operation.
Interior Secretary Mar Roxas was unable to answer to Mar Roxas, Defense Sec. Voltaire Gazmin and Armed Forces Chief General Gregorio Catapang when asked by the senators on the initial hearing on who brought it to PNoy.
Purisima even read the message given to them by Aquino on that day.
At the first message, the implementation of the OPLAN, Marwan was the death of Marwan, which was left behind by the troop of SAF.
It can be read in a text message, "the Armed Forces of Are-Contact Policy", PAre Benz, which is insinuating, who has a support from the military from the military.
This text message was, according to Purisima, based on the information that he received from Lieutenant General Ban Ki co Guerrero, leader of Western Mindanao Command.
However, Guerrero clarified in the said hearing that what he said to Purisima is the support he is supported by the ground. "
"I did not say that it is being carried away by the actor, Trillanes, and there was already a" Ipit Gang.
"This" is the source of the area because you have said now, "he explained.
It is said that Purisima understood that he would be supported by the "Ipit Gang, who was brightness of the Infantry Batallion of the SAF troops.
"Understood well, or more appropriate to say that in misunderstanding, it is clear that resulted to the death of 44 SAF commandos.
He / she was wearing.
According to Purisima, and his involvement in the Mamasapano massacre, the SAF chief Getulio Napenas was admitted in the Senate last Monday, January 13, 2015, when he sent a text message to Purisima, to encourage the Mamasapano operation on January 23 to 26.
This is the result of the comments of the President in their meeting with the number of people that they will use.
The first date to implement the operation is to join the arrival of Pope Francis, where the additional people from their force will be taken care of Tacloban.
"It was stated in the part of the text message was made by Napenas," for based on humanitarian consideration, "and it was answered by Purisima at:" Okay, go to the medical exam. "
And Purisima also said that Napenas was also told to keep the Mamasapano operation against him, Roxas and Gazmin.
According to the revelation of Napenas, "signal" is "to continue the operation with the directive not to say it to Roxas and Gazmin and it is clear that it came from Purisima during the time that he has been suspended.
As a close friend of the president, everyone wants to know how Purisima will answer to this mistake.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
