
What is the value of a soul on the eyes of Jesus?
By Zayungan, August 6, 2016.
... that the son of the person came to look for and save the lost of our family, which is the favorite of our family, which is why his / her family lost its blood, and even his vinegar, and even her vinegar, also had blood.
It is a very cold that we have a lot of soy sauce, and so as long as there is no disease or annoying, one who loves to sit on where he likes to bite all sorts of things.
That dog has eaten a plastic plastic bags so in just a few hours, he was able to step down and fall to the floor for a few hours, and he was given a lot of medicine, and he / she was given a lot of medicine, and he / she was given a lot of medicine for a week.
The Lord Jesus reminded me about that event that if a pet animal is very important to our family and we will do whatever he can to save his death, how important is the life of a person?
With the excessive value of the whole world of God, for sure that the death will take up by each soul because of its sins, God is the one who made a way to save us.
We cannot pay attention to our abuse that is why he sent the land of Iglesia ni Jesus for a child to have a lot of difficulty and the whole urge to be a punishment for the sin is accepted by Iglesia Jesus from his own shoulder.
And now the door is open to eternal life for any supporters of Iglesia ni Jesus as his only Lord and reporters.
The son of God is alive, in exchange for the safety of the whole clan of the land, harassment of all the followers in his name.
Many have read a cup given; but it does not mean that it is not important to the Lord Jesus.

He intends to talk with the woman Samarital checked by the woman Samarital checked by the fact that the rumors about the real worship and in the arrival of Mesias, the one who will die in Mesias, will not neglect him.

He gave him a chance to get to know Him at Daquioag, and that's where Jesus showed his power as God's life and he was chosen by Jesus in order to become an Apostol, San Pablo.

Even Pedro also received a big blessing for three times that he was also denied by the Lord; this is in fear that the people who were caught by the authorities and kill the person who had no sin against you will be the first one who does not have faults with you, he should be the first one who does not have faults with you, "he said.
Due to the severe intoxication of the conscience, every one who is holding a rock and left it when the people lost, Jesus told the woman who has sinned: "That's why it's as if she is not having sex."
How important is the Lord Almighty who is a person of a person?
It is important to give your own life as a person.

According to the pouring of all his power as God, the death would be overcome so that the life of eternal life will be given to each other.
Let us think well.

Whether criminals or not, it is important in God's eyes.

Let us pray for each other and God bless you!

(Zayehek, TIDs.
