The tone of the death.

Toni Gonzaga-hearted.

It was just almost nine o'clock in the evening, 70 of people inside and outside the bar were putting up with the amount of people inside and outside the bar where some of them were together with music and some of those who were carrying the unique moments of their songs.
In the midst of the smoke of the cigarette and shaking of the bottle of weakness, its hardworking business is building up that night because it was one of his last presentation before leaving the country going to Seattle, Washington, where he will live with his family.
In a foreign land, Alexander will open a new path, not only for his music, if not for the sake of the Filipinos.
A new tone.
It was the decade of 90 when she was first met by Joey Taguba, brother of Joey Ayala, one member of the Bagong Lumad, as a figure in the field of music, a long hair, and big ears of music, one Canadian Mounted ist and singer who was very popular during that time.
In the decades, when it became a democratic governance and boy who passed through the treacherous ways of Alexander's new tone, he created three award in his 14 years in the field of music, not only for his songs, which is not only for his songs.
Although it can be said that he has a colorful race and strong opponent, Alexander chose to go to another country, many are saying that this is a result of the lack of lack of lack of lack, of local supporting and music.
In the entirety of his race, it can be said that Alexander would not have his own gift and she is expected to have a concert in the industry of music, which is rare for him to have a concert in the big arena, which is why he is not taking advantage of the concert in the big arena, which is why he's not going to have a concert in the places such as 70 "s Boogie and Conejero, who are both in Quezon City.
Due to the experience that destroys his first release, wherein a record is going to change the sound of music's music and standards of a record against it, Alexander says that it is still difficult for him to last in the industry without support for his art.
In the coming June 27, Alexander and her family are leaving the Philippines as Seattle, Washington, where they will live for an artist's visa when they will live-by an artist's visa in the area of expensive coffee, which is why Alexander would have a new path to catch up with a new path to hold-known Filipinos.
Old news.
Due to the reported death of Alexander, it is our desire to ask an interview about the real reason of his departure, "Basti," Alexander says, in an interview with America. "The Philippines - Rich," we also added.
Alexander is only one of the increasing number of those who will play in power, painter, ararchitect and other countries that can be served, which is why most of the anticipated Filipinos are not experiencing the opportunity to make a livelihood using their arts.
Along with the lack of local support was the death of the people of the country, but he would not be able to visit another country by more than eight million Filipinos, those who are working in another country in order to have a livelihood, both of the lack of support of the government for the primary needs of his citizens.
Aside from the direct endorsement of the government, the promises they are carrying in another country are enticed, such a good quality of living, better education, and security in our country, but, most of all, carrying the freedom of those who are like Alexander, an additional freedom of using and those who are destroying their arts.
Symptoms of real change and progress in our country are continuously being left by our countrymen who are the ability of the state to maintain the state of livelihood inside the country.
Us own us?
Alexander's skill is invaluable, in writing the songs and washing four kinds of time, but in the current culture of our culture, most Filipinos would rather get to know the political personalities instead of the local personalities who are full of Filipinos.
In the past few months, we are trying hard to recognize Jessica Sanchez, a medical mission with American Idol, as an ally of our country, "while the country is continuing to show up, while the country is mourning over the defeat of Sanchez in American Idol continues to travel the country.
This is probably because of the removal of success in the world market, as long as she is not recognized by the Hollywood or for an award which is why she would suddenly recognize his name in America, that is why he will suddenly crush his music.
In the system wherein the appreciation of the market is the appreciation of the arts and talent, it's inevitable that the personalities who are treated are not popular or not true, it's not easy to give a new talent and they will look for a new chapter in order to overcome the changing market.
In the coming days, Alexander will leave his family, but, according to him, he will not be buried when it is not just one transfer of the New territory so that he will not go back to his own town, that is why he will not go home to a foreign country and carrying the tone of his return.
