
Oftentimes, they are anxious that they are going to investigate in the Senate.

It's good to let go of and take care of all who will be named by P10 billion Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
But let us judge or let them go, they should also be charged with appropriate charges.
Corruption and corruption?
It appears that something is done with corruption.
"That's why he / she said that he / she committed suicide or stole from the 50 million ransom money.
There is an indication that someone asks or stole 50 million pesos up and violence which is appropriate for them.
From corruption, Bro, 6-12 are called by my inmates in punishment.
Six years to 12 years in jail, there is a punishment of imprisonment of 20 to 40 years.
They have a twin penalty to capture the position, they will leave their right to return to the position and return of their rights out or stolen.
20 senators.
There are 20 senators mentioned by Napoles about his expanded maternity leave of the 12 senators who are currently seated and eight are not in position or not a senator.
A couple, married, married and had a mother.
Here are them, Bro, without additional wage to us.
Senators Alan Peter Cayetano, Loren Legarda, Tito Sotto, Lito Lapid, Jinggoy Estrada, Bongbong Marcos, Ramon Revilla, Jr., Cynthia Villar, Chiz Escudero and Juan Ponce Enrile.
Former senator Rodolfo Biazon, Robert Barbers, Loi Estrada, Robert Jaworski, Ramon Magsaysay, Tessie Aquino Oreta, Aquilino Pimentel and Manny Villar, were former senator.
Benhur Luy's Data.
The list of senators are not yet done, Bro.
There are also said list of Benhur Luy.
Rehabilitation czar, Panfilo Lacson said that he is expecting something bad about the list but he did not know why.
But on her Instagram account, Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago has a name in Benhur list.
Others say that Senate President Franklin Drilon has a name.
Watch a Benhur list.
Benhur Luy-list should be guarded and feared that there will be an additional increase in this.
But Lacson, he will talk if he think he has an additional wage.
Is it also expected that the Daily Inquirer's released news to release all the names of senators who are involved in power?
Are all those who have a list are also going to talk thoroughly and have no additional pension?
File a case against them.
They should try to file a case against them.
Include them in the case of the three senators who were initially charged with the Office of the Ombudsman.
The Department of Justice should have made it quick to act fast, to their quick action to the case of the three first senators, in search for evidences.
If this will not be made into action, it will be quick anymore, the people will offer to date.
Gold "is the content of the fire.
We have a saying, Bro: You can't make fire as gold.
If all the senators will be put under the hearing, there is something and there will be an extensive guilty.
But it is certain that there will be more innocent people who can be compared to gold.
But the declared Martial Law should not be a pitcher.
It's as if the court needs to release a decision in order to release, without any movement and free from other mysterious hands, which is powerful so that justice can be taken from the right path.
Investigation of the Senate.
Some senators are looking for an investigation in the Senate.
Some of the implicated by Napoles are still insistent for the investigation.
It is good to happen so that the people will be able to try immediately for the investigation.
Because, everyone knows that if the cases will be put in the Office of the Ombudsman, like what is happening, we have nothing to berates him up for a long time.
It is prohibited for the media to release an agreement because it is said to be an influence of ice that is allegedly called by an ice and ice.
But in the Senate, everything is open through the media.
It is even free to attend the citizens but as long as the space is still limited.
Aside from what the investigation will be done in the open place such as Luneta.
Gold in the Senate.
It is possible that it is possible that in the Senate it will come out as gold.
And that's the reason for them to be clear that they are not involved in making it.
Our only wish is for them not to be aware of what the judge-senators did during the time of ex-Chief Justice Renator Corona.
It's because when someone who is talkative with money just to be impeached, he will be impeached and fired from his post, the judge-senators looked like a gang in bullying of the lawyer of Corona.
After the time, it is true that the money given by the money is true and the hairs stood on top of the judge-senators' candidate for 50 million pesos and worth 100 million pesos.
Hehehe!
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
