Mayor Bistek and you were talking about the Bowie.

Before the leadership of Quezon City Mayor Herbert "Bistek" Bautista will be destroyed and completely embarrassed, he should be able to implement the management and wrong governance of the Quezon City General Hospital (Likoy Rondiano).
In our personal life that we have seen and experienced in the said hospital, I am sure that Mayor Bistek was not aware of the kind of style, negligence and an democratic governance of the officials there.
When I was able to be able to enter the emergency room, I was able to go down at the emergency Shelter Assistance or red blood on the dangerous point, I faced me as an emergency officer "who was registered to be treated in the room to treat him for more than six hours in one corner of the emergency room.
I just act the sentiments of the hospital to increase my voice because I am very weak.
Mayor Bistek was carried by a Ford Explorer than Karangalan Village for you to know the true operation of the hospital in the city of the city, and the typical organization of the agency of the government, as well as their movement.
The patients were woeful, especially if they are free from the payment because they themselves saw the swollen parts of the body of the patients that when they arrived, there were just a simple gunshots, but the doctors made up in the right time!
"I myself told me that you are lucky in the hospital, you are lucky because you will be thin and if not, the three days will be low before I can lie down in a bed to cure.
My companion was ordered to bring me to an ultrasound, when we arrived, the doctor asked me why I was there!
Instead of seeing a blood pressure, even my high blood pressure has increased and my sugar level and others are involved.
In the anger, I asked my doctor to come out even if the two need to come out for an important process but I might just die with a decision in the complicated system of Karangalan Village.
I do not want to die without doing anything in the hands of gnomes, ways of the hospital.
He will have to pay before noon, a crazy man told my companion in the box to go back at two o'clock in the media because of a sack of stupid men there.
There is no hole in all the office of the government especially in the hospitals!
Because of that, I themselves rushed to the office that should be given Clearance so that I can be able to go out of the rats of Karangalan Village, a patient should be brave, getting angry and ran amok before they take action!
Mayor Bistek, you are a good leader of the city but in that kind of personnel, you will be ruined without any fight if you remove them from the leaders there.
