The military has a leave for the possible location of a live-in front of a foreigner and a Philippines from me which is right at nightfall, right last Monday.
Meanwhile, while they went to Mindanao for a long trip, but Romeo Pineda, he went to America to talk to some foreigners who survived the cowards.
It will be a long distance from Davao City that's why it's hard for someone to spend.
It is the Lord for four days but until now, there is still no one to catch up to the seven who are not able to hide.
In line, we have to look down; our own-B; do you have to put a report together with a high blood pressure on Monday night.
There is nothing outside which is impossible to be shown today by the authorities.
A foreigner raised the three foreigners and one Philippines will resign from March.
Yesterday, Filipinos have been surprised that the bank has a high bank that is also happy in the area of Davao.
She said someone already saw the money to buy Davao.
So you used to pass through the Davao Anzon.
What's important, according to the bystanders, who are deported; are allegedly Commander of Commander.
Danao has not reached the position of Danao but we have seen it here in the streets.
Neighbors of those.
I will be annoyed by people.
They are feeling to get along with.
Damayang Lagi, like Tabag-four M16 ero.
Power Plant.
Here in there.
Christmas.
Covetous, deport; "
Us.
You continue to bring you to the authorities for what you are receiving.
According to Facebook, is it that their father is tired, they are already tired from the possible vacation of just a few moments.
But they still do not have the evidence to cook whatever good is behind the challenge.
That is also said by one also solid as well as the deport; Lord.
A person involved in Matmothers who is responsible for the incident was the one responsible for the incident who was not identified by the police but this is one of the storage room when the victims of the players might sell it.
As they say, it is possible that it is possible that it will be a waste.
I was like that.
Last night, it came to the Philippines four who are going up and did not want to graduating.
They talked to the superior who is the Americans.
But they are not the public who have given the statement that exploded.
Why don't we pay for trips that we can go to in Quezon City.
There is a native tribe-1090451.
It is said that money is coming from the poor family.
That is why he will get married.
Sadness is fine with him.
Friends here at work.
Tess does not recognize one of those who are at the disadvantage, Robert call as a point of fifty-year-old and one of us.
It is possible that he is a colleague of calamity, and also among those deceived by Jano.
Rog was working as a councilor of t-V, resort in a resort, right, Philippines and a happiness.
Let us hold-V.
There was a point that there was a point where the incident happened, while the incident happened on vacation.
Dela Rosa also has not yet released a ship and emphasis now.
The police identified the victim to be amazed as Cesar!
She was the manager of a resort to school for two months before he was hit before a long time ago.
They continue to coordinate with co-Remontadoses, five or PhpP) to come home there and happiness.
Jogging in every moment, you still do not accept if the authorities pass by, and even we are the victims of the victims in relation to their downfall.
But the authorities are monitoring now because the incident is here in the incident.
"What is the latest Football Federation of you, you were able to get to know the / her Ate ana's military, where it is their baptism, which is why it's just around the middle of the island that is why the trouble is still in the island that is why the trouble is happening in the island that's why the trouble is happening in the island that's why the trouble is happening in the island that's why the trouble is happening.
Where are you, Grace, the only thing that is why there is no good thing even if he was able to make it even if he was not able to take it.
In my aunt, this is really the time for him to be active again about a span of five years.
It is big.
A lot of people, who got tired, including one of those who got from it, might come to June even if there are sore who bought and chat, we need to talk.
It cannot also be taken to the authorities.
First of all, he / she was saying that he was seen in the boat.
According to him, I should remember the latest survey and other fishermen in Davao Korean, and they went to the budget, because they just said that when you are saying, it's just said that when you are saying, we have seen and stood on it.
There was no customer at this, "we say, that there was a boat that reached for one of their tuition, which is a boat that reached a boat of the white thousand, and the one who knows this is a child, which is said to be the blind of, which they are saying, that they are going to help in the places they are saying they are going to help.
"With white vinegar for the side of a call and a couple, there is also nothing wrong that there is a disadvantage or not, it is not possible to reveal now because of the human rights that we are holding, but there might be complete but there are also those who are looking at that.
To be ashamed of Davao, in the Fort area, I said there is still there where you are saying that we are talking to each other; we have seen that kind of positive positive who is very kind of positive who are very kind; we can take care.
It is true that this is true and there is a need to be a joke and is necessary.
Because, why would it be said that he did not pay attention to it but if the suspects really passed by them, they will not leave that there is a possibility that you will not leave now.
It is said that it placed it in the hospital where they can't turn around the hospital where they are going to travel to the vehicles to travel.
Dexter and everything will pass here?
In the ocean using firecrackers, what is being filled in the ocean, but it can also be the way for the payment, which is why they are being monitored the same week that is why it is almost a week that it has spread even in Western Mindanao.
If ever there is a payment to Western Mindanao, I brought all the voices that we have been together with, Louie there, a Filipina, why the girlfriend of America now is the one who is there and became an investigation.
It's because there is no God if she says the events here on the hands of these are really the things that they are talking to.
She has really asked him to have this form of number but we do not know that there are American soldiers and the Japanese who are saying that they are married, and this is one of the things that we might get along with the bank but we might get carried away from the bank but we might get along with them.
He is already safe in his house but American C-T) is safe, which is why there's an extra concern for those who are going to go to the house, which is why it's all that they have to eat at the past Wednesday, which is why it's all that there will be a large Smart of birthdates and with the experience of America when it comes to the 'former citizen.
It was really a python because we also talked to him even though I did not tell what happened.
Covetous, fog, is still the interview of Jason or 'ha ha.
Here, it was here that Mercado and his wife were able to escape from a Japanese or even if this case was going to do, at the International Theresa's flawless; the Americans were able to become a born; but the Americans were really born.
To Ma'am Pilar, we know who is the group here in Saudi Mindanao who really do not know who really is in the other side when the group is really included in the other side, which is why they really have a fight that there is a fight that there will be a fight in Saudi.
That is why the groups who are holding it quickly agrees.
Let us sympathize with PNoy in PNoy.
If he / she was able to look at the colleges; we are even foreigners to be cut off; we know that you are really not mistaken for me and I am the one who is holding me, that is why we also see that we are in a measurement of sweat, which is why we also have a measurement of sweat and sweat.
What is too much?
Maybe he / she said that he / she was saying that he / she was said to stay here on Saturday when he / she was saying that he / she was saying that he / she was working in the sweat, which he / she was talking about was not known to the ashes, but that was not known.
I was full-tempered; he / she was able to reach the head; and now, I know that it has already reached the head and it is now that I know that the government are two word World Teacher's, I am mistaken for a way.
There, it is still there in the mountains.
It seems like someone is holding them in lucky.
Thank you very much.
