Libra (international PR crisis.
By Fortun, September 19, 2016 - a few senators were able to show that the credibility of the country, Edgar Matobato, created a huge damage on his allegation and the famous international media who got on this issue.
Included are the following foreign media who have been in line with the testimony of Matobato even if there are many holes and questioning of his allegations.
CNN: Philippines President Duterte "immediate death penalty of being a mayor" BBL "Philippines President Duterte" to be with Uichico. "
Couldn't refuse, Philippines President to be an official official, to be able to answer.
Wall Street journal: Philippine President Duterte Orbos, mayor, Senate Witness Protection.
Washington Pukan in the Philippine witness: We-for Duterte, FED body to Crocodile cutter.
The Star: The Philippine National Football Federation of Quiti Kill, witness protection.
Al Petty Officer 1: Philippines "Duterte, to death penalty of squad.
Time: The Philippine President Duterte "Ortho-extrajudicial killings, Was a Mayor"

Because of the proliferation of the international airport, the effect of President Rodrigo Duterte was negative, but the US State Department could not help but release an official statement from the US State Department where the deputy spokesperson, Mark Anthony Fernandez, said:
"These Are, a serious case was we watched, that was we stopped."
Even the US-according to the US-based-ranked dog in Human Rights Development Authority (Humalig) is calling the Philippines to investigate the United Nations United States to ensure the fair treatment on Matobato's accusation.
"President Duterte Camply, which is being considered to be for the United Nations, to be a lead to the United Nations is to be a lead," explained by Hala-Asia director, Brad-Asia director, Brad Adosto.
When the state department and the human rights flag based in the United States say it means that this is focused on the Philippines the government of the US and is conducting an investigation against President Rody.
Prior to this, US President Barack Obama and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon from the increasing number of killed drug pushers in the campaign against illegal drugs by the Philippine National Police (PNP).
The Philippines' eyes are experiencing now in the eyes of the international community and this is what is being spent now by the Presidential Communications Office (NPC) because it is possible that the fire will get bigger and it might come to a point that it would be difficult to put it out.
The role of the PCIn is becoming more important in the middle of the news that there are people who do not work for the international media for being anti-Duterte for the anti-President of the anti-drug campaign of his administration.
