
Friday, February 24, 2012.

The call for the Earth that I was not able to read the newspaper, was stated by Ymasoing.

Let us call it to the world, no one can tell the world, according to YOPLAN).

Greg stars Jr.

(Sep. 24-Masa, February 16-March 15, 2012, M 14).

On March 11, 2012, the first anniversary of the tragedy in the country of Japan, which was destroyed by rape, earthquake and the destruction of the deceased victim, who was calling the cardinal the movie, was used by the people who were calling the cardinal the newspaper, and owner of a bomb at the West Min Com), and owner of a bomb that was called the newspaper.

These are the experience of Hagupin as well in the whole world, is being ashamed of, and not convicted by the right to the information, health records, treatment and payment from the reason, national security, or because of the loved ones.

This is not happening in Japan but also in all places where the cardinal is in the industry.

Because of this incident and research, more than 10,000 people were launched by more than 10,000 people to talk about it last January 14-15, 2012 and his live-off in the internet, with the audience favorite estimated to reach 100,000 pesos.

Here, those who attended have been strengthened by those who attended YANDELibigan ng mga Nuclear Power Plant, where it's the content of the earthquake, tsunami and disaster on the earthquake that happened, and the workers are not safe, and the workers are working in a threat to their lives and safety.

The spread of the damage is ongoing, because of this is the statement of those who attended the disconcerns that this situation is emotional and a international issue that should immediately be solved.

In the province of Flaris, the corners of material things in milk can be found, their lives have a threat that their lives have a threat, including the lives of the next generation.

The call of those who are going to attend the barbells, which was grossed for Yoko @ hhmm, is the following:

1 is the protection of all the rights of those affected by the accident that happened in the Fukushima, together with the rights of the Fukushima Daquioag, human rights, and the right to happen the former standard of life before March 11, 2011.

2 - the government of Japan and the Tokyo Electric Company (WBC)) will be completely solved.

3 - the data is continuously centered on the sanctity of the people, food, water, land and wind to let them know his immediate action and need to end up the sanctity of the population.

4 - a international journalism is that it is proven that the use of the newspaper from the mining of uranium.

5 - the scythe of the newspaper in Japan should not be opened; it should not be opened.

6.

7 is the support of the authorities in the local and municipal hall which can make a role in making a society who does not have electricity from the newspaper; and the newspaper.

8.

Based on this principle, those who attended the Daanjoe) launched the "full rest of Special Action Force Regional Trial Court," that contains concrete plans that should be submitted to the government of Japan, to the government of the municipal hall and cooperation in the municipal hall, and cooperation in the municipal hall, and cooperation in the municipal hall and cooperation.

Here in the Philippines, there are also a lot of organizations that will conduct an activity on March 11, Sunday, when a candle fell on the 19th of March 12, in front of a Japanese Embassy in front of a Japanese Embassy in front of a Japanese Embassy in front of a Japanese Embassy and condemn the planned opening of the newspaper at Japan.
