Grace Poe, the next president of the country.

Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago said that the next president of the country should be a woman.
In 2016 the election is already election for us to choose a new president.
It is definite that Vice President Jejomar Binay will run under the UNA party, the truth is, he has been able to run for a long time and that is why he keeps on cooking breakfast for small eatery.
DILG Secretary Mar Roxas is the one who might be released by the Liberal Party or President Aquino, the LP is desperate now because it can be seen that Roxas will be defeated.
The Armed party, alias "Pogi" of the pork barrel scam, Senator Bong Revilla, is preparing for them.
Revilla together with his family in Israel to pray this Holy Week because it seems that he already knows that he is going to be arrested in case of plunder, it seems that he will call a lot of saint "Pogi" to help him.
According to Senator Miriam, if a woman's leader is a woman, he will experience a high level of life, infrastructure and care for health.
We have experienced a former President in the character of Gloria Arroyo when Gloria Arroyo was extremely devoured by happiness, that's why our lives in the Philippines were very sensitive.
But in the seat, GMA did not do a lot like many roads compared to PNoy who is a vampire.
And if I will be asked to choose who I want to be the head woman, no one else but the child of Da King Fernando Poe, Junior, who is Senator Grace.
Senator Grace has many good proposals like giving protection to women and Overseas Filipino workers.
And it is as if Senator Poe is the only serious influence on the Islamic Freedom Fighters (Kamara) that is a way for us to be free to give importance to the details of the work of the government agencies.
But what I feel well with Senator Poe is in pushing for a free lunch the children who are studying in public schools for a lot of Filipinos who are going to school, which is why many are not able to finish their studies.
Instead, it will go to the pockets of the government's pocket that is being pushed by the government for the DSWD office, it will be better if it will be put in order to have free food for the children who are studying.
I salute those, Senator Poe!
