Calm and hotheadedness.

Sometimes, it means that this means is becoming talkative and lacking in knowledge or height.
We really can't make sure what kind of words, Tagalog, or Americans, but for sure, this is the call of our childhood friends to the children when we wake up, and even in a video of adventure when we are young.
This is the truth: Gabriela Partylist Rep. Luz Ilagan of the issue that it cannot anchor in the topic of English, and ship of the Americans in Subic.
However, Representative Ilagan, Representative Ilagan, criticized the arrival of the said ship and which is said to have been made the presence of the American troops and it is clear that they do not know about the actual flow of life in Subic and nearby places.
The US Naval Base in Subic was closed in 1992, because the residents of Metro Manila and the senators are able to gather in loaning just to ride on the issue that they think can be taken from votes.
As a result of this, the residents of Olongapo, Zambales and Bataan were killed after the explosion of Mount Pinatubo only one year ago, already lost the source of livelihood, map and business partner.
Some just know that some like Gabriela who earn a lot if there are Americans.
They will not consider granting a bigger business, including the presence of the Americans, the presence of the Americans, from the supply of food, things and services needed by the ships or tuberculosis.
As a matter of fact, Ilagan and Gabriela who lost their eyes were lost and lost in 1992, according to the Americans in the Philippines but the patrons of the Korean, Japanese, Chinese, and especially their fellow Filipinos have changed.
Even in Metro Manila, around Metro Manila, it is just within the big station of ABS-CBN and GMA, even if not far from Malacañang, Congress and senate, these are everywhere.
This is the truth: The Americans should not be blamed to the Americans who have their own stories about how they have been locked in their livelihood, and according to them, they have no work.
The argument of Gabriela and Ilagan and Ilagan, and if they really have a concern to the people, they will think that the livelihood of the citizens in Olongapo, Subic was etiquette, Bataan and Zambales.
