2 Romalibis were assigned to the committee as Mimaropa in the committee.

SSeptember 11, 2016 Dinnes, Manatal.

ODIJ, Romblon, September 11 (Pia) - two Palestinians armed to lead the two committee at the Mimaropa Regional Development Council in the character of Corcuera, Rachel Fernandez and Rodora Galano of Bayug Island.

In the recently concluded 55th Regional Development Council meeting recently, the new chairman and Co who were elected by the new chairman and Co who were elected as the National Bureau of Regional Development Council continues to be elected.

This is the Development Assistance Committee, Economic Development Committee, Indama "Development Committee and Social Development Committee.

In the Development Assistance Committee (MTPB), meanwhile, Kathy Larang Cielo was elected as Kathy Lanticse, Mindoro Biado and Co who medicated Mayor Rachel Fernandez and Corcuous, Romblon.

In the Economic Development Committee (NC), the representative of the non-government organization (NGO) in Bayugan-governmental organization (NGO) in Bayombong, Pampanga Governor Carmencita Reyes.

In Inseen, Development Committee (IDC) was appointed by father, Arvin Amistoso, public of Marinduque Council (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (LPA) and identified as Mayor Roberto everyone of Boac, Marinduque.

In the Social Security Committee (SDC), the anti-ABB headed by Shell Foundation and Co ordered the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Regional Director Wilma Traura.

In the said 59th Infantry Development Assistance Center meeting, Romblon Governor Eduardo Fi'll be honored by Romblon and Eduardo Failbo in the year 2013 until 2016.

It can be recalled that on the 55th Special Action Force Meeting, the next RDC Chairman, Palawan Governor Jose Alvarez and Calapan City Mayor Arciation, and Calapan City Mayor Armada, Maruri, and Marigondon of Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell, Shell

He just let it go to President Rodrigo Roa Duterte on who he will choose to serve as chairman and Co, chairman of Mimaropa and Co, chairman of Mimaropa, Pia-Bolivia to Romblon.
