
The Constitution.

Some members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines are worried, especially those with whole principles, with the harassment of President Benigno Aquino III in the Supreme Court in relation to the controversial Disbursement Acceleration Program.
What the soldiers are doing is deep thinking, especially the young officials, because they surely need to choose who will side with the two branches of the government.
The challenge of President Aquino to the magistrates that he is saying is not acceptable for the decision of saying that the DAP was not acceptable because he stopped him that his "boss" will possibly be given a proper service.
Wait a moment, what President Noynoy Aquino said to his services to his boss, is it not because of his leadership the people continue to become a slave, "the people?
Are all those KKK and benefiting from the projects that they implemented by DAP, or they are businessmen who are taking advantage of their campaign last 2010 presidential elections?
The members of the AFP are looking for the PNP and the people, what the Aquino government is saying and being proud of the price of goods like oil, rice, and petroleum agriculture and services?
Economic Cooperation or "we importation of products we used to be exported?
There is an example of rice and human beings which as well as the employees are not sure because President Aquino is in favor of being a member.
Now, the soldiers and other believed in the Constitution are confused because their promised duty is to be honest in the Constitution and not in the leader.
Many look at it, even the Catholic Church, PNoy became rude to the Constitution and challenge that he did to the 13 magistrates, together with the child, Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno, and Associate Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno and Associate Justice Renato Reyes and Marvic Leonen.
Those in the military said, even if the President is with their Commander of Chief, they remained honest in the Constitution because this is the message of the people from service because the money that was given to them is coming from this.
So as early as now, Malacanang will surely take action to defeat the possible symptom of the leaders of the Catholic Church and soldiers who are thinking of the protests in the government because of wrong accusations in the government.
In other words, whose side is the military and civilians?
The people, don't even talk.
