
The greeting and cooperation of the National Democratic Front in Cavite for the SAF 44 anniversary of the New HE.

Celdran is amazing.
March 29, 2013.

There are no use of joy that all the workers are feeling, the workers, farmers, poor, poor, women and youth of the National Democratic Front in Cavite on the day of the 20th anniversary of the New People's Bayan (BHB)!

The armed fight in our country continues to become an inspiration not only to the Filipino people but to the citizens in different parts of the world.

This occasion is very important to remember and give tribute to the lives and deaths of the thousands of martyr anymore because of what they showed courage, most of us are becoming strong for the sake of our sacrifice to achieve the sake of the filipino people and being raped.

The situation is very ripe for the revolution to the revolution of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's the call of the Bibot Domingo in order to save the political system of the country's system to save the economy of the country's system and a huge crisis in the country's system.

The severe illness of the Filipino society is felt in Cavite!

These kinds of view in Cavite are felt at its bones in the province of Cavite, the citizens who have been down in severe poverty do not choose any time to lead their rights to benefit of those who are thirsty for power and power.

Even during the time of the onslaught of the storm, the houses were wasted in Bacoor City, just like what happened in Brgy. 186.

Just recently, the eve of the Christmas season of poor farmers in Mil, Silang on the illegal yard is the followers of the Lord Nazarene, their land farm is trying to hide the interest on the land but it appears that the plan of building the private business appears.

In the outline of the implementation of the implementation of the State Universities (Colleges (SUCs), there have been successive cases of tuition and other bills, similar to the residents of UP Diliman, and in a private university, just because of Barangay La Salle University, Dasmariñas, it is not surprising if there are also a number of cases of students in CSalle University, Dasmariñas, not surprising if there are also a lot of cases filed by the students in CSalle University, Dasmariñas, because there were also a lot of cases filed by the students in CSalle University, Dasmariñas City, which is why there were also a lot of cases filed by the students in CSalle University, Dasmariñas.

It is also being done that Cavite is in the implementation of the anti-Filipino rules in doing such as non-wage increase in the salary increase, increase of wages, increase of hours of making and a bigger contribution for the capitalists have.

The local governor of Cavite has been laid out in the awareness of the former governor of the province and now is now being pushed for the candidates for the same position by the Filipino workers, No Contact Policy "

These kinds of rules in doing these kinds of rules in working even if this is for the destruction of the forces of production. Binigan, this kind of rules in the legal basis of the government and foreigners will be blessed.

Going to the hole is the right way for the foreign Marcos regime!

It is expected that the fragrance of various projects that will cause no other but double the suffering from the citizens of Cavite were featured here, the project, R1 Phase 2 and together with Reccision, LRT1 Extension and Road Nets.

This kind of projects can be implemented on the blessing of the Public-Lakas ng Masang Pilipino Program of the Philippine US-Aquino administration that this project is being used by Aquino last 2010, and the local governments of Aquino in Cavite for the sake of the citizens of Cavite for the sake of the citizens of Cavite for the sake of the citizens of Cavite for the sake of the citizens of Cavite for the sake of their interests.

Let's expose and fight the horrific election and a strong wind.

While the celebration of 2013 is getting nearer, it is very confident that the traditional politicians who are going to serve the politics and interest of the filipino citizens in the middle of the filipino masses, to protect their votes and join the old and violent system of politics, and the violent system of politics in the local and national level.

Even though it really surfaces in the mentioned earlier, it's as if an unusual behavior is being exiled by his opponents Governor Jonvic Remulla, for sure that it will cause a severe destruction to the poor in Cavite like the demolition, hunger and lack of society.

With the current tension in politics in the province between PNoy's camp and with its strict opponent Oklahoma City, the New politics is challenging all those who have tried to run in the coming election to listen and act on the legitimate complaints of the citizens of Cavite.

Being pushed by the revolutionary movement for the armed struggle in Cavite!

On the 120th anniversary of the Botchok, it turns out that the revolutionary movement in Cavite is ready to push through the revolutionary movement in Cavite, which is ready to push through the revolutionary movement in Cavite for the problems that are applying for quickly and continue the advancement in all field.

In fact, the revolutionary movement in Cavite is already in the middle of the gigantic movement of its huge potential to reach it or for more importantly, the workers, workers and middle of the youth, workers, and middle of the youth and streets sectors.

This year, in spite of the strong wind in the city of 2013, it will serve as a sign that a week celebration of the NDF-Cavite will serve as a sign of a few moments in Bacoor, Dasmarinas and GMA; and in the launch of the youth, farmers and workers who have expressed them to join the Bastes.

The goal of this is to express the improvement of the revolutionary movement in Cavite, especially the aware of the citizens with the root of poverty, no one else but the poorest solution against poverty, this is the largest solution against poverty.

We are sure that the revolutionary movement in Cavite is going to have no other way but the destruction of fire originated from the armed fight, until it is on the top of the number of fishermen, the workers, farmers, poor, poor and youth.

Long live the 44 anniversary of the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Intensify the offensive against what you have heard!
They have a big contribution of a huge amount of arrogance from the Pambansang Kamao!
The Oplan Tokhang was buried!
Long live under a civilized nation with a specialist possibility.
