Sometimes in a Kalupaan.

Jawking.
Middle East Gracepark, East Wing, Palma Hall - it is one of these kinds of own home address in UP.
Kalapati, therefore, those who come from the province of Quezon are living together, those who are living together in the province of Quezon are living together, those who are fond of being annoyed, "as well as the number of those who are fond of being annoyed.
It's embarrassing to think that even if it is almost half an hour the width took place, it was filled with different memories of our province, from the high school students, from Quezon until the huge number of high school students, from Quezon up to the huge numbers game in Quezon.
These awards have been a witness to the formed friendship and love, even to the formation of ideas that are planted in the two decades of history in Bulletin of the people who hit it in the country.
But on the more than 30 years of living in the university, Kalawaan in the disappearance of her home in Buliran, here in UP arrived, I never thought I will lose a house.
Based on the year 2011, the construction of its roof started to be eaten during its roof, the foundation was slowly destroyed, and one of its parts were toppled over because it caused the collapse and was completely destroyed by our small house.
We forced him to bring it back to the former and put it better to be exported while we believed that this will not be distinguished by the members, and some of the typhoons have already spoke with them for several times, and asked to be released again as well.
As time passes, we felt the limit of our fight, not termites or any pest in order to cut off the rotten policy.
The destruction of our place became the reason for us to finally get rid of our rights under our rights under our rights under our rights under our rights under our rights which is where our decomposing body was built.
It is a severe problem of organization in the university to have a few luck that has been given a hut in some college, air-tempered room or "in the corners of the building that cannot be passed by, but we were not included there.
In their very long time he stayed at Bulaga Palma's time, it's likely that the people who let us leave us will be more sprained.
It is more than the loss of a clean place of Kalapati, but for any organization, the house will be built even under other roof.
B1, ClavB, Vinzons.
