A huge amount of bills was the cycle of debt and borrowing of the Philippines (first of the three parts.

John Toledo.
Aga Muhlach is blaming me.
Like the individuals, the government is still trying to show money from fact, this is the usual joke to the Filipinos that you do not have children, you have a debt of debt in the knee, but not just like deceitful individuals, more complicated when the government borrowed money.
In this series, the relationship and process of debt of the government which in the end are the people who survived!
It is said that there is a reason to celebrate the poverty of the Philippines only recently, the country made $1 billion in the International Monbillion pesos (IMF), that last 2010, the reserved dollars of the country reached up to $3.8 billion.
"The former leader of Asia, now, which is already full of enthusiasm, if we are the one who is always trying to earn money, now, we have not been trying hard to borrow money," said President Benigno Aquino III in his last State of the Nation Address.
But it is not enough basis for progress, the ability to lend money because the country still has a debt of debt, according to Glan-FFF), senior citizens known by the bird Foundation, an institution of research.
In fact, the government of the Philippines has P58,000 pesos or a total debt of the government of the Philippines (consult a fervent kingdom, 1).
Every year, the government needs to fund the payment for debt or public service from the tax that the people paid.
Caught in a trap.
Filipinos are close to the experience of the Filipinos so it is not hard to understand the councilors that are living in a short level, which is why you will borrow money, especially during Christmas season.
The process of debt, whether individual or government, is almost the same, because it is pushing for immediate need and lack of funds for a certain time like infrastructure, mining, and agriculture, which are being paid through debt.

The government is also borrowing the programs and projects to be spent, meet the lack of budget, or pay for the left debt.

It is not bad to borrow money if this can be used in the progress of the country, "Sonny Africa, head researchers also noted in the development of the economy - an example, debt that went up to the national industry - or to address the needs of the citizens," he added.
"What's happening but, there are debt of gratitude like books in the World Bank, that in exchange of the opening of taking advantage of us, our natural resources and strength, and strengthening of our economic growth, then we still have an interest," he added.
It is also different from the debt of the government, because he earns a huge interest which can come from the international financial help (COIs) like IMF and World Bank (WB), foreign businessmen, and private banks, and company, foreign or local.
Aside from this, the government is obliged to pay the principal, debt and his interest in the scheduled time in the agreement.
The borrowed from the country is also not a joke, especially if there are conditions being taken from the country because there are conditions being carried away by IOS in the public schools which are usually managing to public schools that are often held in public service.
In fact, there is a drug paraphernalia taken by IMF and WB from 1987 until 2000, the privatization of the government like the National High School (LPA), instead of directly giving service, the Philippine National Football Federation) and Metropolitan Manila Development Assistance Fund), which is only leading the private sector is the role of the government offices.
Money in debt.
There is a source of the debt of the country's debt, in fact, this is in the history of finances of the country.
The last 1957 was one of the first to be the first to study the Philippines, when he asked for $21 million from the WB which came from the construction of Binoe Power Plant, an electric post in Northern Luzon.
This is followed by the debt of former President Diosdado Macapagal of $300 million from IMF in 1962 due to non-stop importation of foreign products under the agreement of foreign businesses in the country.
The debt of former President Ferdinand Marcos rose to the office of former President Ferdinand Marcos from $2.7 billion in 1986, according to BSP), according to BSP), and the foreign corporation was able to control the expulsion of products.
Instead of making the government to spend in the construction of the national industry, it is still being used to the projects that will open the country with foreign businessmen who are taking advantage of their natural resources and strength of the country, said Africa.
It was also implemented in the time of Marcos by the Budget Tax Reform Program of 1977 that accepting the President to make a huge sum of the national budget to be given payment, so that there is no need to pass through Congress.
Former President Corazon Aquino continues in his Suzuki Cup of 1987 with this kind of power of the President in relation to his "honor-worthy policy," the Aquino administration admitted all the debt of gratitude from the Marcos dictatorship instead of stopping it.
It is clear that the role of the government in the author is clear how much of the national budget is allocated for debts.
From 1986, the total budget of the government is destined for the service of the government, which is allocated to the public service.
The Philippines is locked in the circle of gratitude for the next administration due to the non-stop paying in exchange of debt, and on the incessant use of the projects that only benefit from a few rich businessmen.
The process of misuse of the government is complicated, every new debt is given a chance to IMF and WB to raise the economy of the country and the citizens, who are the ones who protects the economy of the country and the citizens, that they are not accustomed to it!
