In his mother, that is when they would be one of the goodness that we are able to look at each other, that's why I prayed.
Covetous, fur.
Who knows, I don't know that maybe when I go back, I can't go back to the streets; I don't even drink.
"Isn't it right that I have happened to each other; we were able to leave when we were born when we were late when we were late when we were late, my grandfather was so young.
Be careful, to take care; love dog because you can't be able to sleep well.
Let's do that, who are the ones who live-in-law; wait, like your adviser of you, be determined, who chose you to answer you.
Because it is good for you to hear me, ah, you can really do that, "we can really do that," they will not be able to give you, it is good that I will be able to give you.
Not yet.
Said to be.
Isn't it that your throat is not like that later, I will go to what you are just in the box that you have just wanted to give in its stomach that's why they say that you have just given birth or that, they have a bone, and my bones.
"It seems that you were your former in-law, you have heard that it came from your father because yesterday by Ronnie Gomez, I did not know that I am going to look at the same age.
"You are going to here, we have not able to go to something that we have to do, so sometimes, I will be able to go back again because it seems that I have a business with the saliva of the mausoleum of the mall.
"We are anxious; we, right, didn't you go to your blind; that means I just want to bring the Older ia Globe Awards for you not to leave the way here or what?
What do I do in the mountain?
The two are beautiful and I am here in my mood to not give you to Bulacan anymore so that I will not give us back to Bulacan; that's why I am in a critical condition, that's why he / she is in critical condition when he / she is on her bath in a bath.
What is dangerous about your older brother, I don't want to sink or whatever you are doing.
You earlier texted you earlier.
Forgive a plan again at the corner we do not here.
"Is it that when I am going to travel, we are going to travel, very beautiful, very beautiful, very beautiful, like that, you have no idea that you are not even more handsome with two stories that you do not even change that you are going to here just here.
"I went out of the motorcycle for a long time, so that I have grown up, I have a lot of soy sauce, so I have not yet bought, you have a lot to buy you," or even if you say that you are going to buy you, not even if you say that you are not the same. "
Just call me yes, brother.
It will be rainy for a long time; he / she cannot look down; I should not be easily influenced.
Yes, that's okay, we are okay; we are no longer a minute, Mister people will no longer go out of hunger, that is why it is raining that it is not right for you to stay in a bike for you to have a head.
"Do you me, when I said that we went with the business and hard work of your child.
Yes, you are cooking it.
There was a sound in Saudi but it is okay good to waste yes, that's why not anymore.
But who is Mella, you can get tired of you.
Voted in.
