
Good, RTECAYETANO!

The strategy of Valenzuela City Cong. We Gatchalian was different when he was still the mayor.
This is what he did in his efforts to raise the Valenzuela on a pedestal where he is located for now, especially in a proper governance of the local government.
A lot of recognition has been accepted by Valenzuela City from the government government and some of the people in the city hall and some of these are included in the Philippine National Bureau of Health Organization (KABAKA) from the Philippine National Bureau of Health Organization (KABAKA) from the Philippine National Bureau of Health Office) from the Philippine National Bureau of Health Office) from the Philippine National Bureau of Health Office.
The Wu Gatchalian does not make sure that those who are going to work are invaluable, which is why they were included in the ten-standing standing ovation by ten-year-standing standing in 2011 in the field of public service.
If in other places, the school building has not been a problem in Valenzuela because it was not a problem in Valenzuela because almost 2000 but also from the support of the former district of the city that is now Mayor Rex Gatchalian.
Some who are observing the planned progress in Valenzuela are impossible to have reached far away if they are compared to other cities in Metro Manila.
At present, Cong. Wes will continue to focus on Congress in the aspect of education and one of those who tried to strengthen the ALS or alternative Learse System and technical and technical and technical.
It's because Gatchalian believes that education is the key to recover a difficult family and even our country.
Even OWWA or an Overseas Filipino Worker (NBP) wants to steal a lawmaker because of the increasing number of OFWs in the country and in exchange of debt of gratitude for the new heroes of the state.
What the government shows for love for them is not enough, that is why it is just right to pay attention to the government.
It is clear that our OFW are taking advantage of the finances and economy of the country so our government remains alive.
