PNoy, like a storm.

It seems like President Benigno Aquino III is like a typhoon because of its speed of direction.
At first, the President is trying to fight for many of the citizens especially the journalists who insisted that the Islamic Freedom Fighters (FOI) bill will not be passed on.
When it was passed by the Senate, Malacañang was abandoned by the Aquino government for the implementation of the Aquino administration in the implementation of the State of habeas corpus which is possibly part of the content of the State of the Nation Address (SONA) this Monday.
Why is it that President Benigno Aquino III thought of the importance of FOI?
The truth is, the journalists have been fighting for a long time with the leadership of National Press Club of the Philippines.
According to the Palace, it is possible to pass the said bill before the term of President Aquino.
But, why is the president thought now that the FOI is important especially for journalists?
Meanwhile, when he faced the famous businessmen in the past weeks, he is trying hard and insisted that it will not be too strict, which is why it can reach 2016 before it ends.
President Noynoy has also considered a lot of times that he supports the FOI, but it seems that he just came out from his heart because it is not from his heart because this bill will not be included in his heart because it is not part of his more than half a term of service.
What really changed "closed mind" by the President?
To make sure that transparency should prevail in his leadership? Wait, when?
Isn't it that you have been doing all that you are doing to officials who are part of you?
Mister President, maybe you can wake up now?
You will get tired of your dream to take the "Daang Matuwid" when you themselves can't get ahead of it.
It might be the purpose of President Aquino to take the hundreds of people who will give discipline to the people during the time of the campaign but in the actual time he already got the position, and he became aware of the whispers and adviser of his counter defamation and adviser.
That is why the credibility of PNoy was destroyed when it comes to leadership.
And to make it up to all the domination and enemy of the citizens, the approval of PNoy is as a "360 kilometers east of PNoy in relation to his support given to the FOI.
It seems that it seems that the downpour was fast but in the end, it will suddenly stop in order to give way to the rise of the sun.
The president's support to the FOI is just starting to start but it has been waiting for a long time for the people to pass in order to earn and end the prevalence of those who are assigned to the public funds which is the cause of moving to the citizens.
