De Lima, there is a need to explain.
Aries (Aries (Aries), Tina Mendoza July 24, 2016 if Senator Richard Gordon is being asked, he is firm that Senator Leila de Lima should explain in the controversy involving it particularly the story where he is with a drug lord who was kidnapped in New Bilibid Prison (NBP).
It can be recalled that Solicitor General Jose Calida has released a picture of De Lima that along with one drug lord, he is calling on the legislative chamber to investigate the senator.
When he asked yesterday afternoon in an interview with Gordon, who is expected to act as the chairman of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, stated that he should be asked who has been done by the former senator, "Deguised, who is really responsible in the Ethics Committee" that if there is evidence, "Gordon explained.
It depends on if there will be petitioners from Martial Law because the case in the graft case has something to do with the corruption that's probably according to Gordon that he will fall into the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee he will hold.
"I, if I am the one I will ask, why is it that in the time of Secretary de Lima, there is a lot of money inside, there are many money inside, there is a lot of money inside, there are many money in order to explain why that kind of opportunity is," Gordon added.
According to him, Motawas are going to conduct an investigation even if there is no set resolution.
However, he said that he will not lead the stove and it is better for him to push forward the affected agencies of the government.
", of course, let us allow them, because if you are going to be married, that is if they have a problem like Secretary.

Calida and DOJ Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre said that they will not have an evidence in exchange of hearing aid (PAGCOR) to investigate the Senate), "the senator insisted.
Meanwhile, Malacañang agrees to investigate De Lima to be investigated about the spread of illegal drugs inside the NBP in his term as secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ).
Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador Panelo said that the Bureau of Jomalig (BuCor) and NBP is under jurisdiction of the DOJ.
It was noticeable that illegal drugs in the prison are noticeable in the jail in the term of De Lima that is why it should be investigated if there was an abaya for his duty.
Panelo also added that it should also be known why the drug lords in the NBP should be held accountable and should be held accountable here.
