Reaction: Corruption in Taguig City.

Our salary is not for team as employees of the local government of Taguig City under the leadership of Lani Cayetano, the good owner of Senator Alan Peter Cayetano.
This is just some of the reactions I received from my customers in Taguig when they read my point about the revelation of the couple Cayetano.
With what they have been doing such a television, "Cayetano boasted about their grades in" Taguig where corruption is prohibited, that is why it is prohibited for a blessing, "after saying," it is possible in relation to the public service.
If that is the fact, a text message was true to me by an employee here in Taguig City Hall, that their salary is not at Bishop Wage?
According to the text message, it is said that Mayora promised to do their P500 every day but the promise will be tested because until now, the employees are still crying.
Wow, well, how much is the blessings given by your people who are lacking in salary, in the tone of the text message, he says there is no truth to what the couple Cayetano has done.
Or, here it is here, we said, "when a text message was said," that was the reason why I went here in Taguig., "he said, he / she was able to tell him again what the married couple was doing.
Apparently, someone reported to me that illegal drugs are said to be active in Taguig City, that is simple, that is why if it is not in the City Hall in Taguig, that is when he is not in the City Hall in Taguig.
It appears that the senator took a step on the back of the carabao he rode on the back of the carabao but the result was a failure on the content of what they were doing such a trace.
"What I want to say is that those who have been doing anything in Makati have been doing something like this in Makati, this should be like this in the whole country," it is possible in Taguig City, it can be said in the whole country. "
Is that so, Senator Alan Peter Cayetano?
There is a need for the Commission on Audit (COA) to use the Commission on Audit (COA) if the local government can use their funds to push for the interest of the political candidate for a candidate.
Let us remember that it is Senator Cayetano's highest throne in the country this coming 2016.
That is it!
