Malacanang is silent for the problem with Sabah.

Why is the Palace in Malacanang silent about the issue of Sabah?
"That is what our countrymen is asking when he found out in the Senate that PNoy had a request for the senators to be silent in his speech.
Who really will Sabah?
Why is there a need to be silent?
Does he hide something?
This was recovered from the Philippines.
Did PNoy avoid Sabah to talk about Sabah because his father, former Senator Ninoy Aquino, has a big connection with the Philippines?
Do you still remember, Bro, "Jabar ah, where up to 200 people were killed by the military just to cover up the attempt of former President Ferdinand Marcos in Sabah to go up to Malaysia?
In the Senate, Ninoy Aquino is going to have a mind and revealed that Oplan Tokhang was released from more than 200 Moro who will be used to recover Sabah.
Eat all the witnesses.
Because of the excessive mind of Ninoy Aquino, they are forced to use all the customers in order not to be the witness in the Senate to build shame to the whole country.
It is expected that the Philippines will get back to Sabah because the armed forces will rise in the Philippines when they are currently conducting the Oplan Galugad conducted.
Time to fight!
When the Oplan Tokhang was put in chaos, the group of Moro who allegedly got angry at the government of the Philippines were suddenly appeared due to the death of their companions.
But the truth is that what is said to be implemented by Malaysia so that the Philippines can stop the Philippines and be buried in oblivion.
Why is China not?
Why do we blame China on the issue of Spratings and Scarborough Shoal meanwhile, it is clear that the Philippines is a clear property in Sabah, right?
We know that we do not have any fight with China but we are trying hard to be annoyed.
But the hek beside us is from raising the property of the country, which is why the Palace just wanted to shoulder the palace.
Why did I hide.
The DFA Secretary del Rosario is currently not found in the issue of Sabah.
Why is it that because he has no interest on the issue?
What is the interest of Philex Oil who is the primary interest in the West Philippine Sea?
Please advise Secretary del Rosario.
Uichico.
Let us give time to the money that's taken away from different system of our society.
It's the politicians who are illegal.
Good thing to comment was the comment of the Our Lady Our Stars, Are illegal numbers, they should be responsible for the flood and landslides!
Coordinate with PNoy.
What is really needed is the president who is directly coordinating with a program on television or radio to talk with the president even just to his cellphone, right? "The president and the voice of the people... that if he is his boss, that is why he's his boss.
Cayetano, Peter Cayetano.
Senator Alan Cayetano should not be impulsive with Senator Juan Ponce Enrile because Senator Cayetano is not able to do anything but for Sen. Enrile, General Ramos, and those who helped Senator Enrile, General Ramos, and those who helped Senator Enrile, General Ramos, and for the welfare of the people, we salute you, Manong Johnny, Senior, senior citizens and Filipino Youth Syndrome).
Took in Guam.
The people who will be fooled and took the money of the applicants who were going to Guam is the agency of Senior International Manobo tribe of Tondo, Manila and their boss, Allan Chua Garabat, this will still continue to leave the horrible suspect for the rape victims of rape victims.
Do you speak to you!
The decision made by the court is a big mistake in favor of Robert Bira Caraan, the crime that was done by Caringal, a public utility vehicle, which is why it is not impossible that the crime will remain in the Philippines, which is why it is not impossible that the crime will worsen and the criminals in the Philippines will increase and increase in the Philippines.
It's PNoy.
G. Lorca wants to have a text message to you as long as it is PNoy who is in Pilana, the Philippines, from Aparri, Jolo, to continue to experience calamity.
