Happy Father's Day, to whom?

It will only be rich and we are considered to be a shot or poisoned by a relative, but here, it's just a year or here in a year or coming, a Merry Christmas day to everyone.
Happy All Soul's Day is also good for everyone who are gay and tomboy which is also being made happy even how their idol's Day is.
Happy is the day's day to all the workers who have a heart of doing all your work for daily lives and the day will be the feast of Valentine's day in adapting or capitalists have in your heart, especially now.
Happy All Soul's Day is also a good day, no matter how with the heart of stones that becomes tangled and dirty, for love, even if it hurts, you will still go ahead.
Unlike Marian Rivera who also loves Dingdong Dantes aside from the love for himself and her profession.
Marian admitted that she was just simple and slightly joyed when it arrived.
"For me, it is an expert of the flowers only, I am happy," said the actress.
Why is it so?
Or what?

So, let us look at it.
Of course, it was sent by an ID-to-law of Dingdong and to be very happy with the hardworking actress who has a hard work, but Dingdong Dantes.
Delicious, isn't it?
It's because the salary of artists is huge that is why if they will become a problem in love or love - it should be a problem or having a lot of moments or times by one who love, it should also be known because the process and their efforts in life should be found.

What is crazy is the reckless spending of KC Montero for the welfare of his girlfriend Rhian Ramos.
I do not know if KC has been able to do this to Geneva, when they have been together.
Did you know that Montero was even hired by a limousine because it was proven that Rhian is at her way to where they will go.
But according to the Black Nazarene, Lhar Santiago, in Pasig City is towards KC and Rhian after dinner during Valentine's Day.
Where in Pasig City?
In Ortigas Center, or with the Valle family?
Or in Victoria Court, or in the motels owned by Antonio Cabotahe, Chua?
Be careful and more.
In other words, consciousness and care.

Mark Herras, according to witness Lhar.
They persevered that Ynna Asistio does not pay attention to the whole whole afternoon of Saint's Day.
Of course, Yugoslavia was wondering because the character of Mark was not that kind because of the basis that they were talking even just on the telephone because their voices was not complete if their voices were not complete, even if they didn't hear their voices from live or in the same piece of cellphone.
Asistio was almost freed from crying because of the disappearance "of one day, Herras,.
That is also what Nadia Montenegro was saying when she was just a couple of former mayor of Caloocan City, Macario "Boy" Asistio?
Is this the history that the child is taking?
So what Yugoslavia was done, just went home to the house with bad feelings.
She also does not have an answer to those who are call and text.
But when he arrived at their home, she left the dark room.
It seems that his heart is very dark in those moments anyway.
He opened the knob of the door and revealed to him was the closed dark.
There was no candle while they have paid for Meralco.
There was no match for the beating, it suddenly lit up and was hugged by Mark.
Jesus!
It seems like Yugoslavia was left behind even if she reached the floor.
There is a laid preparation - plate, spoon, spoon, coconut husk, glass, coconut milk and food - on the table.
Herras wiped her tears from the cheek of his girlfriend and they started to eat.
Isn't it?
Dr. Love, to understand!
Belt, happy Easter.
