
Duterte should greet the Liberal Party of India (Mautes) on the 25th anniversary when it is strong.

Luis Jalandoni.
Chief International.
NDFP National Executive Committee.
SSeptember 21, 2014.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NDFP members of the Liberal Party of India (Maegist) on its its price hike.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) gave the best greeting of the friendship and unity with the Liberal Party of India (Maire), of the Liberal Party of India (Mautes), in the 25th anniversary of the Liberal Party of India (Maestrado) last 21, 2014.
All the 18 persons of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines and the Israelites of the Filipino people are with you, to our companions at the armed fight, in the celebration of your 25th anniversary.
We are taking care of you in honor for almost two thousand for almost two thousand, which makes their lives sacrifice for the highest level of your party, from the highest level of your party, from the highest level of your party, from the highest level of your party, from the highest level of your party, and the ranks of many masses.

It is part of the revolutionary movement in the whole world, we celebrate in the whole world, we celebrate within ten years of taking advantage of the municipal hall, judicial, education and culture of the country, the care of the Black Nazarene, fair, and culture of the country, the sake of the municipal hall in the forest.

We are strong that your call to the citizens of India is strong to crush the Intertropical Convergence Zone and destroys the rotten system of the Indian, and destroys the rotten system of the Indian, and destroy their own hands!

The strongest Filipino people, like you, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines.

Let us pray that your strong support to our Filipino people is strong and we also have a strong energy in your Filipino country, we are still determined to strengthen the strict unity between our citizens and our councils.

Really, we can write to our happy greeting to the Liberal Party of India (Maire), to your People's Liberation Front (Maire), to the Spanish masses of India for the bigger success of your Filipino people!
