
Compared to Aunor, the song can make a song, it is Charice and Nora.

Postmaster by: Nangie Nicario.
On August 24, 2015.
In showbiz.

Even if the famous singer is now being an actress in the writer, Marion is already an actress, he said he will not neglect the career of music.
"Maybe it is not possible that anyone can do anything but there are many people who say that all her acting skills," said goodbye.
It was just followed by indie film that Marion is going to make an indie movie to be fired from a pen pals with Direk Arlyn dela Cruz.
"This is about the description of Joma Sison and to his colleagues, the star of this is Jony Roberto Rivera," a beauty queen of Maribel Aunor.
Aside from being a singer / actress, Marion is also observing the songs of Kathryn Bernardo and Alex Gonzaga, as well as the new release of Erik Santos with a position that Marion is in position.
He also said the other things that he wants to make a song, if possible.
"I want the super-Added Tax which can be considered as Miss Regine Velasquez. Almasan, Sir Ogie (Alcasid)," But if he / she can be given by Chance.
"Challayed to me, if I can find a song, it is Charice, Fewi."
"If it will be fine," the name of Tita Guy him was okay, will he be able to make a song along the superstar, "of course, I was a love between Work and Her!"
"What is the song, what is the thing in Tita Guy him?" I know, I am the one who can be known to be an ally, so I can be able to cross that person.
"But I have not yet known each other for a long time but I was able to deliver it, if I will be annoyed, I might be annoyed," a song who really loves her. "
He also mentioned how much he is going to be now in his career for "super-old, as if I can see that there are already a lot of people, Are, who seems to be thankful for Fight IT.
"It seems that after the two Filipinas who are working hard for Fight IT, it's as if now, I am really fooling around as a adversary.
"I am really impressed by the New Year at the Star Publico, however, it has been a show-$ 30,000 pesos, however, I want to write a lot of songs," at the end of Marion.
You know!
