
Do not be deceived by the president.

It is clear from President Benigno Simeon Aquino III this Friday that he has no plans to remove the pork barrel despite the widespread call of his "boss" to end it.
It is clear in his speech and reaction of his smell that we are just going around in the hopes that our minds are weak.
What is worse is, B. S. Aquino is just fooling us by saying that he will separate the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) that is better known for the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) that is better known for the foul name "pork barrel" when the funds will remain for the members of the Congress.
His explanation, Malacañang will make sure that he will make sure that there will be an immediate release of the country's money on this time.
But I heard this kind of promise.
This is also what the members of the Congress said to hear PDAF last May 90 while they are being sold to the public during the time of the mother of B. S. Aquino, who is former President Corazon Aquino.
Even if you will buy, President B. S. Aquino, the name PDAF, even if you don't call the pork barrel, even if you don't call it as pork barrel, even if you do not call it as pork barrel, what will be implemented for the distribution of money, it is the same way.
This money is incentives (or bribe?) also to the members of the Congress in order to follow what you want.
The pork is a pig that just call here.
Notice that according to the Department of Budget and Management Council, the average pork barrel in the last three years of your teacher Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo is 7.8 billion.
But if you understand this for the first three years of your side, the money allocated for pork barrel is still up to two hundred pesos.
You said it is expensive but it is clear in the data that more money is used for the first half of your time.
There is nothing but or whatever explanation of B. Aquino to remove the PDAF, pork barrel or whatever you want to report to the fund, you should put it straight to the Local Government unit.
It should not be better if the money of congress should stop the money.
It is better to allocate these victims of the storm, fixing the nearest hospital, school, streets, common towns, park, public markets and other important infrastructure for the remaining money on PDAF.
If you will not do it, B. S. Aquino, let us stop with your boss, you are just fooling us, anyway.
He / she was wearing.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, you called Gene Lorenzo to 0906355560 for additional information.
