Vic and Pauleen, visiting Bethlehem, Allan Diones, November 27, 2016.
For the First-year-year-old Vic Sotto should have a normal Christmas season because he does not have a movie that is included in the MMFF 2016.
Because Enteng Kabisote 10 and the Abangers being ignored, the coming Christmas of Bossing is a bit ill.
"Quiti Kill is also for me, we do not have any plan to leave because I am used to leave because I am used to" Christmas, I am not going to leave the Christmas season in the Philippines, with the family.
"That's what's important to me, I am with my children, grandchildren, siblings," says Bossing.
One more thing, he / she said that she was on vacation for his wife Pauleen Luna - Sotto, which is why they just went to the house.
What kind of thing is, "the first Christmas, was the first Christmas, that is why he already had a partner in life?
"It is gladdening," asks of a TV host.
"I am really happy.
"He is more handsome" to take care of giving presents to relatives, to children. "
According to Bossing, they would want to go to Bethlehem, and she will let her youngest son Paulate, then she will leave it in the middle of Gurria.
It was also clear, it is true that they were able to think about the mass at the Church of National Railways in Bethlehem, however, Israel was far away and if they were able to gather them.
On January 1, 2017, Cristine Reyes is scheduled to get married, so, she might just be in-time when he / she would just be a little time.
She is proud of Bossing to lay down and fur.
He / she was in front of 2nd Street, Paulate, and even before the text message was sold, he sold half of his coats.
She is proud of Paulate as well as she is proud of her other children, Danro, Oyo and Vico Sotto.
Bossing Vic Sotto clarified that he does not have bad feelings for the 2016 MMFF committee for the removal of Enteng Kabisote 10.
If he is ill-tempered, it is not "according to him but for the children because FPJ is still not losing a child," MMFF.
However, he is also happy that the Christmas of the children will be more than expected, that it can be even more than his movie since it will be more longer.
"In fortune, they might also reach Christmas in the cinemas.
What kind of behavior is that his movie with Vice Ganda will be together again?
"Though it's okay, as I have said, it's sad," when it is Christmas, you will be alone.
"It's Vice and Coco (Martin), sad," if I do not have a okay, "that is the reason why I am," the eight movies, which is why they are two more?
"The Commission on Human Rights Office is called for eight to three movies, so, there is no problem like that."
According to Bossing, he cannot take on the playdate of the Vice-Coco movie.
"It was the decision of Productions, and they have the same perspective that they will open on November 30.
"It is a big thing" as holidays in the day, "Bonifacio Day), then.
According to Bossing, you can take a hold-up of two movies at the November. 30, the diets for the Whole.
