Watch the freedom!
By Boyet Jihadist, June 13, 2016, that it has happened before, freedom should be repeated, and take care of all the important things, we need to fight first. "
This is a few part of the message of President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III for the Vin will be launched in Rizal Hall in Malacañang in relation to the 20th anniversary of the Independence Day yesterday.
In the start of his speech, the video was set to show the cruelty of Martial Law by former President Ferdinand E. Marcos Sr., where his father, former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Junior in the fight against the dictatorship.
"Let us remember, that only one generation has passed, that the government, who led the filipino government, asked for freedom from fellow Filipinos," said the President of his father, Ninoy in Laur, Nueva Ecija and his death which became the cause of the first EDSA Revolution.
The President led the freedom of the country from the Spaniards last June 12, 1898 in freedom from the hands of the Marcos regime in 1986 EDSA Revolution.
"I thought, this has happened once when our fellow Filipinos once grabbed our freedom, if we will not be observant, it may happen again," a warning to the vice president.
"Now that we are going to enter the new chapter in our history, hopefully we don't make it anymore: Freedom, we need to guard and take care of all the important things, we need to fight first; we need to fight first.
"It was said by a writers, Edusma, Burke," all kinds of diets for PMen, "," he added.
The President boasted about what he did in the country so he did not even make the freedom of more than 100 million Filipinos.
"We reached all the things we are experiencing now when they are roaming in the process and for the rights of each person.

We did this when we choked the voice of anyone, and was being given importance to the desired freedom of those who have passed away from us.
We are still firm that there will be no real progress if our dignity and rights will surrender.
The Vin is also attended by Vice pre-elect Leni Robredo, House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte and the members of the cabinet.
Papal cio Evite, Philippines and Dean of the defended by President Aquino in the good relationship with President Aquino in his good relationship with OCorps at the time of his term and with the assurance that the good relationship of the Philippines will continue in other countries in the coming of the next administration.
