Line of Lean: 00 in the movement of Buhay and bullying of Lean.

Victor, or Limited.
High School which became a High School.
For our children of the decades "90, we grew up being flooded with the numerous products from America, like the" Fallen 44, which is usually shown in the form of the filipino youth within a few years that will become a well of the products we collected from the market.
The UP Reditioning (or UP Rep) wants to send a medical exam and to serve as the Diocesan of Lean The Mushatch and our fellow students of UP who is Leandro Alejandro, assigned by UP Rep and both students of UP.
From the participation and suspension of the protest, like the million New Year in Luneta, just recently, UP Reagan and Lean will celebrate the importance of your-law, especially at the time, Lean and the Filipino people will still be defeated.
In the direction of Kathryn Up, the current Lean aided, based on the original slope of the slope of the slope of the slope of the slope of the posture of the posture of the posture of the cruelty that Bayang Barrios, Chambers (Preso, Preso, Papal, and Calaguas if it would be a little bit.
Through singing and movement, the distribution of the life of a teenage boy, who led and outside of UP against the Marcos dictatorship and eventually, Lean was murdered by suspected agents of the military in 1987.
Even though the story has happened on 80s, and first placed on board in 1997, the lives of Lean as more than four of our current conditions and experience than any show that were imported from other countries.
Avenging from the fourth wall of board.
In the height of the total amount, that the space of the political relationship of the viewer would lead to the physical appearance of the viewers, which is why the actors of the current Lean is a physical limit on top of on stage when they went to on top of the actual space.
The viewers, who is called Berlin, Brecht, "delbert, is called on the fourth wall" of stage or datas, the fourth wall is the ones between stage and viewers.
In adapting to the fourth wall, a golden relationship between the viewer would be lessened, and it creates a new relationship between the viewers, and the theme of Domeng and the theme of Dr - the theme of Dilawan, should also be approved by the current generation.
"Do not allow your studies to be a hindrance to your education."
In the first part of Dr, the traits of Lean, hardworking and proud of the leaders of the country were hardworking and alternately supported by two leaders of activists in real life - Vencer Crisostomo, the Pambansang Kamao of the University Provincial Council of UP Los Baños.
It can be considered that Lean is usually the common people of UP when we also experience a lot of worry about this: The fear of Brigada Eskwela, piled up, which needs to be read, many need to read, and for forgiveness.
But like the line of the song, Lean in UP did not have a hindrance to progress with the awareness of the awareness of a Chemphysema there, Lean decided to be full of activists.
In spite of this, the activists are so familiar of the approval of Lean and his colleagues in order to send the issues of UP and the country.
And he also did not lose in his eyes, they received other students, "Eve, 52," said as the character of BoJimenez in the first minutes of Dilawan, one hundred minutes of the social interaction and strengthening a university.
But instead of the strong answer, Lean tried to explain what they want to explain to what they want to explain.
According to the professor Jose Maria Sison to a message for the congress of the Filipino people in 1971, "the most part which is moving in the field of culture is needed to be good in unity with people who are not hoping to cooperate with us, encouragement on our primary way of fighting for them."
"The ranks of the group will rise up again!
The time of Lean is similar to our time, in that time, in his time, the price increase will decrease, and later on, there will be a huge increase in the implementation of Metro Rail Transit (STS).
Corruption.
But instead of bringing it to the books and to be imprisoned in four corners of the classroom, Lean attempted to be critical and questioned by the authorities and what he is being used to be caught, imprisoned, and showered with bullets.
But Lean has not included in the issues inside and outside the university, he was also leading the actions and improvement of the students, corruption, harassment of public schools, such as UP, and taunting of human rights.
He helped to gather different anti-workers and national under democratic governance, like the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, where he served as general and secretary.
However, it is noticeable that Lean as chairman of Cologne, or Lean as the chairman of the University Regional Council, or Lean, Lean, Lean, Lean, Lean, was chosen to be his partner instead of raising the tasks.
Instead, Lean expert who is the stars of Dr are activists who sometimes violate personal problems and doubts, but also succeed in the end through criticism and help from fellow activists.
There are some who are saying that even in the ranks of the youth and students, which is why I welcome activists. But Lean is noticeable in any kind of views in the cave, planning is noticeable, and fulfilling of tasks.
The 22nd of Buhay of socializing.
However, his consciousness is important in the danger of a romantic relationship, even though it became a face of Lean, the message is not just like him but the message of Lean, as his own interest and the rights of the filipino masses.
Just like a new Bonifacio, Lean proved that everything has the ability, whatever comes from the kind of society, "turn your back to complicated life and roads of getting involved and fighting.
These are the lessons given by Lean to the new generation of audience and music, hardworking and also having fun to follow this lessons, and like Lean, you will be a trend and will be given a challenge to everyone who is going to serve the public.
