Okay, the poverty of many Filipinos will go early.
It was a bad thing that you didn't see the body of the Philippines only because the fifth is the hardest part of the southern part of the dog.
And there is a mixture of six children who are looking for life to support yourself.
It is cheap that this is only C: PNoy that there is no longer tall one who is taking advantage of the talent she is applying for.
Yes.
Four.
"What kind of eye is, I am already old, I said, I am a farmer.
I help me for asking me to apologize because I have a wife because I can call her.
!
What day is almost nonstop.
The crops that are pointing at each other, whose family is with Marvin is in danger of being destroyed.
One day, when my mother was seated, it's because when I did not have a long time, then I will go to the past to sleep, so when it rains it is very cold.
It has changed for a calamity that I got the birthday of music.
We are proud; we will get tired; we have no money, they will be able to get money from it easily.
Okay.
Well, in their work that they have to pay the rice to the country, we can see that it's not only a short time for the parents of the young girl together with father and father, who are only one of those who are going to help, that is why there are children who are going to help each other, that is why there's a big help for a pastor, which is one of those who are going to help me, that's why there's a big help for a pastor, which is why there's a big help for a pastor, which is why there will be a big help for a pastor, which is why there will be a lot who will help them.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Okay.
Okay.
Yes.
According to us siblings, my eldest is older than my eldest child, older brother, older brother, and when it is a couple of call me Kuya Germs with Jason, my youngest, Ryan and my youngest, Ryan, five, and my youngest, Ryan.
Sometimes, there is no one to eat one day to look after Marissa.
What's that, because we still have a question to talk about it, we are not able to go straight.
What?
Me.
There.
What?
But
Week.
Voted in.
There was.
Like Ramona, their father is still young when he started to start a different-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six.
One!
Covetous, deport, ten are carrying a drink with a cellphone and hope.
So it is the water in one of the reasons why I will fetch me who is having a hard work; but much as well, how much was, it's because the back was too hot.
Okay, one day, at first, they will feel sulking because we will be replaced only one week.
It is very hot for your cousin to be affected by your voice, as if I do not have any idea; he / she has no idea, if I am in a relationship with coconut milk.
Yes, I have money to look for and see me in my house.
What is your job right now, let me drink the use of GAA six months, where are you right now, now I wait for three months.
I am still going to go to my sibling who should have been in a motorcycle for a motorcycle but it's time to happen, but the bike for Two people, but I am just one of the owner, no one else by the owner.
Even if you are going to do it, it is close to him that you have not decided to lend him money.
Okay, according to the job of a child, we said that this is a child that is dangerous because there is a big difference between the children, that we have not seen each other, but when we have not seen each other, there are so many things that we can go to, the children, which are said to be exported; we have not seen each other with the children, which will be expulsion.
Yes, in the aspect of five thousand, we will gather in Dapitan and it is far from a Agriculture Sec. Fortich, they said that they are not doing anything yes, we say that we do not have anything right, and so that we pay more and there are many of us.
Yes, I will still not be happy with Two Wives.
So that they can help them.
Two were wounded.
When it comes to illness, they have a blessing from exhaustion from the body of a child.
To dream of alone, he will have to be full of tomorrow.
