He was just standing by the fight and shouting when he leaves the chin to watch the two thousand.
As well as well, what is pitiful, in the latest end, the python can't do anything, he can go to church; he / she went to church, around 10-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-year-old person from the Makati City.
They celebrated the office of something like a: 00.
Department of land!
Where did we have dinner, that's why he already passed the fifty-year-old vendor.
Your R is to go to you percent of the Philippines' side of the Philippines', not in Quezon City.
Now, they have a contract.
I will be fetched by outside of me or going to continue the bully in front of the children, when he / she was left in front of the children on Tuesday, he / she was left behind by the children.
It's because you are the ones who win at the cage that we are living in prison; we are very busy; you are busy with people from the Philippines.
He is being supported by him.
Philippines - for the Philippines, the government needs to focus on the increase of the Muslim brothers in the Philippines, fellow muslims from the Philippines, whose legs are cut down; "said by what President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which is the name of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which will be very happy, because I am happy.
The President of Aquino is still walking towards me, PR - C-up, up to low rice, so that they can take care of the sake of the people.
He was eleven o'clock in the afternoon that was not acknowledged by his friend to go home to the office of the University of the Philippines.
Postpone my plan to go to school; he / she cannot go out of me, TR: C that's why I immediately went out of what I did to what I did in Cavite.
I miss each other again at dawn and I have different children with me.
Just let them drink with them, whose children, ah, a child, ah, before the president of the vehicle that can be dee-R.
Just tell my fellow muslims from what are the old youth in the prison.
The children are known in the islands.
He said.
