But why is it that you are the only ones who are being done, Feraris of you, isn't it? "
Very small; we are able to help me because of the fruit of those that we have been saying, we say that we've been saying that we are going to be stupid; we are going to make our salary in Litally; we will also use my salary in Litex; we are also a lot of people who are lucky.
If you think about it, it's because we are the most famous and creative so that we will let a lot of the months of your party, "LG that we are going to put in, it is still okay with the amount of positions just like that.
Who will also be in the use of using because of anger, he / she is cheap, fog; and coercion.
The program is severe, if we can use it, but we are not saying that it is really good that I am really good that is why it is really hard for us to drink.
As early as now, they are asking the total of the total of our coconuts in the country last night, which is very low; and fur.
We are very pitiful; we have to endure all that we have to endure, so we hoped that we will be exported; we can go back to the final months that we are going to be exported; rather, we will go home to the exhibited; we will go home to the expulsion.
Let us see those that we see at the end of the year of the Martial Law that we have increased.
"We are anxious; I always say that this is what I mentioned to me," brother Celso said, I will go.
Our appetizer is four.
Live in Industrial.
That's why it is like a signal that has a signal that is why it is a bit of Brigada Eskwela to look at the last month to me, this is also one of us.
Okay.
We are cheaper by our enemy, who are also all about all the all sorts of age, who are deport, alright, alright.
We are crazy; we are deport; but always experts, that will be the space of space.
Let us show that they are in a long age as they were in a long time.
That was broken.
That is one of the people that you are pointing out; as long as he becomes a small problem of our inlet canals, here is a small problem in our inlet canals.
Papa Uy.
We are anxious; we are the ones who are proud and how big is the amount given to us.
Yes, Pandesal Boy, this is the primary root of the barbells; we are blind.
The size of the body.
Number one is one of those who are only six.
Let us look at the new mall in the Philippines that there are a lot of news that came to the Philippines, a lot of news, that's why he / she was on his way home, he / she was on his way home, he / she was on his way home, he / she was not able to catch them.
Replace the situation of that is the nagging to the Philippines one after four years, we are just talking in a call.
"We are very noisy; we are just here, I am also not interested to go out of the newspaper which is said to be the copy of the movie while playing with a big Victoria.
My Philippine people who are teaching here are not the ones who will help the men of those who are going to help the men of those that are not like our proposals that we help our own school in Oger, in order for us to achieve our position.
Okay, we help the mall Holding Consignation so that they will not be at a disadvantage with their agreement here on the all sorts of laws here, because I have a lot of problems, but because I have a lot of problems, that's why I have a lot of problems, that's why my news is in line with each other.
The help that we will buy will help.
I was able to do anything but to look respectable.
Gerhacan, Antipolo now, but if we get to go down, we have to get a source of source of source of source of source of income; we think that we will be able to take advantage; we will take a source of income; we will take advantage of it because they will be photographed.
We would like to look respectable; we will become stupid; this will become Information Agreement (R).
Who is your playmates?
Like the financial loss of the company.
Violent, if we will see each other, we can see that we see each coconut; and our coconut harvests to take care of Madamba Dulay.
This is the time that we give a severe depression and covetousness.
Use a lot that will not just wait for you to wait for a name.
Very small; we can take sides; while those that can be admired by Intel.
But but because there is a strong and different style there, it seems that there would be a lot of ways to pass through for a long time.
Covetous, fog; Matt; Matt.
He sits with many use.
Even if I were quite cheap; he / she got tired; he / she can just use the pain; I am just going to use, what we are saying is going to be used for a different position for all-up to the grocery; I will just say what they are saying on Monday 25th anniversary.
In April 19; we also want to get tired; we also want to get tired that our fellow Filipinos will be tired that this is the time when my cousin is going to use my cousin.
Everyday, we need to recover.
Study what is really good to us.
But to Jobelle Calanoga; he / she might be distressed; "Roel, who is lacking in the provinces especially in the neighboring provinces especially to the neighboring provinces, we can also get the ones to even cook.
To whom I do not have that here, I am going to be stupid; we can get to us in the city of Brigada Eskwela to get the "Ipit Gang, who is not only here in the city only here in the city only here in the city only here in the city.
I can see in the supermarket that might be in the market, but you should be able to let me know what is happening to you, that's why I am really okay to see what is happening to you, that's why it's okay that we are going to go to each other; we are the only ones who are going to look straight to each other.
Very small; unciation; Coconut Resort are very derogatory and deport.
While the new mall is a bit more, I explained that, when we do not have a little life, he / she said that Mark was no longer alive.
Okay.
We are also going to talk about the talk of the bystanders, who are proud and unciation; so-flawless; my daughter, P / V, C-C), deport; and goddesses.
It is a bigger thing about that, ah, the tricycle of this, who harvested is needed to be finished, June 30, we can still be able to go ahead, instead, we can go ahead and cook compared to those who are in a landslide; we are just a landslide; we are just a landslide.
Ah, Cambot.
"There is a story that we are only here in Mindanao; but what we are only here in Mindanao, and what else will we buy or to other people," I will say that I am the one who calls here in the Philippines, "I will say that he / she was the one who called him in the Philippines.
They are full-tempered; they say, they are experts in Central Luzon now.
We are attracted with each other.
Okay.
They are going to get in Luzon, they are saying that it will be a bigger order, even if five four eight four are said to be very popular, that is why we are just following each other.
Yes, "you will give that in Saudi you are busy with the earthquake, we hope you have been able to buy me if I do not want to be equal and fur; we are saying we are going to visit.
Well.
I told him that you can immediately discover you.
Take a hole.
What is more easy to be, that's why it's easy to look at that kind of race.
It is easier to hear if you think about it here in the Philippines.
That's because we can also be used by Agriculture in Feng Shui.
In a t-shirt and the thickness of the internet with benefits, I said that I am given me Kuya Adel Sur.
But for me, it is always narra, which is why we are priority that we are very tight because there are many investigations.
We can make it a wedding if violent.
I said that it is not enough for us to be able to show up, we have an agreement, that, if that is the agreement to be discussed; we will really have a source of income; that's why there's no source of income; that's why there's no source of source of income; that's why there's really a source of income that we are lacking in.
Yes, if we can see now that we can see that, we can see each other, that is why we are who we are.
Yes, you think that I am looking forward to our councils.
At the end of Cheese and Coconut Resort, you'll ask the former's former to be chosen to be the former 'atment; rather, speed and speed level, are you able to visit today.
Our co-Illegal Drugs Group will be united; we will go to me with a mother-and-child together with P-C) the local role that we will help to help it, and the whole of others to leave.
Meat processing were bought when I see that we can see the address because of a coconut harvests; he / she said that he / she was able to pick up; that is why it was not possible that I was able to marry, which is why it was possible that I was able to testify.
Mad at you!
"I did not talk to it with a little bit more; he / she was full-tempered; he / she was an expert in Agriculture and Teaching Hospital; she did not mention that there was an expert in Agriculture and Teaching Hospital; she was not mentioned that there was an expert of many coconuts being bitten by many coconuts.
Yes, he / she said that he has a new business in the laboratory that is why we are able to get out that we are able to get out; we are able to make it out; I was able to make it look at the same way on the road when you look at each other one by one.
Before, they are.
Six one six one-six one, I thought that we are using a tree now to fix the trees of Dolphy, that we can make it so that there will be a laboratory yes, that's why we can see a lot of people; we can see a lot.
He was waiting for him to go to school; he / she was waiting to go to school; until now.
A few hundreds of roads have been broken; rather than one month I regretted.
Let us go out to what we don't care for together with a ticket, "after our studies and even the commercial drivers, we will send a lot of our hearts," we will choose what we are saying. "
For me and my sister's head, we can explain something like that, because it's really like that.
When do you have an outing at that of those in order to have Flash?
Very small; we can see each other; what I can see, we can see that we can see each other; that's why we can see that this is not cut off.
Very short; we are also coordinating with us, strive to also help us, strive, to work hard, so that we are the only ones who will offer their technology, and they are also one of the offer of technology.
And it is the story.
"We are still sleeping with each other, whose only own older sister-in-law, who are our own sister-in-law; we were not able to push forward; we were not able to push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; he / she did not push me; that was the same place in the city Region four one five).
We were able to look down; he / she said that up to the said one who said that you should call this one.
!
Covetous, deacons; they can find out what kind of people are, who will be the same; we probably know.
