
Mayor Rex Gatchalian.

There is no doubt that Valenzuela is the leading program centered in Metro Manila but also in the whole country.
And the common progress of the city is achieved by Valenzuela because of the good and orderly governance of the Gatchalian family.
A relationship in Valenzuela started when he became a mayor of the forehead, former mayor and now Cong. We Gatchalian.
From the started change, Representative We-in-law continued to replace Mayor Rex Gatchalian for his post.
As a matter of fact, Valenzuela is left behind by the right when carried away from DILG and other agencies of the government.
Nothing can be said in Valenzuela, aside from the current administration of the city of the city.
The current police chief of the city is also good and hardworking, according to some officials of the police and the city government.
But the problem is some officials who are hardheaded ones who placed the stain on the name of Col. arteries and a famous image of Valenzuela.
One example, they said, that's why the image of the city is getting worse, the intelligence officer of the city, one Inspector Jonathan Victor Avena.
It's because it was said that since Col. arteries and the intelligence officer, Inspector Avena, the illegal numbers were increase in Valenzuela.
"Maybe Mayor Rex Gatchalian needs to ask why Col. arteries of a" Totie "and gambling of one" June. "
Same with the increasing number of jueteng and the race of "Oca Sebastian."
Because of the intense and an intense operation, the beautiful image of Valenzuela and deacons of leadership of the Gatchalian family is weakening.
The books are open to the experts of "INTEL), which if the illegal things are not caught, like illegal gambling, the mayor and the police chief are receiving.
But, we do not want to think about the perspective of that.
The Gatchalian family will surely be accepted, but what we don't ensure is, as well as Colonel Bira.
To erase the affected news, our challenge to Mayor Rex Gatchalian-thinking is to think if the current leadership of the police of his city is worthy of what is worthy of the police's leadership in his city.
