
Pope Francis is sharp with corruption in the government of Kenneth Roland A. Guda.

"There is still no smile," Sevidal and Grabs and Pope Francis from the Poverty.

On social media, but it was not in a Catholic Church, the video of the first taste of Pope Francis and President Aquino was met by the Pope from the ring or hands of the Pope in fact, it looks like a few inches is coming from the head of the President in the hands of the Pope.

"Pope Francis tries to stop himself," said by other classmates in social media, but it is also possible that Aquino really plans to kiss the hand of the Pope.

What is its value to the visitor that the leader of the Catholic Church, whose arrival is too hot, perhaps there are also many other possible reasons, just like the Holy Pope's actions that is why it is not right to give too much meaning or embarrassing to Aquino.

It is also not right that Pope Francis is not able to give a big meaning or say that he does not look like a smile - every time he gets into a face at Capitol Convention Center with Aquino, one example is his arrival in Villamor.

As well, based on many video karera and picture, he took care of Aquino in Malacanang.

But the speech of Pope Francis in Malacanang is a different matter.

In addition, in the visit of a head of state of State (because it is considered as a leader of the Vatican, the Pope has considered a leader of the state of the Vatican, the two took a chase after a meeting in order to give their own statement.

Just like what is expected, Aquino asked Pope Francis from Pope Francis to add some of the members of the catholic clumsy, he said that he is always criticizing her and his hair.

Pope Francis's speech was not seen any praises for Aquino.

He said that he is in the Philippines to celebrate the fifth anniversary of Christ in the Philippines, but aside from this, he admired the Filipinos who were damaged by typhoon Yolanda, but aside from this, he / she wanted the Filipinos to face the severe calamity, even the fellow Filipinos who were devastated by typhoon Yolanda.

Pope Francis did not take advantage of the opportunity to comment on politics in the Philippines, it is clear in his speech that he knows that the government is facing a widespread corruption, and in giving him his words to the issue of corruption.

According to him (translation in English), "like what many voices from your country are saying, most of the people that will be given by the Lord, the issue of corruption in this country," it is clear in the use of pork barrel of the lawmakers for their own sake.

But the Pope also said, in the next year, "he hopes that all the form of corruption," he hopes to dismiss all the form of corruption, and to express all the form of corruption, and to the call "Abaca of the society (like the plea, I should be held accountable,").

In our dismay, Pope Francis directly stated the widespread corruption under the Aquino administration that was affected by the administration of Pope Francis to make sure that Pope Francis will be supported by Pope Francis in the Philippines - it's likely that Pope Francis will not direct the criticism against Aquino.

But it can't be denied that this statement of Pope Francis as a visitor in Malacanang and the leader of the Vatican said that he could not mention any controversial issue, but he could not mention any controversial issue but it was intentional that he gave emphasis to the issue of corruption.

Hopefully this may be a signal to all his worshipers, and like our fans of Pope Francis, to join and intensify the fight against all the form of pork barrel, in all the level of pork barrel, in all levels of the government, for all those who are involved.
