
Defending the land and life in Abra.

By Soliman, Santos and to 1th T. good May 10, 2012.

When it is dancing in the middle of the culture and struggle of the indigenous people in the correct crisis, we are asking us if we will own the land, because we will own a thing that will remain there even if we are not there?

This is what Maculot Dulce said, a job and leader of the tribe in Kalinga, in their fight for the Lapian ng Masang Pilipino at the '80s, but because of his death, they celebrated the day of correct voting for him and for their struggle.

Thirty-two years have passed, what he said will still be washed away from the mountains of correct corruption because in the past years, there is still a threat to destroy the lives and culture of the indigenous people.

In Abra, one of the provinces part of correct process, continues to fight the indigenous people in the danger of the owners of their land and lives in the mountains because the water that they are drinking is in the mountains, which is being used for every day and irrigation for their crops.

Through the gathering of gathering and movement, the older natives showed their culture and fight next to the succeeding race. (Soliman!

Santos City, aside from planting, there is also a blessing given by Phivolcs in Abra, a lot of fishes were living in the said river, however, many fishes were living in the said river, however, the fishes were destroying the pollution coming from the mining of Leetto Consignation.

According to Irene Tzipi Arrenza, member of the Severe Actor, Abra last April 9, 2012, their suspicion was released from the mountain of Data and flowing in Cervantes, Ilocos Sur until in the province of Abra, which is why many people are hoping for it.

If Lean is far from Abra, what if there will be mining in Abra, this is why if there will be mining in Abra, this is what is strictly implemented by the indigenous people, that is why their defending and ensure that no one can join the big company of mining in their area.

Fighting for the electrical posts, although many application of the exploration going to Abra, widespread in the towns of Tubo, Bucot, Baay-Licuan, Lacub and other fighting in the entry of mining.

In Lacub, the attempt of the company Golden Lake has to be continued with the help of the local government, private Army and military to weaken the fight of the citizens by violence, bribery and violation of the process of free wifi.

In Tubo-Tubo, there is a connection between the company Canex and local government because the election is near, the natives are worried that the politicians are worried and even the process is fast.

Last April 12, 2012, Canex together with the National Commission on Human Rights) was scheduled to consultation to the citizens of Tubo in relation to the exploration but it did not push through because of the strong rain.

However, Canex allegedly gave P30,000 to only this, when the citizens said that they spent the money, the company said that they will change it, they agreed that they will just spend just to push through the exploration.

But the residents of Tubo ensured that they will not allow the said exploration going to all they are united to stop mining in their area.

Children, in a new culture of the presentation of correct process in Abra.

(Soliman-Santos) fighting for the life because of their fight in the entry of the mining companies, which is as if the citizens are taking advantage of the influx of military in their area, from Abra, 41st Infantry Battalion (IB) and the 50th of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).

According to the Cordillera People's Alliance (CPA), wide operation of the military in Abra and Ilocos Sur, places where the military are conniving with the local governments in Abra, Sultan Kudarat, Lacub for the military to enter mining and threatening to agree to mining in the community.

However, those from Abra, and other places in court have not moved away, with their opposition to the entry of mining in exchange of the destruction of their land, life and culture.

The past celebration of the Independence Day is favorable and the arrival of thousands of Filipino people is a proof that they will not give their rights to land, life and culture.

According also to Macabog, Dulce, "the land is the most important thing for the people?
