
Those who are posted now are more thick.

The officials of the current government are confident with saying that they are not pushing anything but take the Tuwid na Daan.
When PNoy said to his State of the Nation Address, she had a thickness of her face, he even had a clapping of them.
But while it was long, it was not the only time when they had a thick face with that kind of face.
Even the treacherous ways of PNoy in the SONA are the thickness of their faces, but they can be considered a thick face because they are saying that they are taking the Tuwid na Daan, which is where they pass through.
P58,000 pesos and P2B Rice!
One of those who makes the thickness of the thickness of the thickness of their faces in the present is the rice field.
Can we imagine that the value of the current government of the current government is up to P2 billion to P2 billion.
It's because that's the reason why there was a disturbance between the rice that was importation from example in the country Vietnam.
Dollars is paid, Bro, on the importation and here, those who put cases in price are different.
P27 per kilo of vinegar for no!
That is why the price of rice-National Food Authority from P27 pesos per kilo of 32 will be overcome which can be taken back by the bastards.
The crazy dog said, the rice are good now and fighting the commercial drivers in the quality, which is why they increased the price.
"It turns out, there are hundreds of millions of millions to P2B.
There is a crisis in rice.
Who came from the bad news that the supply of rice is not enough now?
We are asking, Bro, because of the sudden increase in price of rice now, even if the people do not have something to eat because of mold and smell, the price increase in every kilo of per kilo.
Is the bad news is made by those who are conniving with co-nosed and people in the government which is the price increase of rice harvests?
Or the inhumane people of PNoy are the ones who allegedly have a crisis in the supply of rice?
You should keep it well.
That is too much.
Just recently, after the two continuous rainfall, NFA said that the supply of rice is too much.
When they were distributed for a little for those who sold, it quickly spread the rice that I love for the Philippines.
It is the child of tool, what happened and he suddenly loves rice because of the said crisis in supply?
EXing and burp!
One of the children of PNoy is being proud of this part of the Philippines of rice.
If this is true, how can there be a crisis in the supply of rice?
It is said that the deport of rice should be rich and the Filipinos cannot buy them.
The reason is stupidity.
Do you know that this is so arrogant to love the ordinary rice in the action of NFA and the Department of Agriculture in the country, the exported rice in the country?
It is rich.
Because of the actions of the corrupt children of PNoy, everyone is affected with the love of the food considered by the Filipinos.
The rich, are able to endure the expensive rice, but on the parts of the poor, the meaning of high price is hungry.
It's because in a public funds, Bro, an additional P250 because of the increase in the price of NFA-DA.
Then, we do not have any age to part of millions of workers.
It is hard to take this problem with the small and broken businessmen who are coordinating with the most majority of Filipinos in the country.
Remove them immediately.
PNoy should immediately remove his personnel being treated as corrupt and corrupt.
If this is the quick action that quickly take action against the opposition in politics, even in the rumors, the whole truth should also be done to his personnel.
If this will not make a move and let the destruction of his personnel, he is also criticized by the new People million March which can be more intense compared before this past week.
They could have reservations with each other.
The PNoy administration quickly made a case against his opponents in politics.
And when the warrant of arrest has already been charged, he gave birth to those who will arrest his opponents.
This should also happen to the children of PNoy who are corrupt and corrupt.
They should not be removed from them.
They should also be charged and transferred to prison.
Correct!
To have credibility of the Aquino administration, it should be ordered for the investigation of the giant policy that the people and the tax of them are at stake.
If the respected president will not do this, it is bad to think that he will step down from his position when carrying the rottenness and he might be included in those who are posted in the end.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
