"We are anxious; we are going to be with Francis as a doctor, we will be with you as a doctor, you will only be with your grandfather instead of the gossip that we have a million-T-C) this is a good morning.
This is a good morning, Francis is a good morning to all who are following the following morning of my cousin.
Thank you and you are all thinking about the annual path, and then, there are a lot of bums who are going to wait for the primary illness, men and even women when it comes to the aspect of human rights; and even the women, who are the ones who are proud of.
Pain in stone.
It's a payment for us to look down; and he is the problem in being a lot of different kinds of stuff, he should be the one of the height of many of our countrymen who are still needed by our fellow citizens as to why they are having illnesses in the height.
Now the father of the people will rise from the internet, because most of the patients go to the internet, that most of the patients just go to the internet.
Yes, we are going to be the only ones who are going to be the ones who are going to go to school; we should continue to help them so that they can help the payment to prevent these diseases.
No matter how bad this kind of illness is, and no matter how yes.
Finished by.
Percent have this kind of disease.
"We are going to talk about it, on the same time, it depends on the pain that is happening again with the disease, canvas, my mother-in-law, and our mother-in-law, and our mother who will be out of Domingo such as an intensive care; and godmothers;
October, there is still a type of stone outside even if there is really normal bacteria.
Might be true.
Near there, he is calling on this when we call it as a motorcycle or if the local government will surely follow this Factor, it may increase and be earlier today.
Yes, like what is lacking in the water you drink, give me too much.
You will also be sure that there are a lot who are tired with four infections in Tagalog, shrimp; and goddescent; similar to the people that you have, we will really be able to neglect our immune system.
He is the police.
Is it possible in English that hit the beach going up so it will be weakened.
The policemen will increase in our bodies to increase and destroy the word bacteria that may climb up and be in a gimmick.
For the doctor who has the highest cases, we should really avoid it first.
Yes.
Discipline will be discipline; as long as you wake up at five o'clock, you will have a stone in someone else.
Covetous, fur.
Meanwhile, Vangie was also able to spend on duty, which is why it is just almost nine because of the more than us who want to leave the people.
Fittish, fittest; we are taking care of it on March.
March on the motorcycle before.
In spite of your try, it is the reason why there will be a lot of gossipers.
This is where we are going to look at each other; that's why, like what we eat from the food that we eat at the care of us.
Only 200 million to ten will go back to normal.
To those who have list of food that should be avoided, based on kind of rocks.
You mentioned it because we can look at each other; we can go ahead, how we are near the summer.
What should my sister go down to avoid this?
According to him, the problem is that, so there is a need to drink a lot of students here to pull the gunshots from the appetizer.
It means that, there is a need to drink water that more than two here in every day.
Month.
Which is why, if that's the opposite, we were able to look at each other; we chose to not allow the Virgin Mary or he / she can't ignore the honor, he / she might not be Abliging; we might not be Ablender; we might not be Ablipas, 85 years old, "
That's why there are so many kinds of things that are not just later on, while in a while, that's why I can't take care; that I will not be stupid; we are not stupid.
The cattle, which can be deported; we will not break-up; you will not break-up, you will be together with Marjorie Larry Toling, 24 years old; and Hacadic; we should be four-up.
Oh, Brother.
It is said that it would be five who will be offered by Auto, and something like that is a normal year of a thousand, that is why there is a lot of drinking in the lot.
Because our Moro Islamic Liberation Front here are Two Wives.
Even if that is just a little yes, the people do not have classes, but it is still okay for four years that I have complete.
"In that's, I am making a source of stress, especially here in the program.
After a while, he / she was able to look down; while a little later, he / she was out of out.
That you're only one glass with your cousin, despite my cousin's age, I am not happy with my arrival here and I am worried that my arrival here is that I admire my two-six-six children.
Ah, I have a day why is we stress yes.
Do you face us for a few years?
Secret.
In the office.
Very small; we are going to be charged with him in the office so that they will not go ahead.
So to men, I will be the call of April 19; we are always crying as the one who called for the eight-four thousand pesos.
A four-year-old Two soldiers are getting angry with the Philipines and all men have an order that is called as a woman like a woman.
The man has a post here and has a save for the sake.
Let's write.
On the span of our sim card from the post, they really have a use, which is the reason why we get old; we are getting old when we get old, the man, at the age of age, old, and this is starting to grow.
Her body is white, if they are a life, Tito "will be the ones to go to school; he / she'll be able to go back to the same age.
And that's when we turn, that's why we're going to go to the same age; he / she can go to us.
It depends on your difficulty in love.
I am calling the International Space Police Officer 1 Corinne okay, where I will ask what you feel, after you asked the bikini, that is why there is a lot of things left, that is why there is a lot of things left, that is why there is already a lot of love, that she quickly goes out and is still strong.
If there is a need to earn big; we need to earn; we need to force it.
In two hours of a few hours, he looked at a few hours, but before they wake up, they wake up in the evening several times to ask a basketball score of your answer.
I can say if you have a hard time with Steve, that you are having a hard time with being an assurance that there is no assurance that we can't read.
Well.
He said we have told us that there are still some who are still strong; we are still strong; we are still strong; we are not in poverty; we are not going to go home; we will not go home without a little thing; and then there are still a little bit of things, right?
That means that, in Francis, you have something.
Just Saturday.
Oh my!
If there is something but can you feel that the Model Shop has already felt that there are many symptoms like that to be recommended to be the start of the medicines.
Okay, there are still those who will stop the noise that will prevent the noise so that I can stop the noise so that I can just look at the GAA; look at the CAYETANO.
There is no muscular body that should not stop himself on the next shoe because it would be almost five wing the five pages in your hands, it will be no longer that you will stop the thick road spot where it is over.
The fund of the past few minutes is the fund of the past few minutes.
That he has no charger.
After that, nobody will stop it.
Choose sir if you feel the urge to urinate.
Tubo-Tubo-Tubo.
Okay with us, I have a question here, so we should think that we are parents who do not know what to do.
The change to urinate intensified.
"Why was the motor of the time that's why we were able to look down; we don't know that we will go back then, we will go back to that,"
The number of things that are like that while we are different from there are the pictures that we are taking care of.
Right now.
Very small; uncians, Pacific Ocean, said that it means to be stupid; as well-deport; P), or for four o'clock, it will be better.
Yes, have a point.
That is it.
Second in his speech at night, he / she was impressed by the pee of a person, so that he / she cannot take care of us; he / she was degrading.
"
"It is possible that one is important, five or to our countrymen are the ones who will be alone with Enteng on our school students.
Santa, we eat, white!
Now that it reaches up to this month, it would be fun that it reached six to six pesos in the speed of T'boli, we have a disability, but the color of the age of March 28, "Cold blood," of ice cream er.
Because when it is closer to the more near the light, the patient would be even closer to the patient.
It is even white, that means to be very white; that's why there is no one.
When he drank water with my water, that is why there is a question here from my wait, do you think that it is a cold season that you will come up from the same time that there is a contract that has a contract on the police blotter and if the often happens.
He women have women and what is the true mother, according to me, he added to me.
MD of women here, do you think that because there is a little traffic, it is as if there is a heavy traffic problem that even if the profit from Dagupan City will be extended.
That's why it's the bacteria that's why it is not a clean area, that's why it's not clean that's why he can go down and be able to go down and even once text.
But do you not get worse, that's why it's not worse that we are not even worse, and I sympathize with other sickness for this, but to the door, he / she grew up.
What if we have a U-M for a person who has a X-ray for a person with a X-T'boli, four of my favorite diseases that are severe, may cause too much.
In his end, before.
Ha ha ha ha.
That might be that we called for him especially with diabetes, that's why he has four hands.
You are so sorry that it is scary to go down and to look down.
I thought, maybe it is really needed to have a bike for the Americans which is the importance of computers in the body of Two years old, but not softdrinks.
Fuck, deport; we are not stupid; we are not stupid.
It will not be Santo Tomas, instead of our fellow countrymen when drinking of the motorcycle they were riding in a boarding motorcycle, he / she / she was brimming.
Avoid getting mad at him as the adviser advising him.
Yes, a pastor is five or so as a welder, which is supposed to be a welder.
You are just fake, especially if I do not have a small salary, you do not have a very small-year-old man to avoid all kinds of classes at nightfall, four Indonesians, four years.
But some of your neighbors know something.
Full of softdrinks.
So it looks like a lot of bosses are our favorite.
Everything she said, that is the same.
A lot of sad things, that's a good thing, that's why it's good in Pasig; we don't want to sleep; there are still people who don't want to drink coffee; so that we have a lot of people, that's why you really have a lot of people before we continue to separate from your care.
Yes, we are very pitiful; I don't know how to avoid being a copy of the last name every night it is good for a man to be seen as a man.
You are a wound of you, it is replaced by the whole day to meet today at night.
Even if you make sure that your old man will be chosen to be a fan of Jane, we should have thought that you are not too busy with each other, so I can know that you have no problem that is why there is no problem that you have five-six months.
Last four o'clock in case Julian Resuello was not able to go to a lot of gossip being taken back by four to go back to us.
