
Pocket of PNoy and the Lord.

The case of pork barrel scam did not end with the administration of BS Aquino III, just like the many cases where when it will be finished, they are in connivance with the Maguindanao massacre.
Atimonan, the Zamboanga City Jail, this is just a few of the crimes that have happened until now, there is no direct effect.
And on top of the pork barrel scam, the defense and the defense of those who received and did not accept.
P2 billion, for 10 billion pesos, 67 billion pesos worth of funds from pork barrel, or sure, there are even more than 100 billion or more than fifty pesos or more than 300 billion or more than 300 billion pesos.
It is like everything compared to the pork barrel of Noynoy, who is almost 1 billion pesos, ask Butch Abad, there is PNoy's unusual pork barrel scam there is PNoy's unusual pork barrel scam with the Presidential Priority Development Assistance Fund) with Presidential Priority Development Assistance Fund.
It is an equivalent value that will not be denied by Malacañang.
The Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (NKovalev) in Quezon City has a plan to close the land which is where the price of two hospitals in the country is going to be more or less than P3 billion.
The victims of the storm in Mindanao and other regions, they will be able to give assistance from the lost livelihood, according to those who are challenging, will it be hard for them to recover, will PNoy experience poverty if it will be given that amount?
This happened in Zamboanga City. Thousands of houses were burned down, many are innocent and soldiers are dead, and also to the rebels because of the negligence of the citizens, together with the lives of the people, and gave birth to his funds in helping?
Malacañang is still strict when they asked for help from Abigail Valte that they are open to receiving help for those who are devastated by the typhoon and local Filipino people!
Aquino is almost over his term because his regime is still a problem brought by his regime to the Filipino people, which is stricter the greed instead of serving the country, the Ang town will not be solved if the problem on protest will not be solved.
