Discipline for the Bira!

By Wanda Teo, January 17, 2015.

One of the call that was hit in the visit of Pope Francis to the Philippines is "call-discipline" in the second night of Pope Francis from the second night of Pope Francis to the Philippines, Ces Oreña-Drilon of the second night of Pope Francis in the Philippines, Ces Oreña-Drilon.

Of course, related to the discipline in an disposition in relation to the rules or principle that is coming from an investigation, but also because of the rules of the government, this is a picture of the government, and this is a picture of the government, and of course, of the Martial Law of Ferdinand Marcos.

How are the "discipline" in the case of Pope Francis?, first of all, there are a lot of policies implemented by the citizens of the road, and speed of domination of the people on the road, and speed, the common people who want to see Pope Francis do not do anything else but to follow.

After what the citizens follow, they will be recognized for the importance of propaganda in the government because they are now disciplined, because they appear to be disciplined by the citizens of being disciplined, and that is also a part of the demolition of discipline in them.

On the other hand, there have already been a lot of people who expressed their speech in the visit of Pope Francis to the country, and after they have talked to the local officials of the Catholic Church, it can be said that the local government of the Catholic Church, and after it was seen by the local government of the Catholic Church, "it was clearly seen by the local government of the Catholic Church, and after it was seen by the local government of the Catholic Church," it was clearly seen by the local government of the Catholic Church, and after it was seen by the local government of the Catholic Church, "it was clearly seen by the local government of the Catholic Church,"

(In one point, in the killing of the people, the government of Aquino was suspended for the law, and, it is certain that Aquino is silent on his speech in front of Pope Francis, "it is certain that it is a shallow situation in front of Pope Francis," it is certain that it is a shallow condition of Pope Francis in front of the local church. "

For sure, his government is ready for a corresponding case against the possible statement of the Pope who is critical in his government.

In the investigation of the local government of the Catholic Church, the one who wants to front is the possible criticism of Pope Francis to his government, that is why it is not important to the possibility that Pope Francis will possibly say to the Aquino government, what is important is that the Aquino government will possibly tell the Filipinos for his own interest.

17 January 2015.
