
PRO-M, have a problem.

One informant reported to me that the camp of the prosecution's camp in the leadership of those from the Office of the Ombudsman who is holding the plunder case of Senator Ramon "Bong" Revilla related to the pork barrel scam involved by Janet Lim Napoles.
It appears that the witness of the prosecution insisted that Atty. Letran Santos has failed, the bank Investigator of the Anti-Monbon Council (AMLC), to prove that there is a transaction between Revilla and Napoles with the defense done to him by the senator.
In the hearing that last May 23, Santos admitted that when they are looking into the money given by Bong, they did not see any record that gave it to his account and took a transaction with Napoles.
In the interrogation of Atty. Michael Ancheta, she also failed when he said that they were also talking about the money given by Bong who was Atty. Richard Cambe, but he also did not show any bank while saying that he had a transaction with Napoles.
Revilla said in an interview after the hearing that the truth came out because Santos admitted that there was no evidence that will prove that Napoles gave permission to him.
He stressed that he has a big belief that in the end, the truth will come out that any money she earned was from good way and in his work which is a famous actress in the movie.
But it is surprising that the sudden decision of the Ombudsman to file a suspension of the suspension of Bong's properties in spite of the bad testimony of Santos.
This is different because the Sandiganbayan has not yet allowed the Sandiganbayan to bail and even in the case of Bong, but the Ombudsman immediately wants to let his possessions that he worked hard for for a very long time.
But because it is obvious that the case of the Ombudsman is weak, there are many legal analyst from those who are saying that it is a big possibility that instead of the Sandiganbayan, the Sandiganbayan might wait for the request of the senator that can be distributed.
That is why the prosecution is troubled because, when it happened, Bong might be freed before Christmas season.
