Thand Teng.

By Campos.
March 22, 2015.

(1)
In those who wrote in the internet, it appears that the machine's "drone" is being referred to by the engines, which is being driven by a person in a place where it is being driven by a person who is far from the target, but this is also being driven by a person who is far from the kidnapping, USA, which may also be being driven by a person in Nevada, USA.
Particularly in a low attack, the use of the military in the US has long been widespread, but it became rampant under Pres. Barack Obama, "that the American troops assigned to the country on 2009-2010, which made a lot of" airplanes, "which is cheaper, which was bought compared to the usual airplane.
Although it was used in Iraq and Afghanistan.
It is a US attack game (US Air Force Police Officer, Paul Pac / Wagedia, "
(2)
It appears that a big role of drones, but it is a bigger attack, not the attack of the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25, it can be said that their role is being linked by the Philippine National Police-Special Action Force in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25.
According to a report, the Mamasapano was started in flying in a few weeks before the operation of the PNP-SAF on the same time before the actual operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, that there was a video in the said operation by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, it appears that the Indonesian were used in the dark operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, that it turns out that the Indonesian were used in the dark operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, that it appears that the Indonesian was used in the dark operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, that it appears that the Indonesian was used in the dark operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
In addition to this, in the issue of identified the location of Marwan, that according to another report, the video of Marwan and Usman by a person several days before the operation against them was safe, that the video was hiding in their location using a video.
According to another report, a drones used in the monitor of the upcoming launch of the operation was confiscated by the video of one barangay captain, which was said to have been killed by a drone that was said to have killed Marwan, but not in the fight, but not in the fight, but not against the fight, but not against the fight.
It is tainted by books "a A theater of the drone" of Great Britain.
(3)
In the US and other countries, there are a lot who attacks drones, particularly on the featured form of the World War in US: 30 in the list of weapons, and one of the papers, that it's the same amount of evidence compared to his opponent and lessen the danger. "
It is easy to see why a government of the US is considered by the US as an answer to the heavens, this is the answer to the government of the US, which caused the possible damage to the government of the world when the possible damage is being discussed, and there is no damage to the soldier who died.
It is easy and effective offensive to remove the damage, when there is no soldier dead - through this kind of attack, this is better to kill the two goal of the war, that is why it is difficult to fight the number of these victims, and that is if they will know that this is the target of these victims.
In the hands of the US on the hands of the US, the wide ability of this kind of attack is being used to go against the remaining parts of the national force, that is why this kind of attack is being used by the US government, that is why it is being used by the government to kill each other, that is why it is being used by the government to kill each other, which is being used by the US Intelligence Agency) that should have been used by the US Intelligence Agency during the state of the US Intelligence Agency).
Third, although the US is proud of being exactly the attack of drones, in the actual one, there are many civilians who are involved and are not used by the US, according to those who are involved in different kinds of terrorism against them, and most of those who are involved in different countries, he is free from going out in different countries.
One control of US drones.
(4)
In a good definition, exiled by Fadmin Deguessed, the professor in philosophy is related to the use of a low attack in democracy, the principle that he is giving more attention to the Americans.
According to him, because of drones, the few leaders of the US will easily decide to launch a attack in any part of the world, and because this is not felt by the citizens, that is why it is possible that the citizens will increase the rights of the Filipino people to be called democracy.
Even if Ncols and Maclon, philosophy in politics who is known in the Ipit Gang "The end of the country, will not agree with" commerce at the community (civic works) by the citizens in a war, something is important that the use of drones who have an attack is important.
US President Barack Obama as "Paula," Cuya of the August 2013 issue of the The Atsuko Nazine.
(5)
In the essence of the research of DeBrando Commander, who had an attack between the American citizens and the government of the US, it is good to evaluate the use of drones, through the lens of what happened in Mamasapano, in the Philippines as a country.
It is easy to see that even from the beginning, the Philippines will be a candidate for the countries that will be used by the US in the Philippines to block and fight against the ability of the US to block and fight against the opposition of the US to prevent the interest of the US to prevent the interest of the US President.
Aside from that, muslims are the ones being hunted by the government of the US in the said "genders in the country, and there are rebel groups who are moving in the southern East Asia and related to Indonesia, the New People's Army's country, and the leaders of the Philippines, and the leaders of the US, are in the Philippines.
In the Philippines, there are reports of use of drones that will attack, although it is certain that the use of the US People's Army and the news about the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is considered as a proof of the approval of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to express the approval of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to express the approval of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement or EDCA.
The use of a drones that is set to be connected to the suspected terrorists is the use of armed troops, police or military, this means that this means to be moved and fight over the positions in the government and military and police - in the leaders of the operation.
In the case of Mamasapano, those who got used will be a candidate who will pull the kind of recognition given by Aquino, because it is certain that Aquino could not be trusted by the military and the police, but it is certain that Aquino could not be trusted of the command of the military and police, but he became greedy and will make them clean it.
On the other hand, on the other hand, on the side of the rebels who are target of horones, they continue to live and are against them, aside from the support of the filipino masses, they are considering that the forces of those who are living in the air are good, and they need to fly into the air in the air because they are dangerous in land.
Buenacillo said, it is also shown by the stupid ones who have the same principle which can be faced by the violence of scalawag cops in the middle of the political personalities who have curvy bodies and material possessions where they escape from the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group) in the middle of the legislative chamber that makes them escape.
It is able to convince the argument of Deochler who made the democracy in the US - democracy in the US - the issue that happened in Mamasapano, the issue that happened in Mamasapano, the topic of blood that happened in Mamasapano, which has become an illusion for any democracy and freedom now in our country.
21 March 2015.
