It is a government: A giant employer that is actual.

He said, you will not stay at work if you do not love him, and if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you loved your job, but what if you loved your job, but what if you loved your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you loved your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you love your job, but what if you loved your job, but what if you
This is the feeling of Boni (not real name), whom he is working in a office of the Department of Social Welfare and Development, and 18 years of working here, he knows what they need, that is why they really need me, "says Boni.
But despite this, he is still not doing a regular employee every year, he is undergoing a contract.
It is important.
"There is a need for work (Boni), that's why he will not be taken away," said Manuel Bacordo, the chairman of the Social Welfare Administration that's the national organization of the DSWD.
According to him, they have received the actual benefits, aside from salary, but there are two more category as they are going to renew the contract every six months, "that's why they are calling the casual period," that's why we are calling their regular employee of service workers or memorized that we are calling for every six months, "that's what we are calling for every six-service workers or memorized the party of Agreement (GAA) workers," he said.
"
"It's as if they are talking about it, if they have a regular salary of 10,000 pesos in a set time, they will be able to accept it, but until now, they do not have any benefits that they will accept, but until now, they will not be able to receive an additional wage hike (Con) in benefits," he added.
More.
The ones who are worried, the most number of employees of the department is the same number of employees of the DSWD, over 23,000 pesos, and other Special Action Force "here in DSWD, nationwide television, and other Special Action Force (23,000), only around 2,000 pesos and other Special Action Force, 9,000 or other Special Action Force, 9,000 pesos.
The number of employees of DSWD will be jailed after the local government units was passed by the local government units in 1991, up to 10,000 employees were appointed by employees.
"1995, with the Special Action Force (equivalent to 2,000), they have regular and encasual last year 2000, he even explained that they have been an additional pension increase in the year 2000, which has been 6,000 pesos," 82,000), 4,000 "(GAA)," says Bacon.
"When they implemented the CCT, it has been implemented, and there are Special Action Force, (and there are many foreign contacts, only (and there are social pension increase," 23,000 have been widespread, "23,000 have already been widespread," he said.
It can be noticed that most of the projects of DSWD will respond to poverty, but the poverty of the country is not lacking.
"It seems that the solution to the government is to temporarily resolve poverty," he added that this is not going to meet the root of poverty, and even the employees who are being offered by the farmers, and not in the industry, will only change the employees of the DSWD.
Bulaga.
In the entry of DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman, the GAA worker has increased.
"You will think, where do you see a program with director IGAA. (CCT), we still have a program in (projects in) Disaster Risk Reduction and GAA), all the important things in the department, Soliman and IGAA officials," said Bacood in.
The problem is, the officials of IGAA "does not have a liability yet," he said, that's why he should have regular care for a responsible position, "said that you should have a regular official, because you can easily enter a person and have no responsibility)," Bacood on.
Be hypocrites.
Bacon also said that they are in the relationship that they are in a relationship with their fellow employees who are caskets at each other.
"We can be proud that we are the ones who were able to win the union with the Crib of GAA workers, but they do not have any benefits," he said, the GAA worker of health cards has won.
However, there are still many needs to fight.
"Our priority is our priority, Con, second, the human rights in front of the company, promotion, was asked for my availability," according to Bacordo, as well as the presence of the cooperative.
Along with this, they are part of the workers in the government and private sector that they are fighting for their high wages for the employees, the owner of the National Capital Wage for all workers, and they are the contestants in fighting against illegal detention.
"We are against all the actual things that we can do to avoid our rights and agencies like our rights, like the benefits of our rights, as well as their own salary," said Bacood on.
In the part of Boni, he knows the people who are planning to join the fight, "what we are fighting for, all of our regular, not just casual / Humalig)," Boni.
Unity of the workers, private and public sectors is what's needed.
