
The DTI is mourning for the death of Atty. Romeo T. Capulong, the lack of legal strength and champion being raped by those being raped.

National Council.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
18, 2012.

The original bet of Atty. Romeo T. Capulong, its legal advice of the champion of the Pambansang Kamao will be approved.
The whole National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) is grateful for the death of Atty. Romeo T. Capulong, the Barangay Chairman of legal organization, the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino who is being raped by those who were raped and being oppressed in the peace talks and other field of fighting for the people.
We make sure that Pia will give all the concern of her husband, Alex, Eduardo and Rome, and to other members of his family, and to other members of his family, and to other members of his family, and he was ordered by his friends and co-workers, that he took care of every document in the peace talks by GRP) and United Kingdom.

He is the compassion of the negotiators of the NDFP members in 1989, in 1989, he accompanied in The Netherlands for a few fighters of peace last 1990, he arrived together with Congressman Jose V. Yap in the peace talks for the martial law.

From 1992 to 2008, in spite of his heavy schedule in relation to the political prisoners, farmers, workers and other assets of the political ambition, he agreed to help the peace talks that is legal and strong resolve for the revolutionary movement.

Last January 2000, Romy held the UPP-Illegal Drugs Group of the GED-NDFP Peace Agreement (NDFP Peace Process (NDFP), who did not respect the rights of the local government or armed forces and the military and all the guarantee for the right process. "

Last March 15, 2004, he has written the important document "in The Legal Management Office of the Philippines (CPP), the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (CPP), and the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), and the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), and the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), and the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), and the Philippine National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NPA).

In addition to all that he has done for the Neanglement of the panel of NDFP) who is being raped and oppressed by those who were raped and oppressed by those who were raped and oppressed by the common crimes which are being thrown away by the common crimes which are being thrown away by the ordinary crime which is a violation of political cases.

He is declared as the goal of the 10,000 farmers in Hacienda Luisita, who joined them from the threats of people who want to take away from them from their lands.

He joined the farmers and workers of Hacienda Luisita in their fight for the land, his strong resolve was made up to the military, which led to the military's rights in November 2004, he was not shaken with the rights of the workers and farmers, even after the troops of the workers and farmers, who will have failed to fight against Bishop Alberto Bumolo, Father Taduran.

The legal ability of Romy and the United Nations General Assembly initially recognized the United Nations General Assembly in the UN International Tribunal will run to the European Court since last September 2009, he served the national group of Romy and a good lawyer from Belgium, Germany, France and The Netherlands.

He was not stopped by the threats to his life and some attempt to fight for the rights of those who were raped and being oppressed by the rights of those who were raped and being oppressed in order to pursue his work for the people.

Although our sadness is that of the death of Romy, we know that his spirit and inspiration will live in the heart of the filipino people.


Long live Atty. Romeo T. Capulong, lawyer of town, heroes of the people!
