
Tagalog News: COMELEC, PNP, the AFP, the preparation for the coming election is now Tagalog.

April 28, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, April 28 (Pia) - the preparation of the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) in Caraga, together with the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) will continue in the coming election this May 9.
In the held Regional Training and conference here in the city, the preparation and continued coordination of different agencies to ensure the security of all in the coming election is being discussed.
It was discovered from COMELEC Caraga regional election director Atty. Renato Magistrado, who is ready to be ready for the personalities of the COMELEC, including the Philippine Army, PNP and other law Enforcement Agency in the region.
He said, there are more than a million registered voters of Caraga, who are expected to vote for the election, and are ready to be ready for the ballot which is expected to be found in different provinces in Caraga from May 2 to May 5, 2016.
"We will go to the Commission on May 9, 2016 elections, and our coordination with the ranks of the AFP and PNP will continue to make sure that the election on the election will be peaceful," Atty. Magbureaucracy.
Atty. Magbuyen was also emphasized that on May 8 and on the day of the election, the said ban will be implemented, giving or accepting the Transportation and food from candidates.
Major General Benjamin Madrigal Junior stated, division commander of the 45th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army are their readiness to ensure the safety of all of the various agencies that would undergo in the region.
According to Police Chief Superintendent Rolando Felix, regional director of PNP Caraga, they will do their duties to become peaceful and successful in the election that will be held.
"We will wait for the police force to go to the provinces and continue our campaign against criminality, campaign against illegal immigrants, and capture of those who are wanted to be influential," said the PCIFelix.
It is figured out that the final testing and set of the ballots will be done by the COMELEC from May 2 to May 6, 2016, seven days before the election on May 9 (Jumuad.
