New year, new life.

Mar Roxas.
Many wishes, have dreams and hope on our minds in the entry of New Year from radio, TV, until Facebook, we will hear different kinds of changes in their lives, and of Facebook, we will hear different kinds of promises in their lives, and of Facebook, we will hear different kinds of promises and names of the people who will run this election.
Just this past Christmas and New Year, and right greeting by a Merry Christmas and New Year, in front of our house, we have this form of all corners and corners of the barangay.
"It is a good smile," my sister, who takes food in every house, and if they noticed it on your face, they will say yes to Ma'am, Chuang, I am obliged to give thanks, but please, thank you for free food.
"Even if it's a good road, they were tilling, there is something written on the side of the Handog Pasasalamat of Champing," even inside the tricycle, they will get the space for the whole face, even his family, even the grandchildren of Rizal's face.
You thought, no one knows that in every project, they sponsored on the streets, they have no idea to present to present their faces in TV.
"I hope that they just buy the grocery and gave the families" the money that they have paid to printing and poster billing, "right?" I am not against their strategy for them to be recognized by the public, but sometimes, OA already.
I also have relatives in the province who will run in the coming election and sometimes, I am thinking why they still have the right to run in a position in the government, but, who do not know what they want to sit in a position in the government, and if they really want to sit in a position in the government, I do not know what to sit in a position in the government.
Every time the election is coming, it is hard to notice of who are the Sinsero who are just pretending to be annoyed and even if we know that there is no big change that happened during the past years, we still cannot deny the gift they gave during the time of the campaign.
We might have been used to this kind of work, they say, it is part of our culture to be a part of our culture, and listening to the promises, we can still change in a point that we will not be able to change and stop him.
