
CPP-Illegal Drugs Act of the US Embassy in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 25, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) was criticized by the Aquino administration in fulfilling the Usahay Campbell, around 75 kilometers northeast of Lubang Island near Mindoro when the five fishermen found and attacked his boat.

The Usahay Campbell of George Washington Air Force Flintshire was part and together with his Mother ship, the Usahay, Washington are craft carrier of anchor in Manila Bay.

"According to the US Embassy in Manila, the news gathered by the five fishermen in the coast of Mindoro before yesterday, the incident is having a lot of doubt on where the military forces of the US will release the operation of the Philippines," said the KP.

"The incident shown that the warship of the US are conducting a regular report in the southwest Pacific, just like what the US Embassy and the military helicopter of the US and airplane are conducting a regular operation in flying at night in the ocean of the Philippines," said the KP.

"What is clear, the military forces of the US to the Philippines have a limit on the end of the so-called-minded military or inhumane operations, and these operations are a violation of sovereignty and sovereignty in the Philippines," said the KP.

According to the KP, it seems that the big matter is, "the big issue has been given to the US, a foreign political military, the free operation of the Philippines, to raise the airplane and drones, to protect its warship, and the same amount of armed troops."

"Under the services of the Marcos regime, the military and the US will have a thorough investigation in its operations in almost all times, that there are American troops, ships, ships and airplanes stranded in front of the Philippines."

"In the affected support of the Marcos regime, the forces of the US will get stronger and giving up their big guns, big ships, big ships, who were directly released by the Philippines."
