
I am sorry for PNoy and P4billion pesos for DAP.

President Noynoy is said to have been placed under 6: 00 related to DAP, he even requested all the media to release her words.
"What is that," I am sorry "I am sorry," like the wish of Senator Serge Osmeña?
The administration made the money that costs 113 million pesos worth of DAP that will bleed in the land of Supreme Court.
Four of the souls and body of DAP were declared by the SC which is against the Constitution although it is not DAP himself.
If PNoy also apologized, "will he also have 10 astronauts who will withdraw their support to him and will ask her to resign as a boss of the Philippines?
Is there a number of 10 members, Budget Sec. Butch Abad and DSWD Sec. Dinky Soliman?
Ex-President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo also apologized before about "Hello, Garclubs" which is a sign of cheating of the Arroyo government in the past 2014 which is said to be Fernando Poe, Jr. and this is the basis of Senator Serge with his request for the "I am sorry," PNoy.
We go back to the piggery, money from the public funds.
First, it is said that about 1.1B DAP was released by the Palace as incentives and bribes from the senators who had a sentence and fired from his position to ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona last May 29, 2012 for the impeachment case.
Second, it appears that the 11 congressmen who became the bishop of the impeachment against the impeachment, based on what the palace said that Bayan Muna Partylist Neri Colmenares is receiving additional million pesos.
Colmenares is with Colmenares as the manager of Cong. Niel Tupas, Joseph Emilio Abaya, Gamit Jr. Agbalao, Elaine Cosain, Rodolfo Fariñas, Rodolfo Fariñas, Reynaldo Umali, Marlyn Primicias Agabas and Sherwin Tugna.
It appears that 266 congressmen received a total of P2.6B of DAP because only 13 of them refused.
In total, its distribution, up to P4B is given to the lawmakers so that Corona will surely be fired.
Hmmmp!
Now, is this part of PNoy, to what PNoy will say about the "state of the United Nations" in DAP this day?
If not or if you are with them but he will say for the goodness of the country, all of us are dead.
If the P4B, king-mother gave up, who can be sure that they won't be treated like P15.B DAP, "we was impressed by RNC / Jun Briones.
