Filipino to which of the farmers here in Urdaneta City.
One of those who asks the rice can be seen every month, which can be done every time there will be a lot of words due to the water level in what the water coming in many water.
What will I see; we have no water; we are not in the water that will come in April we went to April we went to April; we need to pay the favorite amount that we came from in April every day, we need to pay the favorite story that we came from.
For ten countries, they will be selling forty-five million pesos, but if they get a head to guide and gasoline, he will be a lawyer.
Because I really love him too much.
Where are we rice?
Apparently, it's just cheap; to be able to help the heroes of the Filipinos in the public which are really being taken by Agriculture in order for the payment to serve as an ID, but why was it that the world was able to see the twelve press conference that the uncle of Janet said that they did all those connected to Janet.
He was sitting on the door.
I was watching.
Ah, isn't it?
He said.
There is something.
Pangasinan in the province had a pity for the biggest money from Sampaloc, because there is already a seven payment in Pangasinan for ten thousand pesos to help the farmers.
Covetous, fur.
Those who are saying that a tree will be received; we will leave the Philippines, Agriculture and giving them to the Philippines to cover up the three to cover-M for us to see Luneta!
In spite of this, it is really like this in every Agriculture in me.
I was taught what he was waiting to sleep with the filipino telomere shortens as we have not received a big thing to go to us.
If there is something like that, it's because we will still buy.
It is a big amount.
The document from the position of the government is going to be the former for a long time but it is far away, he said that the driver who survived is open to the department, and then that's what they have received from the department that they have received, which is why it's said that this is the only way to be seen by Agriculture.
Four Indonesians, five Malaysians who were parked in a wheel and fur.
He is soft.
Nine have passed.
A new contract.
