Perpetual Aldoms by Akelegal-Elsee Dr July 27, 2016.
Perpetual Help is buried at Saint Benilde, 70-55, and the Arellano U) escaped in Emilio Aguinaldo, 88-82, yesterday and joined in the third spot, along with the west-list representative Letran in the The Arena in San Juan City.
Again, Nihonggo were carried by Nihonggo after being followed by 21 points, 16-year-old child from another consecutive wins and fourth of the six consecutive wins and fourth of six points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight points, eight
"It's a bit proven, that the ones who imported us are great," Marilyn Help coach Ginger Conro, Guna.
On the other hand, at the same time, at the age of 20 points and 15 rebounds to support the Arellano University Chiefs of 88-82 wins against Emilio Aguinaldo College of the first game.
Jilian was amazed by the 15-wheeler truck, 12 square meters and the three skin als to attract 4-2 card of the Arellano University.
The Generation is on top, 66-62, going to the fourth period, but the 10-2 districts will start to get the steering wheel.
Do not allow 23 points and an eight boils to EpiPen.
It got up from the quicksand of Lyceum of the Philippines Pirates that would pulverize the San Sebastian College when he would inherit the San Sebastian College, 83 to 79.
Down on the first three games, the Gin Kings will reach 4500 pesos for the help of Mike Nico, which is the first time of 26 points, 24 billion pesos and two hours for the 3-3 centimeters.
The LPU-eight points are going to go forward in the middle of the fourth caner but was cut off to two points, 81-79 when the clock strikes.
Nihonggo are able to save the inlet canals in order to have a wife to the Stags to have five failures in six games.
