Conducted by Toh!: James and JC, to attract gay people!
ABS-armpit, glaring at the video!
Bakar Regaldola, September 9, 2016), Till-Met cetera, Till-Met cetera, and JC, are worried that the eyes of the Cosmopolitan Magazine on YouTube, wow, and they are really taking advantage of the content of the contents of the people.
The said hold-up video is for them to be fed up in Men 2016.
James is the First Star, who showed that he is making a bite while he is sure that there is a green blood of our congregations and it is certain that the high blood pressure will not be brought inside his hands, which is why the hair on his armpit is like a viand.
And here they are, wow, they are going on and are still on it, duh!
And then, "the before where he is buried in the entertainment he is hurting again, he is sarcastic.
My Mama, a few were brought to mental hospital due to the scenes of James?
Meanwhile, the scene of JC, who took away the scene of JC, "to take back his hair well as well as the understanding of the smile and spit on it, is really decided to bring.
Then, he even brought out his attention that there will also be a length of his armpit that has no trace of it, and what else will be the reaction to Bandola, ah?
In the message of JC, even if she was new, she quickly took care of it because of the strange behavior he is taking.

Now, many are asking for a few months that is why the two of them are receiving more, especially of course, James.
This is one of what we have not even asked for a week, but we can determine what we will find out for our next chatter of and what his reaction will be.
"That was it!
Xian have denied the "separation" to Kim!
Xian Lim denied that the KimXi has not yet given a solution and there are many netizens who are asking if the two are already separated because while Kim is in ASAP but in New York, Xian Lim is in Osaka, Japan.
Of course, those who get used to this occasion are getting used to this occasion, they are seeing the two together but they say, they are separated.
But, in the chatter of Xian with Boy Abunda, he said that it was just a coincidence that he / she was going to go to Japan due to a fancy game, which is why even if he goes with him in the line up at ASAP), he will really not push through.
"I am just an excuse that we have five companions, conservation in the Philippines."
"We Benhub, YOD's e, and the owner of the allergies," that is Ryzza Salas. "
"In the Philippine Arts since then in Makati, he saw the actor that I was courting, then he was able to ask me if I wanted me to be alone in OPLAN) and the actor I was courting."
"The Japanese soldiers, the members of the press of the press, to know the actions of the Filipinos," like Xian have.
Then, he insisted that the two of Kim did not change anything.
Xian said, "we are always seeing each other, we were impressed by our Pictures, but we always eat outside," the Chinese national. "
"We are always caskets at stake, Are Are, a few moments after taking her pictures, taking her pictures."
Oh, not, maybe they are just now not like that.
Because, for sure, every move of what he / she is going to do before to Kim, especially to his / her name, is to be given to IG. ah?
"That was it!
