
Protest versus 40-year-old reforms are reform the land.

By DBP.
October 22, 2012.

It was five days that the farmers did for five days from different provinces on the 19th of 40 years since it was passed by the Presidential Dec.27, who took care of the strongest reform in the land which was ordered by the Marcos dictatorship last October 21, 1972.
Included in a week series of action of farmers went to Times Street, Quezon City, in front of the house of Pres. Benigno Aquino III; program for the youth, action against the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (ALS) for the National Anti-Poverty.
Farmers in Mendiola, Manila.
Before this, the farmers had a camp in front of the department of the reforms held at Elpidio Road, Quezon City.
"We already launched a conversation with the Department of Agrarian Reform bill when we would be able to reveal the huge number of farmers, which can be revealed in a huge number of human rights, and those happening to a human rights," Orly Marshawn ana, spokesperson of Katipunan, Samahang Basketbol ng Masang Pilipino (Kashagat).
The protests of the farmers who went to Manila were reviewed for the members of the alliance with IOS in the Middle East-list-list-list-list-list-list-list of Central Luzon (ATEL-CL) in the town of Clark Special Economic Zone in Angeles City, Pampanga.
The group of farmers appealed to the garbage in Republic Act 8.00 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program (Carmel that they are using the Lord Almighty, together with the government, this law is being used by the Lord to maintain their regulation on earth.
The protest has also been a chance to insist on the passing of Congress of House Bill 374 or Genine Committee (GAB) submitted to the Legislative Chamber, Gabriela, ACT party-list.
One of those who attended the protest is the picture of the Aquino administration for Coco to be a candidate for NAPC.
"We are in poverty for the future of our children and they are asking for support from the government, it is just like it was discovered that the people in power are challenging them to give a direct answer regarding our money," Mylene Zanthem, spokesperson of the farmers in Quezon (Pukan in Quezon).
Zanthem is referring to the Presidential Task Force on the Coco alert, Funbird with the leadership of NAPC yesterday "Poverty), which costs P11.17 billion worth of P11.17 billion pesos.
Included in those who want to fund the "Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps)" and implementation of the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (DOTC), it has long been criticized by the militant farmers in said programs that are sentenced to corruption and not a solution to the severe poverty and abuse of the country.
Meanwhile, also included in the sake of the farmers is the call to release 1.33-B of sales as part of the farmers by the farmers in the release of the land of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated, according to the decision of the high court that was held and executory last April 24, 2012.
"The distribution of 1.33-B to the Filipino farm is a good thing (to make sure that Cojuangco-Aquino-Hi'll be able to reach justice aside from the distribution of land to the Filipino farm," Rodel Mesa, chairman of the union of Filipino Bukid.
On the last day of its last day, the farmers moved again, first in Times Street, until he arrived in Mendiola.
"I am calling out from the government that, it is time to end the control of big Lord citizens and its ranch in the entire country to make the land of the farmers and to support the agriculture, and let us have the ability to grow and put in danger to our country," said Maroons.
They also wish to give justice to the farmers who became victims of human rights.
"On the part of the citizens, we are calling out to support the struggle for the true reform in the land that will be provided with the help of Adelusion.
