Invention of Public Works and Private Provincial Hospital.

Based on what is happening now in some big hospitals in the government, its accusations are true that all these can be made into public schools.
The government does not admit that there is a continuation of it, but it is very clear what he is doing: 00, and a public public.
So that the service of the hospitals will be better so that the government will not be able to give.
And if you are looking for a good service, pay you a love, said.
And you do not need to run in full private hospitals?
The policy of the government is clear: He avoided the whole expenses in the operation and threw them to the hospitals.
If you notice, make sure that what the government is saying is far, it is impossible that there will be more rooms for those who have money or pay, instead for the poor.
It seems that it can be likened to private cemeteries that have space for the poor but only small, aside from getting flooded and others.
And if there is a Charity Sweepstakes Office for the poor in public schools, do you think you can easily enter and treat them?
Just there in the Philippine General Hospital, Lord will get you into a knife, gun and other severe condition that needs an x-ray.
Do you know that the line up line on the sun and those who are undergoing an x-ray and many are hungry or because there is no payment for it, King-mother.
I want to say, make sure that all facilities, like the x-ray, ultrasound and other facilities are needed to be paid.
If it will be given to you, a mother-and-child, the DSWD and captain of the barangay will be able to give the proposal before you give you a chance.
(Fabregas), which is one of those who will be given, and if you are going to give, you will only give you and if you have expenses, you will buy one of the doctors who are roaming around to pass through the commission.
Delicious, needle, needle, smoking and others.
"When the public service was built, they are ready to be ready.
This problem might not be repeated again, which is similar to the death of Jawary "Yanna" Chan in Butuan Doctors Hospital who was reported here yesterday.
