Emergency is in Iraq, Pad. Noynoy, free?

What is happening in the Tuwid na Daan, it seems that there is no brain and if there is only politics, it seems that politics is all in politics?
Look at it, he already knows that Iraq is dangerous, not to make a way back then that around 900 families have been involved there.
It is not dangerous, the OFWs are far from places in chaos, he said that, and this has been declared on alert level 3 or for the voluntarily death of them.
Now, he is already frantic and made alert level with 4 or forced evacuation centers to save the government for the very expensive war in Iraq?
All of all!
It appears that OFWs are not important for the Tuwid na Daan "as it seems that it is just about $22 billion every year which is almost a value of the national budget of my beloved Philippines?
How can it be, the always slow action of this to OFWs in the middle of need is clearly seen.
When the OFW were able to make it into a fierce war in Jordan and Libya, this is a result of the wrong and slow policies of the OFWs in Iraq and now the government is just here.
You have grown up in there, those who are useless, if you do not have any concern for the OFW, you are still doing anything when the economy of the Philippines will disappear!
It is full of emergency.
It is the child of tofu, what is happening is that an example is an example, for an estimation of an alternative that kills millions of coconut tree in Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao today.
PNoy is just seated in Malacanang, because the Tuwid na Daan is already started, but after four years, the Tuwid na Daan "is only now given to 600 million money or taxes that they will spend to control it.
But there is a bigger problem, Bro, hunger and hardship are the coconut farmers who are hit and are hungry and will experience poverty in the next 6-9-year-old coconuts.
Case.
It is still the emergency of the situation of Yolanda's condition and many of the victims of earthquake in Bohol, Cebu and Siquijor.
The rainy season has already arrived, thousands of families are still there in order to set up that they will be brought by new typhoons, flood, death, death and other bad luck.
For a long time, Bro, accept the Tuwid na Daan or not, from the Tuwid na Daan or not, from the Tuwid na Daan, that they can be able to look at the Tuwid na Daan "that they are the only ones who can be seen with what they have done in the coming 2016 and helping to raise the commerce.
There, there is a corresponding punishment, even the rehabilitation center, even the funds for this.
In Zuzurueggi Street.
Even the condition of the victims of the war in Zamboanga City is still no change.
They have already lost their homes for a long time because of being burned and killed by the rebels and forces of the government, but until now, many of them have nothing to live there.
The Tuwid na Daan is not moving so that the victims will have the roof.
None.
If the problem with the calamity will be included in the problems of calamity, there is also a very slow action of the government, it is good that there are private people and company who fills their shortcomings.
If not, until now the poor victims of the calamity are still hungry and standing.
The government "Tuwid na Daan is that there are many funds, but where?
Fund for PPP.
If you will look at those who are proud of the Tuwid na Daan, that the funds of the country are being proud of, are in the Public-Private Consignation. "That's as if the big contracts between big companies and corruption are being discussed.
There, there have been half a billion contract in the MRT maintenance that can be fired by the bosses of MRT because of corruption, but there is no case filed for these bastard criminals.
Emergency with anyone?
Here is an emergency... that the consecutive killings like a businessman in Cebu and Davao City, mayor in Pangasinan, mayor in Pangasinan, being declared under sports in Quezon City, and others are still not included here because of the Tuwid na Daan ".
Just yesterday morning, someone was held up with a robbery in a bus in EDSA.
Everyday the houses, hold-up, Salisi, Kotong, riding-in-tandem in killing and hold-up were happening.
And like before, there was an emergency meeting in order to face the severe crime because the authorities are still hoping that the police will report it to the police and not to be a doctor in their record.
When are it?
When will the Tuwid na Daan "so that the situation of our country will be exported?
When will this government be prepared for the problems faced by the people?
In politics, you are quick to drive away from politics!
