
Erap are fighting over Isagani Genabe; there is a good official, operatives.

Who will keep peace in the Manila City Hall after the Manila Police District director Chief Supt. Isagani Genabe Jr, all police assigned to the local government of Manila?
Not only is the chief of the Manila Special Action Force (Special Action Force (masses) Center, Chief Inspector Oliver Baguilat and operations Chief Inspector Manuel Laderas, including all his personnel, including the police escorts of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
Even the police assigned to Vice Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" Dooley, were all removed from the city hall and assigned in District Headquarters (DHumalig) while others close to Isko were placed in the Manila Traffic Enforcement Unit (MTEU).
Well, it can't be a war on this step of the MPD headquarters?
People have a suspicion that the reason why this is being done is due to the news that it is being done by Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas from his position so that they will not suffer, they removed the possible obstacle?
Um!
It is not just hardworking and violent police, as Inspector Rommel Anicete, but he really showed his skills as a operatives but his mind is not only full of eyes and mind when he keeps going around his jurisdiction but also his strength.
Last week, he caught a 24-year-old man stealing a donation from the church using a role that was placed in nicotine gum.
Ancheta was only able to see the person holding the money immediately placed in his pocket but he was suspicious before the man showered them after a few moments after a few moments after a few moments after a few moments.
It is said that the police did not make a mistake on his hunch that the man had a hard time to pay money from the donations of the people in the church.
The man should be charged a case but the people who are with the parents of the man asked him not to continue it.
Jimenez was advised by those who are going to Quiapo, especially during Friday, be careful so that they will not be victimized by evildoers.
The evildoers are taking advantage of the increase in hands of people who are going to church and being negligent of their important things and money.
