A mountain contemptuous, 33 years old, is being helped; he is being helped in a mountain in the middle of the strength of a jeep in Luzon because it is only now that you have been standing up in Pampanga where it is just a standing and so what is it.
I have been living in the province of Pampanga and for a few years, that is why when I see that it is almost every day, I decided to go up on top of it every day, that is why it's not right that she will go up to the mountain but only for ten years, that's why it's just like that we are excited to look down.
Debt is to know the beauty and Matanao, the province of the debut of students.
We went to the first surrounding where you can find out how the mountain can be found and you still have a name of what is right.
Yes, if you call there is nothing you want.
"There are many reasons why I think that this is a low-year-old man, I said that this will come from the company of the original company, which is why it's as if it's just a big payment from the company, which is why it's as if it's just a waste of September or just like a man who is low.
Jerome means one thing.
He said.
.
For me, it is like a text message.
There is a different direction on the line that the mountain is going to be where his name came from, which is one of the people who told him about it.
On the other day, there was a wall happening here on the wall of his bad feelings about the name of resentment towards the name, proud of, arrogant, and coercion.
Meanwhile, there is still a vacation which is on queue for videos.
There is indeed, right?
He's taking care of the students.
It's like July made.
Jolo, you did it there.
That?
According to him, they want to step down except for the cause of the removal of the mountain which can be seen in the mountains that could be seen in the mountains to meet in the mountains to live in the mountains so that I am the only one to hear about what she is saying that they are going to hear.
It was said that it was just the fairies, or even if he got out of medicine from the cave I went here in the house to see he is just going to have a way.
We should learn to look down; we are five years old.
Thousands.
They say.
Melvin stated that he is being monitored the reason why he does not want to abuse it, which is why they did not want to abuse what happened or for them, which was made to be done by the mountains, which is why they are going to do something that they are going to do, which is why they are prohibited here.
We got away there because when they got away, there was a lot of his sibling who allegedly grabbed it that's why they got it from there in Tondo because of that.
It turns out that it came to the time that they are always carrying.
You can't answer you especially he takes care of these.
!
It turns out that until you lost it, it seems that the people look like it when it suddenly be frugal but not.
No one will take care of nothing.
Clay pot is also found in a mountain which has a relationship with his partner in the mountain of IOS and in the lock where they have been living here, they say that they are being used to play.
Increase.
He / she is not in Bicol for the last time that it is a taste of us to hear the radiation when they climb.
For the meantime, he / she didn't have no idea, he / she borrowed that there are still no idea that Maria is being carried away by his brother, Maria, who was taking care of her sister, Maria, who was the one whom he / she was talking to, but he could not say where she was.
