The story of love is strength and goodbye.

Atom Araullo.
"He is very handsome," my mother said when I asked why he did not like the absentee of my father, "he just made clean nails in the feet."
Mama is still in the Philippines when we talked with the love of my father through her story, she said she saw my father alone in a bar in Katipunan, she said her father was confused with her friends with a piece of beard.
He does not want to say how to finish their love Split, or how he found out that he will be raised by him alone. "As long as I just knew."
"But do you like?"
"He is very handsome," he said, we laughed, and followed by advice not to not be a bait, or not the man.
My grandmother and my grandmother got married early, but even Mama, I have no idea how they met. "I did not ask them like that," he said.
I was still young when grandpa transferred to our house after grandmother passed away from that time, my mom was not moving while she was crying, but she was surprised that she was screaming before, but they just thought that she was shouting. "
Maybe my mother called me too much in love, and unfortunately, she is the only Model Shop when it comes to such things.
Open to him, I am getting mad at my classmates who are talking about what they are talking about, especially when I hear that they are giving a coercion to those who want to be a coercion to those who want to know them with handsome, and Majaas Street for those who want to know.
"It is not for being a chist, but because we are still young before, my ears has made a mistake in life," it seems like there is a wrong love between women and even if you hear a true love between women, it is possible that the voice is still starting to follow.
But it does not mean that I do not like anything anymore even if I am angry at the world, I am also not a rock.
"It's just that, it is hard for me to swallow the concept of life and there is still no story in love that I have succeeded in your real life.
In bed, the days that you feel about, "all the happy songs."
"Even if Holy Week is in love, also love before the movie is finished," said by one classmate, who became a text message, and now that he has been together with the appointment.
Maybe he is right now this year, alright, I will try to be afraid to take it.
