Papa saw a sign that put a point, which has a sign that February 18-High School which was only the four building in the school is in the school.
After taken out of the beat, Thursday.
It was discovered that he was given a building in school.
This is possible on top of the fourth building of the school.
We just helped them, where it is really here.
In the ground which is also a part of the building.
Everything goes by.
In the mentioned part of one of the buildings for five, does not have to see him when he was not able to enter.
What do I want to follow the written topic?
Ah, Mark.
Bro.
Or you should have this step that four should be five, school, Dilawan, not local.
Only six schools will be named for six schools.
That there was one of the building that was standing on top of one's one, including Alabang Elementary School which is part of the jeep that was said to go straight to the malls that was supposed to be recommended to the first Muntinlupa City April, a liar.
Mall.
Just call me idol. "
He is even now Paul, isn't it?
Nimfa also wants to pay the school what you want to be with Kuya Fred Secretary Arvin Luis "if they will be able to go tomorrow to the class; he / she will be able to go tomorrow to the class; he / she will be able to go tomorrow, but on Monday.
Who will be the ones to give confidence to those who will not be affected by the operation of the school.
The classes in the affected buildings to be transferred to the nearby barangays are going to be transferred to the nearby Mido Island of former in Muntinlupa.
Enrollment today.
Let us go and go to the students.
Here in the school.
What?
Jessica, in a person who is Tess, was from the videoke; he / she said to be disapproves of, from the school of review High School.
That's why before the day arrives on Saturday, they will know that it will be known for those who are going to know.
If the opening of classes in Pedro will push through in the next week, you have just mentioned just a moment for school, we also say that it is one of those not mentioned in a big university here in Quezon City, it is obvious that it is not mentioned in a big university in Quezon City.
In the fifth floor of you, we went here at Ateneo in Manila.
Don't have something like that, at the way going to Hala; he / she went out of the list; he brought out the negative comments.
That is why there are six schools that, as long as we have a lot of addicts, we will just go out for help, if they will go back to a mall, they are hoping that there will be a heart attack; we are still hoping that there will be a heart attack; that is why a traffic would be affected, and that is why the traffic would be affected, and that is where you feel like a traffic here.
That's why they themselves will take advantage of you and your girlfriend who went to the beat for them to send the beat of the beat for them to be the same building and those who are going to fetch their places there are those who are living there.
Covetous, fur.
Because they have been working for eight to a program but I also know that the Pacific Ocean is also known in the head of DepEd that is said to have a huge amount, but he said, they will voluntarily leave.
But how about that, those who take advantage of the children are not like that.
Because I am just my brother here in whatever we are in there earlier, what if they might have prosperity in the classroom yes, maybe they will have a new job.
You are going to do such a kind of time to do that in a class, the answer of the people who will be able to hold-up; so that they don't have any idea, they are innocent.
It is said that there will be an effect yes, they will not be affected because they are their students, like Facebook.
It's okay with these kinds of fireworks that they are using the building that are affected by that, through the list of the afternoon, there will be where they will transfer to the Pope.
Center is the center that we have lost, that is why, at the present few days, it is okay for a few days.
