
The Disbursement Acceleration Program in the province of Rizal is being pushed in the middle of the brutal campaign of domination and violence of the Oplan Galugad of the Marcos regime.

Armas, Ka Arinoli, "!
NDFP-Rizal.
March 29, 2013.

The revolutionary movement in the province of Rizal continues to be thrown to the launch of the Kapisanan ng mga Bayan in the midst of the brutal and heavy rainfall of the country, our economy is getting stronger and deeper towards the masses to complete the sanctity of the country.

Carrying the successful success and during the occasion of the 120th anniversary of the New Hala Bayan, it is only right that I am happy to greet the red-ranking forces of the province of Rizal and the entire country, we salute and make all our duties to bring the Filipino people from the current chapter in the current chapter in the current century.

The presence of the Botchok in the province of Rizal was taken back to neighboring Metro Manila and 25 kilometers from the door of the Malacañang, the previous campaign of the Marcos regime, which can be proven that he will be disappointed at the Oplan Galugad conducted in the province of Rizal and it can be proven that he will be able to crush the revolutionary movement in the province of Rizal.

Instead of being crushed, the number of armed forces in the province has increased and the number of armed forces are added to the number of armed forces from the ranks of the farmers, indigenous people from the ranks of the farmers, indigenous people who have lost its strength from the ranks of the farmers, indigenous people, who have lost its strength for other countries compared to the country.

In the past one year and 3 months, it has already launched 16 places and it is time to release a 16-kilogram offensive in the whole province, or just one hour every month, it caused almost one kilo of rocks found in the 16th IB, 59th Infantry Batallion of the Pacific Economic Cooperation (GAS), which is owned by a large corporations of large rocks which are owned by big rocks.

The number of the bark of the Liberal and civic works for the politics of the Botchok (HB) has been added that up to several thousands of the entire province have been increased; based on the province of almost 64 percent in the province of almost 64 percent in the province of almost 64 percent in the province of almost 64 percent in the province.

The declaration of anti-Illegal Drugs, anti-Illegal Drugs, and anti-budol Gang, which is being harassed by the people like what happened last October 11, 2012, is being harassed by the people like what happened last October 11, 2012.

The citizens of the province continues to gather against the increase in price of oil, increase in tuition, supply of land, demolition of houses of poor and destruction of nature due to the widespread mining and consecutive operations.

The group of Liberal Party in the province grew up with more than 40 percent, which led to the ranks of the Liberal Party of Liberal Party on the ranks of the Liberal Party in the legislative chamber that reached 38 percent of the Liberal Party in the Asian Games that reached 38 percent of the Liberal Party in the Asian Games.

The success we received last 2 years is clear that the campaign of the AFP-PNP is clear that the campaign of domination and violence under the Oplan Galugad conducted during the first 3 years of the brutal campaign in the province is getting stronger and strengthened even during the first 3 years of the highest position in the province.

The AFP-PNP caught their force in the province of Rizal and 4 up to 4 members of the AFP who were assigned by the Philippine National Capital Region 8 until March 2013, the AFP-ABB headed by the AFP-ABB headed by the AFP-Illegal Drugs Act, which led to the Oplan Galugad conducted by the AFP-NPA, under the Oplan Galugad conducted in the province.

The current administration of politics and economists like the crisis in our country will be strengthened even in the middle of the worsening crisis in the province, and the basic commodities in the province and the main leaders of the political leaders who are seated in Malacañang.

The current condition is very serious in order to intensify the offensive against the enemy, we need to fight in order to promote the Filipino people from their quality service to fight the people in order to fight the understanding and equal enemy.

We need to be implemented on the appropriate type and appearance of those who are anxious over and for the masses to support their interest in terms of the armed revolution.

It is needed to increase the number of Botchok (equivalent to the city of the province, which is suitable for the masses to raise the masses against the entire Philippines to make the masses to take advantage of the masses in raising the masses, it is proper to raise the masses in raising the masses, it is proper to raise the masses in raising the agricultural sector, it is proper to raise the masses in raising the masses.

The province should continue to donate to the security of 250,000 members of the Liberal Party in the whole country in the next year.

You should continue to encourage the youth who are studying to join the BHB) to save the needs of officials in politics and often the Liberal of the Liberal Party in the province.

If the citizens have no idea, no matter what the citizens are against the rising of abuse and abuse of the people who have heard it, it is the BHB) of all who is oppressed and taking advantage of the armed forces of the masses, which is why the people who are oppressed by the citizens - the Bagong HE.

Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines!
Long live the National Democratic Front of The Philippines!
Long live the Filipino people!
