What really happened to the chicken that is when I have heard the movies that I have heard from the movies that I will let the government learn from them when the government needs to learn in the middle of a good fight against forty-four colleagues from school.
It's because he's crazy.
At the end of what you told him, many got angry when he got mad at various other things that they have shown in the afternoon because of what was said to be able to understand what I could understand, so in one month I was able to speak.
Let's just wait for a white that it will start to sleep while my fat is going to sleep, but it is not yet given a witch, you are not able to face each other there in the morning so that you could not talk to me what they are saying about to talk about the things that they are saying about.
Philippines, there is also no need to start and start.
They are now surprising in spite of the government's siblings, the venom on what they are stuck in the house for almost three days after we were asked to live in the house of the church, but at the back of the government before we reached ten-four days from the government before we reached up to ten years.
!
Act.
The ten-year-old cousin's cousin might have something to do with what the Church said that you should not have an hour operation with a strong pull of gifts near the back.
My morning.
But I felt the cold of my load there.
I am still there.
Yes, I have a big contribution to me on the farm.
I called again.
I will go.
What are the two of us?
It is said that the viand of the viand should not be made up with the security that I also go to his house with praises.
I was not able to ask anyone.
I will no longer get the kites and I cannot think of what to do.
My church.
Food from the people I know.
In Hong Kong, I admire a gift.
Eight pesos to Manila are my companions.
In the next events, but the time of time is slow in the following moments of life, they will study their minds together.
I said, I am the target mall.
I am trying to know if you are coming from you because I do not have my own body and I am the one who died for us to withdraw all of us.
His nose.
I did not know.
The size of the water from the back I did not feel.
Like that.
It was seventeen years old when we had able to go through a wound, we did not go to Mendiola but your boss was followed by her earlier.
We are not.
Many follow us.
Enemies of City.
But do you know that?
There, it seems that they are in a hurry to hear about it.
Really.
About the other house we are looking for something.
We see friends who are really leaving the house of things when you see friends that we are hiding, we are not going to go to prison.
I have forgotten that it will not last for my back that's why he / she's sick.
It appears differently.
This is the Independence Day.
Why is it that it's painful to me that it is past half a day when I passed away.
When the body was taken, the four people he was talking to were said to have been talking to their open door.
There is just a near.
What was three o'clock in the afternoon two o'clock in the afternoon.
It was almost three o'clock in the afternoon because they were thinking that they think they have a defense; because they think they already have a defense because they thought that we were already dead when they went back to us together with the strength of them.
Laughed at you.
Hanging around.
I do not know.
What will I do?
I have different thoughts to live here.
I cannot die.
I could not do anything but I feel that they are fighting back with their co-workers, that's why they get stronger when we attack them.
They were answering, we were not able to respond to us.
It was like they went through our conversation.
DepEd answered, I am still thinking a long time.
We still go out.
We arrived at me.
We still added to us.
Yes.
Not yet.
We are like that in our area.
We know that we are aware; we are not answering the field form of us for a few pesos and of course.
Are you able to go out of watching life together with the hope that I will be able to go home and take care of it for one day.
That Robert was already dead.
Later someone is saying something.
There might be no one dead when he cries.
Sir?
We have not yet passable.
What should we do with the events that you are together with?
Covetous, fur.
I am screaming.
Why is it so long?
No one will help us.
It is really the four who are close to think of this and our heroes should come from this kind of responsibility so they will be able to fulfill their duties in order to bring garlic, our lives, and we were caught by those who were caught by those who were not wounded.
There are three who are going to save.
All of us will die here.
In a position, she said that in the room she will drink it again and I will go back together.
In the pictures that they are going to go here, we should go to the middle of the streets; we are going to go to the province of Manila so that they can be fetched.
We only have five children who are operating as one of those who passed away from each other, and that we have been talking with each other, that's why all of them fixed that we have been talking with, in Cebu.
Let us play dumb; we were able to talk to someone who is with something like that, when they were with them, they will be easily pissed at around seven o'clock in the evening, that's why he / she said that he / she was not able to make it too much, that's why he / she said that he / she was not able to do anything that's why he / she was not able to do anything that's why he / she was not able to get out, that's why she was not able to go out that night.
You said in the record that you were emotional with what you have talked to.
He felt like I can look at me, we can hear that our feelings are ill-tempered; he / she felt like that with his companions, that's why he / she was holding me, that's why he / she didn't leave me, that's why she left me, that's why she left me, the pain that happened to what happened.
Just like our cellphone, as long as they will file a entirety of them, they will really see what I have talked to, we are really seeing each other when they are in front of each other, they are really in front of what they have been talking to, we are very busy with what they have been talking to, both of them, which is why they are going to be able to make sure that they are living together with each other, so they are going to be able to make sure what kind of incidents are, they are going to be able to make sure what kind of incidents that they have been talking to.
I am just trying hard to be aware, but there are still a lot of times that I really want, that we are not saying that we are not saying that the key to them in front of you, they are not the key to the office so that they will leave in the office so that they will go to the office so that they will go to the office so that they are the ones behind him.
What they are saying, they have no cellphone; he does not have a cellphone because he does not see what he said to avoid the traffic, so they are thinking that the people who get the heart to get her heart have been followed.
Me.
He / she said that he / she said that he / she was really stood by that this morning or not, it was clear that nothing was left.
"Do you have witnessed what I have talked to, I have talked to me that I am being talked about by some of those who are still alive in the lives of those who are still alive.
What if we will ask about what his answer was so good, whose name is very beautiful.
According to him, he also wants, but he said that they are not close to them because they are not close to them because they are not able to approach them because they are not going to approach the dead, that is why they did not leave their security, that is why they were not close to the children of their companions who died.
It will be next if they will be able to return to them that is why they are spared from the place where we have a chicken that's why they look at what happened here inside the class where there are only one of the military who called the military, because they can easily go.
It is a very difficult training as I entered, but when you are really there in the right now, they should be found in the right age; we should just think that we can't think that we can't think that it's because they're really lacking.
You will see that you are not the person that you have not met with no matter what kind of training is, "
I am thankful.
When they were riding with them through negative comments and I saw that you are being treated at the hospital, you think that they are under the interview, but the feet, that they need to wake up, is as well as the eye that they are going through, as well as what they went through with what they went through.
That is just what we do not say, that he does not have something to do, in Nawasa because it is prohibited to go back when I go back to the age of my relatives who can enter there, but we are sick.
I will go to our term for fare, even if you have an fare, he said that there is one of us who are drinking with us there, but if there is a bad weather condition, but if it's okay to live, we are still okay to see each other.
We have talked to those who are bothering the things that they are saying so that they will have an inspiration to look down; we will be able to catch up.
They are with them in their operation because we thank you very much.
