
Vhong Navarro have a lesson.

This is a happy issue on the assault on TV / TV host Vhong Navarro, imagine, while they were fighting against the military and rebels in Mindanao, we have been charged with the case of Vhong.
The filipino wants to read and watch a person who will make them happy than to know the complicated situation of our country, only because of the headache, killings and war will be seen and read.
We are not wondering about what happened to Vhong, like that in showbiz, the world is complicated.
They each of them are fighting because of women or men.
In showbiz, the married couple often comes home because there is a scandal in showbiz and they said in showbiz because it was quick to change his partner and wife.
"Is it that after aiman, then they are already separated.
The artists accepted that they can get tired of their lives as long as they can help their publicity.
After the scandal, just a few months to talk, it seems that nothing has happened.
Presidential sister Kris Aquino was loved by her fans even if she was able to get scandalized, even if she was able to get scandalous, his relationship with Joey Marquez was a former basketball, comedian and mayor of Parañaque.
Marquez allegedly beat him up and he was still a two-year-old pain near or a Planas boy and whoever is the woman of Joey.
Many are still very small scandal in showbiz that we have been followed but we should not be surprised that Vhong Navarro has been beaten up, instead, do this a lesson but to all men.
First, do not eat the food that you are not eating.
Do not spread it because of jeepneys, they are prohibited to sleep and when you are going to sleep, do not board a car, you will be charged.
Do not enter your house at stake, at stake, you will knock on the door before entering because there will be met with "punches.
And of course, do not make sure that it is possible that Deniece Cornejo, "thank you," thank you! "
You are already beaten up.
The most important is all of these, when there is a girlfriend, do not meddle with it.
It's just your tongue that has no liver.
