"Enhanced Defense C election, By Ramil Cruz, October 26, 2016, is free.
After the Philippine Football Federation of Mariano Araneta's Association of Boxing Alliances in the Philippines Pres. Vicky Vargas, he added that a tight change in the Philippine Football Committee (Commission on C) has increased.
One of the largest college competition in the country which is the Philippine University Games (purpose of MPS) is called for the right fair and under democratic election in the upcoming sports organization in the country this coming November 25.
It was found out from the former Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) Chairman Edicio Metias, the call to the Philippines two days ago by the 19th of 21-year-call-Friends in the media to Sudipen, Las Pinas, which is a classic election in order to make a run smoothly.

The only daughter we was able to watch Can alternative change in the Philosophy. We, social media, to be accompanied by BOC C President Jose Cojuangco,) for running for a running again. Let's other for a lifetime.
The text Games that are headed by Roger Banica is headed by Roger Banica's as President: "Universities (2016) to be free from the sports development program in the Philippines."
This is the first time that an institution owned by a 38 university in Visayas is calling for the changes in the leadership of BOC C that else by Cojuangco.
Araneta earlier expressed his candidacy for the past week because of many national sports (equivalent (NJ) Leader's fear to hit a traditional politician named Cojuangco.
But only one day, the plan and supported by Araneta to Vargas is not allowed to support Cojuangco that was dreaming of the four-four-year-old lady in the four-year-old woman.
He is saying that Vargas is already supported by more than half a voting members only aside from the eight people supported by sports patron Manuel Pangilinan, similar to Kathleen, boxing, Taling, golf, golf, basketball, Talakag, basketball, Talugtog, basketball, basketball player.
Aside from President, the other candidates to combat the election are chairman, First Vice President, Second vice president, One vice president, Protestants and those who are going to choose Secretary General.
