
DOC-A and PERA-PERA "

The COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes will be grateful for every barangay to donate every ten thousand pesos for the expenses in the coming Barangay.
The reason, according to Mang Sixto, they only have a little money in fact, they have lessened their savings!
I remember, Mang Sixto did not allow it to be a candidate, who threatened that if the value of the budget that he is asking for the Congress would not be given!
But just a few days, Mister Sixto suddenly went silent, because PNoy was able to support the millions of the intelligence fund. "
Which is why until now, Mang Sixto did not explain how he used the said fund!
It is really the mind of a mother-in-law's brain! "We was just we we were eating, even the coins that the barangays are trying to pull from the animal!
After Brgy. Election, there is no election that will be held this year.
So what is your fear, Mister Sixto did, if your government will lessen it, because you have a little act of acting, if the end of the year has a little savings?
They were about to think about it, "anyway," it was never expected that the barangay funds will not be lessened but they should not lessen the millions of government savings!
When there's a time, Mister Sixto did not have a little shame because your face is with just a little shame!
Entice the President.
As a proof of Region 4-A Regional Director Chief Superintendent Jesus Gatchalian that illegal gambling is widespread in his jurisdiction, including the members of the Games that are Amusement and AIOS in the whole day.
The GAB-AIrisan, its assigned to monitor the Office of the President is assigned to monitor the operation of legitimate gambling such as lotto, and other gambling jurisdiction of the GAB.
Which if they do not conduct a right or mixed with illegal activities like "gambling and jueteng, it is clear that this is a clear violation to the law.
For now it is common to collect "weekly" from the gambling operators in Region 4-A, "Dulyade."
He is supposed to be remitted to the GAB Chairman Guanzon!
You know, General Gatchalian, that if there are "Ipit Gang" from the gambling dens, it is clear that there is an illegal gambling operation!
As said to you, General, that even if the entire Batangas is the only one to patrol, especially in Lipa City) and Noveleta, Kawit, Cavite City and Rosario in the province of Cavite, that would be proven that it is illegal gambling.
"That is contrary to your" non-law policy, "right?
Because you are tolerating a few officials!
Persist!
