Bombing, politicking and Intelligence Assistance Fund.

Congratulations!

There are two consecutive bombing in Mindanao.
These happened in Cagayan de Oro City and Cotabato City which are both found in Mindanao.
16 people died and around 80 were wounded in separate incidents.
Documents.
It has a lot of message to him.
One of the messages is having an individual or group of ability to make noise in crowded places and in crowded places.
The message was on the back of the colonizers.
This is also a message of the ability of the authorities to stop the people behind the bombing.
The message, including others that we do not need to mention the number of these, one of the things that should be known by the authorities.
You might meet the people behind the bombing.
It's because they are not like the holiest part of the New People's Army that's right or wrong when they catch them, they are being forced and left the message.
If we know the primary message, this is where the authorities are going to start the appropriate action of the authorities in order to stop the making of these crimes.
Intelligence Assistance Fund.
This is where the intelligence fund held by different branches of the government should be used.
"Is it that aside from the said fund of the police and military, it should also be used by the mayor, governor, congressman, senators and those in the palace.
The intelligence fund of the police and military should not be used because aside from the limited time, they think that this big part is still limited.
Beware of the children.
The intelligence fund held by the said civilians, and the truth is, this is where they get their pay for children to stay on and want to stay at work.
Or their debts in the election or strolling in transactions.
It's a big part of the intelligence attack of the civilians they are using to pay attention to their children who are not going to enter a regular position in the government.
And the gossip that we have no idea, many of the funds are for the 13-30 and Ghost of it.
If the intelligence fund of everyone can be used, not only the police and military will make a move against corrupt bomb.
There might be more civilians who are observant and here, the action of everyone will get bigger so that they will get a corresponding case, and file a corresponding case for the appropriate charges for the appropriate and peaceful country.
Politicking.
Despite the bombing, many politicians are busy with nothing but politicking.
The national politicians, for example, are addicted to the call of their party mates, that is why it is difficult for them to be coats in politics and extending them in politics to be active in the election 2016.
Bombing.
What is painful, those who are in position are still riding the grim incident to look handsome.
They are more worried about the effect of their actions here in their political ambition in order to put the situation and life of the people against corrupt bomb.
And it is more painful, the funds that they are using in politicking and not for the safety of the citizens from the violent crimes.
The funds and action of these politicians should be made up and show them that the public service is the most important and not their personal ambition and interest.
Watch them.
No one knows who is behind the killings through bomb and what is their goal.
What we can only do at present is to think that they are only there beside the side and they are waiting for the opportunity to do their own eyes.
And even if we do not know them, we can get a lesson from the events so they can be careful and supervise their crimes.
Just like what happened in Cagayan de Oro because of the death of some doctors and others that they are with, they are included.
I am worried about it.
The content of the bag that was left by an unidentified man near the door of the occasion of doctors who attended wide and unappeased.
The innocent people watching the occasion prevailed in the occasion of wearing abaya for a while on the chair.
Just after more than two minutes, this exploded and in the opinion of the authorities, it creates up through radio call or text message.
If there is something happening, everything should be on alert.
It's as if there is an suspicious issue that will come and the things he brought are suspicious.
He should immediately bring it back to the authorities who are closest to the place.
This is to have a quick action for security.
