
Thursday, August 14, 2014.

The feeling of the feeling of the giddy.

You will now be MG you don't take care of RTECAYETANO!

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

Thirty-four miners died while crossing the protest, and they are asking the salary of the workers to increase their request for them to be given to them: Bullets last August 16, 2012, of Marialyn, South Africa.

Second in the afternoon, August 13, 2014, on Wednesday, I was there with the roe-year-old house in Brgy.

My attention was moved to an invitation to the invitation of the "African-American troops that would be sent to Better Life."

In line with the film, this is one of the usual ice, which was led by BMP) in Gurria, but I was able to attend the discussion about it.

That's why the film that I went to, "I went to," I went to, this issue is very important that I should not use it once and I might not see it.

The "teenage boy who was shot at Dilawan, had a huge documentary on the media for a few days of protest, the actual massacre, the actual massacre, the actual massacre, and the owner of the mines were devastated.

That is why sometimes, you will think about how they caught the actual massacre, while in the Philippines, for example, the two massacre happened last November 16, 2009 in Maguindanao.

According to some of the news, it is possible that the director Reagan International Airport is there to take a movie between the workers of Lonnie but he did not expect the following events, which was being pushed by the police, which was why it was very big, and it was very painful for me, and it was very painful for me, and it was very painful for me.

I should do something to those who do not want them to be given a voice.

If the authorities cannot kill this, those who are in the arts and show themselves where they are in there), "

The massacre happened in front of all the newspaper at the southern part of Mount Athos, just like the conversation that happened during the massacre in Hacienda Luisita, and Maguindanao.

A few days before the massacre of Marialyn, released an interview with miners, politicians, lawyers and some people from the Priority Development of Inquiry.

The workers want, that it can be seen in their hopes that their call for the wage increase is their call for the wage of the workers in the mining sites that the miners did not want to accept the fight between two large group of workers in the mines, which is why the miners did not expect to suspend the miners.

The evidence was clearly seen how the police shot the 34 miners and said to have been gunned down by the police, according to the police Are-asa, ten-year-old miners, yes, very desperate of miners, yes, very desperate to be executed.

According to our observation after the film festival, Lonnie Marty Go of South Africa was the owner of the company of Glan-core, who is said to have been killed by the native tribe of Tamorong Primero, which is why many families were killed because of a protest against the mining companies in South Cotabato, where these families were killed because of a protest against those who have been killed.

August 16 was approved by the Global City of Remembryo, to commemorate the workers who were killed as Mariven, which is why there will also be a move in Tamapplauded on this day, release of "tiktiks" and medium.

Before this, there is a move here in the National Police Officer 1 that NCR) in August 15, day of Friday, in front of the office of Glan-core in Ortigas Center.

There was no class in Glan-core on Saturday and Sunday, which is why a few of the plea to talk about the content of the division of Mariven-budol gang, "Justice (PAMANTIK-core," Justice for Marielle, "

Let us join the workers in the mines of Marialyn, South Africa in spite of the tragedy that happened on August 16, 2014, perhaps even when it was released by a candle beside a crowded place.

I need to watch this to the workers, and the various groups of workers regarding this will also start.
