MILF preparing for war?

In spite of the incessant killing of 44 Special Action Force (SAF) commandos in Mamasapano, Maguindanao this January 25, 2015, the Commander of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) recently started to gather new members in the provinces of Mindanao.
A party-list representative was ordered to reveal after a few governor from AOIL Region and Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) in the released testimony of the Congress just when MILF attacked Sultan Kudarat, North Cotabato, Basilan, Lanao del Norte, Lanao del Sur, Tawi-Tawi and Sarangani.
This is to strengthen the force of the said area during the time that the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL), which they are expecting to happen as soon as possible, the tragedy that they have caused the "Fallen 44" which resulted to the opposition of the public on BBL will be approved.
Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago, a former judge who is an expert in the law and current wheelchair of the Senate Committee on constitutional amendments, the BBL stated that it is contrary to the Constitution.
According to him, "it is under the BBL, it is the way of the Pad in the Congress will be the one to be exiled in the Congress will also be the one by the House of Bangsamoro will be chosen by the House of Bangsamoro will be exported.
"They made the Bangsamoro Basic Law that there is a new provisions that is not in our Constitution or even if it is really contrary to our Constitution.
"Though it was my direct line, it seems that their attitude is like the Constitution, you will change the 1987 Constitution so we can get what we want," Santiago explained.
On the video of what happened on Monday on the evening program of the news that showed the MILF while they are implementing their ballots to fight, according to the report, the MILF are respecting the questionable training and making bombs which are contrary to the peace of their agreement with the government.
But the extensive gathering of members and training is possible to preparation if the BBL will pass in Congress, or preparation for a new attack if the BBL will be dismissed.
Any of the two should be ready for the government and they will not choke.

As the reaction to the criticisms against the resigned Philippine National Police Chief Alan Purisima since it is suspended, Justice Secretary Leila de Lima has expressed that it will not be used in the PNP which are not used in the PNP, "Ipit Gang" and no military group.
We are expecting that the suspension of the command is a favor of military and because the PNP becomes corrupt in Nature Concepts, what we call here is "will be exascherness of Tau Gamma Phi.
But in a simple discussion, even though the call is different, the two want to say it.
Whether it was the command or advice not to say to Interior Secretary Mar Roxas and PNP OIC and the Mamasapano operation, Purisima expressed that the SAF chief Getulio Napeñas confirmed that he should break the command of command.

Firing line / Robert Manding Roque, Jr.
