New year of 2014.

Like before, every time the New Year will come, happiness and hope is what our countrymen are hoping for, to all, the wish is a change in view, to the people and the people.
New year, almost everyone is making promises through "New Year's" Resolution number question: We were able to fulfill a resolution that has been done in New Year's Day, a few were fulfilled again?
In our opinion, there will be a big change today, especially in politics, especially in politics, the live-support and acknowledging the people of President Noynoy Aquino - former President and Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Noynoy has not enough for three years for the past leaders from Cory Aquino, Fidel V. Ramos, Eand Estrada until CGMA, slowly, those who are seated now are slowly being verified.
One of those is the amount of signed for the temporary release of Christmas day, but the Aquino administration is hard, that he would pretend to be the Sandiganbayan.
The visit to CGMA in his cage of FVR and Eve is a mirror of change in the past year of Noynoy, they seem to be not convinced to just mention the name of GMA because they are afraid to be stabbed or be charged or thrown away from their minds.
If you think about it, the goal of Aquino is good before and until he sat on the change in politics and buying from corruption, the people themselves have no change, no change, no change, no change!
"Ka Ilao said," we are extraordinary, we have promised to have promised by Noynoy, we are hoping that he will do whatever he will do to the change of change? "
To the problems that I have went to, that is one word - change in 2014, different sectors, different sectors, different personalities that many of them are contractor and businessmen who are even back to the Marcos regime.
In the first year, they will shoulder their faces and thank you because the "tiktiks" has arrived in order to stop the corruption.
Now, it looks like the promise of the change is just like a story because they forgot about the negative production of Aquino's state.
Why did they not give them what they want?
From the golden retriever and RETE, hopefully, we can achieve all the second-year-old 2014!
