Violence to women,

Macky Macasaverted!
November 22, 2014.

"Siu," a new victim who approached the group of Gabriela because of his story, he was raped by three soldiers in their area in Occidental Mindoro. Macky Macasaura.
The group who had sex in our meeting with women in a press conference, Gabriela said that aside from the increase in number of cases of rape, the number of those victimized by minors are increasing.
In the data of the Philippine National Police (PNP), the number of cases of rape from 5,180 on 2012 passed, it increased to 6,432 last 2013, "said Odeth Montes, the second general secretary of Gabriela and one horseshoe.
In the said press conference, the group was presented by a 17-year-old Siu, who was allegedly raped by three soldiers assigned in Palauan, Occidental Mindoro.
In the story of Susan, mother of Siay, in 2013, she was raped by the three soldiers, "on May 9, 2013, we went to a happiness in our area.
After two hours he did not see his child, he decided to go home and went home to their house and three soldiers.
"When I saw the lamps, there were three soldiers and my child crying while one of the soldiers quickly ran away, the two attempted to ask who were the children he was with," he said.
What Susan thought was, if the soldiers are asking Snooky Serna, why was the light and fear that his child was crying.
"I recognized them.
According to Gabriela, the victim was not able to file a complaint because after a few days after the incident, Sienched to be brought to the hospital to be treated.
On Susan's interrogation of his child before he lost his mind, he found out that he was raped not only once by Siu, who was also raped by one of the three soldiers last December 2012.
The group temporarily revealed the identity of the three soldiers and their units which included, while the cases to be filed against them are being put in order.
"As of now, we are still fixing the case to be filed, because the victim was not able to talk about it when he was able to go out of the hospital, he said Dayan was the reason why he stayed in a private hospital.
Lack of responsibility.

Gabriela because of the abuse of the law of the law of Macky Macasaids.
According to Montes, many of the cases given to them are involved in the law enforcers, from the case of domestic violence until rape.
In the data of the group, from 2010 up to the third room of 2014, 20, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), 14, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), 14 are the officials of Local Government (AFP), 14, the American troops and 2 are the cases of the Presidential Security Group (PSG).
"If the members of the institution of the government themselves wants to monitor the welfare of the people, how can we count the state of stopping these children, especially in giving justice to the victims?
The group added that, in every 30 minutes, there are women who are snake and every half an hour, there are women who are raped, "most of them, children," Untalan said.
Monchque is also said to global warming, global warming, a little while, it seems that the violence of women are just normal.
What would exist (violence against Women) what is happening is that what is happening is that what is happening and we hear is normal, the violence that has been paid, "says Wilson's call to stop the violence of the child and have been paying.
"The political will be needed in suppressing violence, he said.
Gabriela Women's Liberal Party-list said that it will have a resolution in the legislative chamber to amend the anti-rape law.
Albayalde explained, the second chairman of the said party, is that the proposal aims to give a bigger punishment to the law enforcers, including others who have a position or duty in the government that will be faced with rape charges.
There is a separate proposed law in the Senate who led the anti-rape law.
To take back the violence.
The International Day is scheduled to commemorate All Soul's Day for the Etau of violence against Women's Month, Tuesday, 94-October 25.
The promulgation of Regional Trial Court Branch 15 of Manila is also scheduled on the case filed by "Rose" against a member of the Presidential Security Group (PSG) unit of military who are taking advantage of the security of the President) three years ago.
Despite the powerful opponent in the case, Rose is hoping that the decision of the court will favor him.
"I hope that the law is about us, because we are the right," said Rose.
Although he is greatly thankful to the groups who helped him like Gabriela to move the case, he is sad because the violence of women are ongoing, especially for children like Sienna.
Rose was only fifteen years old when he was raped by a PSG and two officials of the barangay in Manila.
"According to him, what happened to me was repeated again in the authorities, they hope that they help and not cover up the people who are making noise, to end the violence that have been paid," said Rose.
Aside from the promulgation of Rose, the second decision set by the Supreme Court will also be set on the filed filed by different groups regarding the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA).
According to Gabriela, it is clear that an example would be one side and the American troops are in favor of the American troops, a transgender who was suspected to have been killed by US Embassy Joseph Scott Pemberton.
Pemberton was still in the custody of the United States inside Camp Aguinaldo in Quezon City.
