Killings in the election continue.

The whole town continues.
If before it looks like a week before the news has been killed or failed to kill the candidate, now it is almost everyday.
Will file charges.
Included in the last victims were Arnulfo Macarine, former chairman of Barangay Laza, Malhagat, Pangasinan, and Barangay Captain Johnny, Malhino, 48, of Barangay Aniban, Ubihan, Pangasinan.
Macarine was just walking towards his car when he was shot by a motorcycle.
Pully adino is going to file a case against his candidacy when he was followed, together with three others, three men riding a motorcycle.
When those who were riding in the tricycle of Pulecino, who was being driven, suddenly went down and shot the victim.
Police Station!
The citizens feel that, the COMELEC is considered by the Comelec that the killings will only be affected.
The citizens are not feeling anything that the COMELEC is worried about the killings.
They do not feel the hands of the COMELEC for proper, peace and believable belief.
The Comelec official does not even see anything that can be seen even from those killed by the candidates for the election.
Tel.
They are more interested, Bro, the COMELEC with the problem in electoral race.
"Is the campaign for not in time?
That's why their call is there for them to report to them the netizens about those who are being incriminated by election inspector.
It's as if in the end they have something to be disqualified.
Included in their reasons are the vote buying which is also the basis of the winning candidate.
And they are pleased with what they can do for the election.
Set by the CAIDs.
The citizens said, the killings and attempted murder of the candidates are greater.
But why is the COMELEC allegedly cold?
As early as now he was not disqualified by the people who are pointing out, talking and anything else.
If he could not be disqualified by a candidate, a bullet was used for him.
And it is suspicious that the COMELEC is not active here.
Hopefully, this is not true.
Because if it is true, it is up to them.
There is also a limit on the heat in the election which is being used by the people who will die.
Don't ignore it.
One of the complainants is what the COMELEC has done for the teachers.
Two big reasons are being revealed by the teachers to refuse their taking of them as board of election teller or Wanna Bet.
First, in Maguindanao, example, is the problem for security.
Apparently, there are always those who are being shot, that the teachers are being harassed and supported by the teachers.
Because there will be a manual voting now, the teachers are afraid that they will be put to a face to the ballots of the armed people.
But the COMELEC does not do anything to save them.
RTECAYETANO!
In Metro Manila, there are also many teachers who do not want to be Wanna Bet.
It's because the COMELEC is allegedly asking for their compensation.
This past election, they asked a P5,000 but it made up to P4,000 in the COMELEC.
This election day, it is just done for P2,500 only.
Even if the COMELEC knows that the election is higher.
They will be imprisoned.
Even if the teachers are the reason for the teachers to refuse, they will allegedly be forced by the COMELEC to work.
And the people of COMELEC also have the strength to say that they will file a case against those who will refuse.
And there is a punishment for teachers who do not want to support the COMELEC? "
The people of Comelec does not want to get another because it is a big expenses for them to have the training of the new projects which may be teachers or employees of the government.
Should not be belittled.
COMELEC should really give importance to the advancement of the barangay.
Killing is what should be given primary action.
Even if this happens, the people should feel that the COMELEC is moving.
Because killing is the primary form of disrespect of the rights of the people who chose those serving the government.
The cheating is just following this is the style of campaign such as electoral race.
The vote buying will also follow.
Even the wage of the candidates and they won.
I will die.
In other words, Bro, the people who will die in the government will be stopped from the government.
If there are people who are going to make a higher time for the government, what will be the outcome?
It is also common to make people with evil spirits with cheating in public funds and other things that damages the lives of the people and people.
