It is only one signature so that even if will be defeated.

By Kevin.
Perhaps you have met me.
In your classes, hold-off, or on the road going to your consecutive classes or home, so that he would stop bothering you and teasing that we need, "maybe I have already learned what I need to do."
"
It has been more than a week when the whole group of UP started to gather 12, 000 signature from students, because it needs to be allowed by the Board of Regi to allow the increase of P72 from the newspaper.
When Team will be in a lot of experience, even if we are really fixing the form of students of UP Diliman, there are also those who are still fixing their sympathy and face to get sympathy, and just like that, we have their own strategy to convince.
If Team will be ready to do, even once, we have thought that there is a corresponding form to enter a passenger jeep, we thought that there is a good form to enter a passenger jeep, one by one, the signature of every passenger and will be spoken to: "Te," said, "it was just a joke," it was just a joke. "
I admit that the trouble we entered is not a joke.
It is also added that in the past his campaign is exhausting even if the campaign can be resolved, there will be a lot of students who can be able to talk to and have no choice of support.
Of course, there are also those who convince them to convince him not agree with the resolve and belief of the newspaper so they cannot see that there is a heavy punishment, there is also a heavy punishment, there is also no one who does not care if there is a heavy amount of bills.
There are some who are saying that the proposed increase in case will be denied will be rejected, what is the only thing that will be bought from the present, what is common, which will be bought from the present?
But more than a proud aura is the more high level of explanation.
It is true that there are a lot of argument and criticism on even if it is still a long time since until now, its history is long and rich in the institution they are studying, and although they know the newspaper in brave and sharp kinds of journalism, "there will be no one to be," because every term is their own tradeath.
Maybe you have met each other.
Even if we are not fully known each other, we sympathize with our fellow students of UP - and when they want to continue the institution they will continue to help in the history of our university and the society.
This 2012, the newspaper is currently celebrating the 18th of this, together with every pirates that will continue the institutions in service to the leaders of the country now and in the future.
We are also twenty people and I am tired, that's why if you have a wife or type, you have not yet to sign, please text me - 091,604.59.
