
Passports of the sibling, are you married in Japan.

Joy (JA) is pleading, meow, when he went to the legislative chamber to let the authorities face the problem being faced with his sibling in Japan.
He said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that his brother was in the entire Japanese and was again married to another Japanese but he only found out that he used his passports, according to the complaint of one of their siblings.
When he said that his first wife was separated, his sibling still remained in Japan until he found a new one.
And to get Cerge of Number marriage (CeNoK), he used the passports of Joy.
Joy is now a big problem now because she is the one who is scheduled to have a husband and he needs to get Campmar. But she does not have to get a Cimetidine.
Bantay, Lazo sent to the Office of Foreign Affairs Affairs Affairs Office of DFA, Joy and was made to take care of Assistant passports Director Florante Ryan Pangwi in order to investigate the said complaint.
According to wi-fi, the passports of the sibling of Joy could worsen and he can no longer use it.
He will have a problem now on how she will go back to the Philippines because the passports he is holding will lose.
He will also be facing a responsibility because it is against the law to use the passports of others when the said passports are canceled, and it is only then for the Cimetidine to fix their wedding.
We wish to fix everything as soon as possible.
Bad treatment in Lebanon, orderly!
It was a mother of Charlene hard, OFW in Lebanon, about not, according to him, he said, a good treatment to his child in his resort he works there was an email about it from Atty. Dilawan, which is why she was approached by Missus hard in Iligan City.
The Philippine National Football Office (shirt) of the Philippine Embassy in Lebanon and the Philippine Embassy in Lebanon and immediately went to the said resort, Labor Atsuko Naytono, where the OFW is working.
Even if it was far from the city, Labatan-Nnose tried to talk to the said OFW and know the condition of other Filipinos there, he sent a report to the office of Secretary Rosalinda Baldomz of DOLE and informed the said action from the family of Atty. Papal.
When it was followed to be followed up, Bantay,, according to BOC Atsuko Nay Dicatian, that it was Charlene to the embassy, she was also sent to his family, and he said he is not the real Charlene and he said that he is just using his name in order to complain.
And as proof, according to him, it was Charlene to our Philippine Embassy in Beirut where it was proven that Atty. Pad was called for it to be proven that it was really Charlene and she denied that he was not making any letter from his family.
That's why when we called Atty. Pad, she said that everything was fine with Charlene and they also talked with it, including his mother.
Case, he said, this is closed! Along with his gratitude for all those who helped, even in Bantay, 09051090451, and our coordination from the office of Labatan-Dickinson in Lebanon, thank you for all!
