"Let us not let me text me first, I just say, Tita yes, so the third that you are saying for me three years, we have been asking me for almost three years.
Yes, if that is just that, my heart is just like that, so even if there is no one that you buy, we need to know how much we have collected from the members so we know how much will we buy.
Because I am also filled with Brigada Eskwela, which is why there is a need to give money to other people, so we need to talk to the people that we do not need to talk to, we need to talk to those who have money from officials and for example, Ma'am Pilar.
Anytime, some of our officials will be with them if ever they will just be paid.
We officials have money and debt.
He will not be able to taste like Madam Auring.
"We are anxious; that's why Madam is not right, that's why we borrowed from us, do not do anything else.
Then, when we are going to go to school; he / she is very full, debt; and fog; you want that we are men who are annoying.
I am the only ones who look at me; I am trying to pay attention to me, no matter how much it is.
"Isn't it that there are only those who are at the same age; we are the only ones who are proud.
Yes, but it is hard for us to have a big role in the association.
We were able to look down; he / she went to each other; didn't we have told that we are thirty-two of their more than two children.
Then we can get it again now.
He does not need to talk to him that is why we talk a Sunday to be able to talk with Bayan.
What can we talk to Alyssa i to know that I am with my companion, I am a person who is a creature in talking with grandmother yes, that is not an official who will reach me.
Maybe he / she probably just kept on the party of someone who is Len Bakal is saying to talk to her before you talk to him.
There.
Hala.
Yes, do not do anything in paying something like those assigned to him.
"It is not right that one of me is one of me and what happened last year, yes, the theme, yes, my favorite," didn't you have an ally, "right?
