
Oplan Tokhang: A new Rolex, old tactic!

Macky Macasaverted!
March 4, 2012.

From Gabriela and the groups of human rights in front of Camp Aguinaldo against the violation of the rights of disconcerting and other abuse under, allegedly, of Oplan LS. (Several years; Quijano, Preso, NCC).
"It is tiring to listen to the promises that have no content, all lies, and lies."
This is the reaction of this group of human rights to defend the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that he respects the human rights in implementing Oplan Tokhang, program versus insurgency and government.
Last January, the military arrested the six members of a barangay in Catalon, Samar, after they were brought to the camp of the 39th Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army in Northern Samar, they were with the two children who were arrested in fact that they were arrested in the murder of the military with the farmer, Jovito Paing, Catalawan.
"We condemned the remains of the military in the community where civilians are put in danger in danger of danger.
I admire the program.
In the document of the AFP, the National Football Federation of Security Adviser "Resuello," in 2011, the "Sushmm," the government wants the government to be part of the suppression of rebellion.
"The style of strategy in this way will strengthen the mission of AFP, to win peace, particularly the attention given to the operations conducted by the AFP to visit the sentiments of the people," said documents, in English.
The government wants peace, not only the NPA, Moro Islamic Liberation Front, and other threats to the government's security.
In order to achieve peace, the Oplan Tokhang was composed of two parts of the Oplan Galugad conducted at first, Whole on the United Nation Entry SEC. Second, a security guard.
On the Whole of the Nation Entry Approach, transfer to different agencies, civil charges, businessmen and churches which are being deceived by the projects with rebellion.
It is said that the security forces of human rights violations against the military operations in the military operations in the military operations were said to be approached by the victims, and there is still no military who were charged due to the complaint of the victim because they were brave.
There are four ways of Oplan Tokhang at first, acknowledging the peace talks, second, said military operations "against armed groups, third, support and development in areas with rebellion.
But the attention of groups for human rights is attention, it is not different from the previous programs like Oplan Bantay, the Arroyo administration.
The speech of Oplan Tokhang was totally removed from the United States filing of US coercress and Iraq, which is implemented by the US government in Afghanistan and Iraq as the primary weapon of Oplan Tokhang against the people involved in the system and administration.
Meanwhile, there is also no serious reform inside the military, even after the revelation of Lt. Col. George Rattle, on January 2011 about corruption in the AFP.
To be a sound.
The Oplan Galugad conducted in the operation that will be implemented by agencies in secluded places.
The actual thing that he was serving in is just a few more fear and abuse only in these areas.
This is what happened in Liverpool, Surigao del Sur last 2011, according to the residents, there is no need to enter the elements of the 20th Infantry Battalion in their area and it is forced to implement the Community Precint-Illegal Drugs Act (COPD).
The Lumad are forced to evacuate, Girlie Padilla of Calanoga (EMJP), the natives wanted to give the indigenous people the projects that they can't use, "Padilla said," Padilla, "Padilla"), what kind of project is, "said Padilla."
This is also what happened last 2009, the Lumad by the Lumad are forced to evacuate after the military forced to evacuate the area and blame an alternative school of the indigenous people.
The killing of activists or supporters is ongoing for an example of the murder of Fausto Tantos, a still active against what is against illegal mining in Mindanao after he was followed by murder of two leaders of farmers in North Cotabato.
Some are also worried that the activists are really interested in Metro Manila, many of the attack against activists.
It is also feared that it has something to do with the program against Kilusang Mayo Uno (MP) and Production. Jose Maria Sison of NDFP), which is not true to be sent to the Philippines because it is not true that Sison will go home to the Philippines because she is offered a position in the administration.
On the other hand, Karylle took the death of the military in the community for the death of Compostela Valley last September 2011 by 7-year-old Sunshine Jilian, who died after being shot by a soldier of the 24th IB.
The AFP is supporting the peace talks, but the participants of the peace talks will continue, like the 17 Philippine Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front.
The government is also not the absence of the government for more than 300 prisoners, many of them were cut off, and filed a "deed of cases in February 7, two women leaders who are arrested in Bay, Laguna by the forces of 202nd IB, and the 22nd Military Intelligence Group.
According to Hao-Enriquez, before the division of the military, their tactic is still old, our tactic to silence the Aquino administration is still old, instead of accepting the mistakes in the past, he said.
