"Assistance Fund led, Philosophy in Mayor Del Rosario.

"GROs, a Fish, I Eker and for a. Teach other.
This point is what Mayor Del R. de Guzman got in his program on social welfare and offices in Marikina.
"We are doing something in each person who comes to us with help so we can know how they will be able to help them in the right way, and to all of those who have no abuse," said Mayor.
"We do to be encouraged to be encouraged to be able to convince how they will be self-tempered and productive and sometimes you have a child or grandchild that we can help in your house," he added.
There are many ways of Marikina to help those who are needy who are needy and sometimes, they are just going to help you work hard.
There is Libutan in Pahiram ng Mga Bayani, which is headed by Nenifer Edrada, where they are pleading on how to make things that they can sell or how to earn the Services industry.
There are also thousands' Center for Examination (Nex) of Training and Julie Borromeo and there are programs pushing for additional knowledge to further strengthen the job that they have to accept at work.
There is a sign that the Marikina Polytechnic High School and NLEX's toll fee in the city of Marikina (PLMar), which is headed by Doctor Nilo Rosas, former Undersecretary of DepEd.
It is also frequent that Gil Munar of LRL.
There are other branches of the city hall that they get in Manpower because of the grassy parts of Marikina and many of the Volkswagen Sedan that they are receiving pension so they can earn money even while they are looking for work.
Meanwhile, others were able to join the Bantay Bayan, adversary, so they have a decent source of living while they do not have a permanent job.
There are "cash for Social Work and" Food for community services, "Marikina City.
That's why what you see in the city hall is that they are really hungry for the same time as mayor of the mayor, they do not need to be a hard time there for just a little help from the City Social Welfare and Development Office of Rodie because there are many who are lacking in it because it's really difficult to find a job.
Don't take out of Marikina, you will help you but you need to help yourself.
