
Gambling in Caloocan and the Senate?

Preparing, a big storm in the Senate.
And it is possible that even in the Minority Floor of the Congress until the Palace.
This is related to the billion pesos of the Priority Development Assistance Fund or PDAF that instead of being prepared for the people, especially to our poor countrymen, they would think that they would like a sheep.
They are inside the heads of the inhumane people!
In the events, the people suddenly became aware that while it was about to die with the poverty of us, the government officials are being servile in the numerous tax of the country!
But now that it is said that Senator Jinggoy Estrada is ready to talk.
Everyone knows that Jinggoy is one of those who will be imprisoned (who is possible to be imprisoned (again?) because of the plunder case or racketeering and under the investigation of the Senate, it seems that the group of "sexy" Buddy, he will be the one to make it as the group of "sexy."
That is why Senator Estrada threatened that if he will just look at the entirety of the Senate, instead of them in the opposition he will only be in the opposition.
Instead of them the opposition continue to condemn the people because of stealing.
Well, let us expose it so that everything will come out!
Here we can see, a few senators are going to see if they are still talking about the next Senate hearing and not hiding anything!

Since he became mayor of Caloocan City, Mayor Oca Malapitan presented that illegal gambling in the said city is already exposed.
Especially in the video karera (VK), the youth are obsessed with the Bagong Silang where the police themselves are the owner of the closed machine.
Even in the very near city hall, Vangie Santos is everywhere.
According to our AOIL, Mayor Orca has a staff to milk us for the "Ipit Gang" from the illegal gambling dens.
Even the "bagman of Nonnatus Director C / Supt. Joel Alvarez, Major AJ Riana, is also hardworking in collecting payment.
What, Mayor Oca Malapitan presented, will you really be discouraged from illegal gambling there in Caloocan?
If the report is true that since he became a mayor, Mayor Orca is strolling in casino, well, he will have a hard time to stop the illegal activities in his area.
