The final version of the Student Manual is scheduled to be finished in October.

Mary Joy Viado.
It is expected that the final version of the Student Manual (SM) is expected to come out on October.
It is said that the final person in SM would be finished in the last week of October to conduct a consultation to the students and approved by the Board of Regulatory Commission on SM before the year, UP Diliman, Provincial Council (USC) Chair Gabriel "Heart" Heart "Heart" Heart.
SMC of Doctor Mila, President, president and representative of the University Council Committee on Audit), former Student Regi (000), the former Student Regalibis, and USS Guarda were also part of the said committee, Vice-Chambers (MCMC), the representatives of the municipal review Committee last year.
It's the amendment to the CSC.
The CSC first announced on 2009, because there were some human rights that were not mentioned in the said CSC, according to him, the administration refused the said proposal and again formed the new CSC in the leadership of Enriquez in 2010.
Because it is said that the 2010 CSC is still not able to make a change in the same year to fix the Municipality Committee on top of the same year to fix the Student Hala which led by the APD University Chiefs and the 21 local councils of the UPP).
RR cilia (Decongestion Program of the Supreme Court and his own version of the students of the CSC) in a meeting on October 2011, Subong and the administration agreed to rebuild their SM Beer at the 2010 CSC and Salas.
After putting the final version of SM, it will conduct a series of consultation to SMC to ask for the side of students.
The amendment to the CSC.
Some of the things that the CSC ended up the rules in receiving new members of the organization, surprise and fraternity.
It is also clear in SM the rules about the cases of cheating and theft, even the other things that are considered wrong to the students is also included in the SM SM.
"It is almost all sorts of surprise, fraternity, these can be resolved anytime, but after they can only go to school," said Arguaving.
It is also the purpose of SM on the imposition of a low level of punishment for the cases that will be faced by students, Arguelf, an example, the suspension of the students who will be facing the case of releasing a wrong statement regarding they pretend in the university, being registered students and staying in UP.
"It would be better if the punishment for students.
