
American election.

While I am writing this column, America is busy taking the data of who will be the next president of the United States.
And in my opinion of the election in Major media International Airport, like CNN, I cannot help but was compared to Uncle Sam's country in the Philippines.
It is far from the town of Mister Juan and Aling Maria if we are talking about choosing the leaders of the country.
In the US of a, a very proud of the face but the figure of the voters is the basis of the voters on who their selected leader.
The decision of the candidate for those placed under the debate in different issues related to their lives will be measured.
That is why a few days before the election, the two Presidential candidate will face the Americans in order to show knowledge.
The series of de Sousa's series is done with a place where the voters are giving up to the voters that is why the removal of intelligence of two presidentiable.
In America, the decision of the media is also huge, especially the wide cast of, particularly the television because this is making an intense competition just to go to the debate.
During the campaign period, no one will hear the circle of media in the USA, but scrutinize the voters that are not enough for the voters that are not enough to give a conclusion to the issues of the country that they attacked in the debate.
After the election, the crashed candidate is easier to accept his fate, he is calling the winning enemy, he is calling the winning enemy.
It is not like in the Philippines that the complaint is being blocked by the win so the result: But fight in court, conflict and killings of both camps.
Another intense jealousy is the neglect of the Americans in using too much campaign materials that becomes garbage after election.
For them, they just settle every debate with sharing a positive position like "epal" and "change" of Obama and Romney.
In our country, the left tarpaulins are scattered and hanging on electric posts and wires, which is still good, while the election in the country of Uncle Sam did not learn, that is why the USA is becoming super in power.
"Like what we are going to be affectionate, sorry for what I am happy - as if, Mister Juan and Aling Maria did not have an old age.
That is the truth that is why we are still confused by the "super poor" countries who are bullied by China because of the election only, "we should not be able to fix it.
