
It is very pitiful.

Is the people from Malacañang still have a face with the bad attitude of the country and friends in the country?
In the past World Economic Cooperation (WEF), President Noynoy Aquino's whole opinion that he made the programs of the past administration - anti-PS which is why his administration was successful in spite of corruption.
The three programs then are made by former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PGMA) against those who are cheater in taxes, against those who are pointing a ler and proper service for the tax and collection.
Now, these are the personnel of G. Aquino, who are blaming the foreign contacts is blaming, as if they are gay because the money they promised, things, food and clothes for the victims of Yolanda is not complete.
Many countries were devastated by the typhoon because there are also countries who helped them.
But even if the "promise will not come, they will take initiative.
!
It turns out that the projects can't be done because of the fulfilment of the countries for the promised help of the children of the people who were born, if not, will you not do it?
We can see that the reason why they do not want to be sent by "promised country" the fund is because they saw that the funds that they have already given is not enough.
"To" others, they opted to be the one to do the rehabilitation instead of the help of Noynoy's personnel.
Some of the funds of rice were destroyed in the warehouse of DSWD, a few seconds of food was seen on the grocery, some beautiful blanket, and a few bottles of assistance is being taken, "the yellow and the yellow party are scattered and there are still names of politicians who are everywhere?
Aren't you shy in Malacañang?
You made it back then for a housing program, even a spider and mosquito are afraid to live because it is still dark, even if it is still dark, even if it is still dark, even the price hike on the shower?
Your mask on the face is too thick, maybe that will not be removed.
It can be used for the fund which is in the pocket of Noynoy Aquino in Visayas and that is only in Visayas which is why those in Mindanao who are still in the road are still in the streets?
What you are wearing is a bad mask!
