
She lied.

"
It was discovered that the accusations against VP Binay, who are trying to wear the media, and only his ex-Makati Vice Mayor Ernesto Mercado and the "Ipit Gang" will be for a higher assembly.
If in the hearing of the Senate Blue Ribbon sub-committee, the true businessman Antonio Trillanes came out of the true owner of the farm, to Melo which was led by Senator Antonio Trillanes IV that the following were exposed.
First, it is not a huge loss of the lower owned by Sunny Realty Corporation, one of the company of Tiu, instead, more or less than 140 pesos only.
Second, it is said that Mercado is really a liar for saying that the piggery industries are said to be cowards.
But, if it is not that he is not fooled by Mercado, on the amount of times that they showed on the roof of the piggery, the ground, it is obvious that the direction of wind in piggery can be clearly seen.
And then the piggery industries are being taken by the Shiro Food Park age as San Miguel, just like the removal of the Binays at the nine hectares of the Tiu couple in order for their barbells.
Third, the staff of Senator Alan Peter Cayetano of the camera was already known to use the cameras so they will take a video of the group of Tiu from the helicopter of an Arab Emirates (Secretary Mar Roxas.
Well, its height is the height of its height that Mercado was being told by Mercado who is for-for a queen, but the British will just laugh at them because they have a vast and hot edge.
But for Senator Trillanes, they will release a witness to prove that VP Binay will prove that Binay is the owner of the Rosario farm.
But, one day when the bank had a hole in the face of Tiu but is the proof of the businessman's proof that he is the owner of the piggery?
No!
The truth is that many were amazed by those who have watched Tiu because his answer is straight and has a crazy dog, while there is a crazy dog, who is proud of the senators and those who are proud of.
By on the time, our senators should already know that not all people, they can stand up on the blockage where they are saying that they are saying and what they are trying to destroy are the truth.
If Tiu would also be rude to the three eggs, "hey, their tongue is not equal to face the face-face debate with VP Binay and Trillanes, that is why many are waiting for each other, who are waiting for you!
For the businessmen who understand that Tiu's credibility is complete compared to the mentality that has been tainted in the Senate in fact, the Value or value of the Philippines Stock Exchange has increased and it has been proven that all the defamation are being done against him and politicking against VP Binay.
Aside from that, let us not forget that the big International Inally, which is owned by more than a billion pesos to the company of Tiu, who is a vote of building for him.
