The armed revolution of Andres Bonifacio continues.

On November 30, the people will celebrate the day of the birth of Andres Bonifacio, Talipao, Katipunan, this occasion will be remembered, not only because it will be remembered in front of the increasing-control of the new US in the Philippines and for the full support of the new US Embassy in the Philippines and completely infidelity.

Just like in the past, using this day will use this day to praise Bonifacio, while they are trying to mention his unique contribution as the leader of the Filipino workers and the meddling of the first armed movement in Asia.

They are trying to remove from the minds of the country the real meaning of Bonifacio in his attempt to suppress the advancement of a national solution like what he led, they are using schools and other agencies that have been used in spite of the anniversary of the heroes who have long been buried in the celebration of the hero's anniversary.

The love for Bonifacio and Katipunan was a unique inheritance for the country which is equivalent to the offer of life for the struggle for the national freedom for the national freedom of the armed fight with foreign colonizers.

If Bonifacio and the movement is proper to study, it is not difficult to connect the current order in the past, the foreign owners of the Philippine society are still ongoing, the current leader of the Philippine society is still ongoing, the country is still ongoing, and the country will still continue.

It is in the control of the free US and those with a big marshmallows, they are the primary obstacle of the livelihood of the people because they are taking advantage of the low-mindedness of the Philippines from danger of the people.

The US is asking the politics in the Philippines through those who are going to be the citizen of the country, since the division of the republic in 1946, started to become subservient to the republic in 1946, which led to the legislative chamber that led the law, which was passed by the laws and entered the agreement.

The military's meddling in the country was direct with the local government of the AFP in Mindanao, their troops were not meddling with the local government of AFP in Mindanao and they are not meddling with the local Filipino people who are going to fight the AFP and directly launch of operations in operations.

The toll fee in local culture and education needs to be spread in the local culture and education that may be focused on the needs of big foreign countries and what is said to be focused on the goal of the filipino youth, according to the interest of the filipino masses.

At present, it is the duty of all pure forces to clarify the role of Bonifacio and put him in his right place not only in history, but more important, in the continuing armed movement for the national release.

It is clear in the experience of Bonifacio and the Katipunan, the armed revolution ignited the primary form of the fighting for the national release, but they were convinced that one of the brutal campaign launched by the Bangsamoro Basic Law in spite of the brutal campaign launched by the Spanish colonizers.

But because it is not centered on the side of the country's side, Bonifacio and his co-workers failed to take away the movement and action of the people for the national release and increase in history that the masses can make it and not just a few leaders.

It is only right to focus on course, and time is the coming anniversary and use the next month to prepare for the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Bonifacio in 2013, it is important to use this time to fight over the All Soul's anniversary of Bonifacio in 2013.

It was never true that the Philippines is free, and, as early as now, the armed fight of the Philippines (PKP) did not pass through, it is headed by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), together with the New People's Army and National Democratic Front of the Philippines (PKP), together with the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines (PKP).
