
The wife of Mayor, on the other day, drink two thousand pesos in the casino.

There are many that are in the surroundings of President Noynoy.
If the adviser advising him to remind the group of Sultan Sultan who was captured in Sabah, they would greet the child.
Because of what you did to file a case and threats to the possibility that they can come upon the stand of their Muslim brothers in Sabah and nearby areas in Mindanao, that does not have anything to do with the issue.
Noynoy stood up with a doctration of diplomat that's why there is just a little urge for him to tell all the things that he wants to say, to whatever he would be.
It is only now that we saw that while a person or a group was threatened to file a pile of cases when his name was not released.
Hoping that the Quirino Grandstand hostage drama that was not held properly by the Aquino administration is not repeated which is why the bloody massacre stopped.
After the statement of the President, they are requesting the public to support his resolve in the issue.
Tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, let us pray to Malaysia and the personnel of the Sultanate in Sabah to continue the calm resolution for the responsibility.
You the bad adviser of the beloved President, pray that you will also pray because the banana leaf will be filled with bananas!

Who is the wife of a mayor in Metro Manila which is damn when it comes to the amount of money from the tourist spots in casino?
According to our source, the partner of the mayor is the record that the Pambansang Kamao has a record for 24 years to go home and envious.
It is common to lose the horseshoe, in casino, two hundred thousand should have been high during the adic time.
But this is the wife of the mayor, he is asking two million pesos for every day so the people beside him are surprised at him.
If you bet in the machine, a thousand pesos will be held and three thousand pesos will be the highest medicine for three thousand pesos.
On the other hand, just beside him, he is just an hour.
There is no more than five seconds after a beat of the bicycle, so it is certain that the operators of the casino for him will be sure.
Hoy, do not use all the money stolen by your wife!
It is easy to get to know the wife of the mayor in Metro Manila, just go into your favorite songs. "
In Hact casino, the PCP-Pacific Ocean is always playing!
