The noodle house of de Lima on the pork barrel scam is unintentionally.

We have a saying that BITAG is reminding our friends to be a player, "do not waste a noodle house," it means that you should just let the process right for the result.
On the side of Justice Secretary Leila de Lima who is holding the case on the anomalous pork barrel scam of Queen Janet Lim-Napoles, it's as if he himself is the root of his noodle house.
Why won't it be, that, where it goes to and who will be the center of the case, the center of the case should be stated, to prove the mistakes of Miss Napoles, but there, and even his personnel at the National Bureau of Investigation are involved.
He was fired by Deputy Director Reynaldo Esmilla, his allegations that they played with the Queen Janet, whether Rey and Basil, why did they not go with the NBI?
Now, the truth came out, "it's the former wife of Napoles, who is the former wife of Napoles, who has met with resigned NBI director Nonnatus Rojas and another NBI deputy director and a closed-circuit television! Jesus us, I am known even by the good driver-bodyguard of Delarah, I mean, de Lima.
We will repeat it, so that they are legal, this is legal, the primary involved are Napoles and some lawmakers in the Senate and Legislative Chamber, I am not wondering why the three - Senators Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla, are all enemies in the party.
So that it seems that Secretary Leila is not a lawyer for that case and we are afraid that he might be older than anyone who will continue to attract the local government to make the lower part of the government to make it agree?
Look at what happened to the former Technology Development Assistance Center Dennis Cunanan's destruction and emphasis that it is as if the Commission on Benhur Luy seemed to have been destroying his support from Whishaw in the lower guard?
The iron fist of Ruby Tuason, who went on vacation in America, is the only fight against the pork barrel scam?
Best for Leila de Lima to move on the chaos happening in her noodle house now is her resign!
