Hacienda Luisita.

December 12, 2013 - six hectares of rice has been sold by the guards of the Great Star.
A Maila dela Cruz who is said to be an official of TADECO, was controlled by the clan of Cojuangco-Aquino.
Hopefully the farmers will harvest the rice this December 20!
What happened to the final decision of the Supreme Court to bring back the farmers, the real owners of the anHacienda Luisita?
Where is the arrogance of Agrarian Reform of Virgilio delos Reyes that they will give the Hacienda Luisita to give the workers and farmers?
It is now being considered by TADECO and Guiguinto Realty Corporation, which is also owned by Cojuangco-Aquino's clan who is really negligent of Pro-80 hectares, are they really afraid to implement the law? Or even if they are really earning a powerful clan?
I remember that in the decade of 70, in Hacienda Luisita, the new Liberal Party of the Philippines under Jose Maria Sison or Joma.
It is also where the Bagong Hala Bayan, which was led by Bernabe is headed by Bernabe, or Ka Dante, where are you, companions?
For what is happening, the Marcos regime was worse than the previous administration of former President Ferdinand Marcos in the past administrations of former President Ferdinand Marcos, on corruption, Commission on Audit (COA) Chief Grace Pulido-Tan, that corruption is severe now compared to the past three administrations!
Where is a civil case that's why he / she is not the person who is patriotic, and where are the real patriot, we are not qualified, but what is happening is too much.
We saw how much was the revenge of Cojuangco-Aquino through Noynoy's revenge is there who continue to be imprisoned, in the hospital, but in the final command, the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo (PGMA) is not enough to kill.
We also witnessed the removal of the illegal Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.
What Noynoy is doing is cruel, as if, the citizens will cause death because of poverty and hunger?
There are those kinds of testimony of negligence like calamities that almost do not care about what he goes to the places, he was forced to run as a president.
"What is his last words to those who are asking for help and criticizing his shortcomings," it is up to you to Lord, I am busy with me! "Noynoy 'play in the play station?
