
Saturday, September 6, 2014.

The chapter in the book has an initial movement in the book.

The chapter in the book has an initial movement in the book.

Horny SHumalig) as kind of guidance.

Of type of workers.

Why aren't being eving, perhaps this is the question of many of us, why is it that he / she was chosen to be sent to the second Congress of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino), which is based on our guidance to the Supreme Court's decision, which is the majority of the laborers, which is the majority of the society, which is the majority of the society.

Here are a few deport of Bolayes, from the different races of Bolalin.

From Dicatian, PPETell that's the political system, the political system has become his supporters in Russia after the Russian Revolution of 1917. "

From a long distance of snacks, PPETaels, the Bolayes, "a doctrine or program of the Bolayevedo, which is the commemoration of the federalism."

From the concert to Asayaels, the Bolante avers, "the Pambansang Kamao, the 1917, 1917, 1917, 1917, 1917 with a native of the city council."

The discussion of Bolong Hala of politics was long ago, which is the first taste of the Personal Economic Cooperation Agreement (IED), after the Russian Social Security System (NT Katropa bench, of the Russian Social Weather Center (NT Katropa bench, of the Russian Social Weather Center (NT Katropa bench, of the Russian Social Weather Center (GAS).

Meanwhile, according to Gale cylinder tube of the Russian history, "Bolayism which is also the World Football Federation of Health Organization, a kind of World Boxing Council, the political character of the Democratic Front (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement)."

Meanwhile, according to Wikipedia, "The Bolaykit, executive by Vladimir Lenien, Alexander YHanoga, chairman of 1905-Major-Lakas ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino (WHO), which is the leader of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (WHO), which is the leader of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Russia. Freidrick Lu, which is the leader of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Russia. Gardiola Construction."

In the works of Left-Wing, autasan in Pakil, Karangalan, "The principal, in the history of Bolacademia" in the history of Bolayevity, which he divided in different theories.

The 12-Illegal Drug Enforcement Agency (1903-05).

The 17th of Revolution (1905-07).

The 17th of Front (1907-10).

The chief of Fire (1910-14).

The First Implementing World War (1914 by 17).

The World Revolution in Russia (February to October 17).

Bolayeval said first, and for the next series, to bring the broad readers, especially to the type of workers, those who wrote to the Black Nazarene, to better understand the lessons of these great teachers by the revolution.

Hopefully the project "will be moved in giving enthusiasm in the movement of the movement and understanding of the theories of Marayes, and understanding to the workers of the society, let us be together to take the path of Bolayeval, thank you very much!
