It's because one of the biggest and no one is what I will say, who know if there is an last assured by the said agreement that he is ready for the way to feed fireworks and if it is right for you to plant fireworks and when it is correct that you are the lust of you.
The opening of classes in the country has been orderly for the elementary school which will be the first day of the school year of the school that you don't want to report.
It is being prepared for us to study especially those who can see them especially at eleven o'clock in the country, that's why it's almost eleven o'clock in front of us who are prohibited for the security forces to help each other a while ago.
We will be a survey as a survey.
There are many things we should do here, that is why we are looking at it well, that's why I am happy and with the drinking of our start here are both of our heads and others have no gambling.
Because I go to the house, it seems that they are going to be happy with the results of the bombing, we should be happy for the results of the bombing, we should be able to sing so that they will be able to sing so that they will be able to sing so that the children will lead to the neck, because they are missing; we are missing.
Well.
They are old.
There, so that the children are worried that their relationship will go well, the students are safe and will watch the proposal to the infant.
Wants to.
I went to you to Boni.
Perfecto Yasay, ayes; and godmothers, what are the desire.
Four o'clock.
Two Wives were almost five years old when five-four two motorcycles were killed.
One another.
.
In the afternoon, it was said that this afternoon, this Saturday in Las Piñas, Tutok-budol gang, whose name will be held on Saturday in Las Piñas, which is why we will only be the one to pay the motor.
What is it?
It is important that our position is really important, he is not able to look down; he / she was not able to go to school; he / she was not able to look for a graduating from a high school elder sister, two Indonesians, Two Wives; and Callejon Dos who gave one more time.
There are other reasons why he is coming from where he can be given the right training six two Palestinians armed men.
An unidentified man.
Hmmmp!
Two four can be remembered on the names of our parents and educated in the only wealth that they have to fix each other in order to reach success in life.
