Does Bobbie still live with smoking cigarette after being forgotten that it did not reach the two roads that you buy Santa Rosa four years old, "Joseph Estrada.
This is the grandmother of the lawmakers.
What's the time, we, in the government, are only here from a pipe because we still do not have a basketball cigarette yes, that is why you are sure that you will receive a proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the proposal to ask for the
It is not here in the '70s that Daboy who is taking a appetizer when you buy ham, favorite president, which can be exported; so that he did not hit there, Philippines.
Corporation, I have forgotten him in relation to the mail that you buy for me, so for a few hours that your tongue is very good to you, that is why I am beautiful than Juan Luna what time I am.
All of them.
He was not able to notice that I was listening to Pandacan, that's why he / she was stupid.
Do you know that his bones are too big in the middle of the afternoon.
No.
They are on the two land title.
Yes, when I am the only hardworking, it is really hardworking in his hut.
What?
You are working as the voice of your voice, whose legs are low; and unciation; Gulanggani; without Tobacco Corporation, in the mind.
"We are with our allies in the 'party, yes, we can understand that I really understand that I really love her yes to a bullet with cigarettes, that's why she's a bit of gift.
To be given.
Tomorrow, I explained to the personal things that we will buy from the sari-sari store, we will just let us get from the newspaper.
It was removed when he was called four o'clock and four o'clock.
According to him, it seems like you are going to decrease and put it on top.
For four-up-up, it will only be an hour for 10 pesos, they will only send a text message to him / her, pesos, for a higher PL-R), which is why they got away.
Yes, they are washing these kinds of viand.
Yes, he / she grew up; he / she grew up; twelve; and then a very much loved one is very expensive.
What is it?
At my present, he / she was full-tempered; so much, how much was the ambulance; that's why they will lie down.
At present, we are very innocent.
There are only two cases.
It's only now that I am.
It's five in the next generation that might be the highest until now.
Dela Cruz, four years old, so it's a little bit not complete, because we are just the two of us who are going to be a plastic plastic bags so that it will be a higher do, that is why I know the New Year.
Okay?
It has been cut off and it's only now that there are three speculations that we know to pray.
Talk about it last night.
So I am the one I love.
In our opinion, the most important thing is that, what's important here is that, as long as I call your mother, Dr. Love, I am the only call of the computer in the Philippines, that is why the price of petroleum will go to the Philippines, which is why the price of petroleum will go to the Philippines, so much.
I do not know what I am not smoking.
You will drink alcohol when I do not know the price.
But you cannot be able to study what is to do that the trouble is done, so that he will not be able to stand up, so that he will not be able to look at each other, because it is only one o'clock and a few pesos.
I myself know how I am outside or not just near the Philippines.
No minutes.
A short-year-old, we are just okay.
!
You are so far away from me and I have to support me as if ah, my blood, which is the same age, is very weak.
Ah, it seems that you are still in a little child with a little child, and here, I am still low here in another country.
Two six-six-four children were only five in five years.
We are not here even if the farmers are asking me, I really do not agree at the hotel that was said to be sent to support.
He said, I am also a Guzman, who you are alone with you, that's why he's good in the morning.
I am just a little bit more than a doctor who is already hungry for your health, so we need to support that we will be able to support my health; we are busy in your health, especially that you are busy and nothing is going to go to the illness.
It is the attitude that hated by fellow ten-Active people, who are being made to be kind to school; we should be thankful to the children who passed here in the province, that's why we should be thankful to the children who passed away from the provinces that's why they should have a good strategy in the province, which is why the price will become expensive and more than Friday.
We can make it okay if I have a hard time to look down; we have a hard work; yes, ah, to buy.
That's why we are very pitiful; we do not need our body, it's okay why you are okay, why are you so that we are in the same place.
While they were watching a dog, I did not call each other for four years to leave, at around five o'clock, what if I was looking for your voice that we were looking for, we were not able to drink in Cavite level, but I was not able to live with each other.
For me, what would we go to and then we were able to go at the plenary because that's a bit more positive that our position might be called Equal Employment Opportunity or Mumbai, Philippines Corporation.
Even the people.
Yes, one small thing I have mentioned in the position I have been saying, he is still here, he is still here, he is still here, the farmers, who will run to us, will be broken; they can't be seen, farmers of work for them, I can't even be seen.
That is not what they did not give to the computer companies that were only seventeen years old, but I was only seventeen years old; I was second with the vegetables.
You are the ones that will be ruined.
The government is earning from the decision that he will come from, he / she is going to come from being eighty-four) from them, it is difficult for you to increase the political sector that is why it's also difficult that the government is seen by the government, Boy Abunda, who will be lost, will be gone.
Perhaps.
I have to get many water for him.
That's why he should really look down; he / she needs to look down; he / she is our youngest, I feel that I am the youngest in Singapore; I feel that there are farmers who are afraid of Hong Kong in Singapore's face.
The cigarette is nothing to be affected here in the Philippines Street Batasan Quezon City alcohol, we are sulking by farmers who are playing basketball, most of the places used to break the product of the job, they are being ignored, are being ignored.
