The peace talks by GPhilippine National MILF is expected to be drowned because of the encounter in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.

Macky Macasaverted!
January 27, 2015.

The celebration of Mamasapano, Maguindanao died from Google Earth.
Worried about human rights are the possible attack of the war in Mindanao after it was caught by the encounter of the Special Action Force (SAF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (MILF) and Bangsamoro Islamic
The government is worried that the war will be revealed when the police will have been able to commit suicide due to the death of not less than 43 policemen and injured by the said group that will have a big effect of the incident in a long-time negotiation between the government and MILF.
The Suansis also called to investigate the alleged failed anti-ranking operations of the PNP-SAF that ended in an encounter.
"The PNP-SAF needs to explain how the filing of the warrant of arrest was brought by the warrant of arrest between the Jemaah Islamiyah and Basit Usman and Universities Hir alias Marwan, according to Jerome Aladversary, alias Marwan, said, spokesperson of Suitos.
The MILF is already known for Brgy. Eve-og.
"There is no coordination.
Aalso said, the AFP - MILF, Joint Committee and even the local police are not aware of the local government's operation that the MILF attacked the local government to fire back in the operation of SAF, "he said.
He added that the PNP might receive wrong information that in this place, the members of the Jemaah Islamiyah.
Both sides of the victim acquired two sides and wounded, aside from the location of the residents of the said place.
"Some of the drug addicts (evacuees are said to be searched and shot by members of the SAF on their houses and were arrested by some Moro who were suspected to give information to the rebels," said Aba.
In the statement of the took place, PNP officer-in-release, Deputy Director General Leonardo Espina, 392 SAF were able to join the said operation, and their belief was identified as Valeriana.
It is said that the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters did not neglect a few opinions that the incident is part of a big amount to risk-in peace talks.
Meanwhile, the Senate and Legislative Chamber are suspended for the deliberation of the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
"Your decision on the suspension of the BBL, and the statements of Representative Rodolfo Biazon, who is asking the ability of a government government and the military, is showing discrimination," said Amphibious Lalaurie, spokesperson of SuansBangulo.
Because of this incident, there is a basis on the loyalty of the government to implement the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
"One more alarming is the offer of million dollars for the PNP-SAF to catch a terrorists," said Lerio Bompat, the intelligence report related to the Jemaah Islamiyah in the places of Bangsamoro will be repeated again, but civilians are becoming victims of human rights.
Women are the victims of human rights in the time of the conflict between MILF and the government, in a short-um!
Legitimate operation?
Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Manuel Roxas III insisted that the operation is legal and not to sabotage the peace talks.
"This is a legitimate law Enforcement Agency in searching for Marwan and Basit Uammad. We) to ask how he found out that this two targets of this has been known," Roxas said in the took place.
He also said that what happened and the government is loyal to the peace talks, "we are expecting that in the conversation of the national panel of government and management of MILF) that is not part of the attack against them by the BIFF," Roxas said.
The Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) said, the alliance between the families of the organization, which is more acceptable to us by Roxas, that he knows the operation of SAF-PNP in the territory of the MILF.
"Since the beginning, the officials of the cabinet knows this operation, isn't it that they are in the position so that they should not know from the MILF Peace Process?" Said Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.
Reyes also said that during the name of this incident, "the high ranking officials of the government like Roxas came from responsibility.
"The problem is being looked at an extensive level, and not from the point, the people who are making the policy," said Reyes.
Involvement in the US.
Also included in the authorities are investigating the presence of the American soldiers in order to save the corpses and wounded police officers in expressing the government to interfere with the troops of the Americans.
"The government put all the presence of the American troops, who need to be there in the disputed areas and for the development of the Philippines in the campaign against the United States, and this is where the information gathered by the military is wrong," said Liwag.
The Bayan also questioned the involvement of the military's involvement in the operation of SAF-PNP in Mamasapano.
"Will the US give information to the location and activities of Marwan?
He also said that it can be recalled that the US was involved in the operation of military who should kill Marwan in a airstrike last 2012.
