
CYBER attacked the martial law!

Just recently, the majority of the magistrates of the Supreme Court (SC) decided to reveal the implementation of the Cyrus (SC) who supported the implementation of the Disbursement Acceleration Program (SC) that was only made inside a short time as the shield of lawmakers against ordinary citizens who are against the mistakes of the Congress.
Compared to more important and end the proposed law, the Islamic Liberation Front (FOI) was made to sleep because if they bring it to it, they are politicians and officials of the country because this is the first one to be hit and hit by calamity.
The fruit of the 1986 People's Power Revolution was made to waste because it was done by the people to end the dictatorship which killed our democracy, the Filipinos inside and outside of the country, the EDSA People Power Plant and they have succeeded.
In the time of our under democratic condition, it is slowly missing and you will be gone, and slowly, we are going to pass by an oxygen tank and taking advantage.
The heat in deciding and accusations being exposed on the roads will not be repeated again and action in Plaza Miranda, especially in EDSA that is a new face of freedom, is it really lazy or lazy?
The CyIslamic Liberation Front of a few lawmakers who are affected by the criticism of aware people, not like before, the aware of the masses went straight to the road to protest but not to pull the number of technology in the internet, in social media like Facebook and Twitter.
The cases made by the officials of the country like to, corruption, corruption, corruption, corruption, pork barrel scam, DAP, and are the netizens who are taking advantage on Facebook and Twitter.
And now it will be removed from the obstacle of the Cyng mga Bayani, the politicians and officials of the country are free to take revenge on anyone who criticized their same age as well, they can guard anyone who are against their corruption.
In the face of CyInternational Criminal Law, it is even worse than Martial Law, it is even worse than President Benigno Aquino III, that his family is the primary victim of the cruel law before.
"What kind of blood is G. Aquino, you are more cruel to the kicked-out of the dictator! 30.
