Budget for comprising where and pain in the flood.

We are going to us, Bro, of flood-prone countries.
Like what we are experiencing, in a little rain, many areas are flooded immediately.
If the rain falls in one, two or three hours or one, two or three days, after it took the declaration of "no class in school, office, and others.
There are also severe traffic, landslide and many evil events on the streets, houses and others.
There is also the declaration of the "state of calamity."
Because, deep flood is certain in many places.
Especially in the towns and cities that are almost roads, houses, factory, condominium, mall and city hall which are only seen and there is no tree.
It is not effective for a little-year-year-year-year-year-year-law enforcers who can earn a way to earn money and not to fight flood.

These are the funeral and mountain.
Yesterday, we mentioned almost bald people fall for the wake and mountain in our country, in the record of the government, around 1 / 4 have been the forest in 36 million hectares of the land of my beloved Philippines.
The evidence is clearly seen if we are going to travel to the main roads of the country.
Especially during rainy days, color, rocks are only being seen in the wake and mountain.
If it rains, the water quickly went down with mud going to the rivers and all nearby areas.
It's because the trees are gone to drinks water first before they get out of the surroundings, which is flooded with fear.
That is already flood in the narrow streets until the ocean.
MPDPS-Station 6.
What we know, Bro, are the government and non-government units for planting many trees in the surroundings.
But we do not see any kind of planting of a tree as "tanim-cover" of the mountains, wake, and other places that will surely be used by the tree to look down.
That is like an example of planting the tubes, banana, banana and others who take advantage of the plan of planting.
The government will also plan to coordinate with the countries with the successful implementation of the Light Rail Transit program.
But to our knowledge, until now, it is up to now.
The government might avoid the big expenses in planting and placing a tree if it will be planted.
What they want is to spend money for the foreigners this kind of program and will entrust everything to it, even the harvest of timber and other benefits to the trees.
Grandmothers, GER OBira!
We will not be sure that the case that I love for the Philippines is really stop.
Because of all of us, there are those who are operating until now that the number of homicide is still ongoing.
If there were even those who were allowed to plant down, they should keep them to plant trees in areas where they get killed.
Those who stopped him have stopped which has long been stopped in our forests, it might be difficult to chase after.
Maybe, what can be done is to chase the people who are negligent of their duty to implement the number of dollars that will plant.
There are many people who have money from bribes that flowed down to make them look for a show.
And until now the Department of Environment and Natural resources of the project here are just serious.
Fund the REM-Station.
In our question to the government, is there a fund for the Libingan ng mga Bayani in the year 2013?
If there is nothing, it means that no one is not in the list of the government, the lack of planting tree as priority and because of this, we will remain to have a difficult time.
And if there is still no fund in 2014 and in the next year, the surroundings are really being neglected.
And the entire country will not be destroyed because of flood?
There is a big negligence, Bro, of those currently serving for the protection of our generation and next generation.
Millions of people will face a disaster every time there is rain and flooding that will happen in every place in the country.
