Complained by Dinya?

The plunder case in America became a serious line with the newspapers and in some parts of us, the filing of discrimination among former actress Dinya Gallardo is against the famous actress Frank Miller and his girlfriend, Karangalan Village.
The issue on social communications will also hit.
Frank Miller is for those who do not know, is a famous writers, very popular and being considered kind of director and is made known as a famous director and one of the famous Miss Darna Kyung-2000) and many others.
He is calling on the world of movies in America and even in the whole world.
Many are surprised because we do not have news here about Dinya?
He has been in the Philippines for a long time and he worked in America for a long time.
If you can read the complaint of Dinya, it has been placed under his fist against her employer Miller and his girlfriend who is Cox, you is a masses.
It is scary and treated what was done to him, according to his sworn statement.
I salute Nepo Gallardo.
Admirable is what he did.
It is not easy to file a case in America especially against the famous and power.
But Dinisn't Gallardo said that she will not be gone to waste because he became a beauty queen of an actress.
Maybe it is also difficult for him because, perhaps, he does not show who he is and this case has put him in a corresponding line, and may be the cause of defamation to him.
The name he is carrying and have signed the case filed against Joanna Gallardo-Milan.
I am happy that according to the reports, the lawyer of Dinya is good because his lawyer is important.
But my point is the complaint made by Dinya.
I have a lot of known Filipinos who experienced discrimination in other countries but they do not have courage to file a complaint against any reason.
Many of them have no confidence to treat themselves as regular citizens in the country they chose.
Many of them have no strength to insist on their rights as well as well as a person.
The fight of Dinya Gallardo is still long and it will not be easy.
His opponents are powerful and in filing a case, it seems that he has tainted the reputation of the famous Frank Miller and his girlfriend.
Long live your commitment if you will be blessed by God!
