Kaligayahan, August 2nd, 2012, Nunber by Philippine Collins.

Hmmmp!

Tindan, Almazan.
There was one Monday when I went home since I rode a jeepney and paid eight pesos. "
Hopefully it will be easy to make it easy, hopefully the freedom of Minoras and the streets that I left is still full of red and people who are being accused of laziness, because instead of working hard and working, they chose to use traffic.
The decision of the majority is shouting and shouting.
The noise in the streets are going along with the noise of the internet when the rainy season comes, they forced to give the president and get rid of the country's culture so that the country will not progress because of those who are spreading and making noise in the road.
At the same time, the people will be swayed by the term of Aquino's term, according to the third SONA of the President, we were able to build the straight path, however, we need to build the straight path, but in spite of defective words, we need to be in critical condition, we should be in critical condition in history when we don't need to cheat on the road.
If just in the issue of addition, the number of questions that have no response was added to the number of victims of human rights violations and if there is no need to increase the budget for education, why is there a need to increase their own land?
Hopefully, all people are going to be united when people feel the real prosperity of said prosperity, sometimes there are things that will not be given justice by a simple addition if it is just the beginning, there is something wrong in which they use.
So where education will be, if you will not be cheated on, it is as if you are going to study it, so they are not studying if it is not for the society?
"There was one Monday when I went home from the expected storm, my advice was not done against the rays of the sun, the Lord said," the Lord said.
We walked away and shouted at the road when I was with my own friend's faces and I also talked to those who seem to have no name, even before we met, we joined our belief.
The truth is, it is able to go out of screaming when nobody is listening but what the streets are really the answer to the missing peace?
All of us want the same thing that I want to wake up in a Philippines with free freedom, hopefully you should not think about it to avoid trouble or even cause traffic.
I am not able to go with my ranks, even if I cannot convince the widespread sides, your rights are also your right, and the cry of yesterday has given peace now.
