Below by tornadoes and increasing.

Instead of blaming the Malacanang just to dismiss the peak of its downhill road to Salisi Gang, we need to get a feel better and act on it right.
All sorts of people are the ones who can be found out and down from the grades in Malacanang.
At first, its grades are in a lower part of Ibon Foundation and Pulse Asia.
Now, it is also a lower part of the Social Weather Station.
When they were able to do it, they are not talking about the declaration of the Supreme Court's declaration of the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
If the DAP was able to be with the DAP, we don't know why their grades are stronger, including PNoy.
Yes.
The question: Is it contented or not the people on the performance or work of the government?
Here is the result of Brigada Eskwela to be held in the last few days of June 2014.
Purpose, or moderate to + 29 are the grades of the Aquino government.
It came from a higher cost of good luck to + 45 last January to March 2014 and a high level of 101 to + 51 last October-December 2013.
When the Aquino administration was able to make it to the Aquino administration, it is more than 80 percent of its grades but now there are also a number of have been hit by this.
With the real score, the SWS, the SWS, about 56 percent, are not satisfied with the work of the government while around 26 percent are not happy and around 18 percent have nothing to say if they are contented or not.
Malacanang said, many are still contented the reason why work continues.
What is important is, they are fulfilling their promises.
And, all of these kinds of rating is nothing.
Just that, okay?
But, if we will say that the World Health is saying that the government is saying that the country's improvement of the country from this year until 2015, the government does not care?
Yellow Sea.
Let us remember, Bro.
"Is PNoy not calling the people to wear the yellow ribbon committee to show their support to his fight for the Disbursement Acceleration Program?
The State of the Nation Address arrived, it is suspicious that the thousands of people who are wearing a yellow outside of the Congress and in front of the police are not there.
They say, they even went with the red uniform wearing a yellow or yellow epidemic.
But after PNoy's call for the yellow party, no one followed him.
Can this be the sign that there is a real result of mung beans?
That not only the citizens are not contented, but many are against the current administration?
Where is the government going to say that what's important is Malacanang is saying that what's important is, is they fulfilling their promise?
No.
The citizens have important needs and if the government will find it, there is no doubt that the high confidence of them will remain in the end.
But the truth is, the people's confidence increased.
This means, Bro, who did not respond to the government for the important needs of the citizens.
If not, the government says what the government is saying about its promises.
If the government is fulfilling his promises, what are the promises of that?
Are the promises to the important needs of the citizens?
Important needs.
Here, Bro, provide a sample of the important needs of the citizens.
Low price of rice and other goods, oil, electricity, water, toll, fare and others.
Increase in salary, having jobs, permanent work, freedom of hunger and poverty, high level of education and many others.
Quick action to the calamities and others.
Didn't the government respond when good here?
All goods and bills are very expensive.
For two years, the government is not talking about the increase in salary of the workers.
The salary is no longer increasing, the Bureau of Internal Revenue, despite the preparation and bonus of these, are still being monitored.
The government does not have any action against the violent protest that destroys a long work and increase of salary.
And the government is very proud of the response to the lonely condition of the distress.
Now, what are the government saying that his promise is fulfilling this?
Should be returned.
If the government wants to return to the trust of the citizens in the government, it should be returned or peeked through said important needs.
It's not "that he has his own projects or programs that he thought is for the welfare of the citizens.
It is not bad or wrong to have a own project or program that will offer the government to the people.
But it is more important that the government knows the needs of the citizens and this is where he poured on his power and funds.
Then, along with the other ademia or purpose, just like pretending to destroy corruption and corruption, in the end, it is still a failure because their opponents are being harassed and not included in those KKK and not included.
