The jeans next.
Bailagutan, August 19, 2016, the government is being showered with the leadership of the Department of Transportation (DOTr) in resolving the problem of traffic, which we want to give and this is the suspension of the worsening traffic in Metro Manila.
Why did we even dragged the these terrorists? This is because many of them are operating on the main roads even if they do not have their own parking.
Where do you see a private school which is being used by the vehicles in teaching the students or applicants who are only in front of their own parking area because of the lack of own parking space of their vehicles, the roads that are supposed to pass by the people.
It's because it's really difficult for the local government units (LGU) so this kind of business kind of business will be lessened but it will only be the approval of the approval of the approval of a thorough investigation.
As of now, schools in Metro Manila are everywhere and they can see these kinds of small places.
That's why it should be inspected by LGUs as well as government agencies that have something to do with this issue.
Aside from the non-minded school, members of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) and the residents of Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) and the residents of Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) and those in the main roads, particularly along Commonwealth Avenue and Quirino Highway, both in Quezon City.
Along with the funeral parlor Chapels and those affected in the stretch of Commonwealth Avenue, which is being made into a huge parking of their client is the National Road, that is why the wide length of Commonwealth Avenue is tight.
If the LGUs got caught with the MMDA, it is not impossible to ease the heavy flow of traffic in the said places.
In the current situation of our traffic in Metro Manila, there is a need for the serious implementation of laws and ordinances that are related to the punishment of the congested traffic flow.
Aside from what I mentioned, one of the primary needs to solve the problem of traffic is to keep discipline to the motorists and the people when it comes to the road.
If we do everything, there is no need to spend a huge amount in order to solve the heavy traffic that we are experiencing.
