I am just okay with John Paul who will support yesterday about the people close to the public.
I called "ny.
They are working on the Corona supreme court to me, Anthony Castro, and care of his room until he is not able to pay something that Paulo is not able to pay anything that's why he doesn't want that, they would be the ones who will take care.
Only on the law was the celebration of Karla Medina Bustillos and another thing, before Carla Villa has no car in the market of October two, I still wanted a car in the market of December two, that he still wanted to reach up in the office that the former President Propaganda of his personal position in the market, which was why his problem was not seen.
He / she was seventeen years old but Arvin Amistoso, right?
In the coming of December 31, the one who should have talked about the news next is only temporary because I said we can remember anything that Carla would be removed from work to go back to work.
He voluntarily surrendered to the one who said that, in case he / she will be in case, he / she can take care; he / she can look down; he / she is interested in his room to go back to the room.
We will not be able to go to a fight, I am about to end up in a fight, we have been finished; we went to Carl '.
To any Corona's first agenda to show out the long time of the annual budget that will arrive in the public.
There is a need for fare.
Going to sleep.
If he was able to study again to buy a new one to sleep, he / she was too late in the morning.
I will buy the money they will buy for the former president what can help here in his position.
I also heard him like that.
He can wait for these words only after he / she was able to pay back to four consecutive years that the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo is what I should go to.
He should face his hand in his work at home.
Thank you very much.
The statement made by the President is that they are very weak at me, whoever has a hindrance to me, who has a serious talk to me because he is close to his family, that's why he is close to his family, which is one of the Midnight afternoon for August 18).
If he is annoying, Two passengers are annoying for a Sunday.
Here in your service, then put it in the country.
Really.
Yes, he really has a strong evidence.
While you will not go home, I respect what the former advisers are saying, according to his wife, they are expecting a receipt from anything.
She told me that it is a call for me to start.
The eye of the young man is far from the parents of the young man here.
Went to another country.
