Meanwhile, some of the people, Amulung, lot of people, will be the one to visit the soldiers, Luna Medical Center in Quezon City so that we can see in April our colleague, who is a big sister.
Already paid.
Let's be.
I will buy immediately that's why I said, "he said, that I am the shy one of the patient who is a patient, who is the soldier here in the cover-law, we were visited by the Amulung, Sunday before the time of March two are those who are wounded.
This was a soldier here, according to me, that it's too far for the president of the President to see that he is being picked up by the soldiers because he keeps on stomping on the body, which is why he keeps on stomping on the body, which is why he keeps on stomping his / her duty.
Bowie, who is on the video code, is going to have a way to kiss, he said.
Troy.
Money.
Bag.
To the mother of our soldiers, this is also my present here in the Philippines.
Medical Center.
We do not like our companions who are bathing in the area.
The President ordered him to resign.
He wants to invite the people here.
He said that he needs a lot in the orphanage in the kingdom of kingdom of mind if you are just an acquaintance who is also an acquaintance of Calamudi.
Ah, ah, in what he said, what he said, he is sure that he will always say that he will be doing the welfare of his work together with this, which is why he said that he needs someone to be Jaguen.
Salary is because there is one part in Nueva Ecija that he wants to do Dolano.
Eight of our voices came from the Philippines.
I am very pitiful; we are not having a hard work; it seems that I am not having a hard time with the anomaly, including my child one number.
Possible.
He / she grew up; he / she was able to look at the Pagadian police; he was asking the soldiers to know the condition of the soldiers, which is why there was another mother given to him in Sampaloc, which is why the trouble was done.
This is the giving of their grades.
Member is a possibility that the advice of van to illegal drugs is also a part of illegal acts that is really part of your former aunt, Tita.
For Ate Melissa Zailon and four people who are not the owner of the three patients here, who is currently jailed here in those included in there that are just almost nine; but in Mindanao, they are just waiting for a new thing; however, he / she wants to be salads.
The seat of August is what he was looking for was when I was looking for me and that's why it's just a joke.
That's how they have their own fall.
With them, when you saw that the king was able to pay attention to the other month 'brows, he wanted to do it to the country where it was not right to talk to other soldiers, he / she didn't want to talk to other soldiers, he / she didn't want to talk about the fact that he / she didn't want to talk about the possibility that he / she didn't talk to him, the possibility that he / she was going to have a treatment towards him.
Covetous, dearse;
Last, I still didn't even say that we have been fighting for the wake of one hundred pesos because the soldier still fought back where they are going to talk to them.
He cooked a lot of fish that he wants to hear.
Angelita yes, the losses were taken by them because of their visit and what is really being annoyed.
We are very noisy; we are different; we are different from the house of grandmother.
Ah, there is no vehicle to help with the size of the syndicate station for those who have a bad intentions, it seems like there is a vices written in it.
Thursday.
He / she was very angry; I am not hoping that four o'clock; I am not hoping to avoid the eighty-four to pay, where do you take a bath in the self, which is why those who have been cut off are in the act.
In the successful place there are out that the leader of a leader has a weak problem of a leader with the payment that they have already paid for a long time.
The mother of the place so that it was too tired of six months, did she say that even though she does not even use it, he will not be able to leave before he has no text message.
It is that her mother is looking like a look like her mother in the country who does not want her anymore.
Let us lower just a little bit more, let us leave his defeat for six-years since this is visited inside the U-T: Medical Center but you really love to listen to what I am saying to him.
No one is watching the ighty-tempered; we can only go ahead, we will go back to Korean.
Communicating.
He is serious.
Just for you, I am not here with you.
Thank you very much and he will rain.
I, all of you.
