There are also many in giving things.
When your voice is not seen, they are also saddened by what happened to him, Teresa, who is also saddened by what they should talk to, which is why they are looking for the truth and to turn the truth to anyone who will go to the death of four years.
Covetous, fittest; we are stupid.
Bo-Boracay to the people who joined with my uncle, I do not know.
What?
Nicole is.
Four o'clock.
Voted in.
Covetous, fur, "I said.
What happened to that is not expected to be four but he said there's no one who wants to call him, he said, he / she said that he / she didn't know how to help them, he / she said that they were still in the video, but what they say is that we are in the video, why are they not saying that they are dead in the video.
Two Wives and Two Wives are innocent.
He / she was eight years old.
Two Wives of Two have nothing to do.
It seems like four four.
The two days for two days, it is very good at five o'clock in the morning that you want to happen.
Really a lot.
Just not.
You will lower themselves on how you found out for justice, especially when you have seen that the American teenagers are hungry for them, I have seen that we have been able to talk to us four who have been cut off in front of us in front of you in front of you.
Medicine!
We know how they were killed but we should first put our six-six children to help.
Zero.
Four persons were killed.
Obviously four.
!
Two Wives.
Brutally murdered.
Does not want to.
You, this is for you to be cut off, because he said to you, the two Filipinas who were eight years old and two men.
That was my one to talk to.
Because they do not know how many years have passed, especially the peace of the government for them.
My conclusion to the motorcycle, we can be able to go to school; we can go to other countries with us in other countries.
Again!
A Sunday is called here in Marinduque bicycle for a Brigada Eskwela to have an outing at five o'clock in there when you had an outing at five o'clock and two weeks for you to be your beauty one six months.
Four kilos of Two.
Five in Pangasinan.
There are some eggplant parts of the mountain.
Aga, is it that way?
It is difficult for the friends of Moro and Moro who are also poor in other places.
Only here in the age of Two and aunt Roselle, the occasion is open to pick up; and fur.
I have not yet known each other; I have no idea, I know that I am together.
And I also believe.
You know, that the truth is, read all the media that someone is talking with, isn't it that all the people who are talking to there are not sure of all the mistakes that you are talking to if Christian Theresa can be sleepy and sleepy.
Then.
!
It happened.
No.
He said nothing.
!
We were hit by a post.
You will be happy with my sister-in-law, whose eyes are over; we have finished the conversation with the Surge that her Ate Vi is doing.
Continue what is there but I have two different kinds of interests; we can't borrow and have told him to have told him about it and then you are the same.
What they want is that they are very busy with what he / she has been busy with, which is why I don't know that you are going to find an opportunity to ask for an apology; he / she didn't have an opportunity to ask for an hour; he / she didn't have an opportunity to talk to, which is why he / she didn't do anything, he / she wasn't able to talk to me, which is why he / she didn't have an answer, which is why he / she didn't have an answer, that's why he / she didn't have an answer, that's why he / she didn't have an answer, which is why he / she wasn't able to say anything.
You are applying at the corner that's okay, he said that he is in Manila which is there in Manila which is there in Manila who is in a cellphone center; he / she has something to do with his / her mobile phone; she said that she is doing your own M.
Four o'clock in the terminal.
"It's like that, I will talk to him to have an M Riyals; we are saying that he is being said to be changing clothes because of an example, that is why when we are saying that the food that we are calling on April will have no problem, I will still have the same age of April.
Let us release a ten-year-old Two people who are also involved in it.
They left the Muslim brothers.
By the doctor's problem, what I am telling in, what kind of time we say is that we will review the halo-halo-halo-halo-halo-halo-halo-halo-AIDS.
There is it raining that is why it is outside.
The person who was very thinking of August, was not finished.
Thank you, it has been a love for three o'clock that happened in the senate for positive things.
You really love the ministry, because that's what I can do, that's why there's no idea, that he showed it, that's why he showed that it was my voice and sponsored my voice.
The M Riyals, in the middle of the terminal; we were able to look straight; as long as they look at a canas if you know that it's their role.
Where do you have a lot of money to do, of P / C) or Labordo and the fingers of my history, which is why she is the one who will win in the upcoming election.
Just a little bit of time, even if you are asking for help, even if you really ask for help, it is not easy for you to finish your studies, right?
Covetous, fur.
This is really okay with the incident that, I will be asked about other things that have happened, because of the material things that I have been asking for a long time, why did we know that one day, why we already know that we have a problem.
Why don't you stay here in line; he / she said that there are many problems that are similar to each other, that's why I didn't call each other, but why did we not call each other, why did we not call each other, that's why I did not call me, "why did we not call me?
Two people are hungry; and political, and political, to your father, who are not the president of the slow-amount of amount, I hope that we have not received any help from us.
Which I am thinking about, he / she said that you did not say it to him that it was not ordered by us to let them fall to us, "that's why even if it's not for them to go home, it's as if it's just two days that both of our friends are going to go home to each other three times.
You are asking Anthony.
What we are looking at is that, then, when they said that, on what they said, on what kind of operation, he / she said that he / she has been saying that he / she has been telling you.
It was even then she cried about what a pastor was talking about.
Let us go there to those who say that we are not answering or saying that we are saying that the signal is happening here for some of us.
Buy a few months and text that there is already a story that there was a story that was not left there, we were not able to get tired, but we did not get tired with their problems.
It's because that's because he / she seems to be ill-tempered; she seems to be kissed by Ate May, but it means that your sister is getting angry at the other side of your sister, who will really have something to do with that in the room so that you will really have something to do with that in the room so that you will really have something to do with that in the room so that you will have something to do with that in the room.
Then do not make it too long ago when do you fight for president 'operation.
To be in a pile, there will be a problem eating breakfast, that is why when you have known for a president, how do you know that she has learned from you in the interview, right now, ask for help from you and look at nothing.
It seems that he is going to get back to ten years that he / she has been close to each other for five years, but we have a problem that we have a problem, which is a little problem, that's why he / she cannot go to school; he / she cannot go ahead; he / she cannot go down; he / she can go ahead; he / she can go ahead;
He was only at around six o'clock in the middle of the span of eight o'clock in the evening, and let us know that he only found out for a few years.
Let us remember that on the monitor but it was three o'clock in the afternoon that was why it was only three o'clock in the afternoon when they got married and an example had an inspiration.
We are proud; as long as we look at a little bit; perhaps, there are a lot of persons who call him, what is the call for us, that is why we have to do something like that.
Thank you very much on YouTube.
