It is the investigation of Subic Bay to replace yes, M-M-A, after the politician in Subic Bay seemed to have been serious with the ship of the Philippines to teach him about the boat that it is going to be thrown away from the ship, which is allowed to be thrown at the boat, it is allowed to be thrown in the said investigation.
Because at noon, four businesses in the water for four months to two thousand a few months in the past few months, it is said that only one thousand a thousand last month is what should be done in the area, which is only two thousand per liter, and then the ref should go out of the water in Pangasinan when I see the water in Pangasinan.
.
Their room was eight years old.
Ha ha ha ha.
It was cut off.
We are anxious; we are already given attention by the S-B: M-A in Bicutan, which is as if they are making the strength, but to know if this is still dangerous here in the health.
It is prohibited that after the land of a big commission, we need to sleep under the water here, which is a little part of the explanation that there is no one to buy bread and water in the owner of my cousin who is said to have been watching the room in the sea.
Okay.
Yes, they are five-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four applicants.
Us.
It is number with birthday.
Because yes, I can hear four o'clock.
He / she said that he / she won't be signed to be suppressed Cambia Office, Tristan (Special Action Force that can be proven to have a violation of human rights that even if there are violation of human rights, the views that hide for the back of the human rights will be liable.
It was eight years.
Two.
!
For the American Philippines in the death of his uncle Zero, Two-four o'clock in the evening is your personal companion because it was his personal companion.
He is the police.
Four Indonesians, four years old, four years old, fog; and godmothers, were wounded.
Two four Indonesians, Two four applicants.
There is a big possibility that a lot of cases will never come out.
Four four-four-four-four-old teenage boys were wounded.
To be a Standard Lunch Program.
Alright, you can see that you are fond of living there, we can earn last night, and we are able to make it last night, but we are able to make it look like the authorities have read what we have been watching over, so I can get tired of what we need to have respect for one year.
That's why it's time to point out why this is suddenly Bony, Sunday, but I am going to be their salaries before five.
Because there was only a little bit in Subic, only five thousand, and when they arrived at the five hundred years old, he was just standing by April two hundred years old when I explained to them the American, before I explained to them.
Why are you?
