
The public hearing of IRR will be held by TESDA Center in Mindanao.

SSeptember 13, 2016 Voltaire Gazmin Detoyato.

San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, September 12 (Pia), the public hearing for the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Republic Act (RA) 10815 or Rizal Occidental Mindoro Director General Santos Hotel, San Jose recently.

According to TESDA OIC and Regional Director Edwin Anzon, the said public hearing was included in the process of RA 10815.

In the said activity, TESDA (IRR) will be sold by TESDA (BSP), led by TESDA (DOLE), Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and other agencies that are related to building the said TESDA Center in the province.

Part of the motion has passed through the public hearing is to be part of Occidental Mindoro State College (Onok) and the Association of Private (Izzy Canillo) and the Association of Private (Izzy Canillo) in the center board of TESDA Center.

Also clarified in the meeting there will be a proper relationship with the management of TESDA Center and the private schools that will offer the course of boils.

"It is our priority to put the demand for the demand for the rent and for the sake of the Aquinos.

He added that if ever someone is like a person who wants to open the TESDA, they will make sure that its level is higher.

"For example, there is a protest in a school school in San Jose, it's a protest that we will open," said Andees.

It was also explained by Representative Josephine Sato, with the author of RA 815, that after the public hearing, it needs to be published (IRR).

"He was a meeting with DBM (Department of Budget and Management) Secretary Ben Diokno," I could not avoid the initial fund which will be brought to DBM Secretary Ben Diokno, and we have asked if the initial funds that will be brought to DBM Secretary Ben Diokno, and we have asked if we will bring back to the 2017 National budget) for us to start, "according to the congressman.

The Rizal Occidental Mindoro Regional Training and Gaming Corporation), according to TESDA), has a state of-law, or with modern equipment, and there are modern equipment and this will be the first school of TESDA in the province (VND / Pia MIMAROPA and October.
