I have all hurtful words that I have thought earlier but all of them have a thousand like it.
Would be followed.
It is said that I am the problem of what I want to go with rich people who do not want to go to rich people so that I will go like his money.
They almost don't breathe from the amount of medicines for the shoes and clothes and not going out of the house.
He was very weak.
It's because I said that if you are attracted to the people, you still need to get to know that they are eating a cold but not only the social people have been used from him, not only to his friend, but the friends who are calling the rich.
In the studies of Antipolo in the international Two-eight months to make it a habit because you need to approach the people who should come closer to him; we need to approach the people who have a position in the society.
We Filipinos know how to study everyday.
She is known even if it is far.
Approaching.
Wherever I go, I cannot answer you.
Her brother-in-law and my older brother went to their house in number.
She is the manager of no cherness, filling, and deport; he will be given to Palapal.
They make sure that the Central Bank did they say, that they really have a lot of network that they really have.
I will ask it because it is said that she does not have anything wrong for the exam just for a moment, so I don't know what to do.
It cannot be said that life is just low; we are very low; we also have a contact number.
But it seems that those who have brought the obligation have not been discussed, but the system of Katrina also is not talking about it and there are still Filipinos who will be recognized as a debt of debt in politics.
There is tomorrow to be open, as long as there is an accident.
As long as you have a influence, you have an ally in the top of more than them.
And the number of passports is also a sacrifice.
What I am saying about is that, in a negative aspect of the world, you are not in that kind of relationship with that in your previous relationship, right life if you will not get any benefits.
Who did not have very weak because he still knows his pants out.
In my opinion, this is what he / she does not care about is that there are people who are saying that even if you are to be good in life, it's as if you are the only ones who are saying that there is a good thing that is slow in the top so that we can go down to other types.
