According to us, it is not in the news that he assured the steps that the names are renting at that age, especially in relation to the events that we are doing, in Zamboanga also said that Marvin was said to have no reason for Marvin Marcos to go to Clearance or not.
I have no meaning, it is hard to look at that, since he is big.
Thank you very much and now that there is no reason for me to be seen not a reason for me to make sure that the government is under his stomach; it's as if the president is faithful to make sure that the president will still trust him or lost the new tension in the place.
There is still no reason for President to be seen as a reason, he seems to be under the paper paper, in relation to the Ezers where he said that he has the need to have the needs for us to have a set an emergency room in Batangas City.
He is already used to Makati, the President said that we are focusing on the government's safety in order to ensure the safety of the residents there so that there is no gimmick that will not increase in the area so there will be no more than a passenger jeepney that will continue.
We were the last.
Answered.
I will cook that I cannot understand too much from the heart.
Yes, a few of us will be amputated or involved.
I miss you all sorts of votes; we are still not aware of our position for sure.
Yes, that is what you said.
Steven tried to laugh.
I really.
It is lucky for us to be imprisoned, Tito Ferdie is there in Saudi yesterday.
Okay, when they have finished me last night.
Postpone the part of my morning to support Maria Cristina Jr.
So, there is no extension of PAR if you are tired of tension.
At present, the government is still studying the case against former Eo'clock when the owner of the President has not seen any strong evidence against Marie in relation to his blood in Zamboanga C TT, just like what happened in Batangas City.
And for sure, you will not talk first or talk with 'Kin that goes out in giving a few bottles.
You are sure that you have been together for a long time; not to take care of your best friend, it is hard to take care of my close friend, it is hard for him to take care of the five-year-year-old person's case that's why he / she wasn't four years old.
Who would be real.
In the Philippines going up to the Philippines, when we told him what I said to him, he gave it to what I thought of doing.
It seems like it was very wet; we said that it was not a problem, the people I talked to were said to have no problem, it appears that he already has a business and for a long time that he was always coming, but it was still six-five years old.
While on the other hand, the government used to look down; the government is applying for a span of six-six government, the one who is the one responsible for the six-six government, the one suspected to be a teacher in front of the incident because he is an teacher in front of him.
Isn't it so that I am in a span of ten o'clock in a plan in Morong and obligation before of August, I also had five sleep.
Really.
January who is?
Like Agustin.
It seems like she was older than me sometimes.
He will not be the one to lead the cage that is going to happen.
He / she was able to look down; he / she could not go ahead, and then he / she won't go back then.
So that we will not reconcile with what happened.
It's just you, Aquino assured that if you are a child, you should have a child with the real peace in Mindanao when ten of us are aware of it.
