Pretending to progress.

The government needs to spread the illusion of real change in the country while painting the image of a progressive country in lending one billion dollars, and can keep pace with the economy of other countries.
But the regime of President Benigno Aquino III did not hesitate to hide his third State of the Nation Address (SONA) this Monday.
Added by Aquino, the 6.4 million pesos worth of domestic helpers of the Philippines in the first room of the year, there is still a 4.4 million Filipinos who have no work, according to the bird Foundation, and instead of getting hotter, through a new Two-year system, which is more than higher than their salary.
Even if he created more than P3 million work in the administration of Aquino, more than 80s or half or half of this is the actual action and long term, while 500,000 or almost 1,000 pesos are brought by self-discipline, including small business partners.
While the government is convinced that he will listen to the "says of the people, by removing the funds given to his debt in the next year and making more funds for the public service, the Marcos regime cannot hide the truth that he gives more attention to the truth.
In any branch of the government, the proposed budget is full of budget for the next year of funds for public schools to earn and make the country's public service to earn and make the country earn more, "Aquino added to his SONA last year.
Also in line with the attempt to go back to other countries is the implementation of Aquino of the program K-12, to add jobs for a year in elementary and damp, the goal of the government to find a job for the filipino youth in the time that they ended up in tall companies that are needed by the barb and strong companies.
The President is also proud of his fight against corruption this year, former Chief Justice Renato Corona is in court and lost his final decision of former President Gloria Arroyo, in spite of the ongoing trial against Arroyo for two years before the third SONA of Aquino.
If examined, the hunt for Corona is only a part of the clear arguments in power inside the government, but it is not a proof that Aquino has given to the farmers the land of Hacienda Luisita, which is estimated to be sent to 17,311 hectares of the month that was distributed under the Marcos regime.
In the data of Aquino's data to the public, and contrary to his statements, it is a big part of the people who did not think about the real condition of the society.
The violent condition of the citizens under the Ninoy Aquino administration is ongoing, under the Oplan Tokhang, the tragic record of the military is ongoing for the violation of human rights that has been recorded under the administration of Aquino.
Up to now, the retired Maj. General Jovito Palparan in the primary suspect in the kidnapping of the students of UP will still not be caught, despite the refusal of Malacañang that there are cases of political leaders in the country at present, the capture of the political leaders in the country is still ongoing.
In the hot acceptance of the Marcos regime in the conflict of the American troops in the Philippines, the president also allowed the country to use the country as bait for the United States to use the country as a bait for the upcoming war against China.
Aquino made an image of prosperity, but most of the citizens in this progress have not been fully implemented, there is no national industry who will give in a short salary to the citizens, and the economy and foreign companies remain on top of the foreign companies.
The citizens are already carrying the repeated improvement of the worsening economic growth, especially when the people are in critical view and knowledge to be held accountable for the government, spreading poverty and violence in the country.
