
Pantawid Pasada card.

(This work was published on the issue of 10-11 of the Philippine Cologne last 6 September 2013.
It is as if the national budget is ready for the year 2014, but like what is used to it, a big chunk of it will be placed on the few while they need to endure the small items they are living together.
Even if the budget filed for the whole sector of education in the next year, there is still lack of taste of State Universities (Colleges (SUCs).
With the total of P383.5 billion for education, 34.7 billion pesos for 110 million pesos in the country - it seems that the government is expecting to reach 50 billion pesos in the budget of education this year is enough to meet the needs of SUCs.
The Aquino administration made sure that there will be an increase of 3,000th on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections), the Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Elections), the Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Elections), the Commission on Human Rights.
In 110 Cs from the country, 79 are going to drink the national budget next year, together with UP who are scheduled to undergo 1.4 billion pesos worth of funds.
The Aquino administration is making an excuse that it will be given up to the budget of SUCs from the form of large sum of items used by Commision on Higher Education (Commission) - it is as if it will save for someone who will save his master.
Instead of giving the payment for the SUCs, it is a source of the funds to give alms from the people who are needy who are needy and they will be forced to find a way to sustain the whole year.
In UP, an example is the consecutive wins and construction of private companies in the private companies of the university which is said to be an example of the land of UP in Ayala Land, which is an example of the huge budget of the students, but only served on the huge stomach of the capitalists have.
In all of this, it is shown that the administration of Aquino is fully used to cover the budget of social service like the sectors of education.
It is more expected that the prince of the state of the state of a state of this kind of trend through the Roademe (RPHER) is successful under the PPEER) in this program, it is successful now that the Riezel C can be successful now that the Riezel C will be successful this in the PPEC.
It is clear that the national budget is really set for the desire of the politicians and those who are going away from the poor people who are taking the stomach of the Filipino people.
While the Aquino administration is busy in cooking the national budget, the interest of the few, because they are hungry, are complaining for the poor sectors which should be benefiting from the treasury of the country.
In the middle of the continuing harassment of the education sector and other social service, the time is approaching the streets are coming in to the streets.
In the coming days and week, the Marcos regime was not expecting anything from the ranks of those who are living together but the stronger and widespread campaign against those who are attacked by a few.
