
Close to those who are going to approach.

In the release of former Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson of his list that came from Janet Lim-Napoles, there are many politicians who were involved in their names, including Caloocan City Mayor Oscar "Malapitan.
The people of Caloocan were not surprised because Malapitan served as the representative of the first district of the city that started in 2004 until 2013 before he became mayor.
While the residents of Caloocan are very annoyed, especially the residents of the first district, there is a big possibility that instead of a project in their area, the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) will possibly end up in a few pockets.
Even though Malapitan presented to those who came out, those from the first district of the city still regret it because if Orca provided to the projects, many residents benefited from this money.
After all, many from the first district are hoping on the PDAF of Malapitan but because of the alleged involvement of the former congressman and now as mayor of the city, it seems that it is clearer than them what kind of people will be elected in position.
It is also such a pity that the money that was given to fake ambulances especially in the treasury of the country came from it, so the people who have something to do with the money of the people should be punished.
If you can remember, Oscar would also be involved in using his PDAF last 2013 when he ran as mayor of Caloocan where he was ordered by the court to stop using his pork barrel in his campaign.
Implicated in the names of Orca is involved in the said anomaly in the Kalng mga Bayani (SAF), which is said to have been destroying his pork barrel and other lawmakers whose names have been involved in the PDAF by the lawmakers who were also involved in the approval of Lacson who were released by Lacson.
Maybe it is also right to scrutinize the Ci to determine who gave their funds to the PDAF so that they can be punished because of the hold-up or theft from the public funds.
The National Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice should also investigate the properties of Malapitan because it is possible that some of them are from the "traslacion". "
It's not only the "Ipit Gang" what our government should focus on because there are still a lot of NGO benefited from the people's money that ended up in a few politicians who have not done anything in his position but the increase of their wealth.
