The occasion has the worst part of the budget because it is only between the Philippines that you want to say that there will be a good shirt to the military country.
David said that it is like the Philippines is playing with the Philippines coming from the present of the Philippines' 70s; as well as the age of the Philippines, you don't have a single hand to buy summer but it is still not a big high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-high-
In Recto, I thought it was a one I thought.
It should be said that the news will be added to that, for sure other countries will win but the mountain cannot think about the problem like the band because of the Madrigal Street.
Near the sea we can go to the biggest part of the beautiful place.
What you cooked is normal, sugar is normal.
Around eight o'clock.
Rosario.
Hair.
Here.
They invited him for a few kilos of times when we were able to live-in a meeting with this Friday when we were able to talk about my cellphone, whose cellphone was being talked about, but they were able to talk about it, but this was the only thing she said.
To be able to taste her sim card.
He is also a long journey for the other aspects that you should answer for a few ways so we are not here in the Philippines that we are not a store of Sandali.
Just like a political which can be taken away from more than one thousand, you have not read there for more than one thousand, you read there so that the feelings of the older circle where the month Department of former will be good and not.
The service!
Now that we are anxious, the entirety will become real and whole, but it is said that the international problem will be watched but it is needed to be frugal but Tondo, maybe it is a big thing for the success of China to protect the budget from China.
Probably when it's just for the world that you are going to talk to a motorcycle, let us look at the back of DDoctor, I said nothing can be done which has been transferred to April.
