And that is when we heard that the best enemies are trusting me together with a love affair between me together with a love insurance.
It's so hot.
Not only in this, he / she didn't go to school; maybe he / she might go ahead.
But it is still not looking as if you don't have money for the government to be helped with what you are doing for two months of free uniforms under the group that's why it's still good for him to be replaced by the members of the members.
Here.
After the government is challenging me, there are almost no percentage of the one o'clock in the barangay who said that his lawyer was said to be stupid; and goatee.
It was said that this morning, there was a new amount that we can see, but, of course, for those who have seen the crown, that is near the office of Zamboanga del police station last night, and the military believes that the third chapter of medicine is being said that the government has been telling the third chapter in the station.
The government has already bought an umbrella; as long as they don't want to accept it, he / she doesn't want to accept that, he / she didn't want to accept that he / she was not able to accept that he / she wasn't able to accept, he / she didn't want to accept that he / she wasn't able to accept that he / she wasn't able to accept; he / she was only ten years old; and ten were wounded.
Three out of ten were killed.
That is what the Philippines is doing?
But the recorded injured were recorded injured in the same.
Meanwhile, my name is still here with Rose.
Very small; we are still not saying there is still no change in we are saying there is still no change for us to sleep here, because your mother is not around, the children's children now do not want to go here.
Water in line, which is very high, is in the yard of Barangay Barbara, here.
The benefits of your Philippine National Police.
When will it be that the speed of sleep is still in the morning that you are still not going through, we still do not look straight at the same time.
To avoid.
It is true that the government's operation is true to be able to help those who are telling the heat and to be helped with what they are saying, and then I do not know how to look at what the government is doing to us, which is why I do not know how to look at it, which is why the government is doing all that is just being looked at.
The number of families were called out by those affected by those affected and after this Zamboanga del Norte; the management of the government, especially the trend of people from the latest friends, the lives of the people for their latest friends.
What is set to be buried in the next time here is still a lot of schools.
I still cannot say that because there are damage or the residents are free to surface under the operation until the next week, the statements on the secretary are free.
It is personal because the life of those close to the game will really change every day, the government's distance is getting stronger and you will just go back to the computers that they have seen in the computer that we see.
Weak.
Possible.
You will look at it everyday.
When you heard these, you have heard me.
So as well, it seems that he is also going out to ask for help from the fruit of this name, to those who will shoulder it, and it's the same for him to visit the youngest, who is still going through a violation of the empanada and empanada.
Included here are the classes that are known like the motor.
She cooks at home without being carried away.
The Emergency Shelter Assistance Fund) - Two Wives are kicking, which is probably the viand of your viand for a number of pesos.
The government was said to be the secretary / her six-five-five-four-four-year-old maid, so they need that to be able to play the names of Two Wives for them to be helped by the families without permission.
It was the latest.
