
The highest number of fight in the Sandiganbayan is very popular.

Do you think, that is the situation in the National Bilibid Prisons after it was discovered by a direct life to the king of this kind of Lord here?
"That's the reason for Bilibid to be made into Bilibid, do not make the notorious criminals but places for change.
The mind now for change is for change, that is why the management of the management of the jails is the Bureau of Corrections or order to correct and change.
From being rude and criminals to become normal citizens, and out of the prisoners, they will be considered that they are not different from those who are living together with normal people.
Only 1 / 3 can be called 1 / 3.
That's why we are asking because of the belief that there might be no more than half or an adult who is discovered in Bilibid from a total problem.
Especially if you think about it, it is possible that there are three big problems that can be found there.
A big problem is the possibility that two groups of prisoners are connected to Bilibid.
And in discovering the anomaly in sex, drugs and syndicate, one group will be hit and the other group will have succeeded through what they discovered through the government.
The government itself.
The third problem is that the government is clear in the appearance of the officials of BuCor.
"Isn't it, before you enter the gate of Bilibid, then, the jail guards do not enter the gate?
How did the high fire piston which is being held by those who are pointing fingers, have big sex game, and cannot be allowed?
And the construction of luxury spending in the room of a sudden, how did they escape from the eyes of the authorities?
Stupidity?
Fix.
Our request is to make the reforms in Bilibid complete.
Look for the truth with the belief that only half of the criminals are hit by the raid by the Department of Justice and "that is with the help of the opposing groups of these.
Look for the possible truth that the Criminal Court will be left with authorities in DOJ and Bilibid.
On the part of the managers in Bilibid, everyone should just wait for all the accomplices of the syndicates inside.
From the bosses of Bilibid management until the jail guard.
If this can be done, it might be true that Bilibid is going to be a true position for those who have sinned against the law and in society, it will not be a greater part of the Criminal Court but will be a part of good and full of society.
It should also not be more opportunities for the greedy and politics to raid but this is really work as the form of change in pushing for change.
It's because we are thinking, Bro, that it might just be used in the election in Bilibid, that's why there's only "epal." That's why there's only "epal."
Reporting for a sec.
Based on the report that reached us, Bro, on the same role released by the three magistrates of the Sandiganbayan, the Sandiganbayan allowed the case of Senator Jinggoy Estrada to inhibit.
They allegedly have personal reason why they do not want to touch the case of Jinggoy.
No one will release details about it, even the Sandiganbayan en banc which opposed to the case.
That is why, they are on their own minds of anyone who are alarmed in the incident.
Justice!
For the meantime, the magistrates do not want to listen to the case of Jinggoy about corruption and he wants to post bail, for sure, the progress of these cases will be repeated.
And this is what was said to be.
All of the cases have wanted to be quick to resolve the cases for justice and truth especially on the part of the accused who are imprisoned and want to be free.
For the meantime, the case will last for long because the Court will still look for the one who will replace them and it will reach nine-nine.
What is the right of an accused who believes that he is innocent and Wish is his immediate release? He will stay in prison because of the slow justice and it is very painful.
Does not want to.
They really have their own beliefs about the case of Chairperson Associate Justice Roland Jurado, Associate Justice Alexander Gesworld and Associate Justice Ma. Theresa Dolores, Maypajo and 5th Division.
Is this related to the belief that the government is only doing justice because there are only three senators who have a case, while some of the senators should be imprisoned for the cases being faced by the three eggs?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
