
10.4M V10.8M Hala BSETC.

Long live all of the government units, to be vigilant and to die because all of them are 50 million Filipinos.
What is happening with my beloved Philippines?
SWS survey.
According to the Social Weather Station, many say that they are struggling.
From 10.4 million families who say that they are difficult in April until June, 2013, the number of them grew up to 10.8 million families in July until September.
According to the SWS, half of the total of 100 million Filipinos are useless if five people are in poverty.
On the other hand, Regine is saying that the number of those who are hungry based on the said weather is a little bit.
Although it can be said that the situation of those who are hungry, does not mean that we should be happy.
Victim of calamity.
We should not be happy to be happy because the calamities that pass through the whole country will not be under the whole country after the said architect.
Danao is not conquered by more than 100,000 people who are victims of war in Zamboanga City.
It is not in the jurisdiction of the million damaged by typhoon Santi and Errol ta.
And it is also not under the jurisdiction of the earthquake in Bohol, Cebu, Siquijor and others.
Millions, Bro, what is conquered by calamity, is that if you can use them, surely the truth will surface from them.
But these are not just hungry.
It may take longer a year of hunger for them.
Long live them to Gotoc.
On the other hand, it would be an hour after a few minutes, everyday, every week, every month, every month and a year and a year of years, the citizens and the pockets of the people in the government are hungry.
An example is the officials of the local government units, Development Corporation, Social Security System, Central Bank of the Philippines, Development Bank of the Philippines, Land Bank of the Philippines, Land Bank of the Philippines, Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, Flying V and others.
These officials, "Bro, Bro, are receiving salary 500,000 pesos up to 1 million every month.
Aside from their bonus, allowance, per diets for attending the meeting, incentives, free gasoline, fare and load for a cellphone.
Except their parts with the coats, they are not in their salary coming from but the funds of their respective agencies.
The giddy are full.
These officials are not just full but hold-off.
Meanwhile, those in the palace defended, those officials received are legal from the tax of the poor Filipinos.
If they will not give a salary to these bastard officials, they will be driven out and in the private companies that they will work.
Is this the mind of the government officials?
Is there no longer dreams by the children of these kinds of acting but to become rich in position?
And where is the progress of the citizens as a sign of the coming from those bastards?
Why is it that the poor Filipinos are increasing in number.
The blessing of the lawmakers.
It is very rare for violation of laws about salary and other benefits of the said officials.
Allegedly from the laws made by lawmakers are the salary and privileges of the officials.
So, the law should be followed.
In this point, can the people who suffer in poverty do not do anything to return to them even if the blessing from officials is coming from?
But what can the citizens expect from the lawmakers?
The lawmakers will greet each other and they will just share to themselves and just share the grace?
Aside from that, we are really not going to go but hard.
Law of the palace.
If there is no law about the law, it is possible that the mandate did not come from the Palace for the full and clean life of the officials.
And has tried to be the baby's baby for the full and cool, and the case of officials in SSS.
If the people in the said agency are questioning the vices of those in the said agency, they will probably be given to the Palace.
Or Lord, thank you!
Pity us!
Jesus, Mary and Joseph, pray for us.
There is no God in poverty.
The twin, Bro, of the poor are hungry.
If the suffering will worsen and go down from hunger, there is no God who will meet them.
What if the 50 million people who are hungry in the entire country going to the office of GST C that is "like that?
What if they are lined up to the legislative chamber, in the Senate and in Malacanang?
It is not impossible that this happens, Bro, if the riches of the government officials will continue, while the lives of the majority of citizens will continue.
In these times, prepare the inhumane officials who have no conscience, no love for people and becoming a rust in the government.
Pray.
This is where we remember what God is saying, just, loving of the poor people and aspiring for the right management.
"Even pray, I will not listen to you,"
"That is what Bieber just says in the Bible, the king and other officials of the government that have nothing to be implemented but to gather wealth.
If in the past times, Bira will clarify this kind of words, he will surely do it in our time.
As it seems that BCG is silent, the power of karma might fall down and it will lessen the increase and removal of boils in their service.
Let them pray it's just now!

