Poison peace, his own hands - Bello, BILAOIL, in August By Aries, June 26, 2016.
The Duterte administration was extremely positive and positive that there will be no final peace talks between the government and the group who will get left in the future.
"What is most important is that we also have an agreement or an agreement that it will have a peace talks which is the most important thing or in the peace talks by our government and the CPP-NDF-NPA," was the leader of the government panel during the peace talks between the rebel groups.
Bello also boasted that his confidence that the Philippines will achieve is high in the end of the dreams of "peace" in the country, "for the Pambansang Kamao in the country," for the Filipino-year-law, which is being considered to be a candidate for alms, which is why he's being grossed for.
"Hopefully with the cooperation of everyone we can do, we can't expect that even during the past time," Bello added.
It can be recalled that recently he went to OPLAN or, Norway, together with Secretary Jesus Dureza and former congressman and ex-Secretary Guiling Bristol, to execute the contribution of the rebel group rebel groups of the Philippines-National Democratic Front (CPP-NDF) in OPLAN).
Bello explained that what will be achieved is what will be achieved if this is the declaration of ceasefire before continuing the peace talks.
He added that the dialogue will be started again on July that is why it is expected that the number of who will die in the first part of August is expected to be reduced in the first part of August.
"We would complain again on July 24, after it was said that we were able to meet in the said town of August, we expect that there will be a federal law between the two sides.
"The killings will come out, the chaos will come to the peace will be lost in the peace talks in Our Lady Oton for them and we were impressed by the funeral parlor that was being monitored by the farm for a peace talks in Our Stars," end of the official.
