
We will be saddened by the NDFP Neediting in our panel when the incident happened in Gingoog City and Gandanghari against Mayor Guingona and his family.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.

April 24, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NDFP Needal is the panel Film Awards for Mayor Guingona.

We, in the Neediting of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is sad about the event that was reported to have been fired by Mayor Ruth de Lara Guingona in Gingoog City, which resulted to the death of two of his armed group.

We are doing the sympathy of Mayor Guingona and his whole family, hoping on the fastest form of the wounds he acquired, and his condolences to the families of the two who died is part of the acceptance of his family by the revolutionary movement of the people.

It is thorough that the NDFP members are respecting and all the undiplomatic remarks of the Philippines (PKP), including the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), and the Bagong Hiwatig and democracy were supported by the US and after this, against the next president of Marcos.

We know that Guingona thanked the Guingona as the people who are proud and as well as the principle that some of us are personally known by some of us who are at the panel and Philippine Amusement and his wife, former Vice President Koko Pimentel, Jr.

We are asking him to be considered as an ally, for wanted to take a top of the sadness of his wife and family, in expressing his continuous respect for Duterte and in the hopes of the advancement of peace talks between the GSU-NDFP).

Meanwhile, Fidel Agbalancing is very well-known in his interaction with former Vice President as his fellow prisoners and other victims of human rights during the time of the former Vice President in defending him against the accusations of terrorism in the time of the administration of Gloria M. Arroyo.

While there is still no final peace talks between the United Nations and the NDFP members, it continues to be implemented by the revolutionary movement and standard of the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP) and to other documents and standards of the 16th law, especially about the protection of the civilians and the hems on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) and to other documents to fight).

If, each other and the units of BHB) should be strict, follow the rules of the BHB), rules and process to ensure that not get hurt in a waste of military and other opposing individuals.

It will be a responsibility for the responsibility of the Botchok (HB) in expressing their sympathy and compassion for Mayor Guingona to avoid being more aggressive in the BHB) for sure that there will be more aggressive in the BHB) for sure that it will not be wrong as the more aggressive in the sure areas and for sure there will be no opportunity especially at night.

We hope that the peace talks by the GSU-NDFP) in facing the veins of the armed quarrel will be focused on the root of the armed conflict about society, economists and politicians who will be the basis for a fair and long-lasting peace.

In the name of Needt of the panel and consultant.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
Chairman, Needt of our panel.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
