
The AFP reminded the AFP about saying that typhoon Yolanda hit the BHB) in the Visayas Region.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 18, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA-NPA in Visayas and the Armed Forces of the Philippines (PKP) just laughed at the Liberal Party of the Philippines (Piat) in Eastern Visayas and other places destructed by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (Pizarro) in Eastern Visayas and other places destructed.

"According to reports, after the passing of the typhoon, all the units of the Botchok (Eastern Visayas, eastern of Panay, Central Visayas and island of Negros Oriental remains complete," said PKP, "said the KP, which is tainted by the southwest monsoon which is tainted by the yellow unit of the Bugnay, and the branches of the PKP."
"After the typhoon Yolanda, the units of BHB) head to the country, local branches of the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino at the SEA Games that can be overcome which makes the production of production to fix the production of production to help the citizens who are piled up.
From the severe intoxication of calamity, "said PKP," said the revolutionary force of the quality of agencies to help and organization of the took place to give salt on the entry and distribution of relief goods for sure places. "

The activities of the BHB) that led to Samar were did not make those who were placed in a article published in the issue of Ang Bayan last December 7.

The damage caused by typhoon Yolanda in Samar ": 00 / her / her own town / 20131207 / facing the damage caused by typhoon Yolanda in Samar.

"Unisan, in the corner of Typhoon Yolanda, the recall of the unilateral ceasefire, for Two-month-four-year-old man-in-law of the super-year-year-old man-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-law-in-tandem.

"What helped in giving help and as well as those who are devastated by Yolanda, it is expected that the bickering of the offensive of the Botchok (Commission on Human Rights is expected to help those who are devastated by the typhoon Yolanda, Manila to help those who are devastated by typhoon Yolanda.

"The observation of the AFP, it is just showing the appropriate operation of the BHB) last November 8, it just shows the corresponding operation of the BHB) in the places to be followed and continued to follow the declaration of the ceasefire released by the National Bureau of PKP that remains to be effective until December 24," said the KP.

"It is also the scope of the Botchok (Visayas Region of the national declaration of the ceasefire released today by the Pukan in Visayas and Leyte, the Pukan in the middle of the ceasefire, and the price of the mass they should do to recover from the damage caused by the typhoon it continues to recover from the damage caused by the typhoon.

"Contrary to this, the Marcos regime refused to release a declaration of ceasefire, and instead, it was ordered by the 8th and 3rd ID to continue the incessant operation conducted.

The KP has dismissed the call "to join the rehabilitation of the AFP in the places that were planted," said that the goal of non-stop forces of the AFP will prevent it to block the rehabilitation of the area to initiate the rehabilitation of the area.

"If the AFP is really serious about its call, he should have ordered his force to back down and stop the offensive against the BHB), instead of the devastation of the typhoon the AFP ordered him to chase after the enemies of the state."

"It is clear that the Aquino administration and the management of the AFP are very afraid that the successful activity that was done by the SEA Games that they are resting in facing the immediate force of the victims of disaster," said the KP.

"Since the destruction of typhoon Yolanda, the Marcos regime did not do anything but do not have any gimmick to prepare the storm, corruption and the prosecution to make it through the national and shouting that the victims of the victims of calamities have gone.

"More than whatever it is, the so-called rehabilitation of the Marcos regime is focused on the benefit of big capitalist countries, particularly the rape and murder of Lucio Tan, one of the biggest harassment of the Marcos regime."

"The Marcos regime seems to be declared yesterday by the suspension of the mandate of the wage increase in Western Visayas, which is more effective for the wage increase of the workers and will be worried about the gruesome situation," said PKP, "it just shows that kind of type are serving the Marcos regime."
