Balat straight at the Pambansang Kamao in the Filipino language and Ang Balos, "of" Tuwid na Daan "

Ian Veneracion.

The decorations have been removed from the past month of language in the past month of language, the Filipinization of the Buliran, and it was replaced with the amount of Bulletin of the calendar, in order to keep up with the quick change in the calendar.
Former President Fidel V. Ramos was first set on 1997 and Propaganda of the month of language every August to give emphasis to the importance of the indigenous people and their own language in the national progress.
After more than a decades, many are wondering why in the country that is celebrating the month of language, the movement of colorums are still very big in English?
And in spite of the month of language, the value of oneself and native language for the national development will not only be given not only for the national prosperity, the celebration of the month of language that should be distributed, free and creative mind.
Every year, Filipinos are worried about the month of language and the citizens to love their own language in a country that is being made of white language in a country being made into politics, economy and even if it is the economy of the United States.
In fact, the weight of what kind of institution is going to find a direction on the celebration of the month of language, especially the implementation of the Filipino language (KWF) that became controversial because of its insist on changing the name of the country from the Philippines.
Aquino's response.
As an institution that was established in 1991, according to Republic Act 700,000 pesos in the mandate of the Constitution by the Philippines, KWF can be assigned to build a national language.
In the set of KWF, a theme of pro-Aquino, "we said in the right way," it is always in politics and the Aquino administration is not just the celebration of the month of language, but also the other programs and will make KWF.
Currently in the leadership of the National Bureau of Sining, Virgilio Mendez and his commissioners of different language of the Philippines, KWF can conduct the first "National Congress in the language" this year which was attended by President Benigno Aquino III.
According to Louis Allowance (RES), one of the Ichambers (WBC) or those who carries a product or instruments, such as language, and the institutions for language, are used by the state of language in order to lift up the system that's why the project is going to dry it.
As an agency of the government and as a culture of KWF can't deny the direction of KWF, the direction of KWF can't be denied by the administration of KWF, it can be denied that the silence of institutions will be seen in the administration's decision.
Until now, KWF can shoulder the Executive Order (NPC) 210 of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, which encourages the English as a nap of teaching because this is the statement of International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
In the government's English language as a ingredients in more effective treatment of global warming, one of the effects that caused it is an effective way to use the English language in English to become a well of its cheaper ones.
Included in the 27th 210 are spreading of course in school to be a call center agents, and until the Aquino administration, the leadership of the regime in the call center industry will continue.
And it seems even if the teachers are even fooling around 12-12, while the program K to 12 of Aquino is used to have been used by the K to 12-year-old education, the K to 12 is used to use the K to 12 every hour of education, and in the dismissal of rice grains in college.
What is silent on the issue of language of an institution is to make sure that the filipino masses will violate the services of the government for the institution of culture so that they will meet the Honor Code for long as long as they will bring anything equal.
We have distorted it in Daang Balos.
In choosing KWF, the theme of the straight path that is being endorsed by the Aquino administration is being shown by the agency, the agency showed his political ambition.
According to the National Bureau of Sining and the country critics of Bienvenido Meca, the language is a construction of society - the people's improvement of the language due to his direct action in society.
When language in the consciousness of the people is carrying the meaning and cooperation of a Filipino people who are waiting for the same language, if there are power of language, it is also included in the public's consciousness that would be put under that power.
The demolition of KWF can assure that the theme of the annual month of language is not naked in politics because it is not naked in politics as a type of politicians' celebration because language is used by the authorities and have the strength to implement the people in society.
In fact, the history of the Philippines is a witness in the political crises and using language in the Philippines - language in the Philippines were instruments used by the Spaniards so that they will be used in the country during 21st 16. Inaral of the colonizers.
With the number of language of the Philippines, where 70's signed has not been used, it is just right to evaluate the steps of KWF, which is why in all language in the country, the "righteous path," the best of KWF can come the past month of language.
Language, and grossed out.
As a country riding a lot of language, a big challenge will push through the chosen national language in carrying the national culture, awareness and swelling of all the language in the country.
In the distribution of KWF, a national language, let us look for this way, the councils of KWF can conduct a religious scholar of the public and the public in raising the policies of the public and the public in expressing the regulations of KWF.
In this way, KWF can assure the national language of the masses to make sure that the national language is better to cultivate the national language, almost a fellow citizen and academic, are not enough to approve of the issues of research in order to strengthen and even an exclusive interview.
One of the most powerful issues against KWF can prove that no consultation to the masses is the change in the Philippines in the Philippines, the issue of national language is imprisoned just for the institution.
As a final destination of the identity of a race, the change of name of a country is also covered on the issue on who has the ability to change the entirety of celebrate because of its usual name.

In the attempted change of KWF, "F" of "PNoy," it shows that we are still tied as a colony or human colony of the Philippines for more than 300 years, and this is a warning for a shallow admiration for the institution that should be done here.
As a big part of the anity, and for Filipinos, there is no ability to take care of ideology and use of language, a small amount of interest is being carried away from the power of KWF, the institutions that can be taken away by this kind of interest of the government against illegal democracy.
That is why it is time to intensify the participation, but the strong decision of the people for the culture of democratic governance and disapprove of language and in society.
