Secretary Villar's iron fist should be used for the stubborn ones to be used by the public who is BE with Dacer-September 5, 2016.
We have heard an email regarding the complaint of the residents of Quezon City that are affected by the severe traffic flow of traffic brought back to the middle of the roads of some public utility vehicles at the leadership of Maynilad.
The situation of the motorists and passengers a few parts of Quezon City was terrible, similar to some parts of Commonwealth, Regalado, Quirino and Zapt Road, this is clearly seen by your servant in the picture that our countrymen are looking at in TantE.
It is true that there is a sacrifice for a very long time when the flow of traffic going through the said road is true because it is said that the traffic flow is going through because it is said that the salary of Maynilad is getting worse because they think that the wages are being thrown in order to do whatever their problem is in their service.
Mrs. Ladja was not able to understand what Nora Aunor, Quezon City, everyday passing through the said route, is why the hole in the road was repeatedly repeated.
It is said that the people from Maynilad are exhumed in baking again which is why what should be done is just a week for a few months.
What is worse is the excavation of the roads of Maynilad is not allowed to go back to the previous appearance of the roads, which is why there are many vehicles that are destroyed and there are several vehicles that were destroyed and there are several incidents of accident especially in the corner of Zanact Road in Barangay happiness.
It was told by our countrymen who are affected by the burden brought by the candidates against Maynilad, it should be if it will pass by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Mark Villar that this problem is affected because the good intention of the Duterte government to fix the public locations in Maynilad is affected.
That is why through this point, we are calling Sec. Villar to take the problem of our countrymen from Quezon City who cannot be able to endure the burden brought about by destroying the National Road of Maynilad.
To those who send an email to your servant, your servant is going to coordinate with DPWH and even in Quezon City government to raise your concern.
