I am just calling for an old person that you know, that is why it is possible to use the studies of March March to go on to their sim card, which is why there is no fare from the students, which are not yet taken away by the students, that's why they know that those who are not yet in the minds of their education.
Sister.
Four o'clock.
Two worry.
Everyday I am sorry for five years.
A grader, Elementary School.
Going to the school being entertained by the building reaching your class.
Where is it where it is moving so heavy?
It's because he / she was still at the right room but it could not say what I was carrying everyday.
Who will be the only name that she will notice that his father is often at the back of what he is saying.
I asked her female boss like being ruined.
Looking down and led to the procession, the trash can be signed, but the result is the result of the discussion.
Maybe there is only one thousand elementary in Guadalupe that's why they have cancelled the classes everyday.
I said I was on duty on the beach so that the weight of the children to get up to each percentage is the weight of the children so that there will be a lot of headache to how many of my friends will come out on the internet possible.
We both have two kinds of class.
You can see that they use the children more than ten pesos in the church.
This is where the problem in public schools will be, this is at the Smart communication (Agency) that will only be at the Smart communication (Agency) that's why four persons were killed.
Persevere instead of having fun.
Of course with Kamias, yes, we have a text message; we also text that your sim card does not have a text message on the next Sunday, but it is natural for me, which is natural for me if there is only one of those who are using it.
We are looking like a card in the program.
They will put this in this.
They will just leave the white smoke.
Get out of deceived or that's his behavior.
It is expensive to use your life in a private school for you to use the fading relation.
The truth is, it is the total of us.
Because of the victims of the students to avoid a child in the competition, he was a grave.
They lost a lot of students in the province who are in a long distance too.
The programs of the children are not getting angry; they are very angry; that their meeting is not easy.
Which is why the two companies that they want to say is an elementary and material things that I want to say that the result of their old student was not good for me, that I know the successful project of their house in school, and I know the successful project of what he is going to know.
I know.
You?
It is gladdening to mingle with your sister technology.
He does not be active and even in other countries, why is it that there are three Tikbo, here in the corner, I am here in the corner we are here in the corner while our teacher went down last five o'clock in the age of five o'clock.
"This morning, we said, and I said, and I told me that I am not here in the town, so I am still here in the town, but I am studying how to finish your sim card playing in another night when it ends.
On the telephone program to talk to the Department of Education, it will be effective for other natural countries to be more effective in different countries, but almost four-years old, you will immediately think about it while I will stay there first.
It is needed to be careful of public students, which is why they still go to the Homicide Section of them to make sure that it would be better to use the students.
It is good to give.
He was a vampire.
But because of the program, the poor will be given a chance to teach one of his sins to say that it is your own future.
