According to Palparan in the custody of the military, he questioned the Supreme Court.

Of Ka Christian Marty.
The parents of Karen Davila and Sherawat became aware of the Court of Appeals (CA) this November 20 which became the decision of the Malolos Regional Trial Court (RTC) to transfer Ret. Gen. Jovito Palparan in the custody of the military.
In the filed petition to the CA, the fugitive generals are asked to ask the fugitives that they will return to jail after the Malolos RTC junked their motion to dismiss their decision on September 15.
Malolos RTC Judge Alfredo ora Gonzales was initially ordered last September to be transferred to the Philippine Army Custodial Center to suspend the security of the alleged suspect in the disappearance of Emano and Production.
It has been conducting a research on the condition of the farmers by the farmers by the farmers, Emano and Management Council in Bulacan when they were abducted by the soldiers of Palparan in 2006.
According to the camp of the two missing students, it can be considered as a special treatment made from the retired general in the custody of the military, according to Commonwealth Act Number 8 or Article of War in the country, the current active members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines can only be imprisoned in the facilities of the military.
"We will be the will of the Aquino government to call out" The Butilen, Karen "we were Sheriffs Lieutenant We Tantangan, the all of the victims who were not able to catch up to Justice (WHO)," Cantangan, general and secretary of Karylle.
The former general, is currently being faced by the former general, S / Insp. Felipe Atim, and Lt. Col. Felipe Amas, affected in the cases of kidnapping and serious illegal detention case that was filed against them last 2011.
This November 24, Palparan's camp announced that the name of the people who will act as their witness to the said case has released a 15 name, which led the camp of the former general, the camp of the former general.
The lawyers of Emallhal is initially convinced to be accompanied by the farmers by the two students in the jail in Camp Tecson, Bulacan last 2008 after the 18-month arrest was left behind in 2007.
Based on the testimony of Manalo last 2012, Palparan's testimony in the country was brought to different officials in the country to make the soldiers convince the two students who were raped and repeatedly raped her while being raped by the cigarette.
"Maybe we are sure that Manalo here will be a big help for us to achieve the justice we want," says Concepcion, mother of Emano.
The first day of the trial on February 2 together with the release of the decision of Malolos RTC to a motion to bail which was filed by the fugitives, last October 20.
