The ceasefire was the declaration of the rehabilitation in areas affected by typhoon Yolanda.

The committee.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
14 November 2013.
The National Bureau of Liberal Party of the Philippines has formally released this implementation of non-stop goods in all places which were devastated by the Bagong Hagdan in front of the situation, the concerned operation of the Bagong Silangan.
They will intentionally be removed with the declaration of ceasefire, this is the following days of the Botchok (HB).
Eastern Visayas Regional Office.
They are monitoring.
Central Visayas Regional Office.
Negros Occidental.
It should also be known for the right to inform on the declaration of non-stop goods for their respective houses so that he can handle the Botchok (HB) including the: 00.

Masbate Island.
Palawan Island.
Mindoro Island.

According to their cup of conflict in the lower part of the successive typhoon in their scope, the illegal drugs may cause a similar to the ceasefire, while there is a limited declaration of ceasefire in areas where it is part of their operation.

According to the existing policy and for the call of the PKP, in relation to Moalliances, in the actual incident, they already changed their operation even before the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda last November 8.

As long as after the ceasefire, it should be stopped and avoid all the units of BHB) head to the country in the launch of the military units and personnel of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), of the Philippine National Police (PNP), of the Philippine National Police (PNP), and the armed groups of the republic of the Philippines.

While the declaration of the ceasefire, it should remain as an active defense of all the units of the BHB) in the city hall, the AFP ordered the AFP to stop the units owned by the AFP from the territory of the Philippines, and they insisted that those that are going to stop the mining operations against the government against the Philippines, should be implemented.

Through the declaration of non-incessant movement, the safe movement of all the local and the national issues that can be used by the local and the national owners of the young ones, children, children, old, old, with disabilities, old, with disabilities, and other prosperous individuals, are always ready.

It would be the declaration of the ceasefire, that it would be the attention of the involved people who are involved in the sea which are involved in the middle of their families and the primary damage caused by the typhoon Yolanda, especially those who have lost their homes and the source of poverty which are damaged by the typhoon Yolanda, the majority of the poor community who are affected by the typhoon Yolanda, the poor community who are affected by the typhoon Yolanda.

Since November 8, all the companies that they are talking about to help the people in working in the farm, in helping the animals who are working in the farm, in helping the patrons of their homes to have something to eat, the local branches of the PKP, the local government and their armed forces.

The PKP is calling out all of its force, to all the progressive and progressive countries, the doctors and Filipino workers, experts in agriculture and others who want to give their own skills to help the quick action of the people from the turmoil that they want to continue their normal lives.
