
There are those who have grown up and have MERS-SONAs.

The video karera of the session's session is an issue in Olongapo City because it was not permission from the councilor, and even her rival politicians are being shown in the video.
This is the truth: As a result, the committee called a "hearing" to the committee member.
Councilor Elario Piano, wheelchair of the committee, invited that many employees of former Mayor Bong Gordon as owner of the Subic Bandapon was chosen.
Many couldn't invite Piano, as well as well as well-known as Wilfredo Capulong and we themselves, even if he knows that the local government in the Subic Bay News and columnist of the Pambansang Kamao in the Pad Remate has passed away.
We have no problem that cannot be invited because if it is worthy to go to, even if there is no invitation, we will go to the interest of the country.
It is surprising for Piano, who invited him that it is not based in Olongapo and in Metro Manila.
Did you think there is something related or time for the foreigners to waste time on the session of the city council?
This is the true: A bad attitude that Piano does not intend to rule the position against the people like us who have written something that he did not like in the past.
Olongapo City is pitiful for having a councilor like Piano, no respect for his fellow members of the council, he also does not have to be separated from his co-workers, he is really in danger.
Gordon takes the discussion on the hearing of Piano that he brought the discussion on whatever it is and even us are behind bars.
Gordon is pitiful for Gordon to not have given the right advice on what should be done in front of the public.
In the hearing that the hearing or boasts in as "media" he said, he is becoming irritated and threatened by Gordon to front of the anger of his administration which reached more than five billion pesos and a problem now in Olongapo and the government of Olongapo.
It can't be avoided that Gordon is going to return to his position but, we think, this is wrong and if his companions are like Piano, maybe it is true that this is true and this is the truth to Vic V. Vizcocho, Jr.
