What is my favorite?
All of your favorite, are all your favorite.
Fried chicken, fried chicken.
Marikina.
After a while, I was brought by J: R inside their house, Teysie is in front of them; she is still young; she is still young.
And here is this, or your birthday of Tody January.
That's why he's looking for a lot of people; we are known to be famous; you know Papa.
Should I miss him?
That is when you remember Papa's feeling that he / she feels very much; he / she said that it's no matter when I said that it has no effect of Bong even if Bong was the fool of that.
There was no one visited by their father, many tried to cooperate in Luning.
But they did not agree because they will never start a little bit.
When he was still alive in Pasay, last Sunday, he and his father were not in a company, not a company, who is Bing-Bing who was calling a picture that was calling the "they noticed.
So, will they lead to each other; rather, we are stupid.
Go.
This is beside our picture of the children's store in the wheel of the child at the wheel of the child, when they saw my mother lying on the cellphone, she said that she had a text message on all of my mother, they said that they were able to visit them in a vacation in a vacation in a vacation in a vacation afternoon.
Your ex-law is going crazy here in the afternoon because his head might just be in the next vacation.
Before the sun sunk in a pond.
You will suddenly go out of poverty until it was the end of the moment that B is a kid.
Small number is the operators.
It is said that it is one of June 10: 00 in the morning while you are already in one seven days in waiting for the first day of school year.
On this day, his role is excessive and you can't get caught.
I really cannot really do what is going.
But yes to all.
Here, they are far from the heat of the fire, they are always going to pay far from afar who are far away from the Badjaos, and it is very far to run here.
It has been two times when he went back to the group, she is still old to go back to FJ R but when it comes to his family, it is really hard for him to enter, that is why when it comes to his family, it is really hard for you to eat and what you are going to eat or what you are going to eat.
Really.
Fur.
Four years.
Because of this, they are going crazy in order to help those siblings from having a job, so that you are always hungry; we are still hungry; we are still hungry; we are still hungry; we have no rice, which is why you have a rice right now where you are from a mall.
When the afternoon comes back to the class of the children.
Watching.
T-V will be in the room of co-aunt when they say that this child is active in Taft Avenue; however, it seems that he didn't look at it, that is why when I got sick, it's as if I was not able to study at night, that is why I was not able to talk to him at night and then she was not able to answer.
A teacher who has a lot of regrets with the child because he is one of the best of the students, because it's only one of the best students who will sit on whatever it's as if you will not notice that he / she would not notice that he / she would not notice that he / she would not notice that he / she was just like a child.
Why are you the only ones who look at each other; we are asking me yes because they are really in the same situation.
I really are having a hard time.
But they have no reason why I give you money, I told him that I have not mentioned it.
Very short; we were able to give Sarah away and let us give Sarah.
What is the holy night.
What is it?
Where / she said that if he / she was about to call me earlier, I will tell about the news.
You are the right away.
After the class, the siblings went home but they did not go straight to the house where they will be visiting a good thing.
Four.
After the first day, he went to the cemetery who was said to have been in the gym in HJ R where.
Yes.
Four.
Okay.
Really.
In a compound, no one will leave my most beloved father.
It has been six days that they saw the child, visa, no matter how much he is there, no matter how he is in front of his father, aunt is the last meeting.
It has increased.
Paul, it's really a parent's parents because he was hugged by you.
About what happened to you.
I do not know what was given to her father by those hours.
