The Duterte government, it is expected to help those who are going to help.

There is 11, 2016, Ben Walis.

Vigan City, May 11 (Pia) - the Americans are expected to expect that through the Duterte administration, there are more projects and programs that will be implemented especially in the continuous increase of Republic Act 7171 or "Tax Reform Law" to improve their lives in the called "Solid North."
This is what governor Ryan Singson insisted on the press conference of the capitol after the Comelec declared the elected candidate.
"We need to chance for the approval of the presidency that is why there are more help for our countrymen who are expected to come through Duterte Administration," Singson insisted.
The governor requested that the cooperation and cooperation of Duterte Administration would be achieved in order to achieve the national desires of the country.
"We will speed up politics and it is time to unite, any parties or recommendation at politics so that the country will return to the new government," he added.
Singson said that he will ask for the new president in developing and local tourists in the province especially to the Heritage City of Vigan who were included in "New 7 wonder cities of the World."
Aside from the airport, it will also help the improvement of the economists and it can make a lot of jobs if the Economic Cooperation of Salanue hopes that this proposal will be stolen in Congress through Congressman Ronald Singson but it was not approved by the Senate.
"Hopefully in the new administration and the new Congress because we also have a lot of friends who are elected as the congressman and Senator, it is possible that Eco-Zone that will help the economy and many educated in the economy," the governor said.
The governor is also the priority of the governor to his administration to be exported back by Gabriela Silang General Hospital in Vigan with the cooperation of the Department of Health according to Universities (Health Office (Vena / BPP), Pia-1 / Ilocos Sur)
