Oh, okay?: Coco and Julia, they have long been in a relationship for a long time!
Really, Onyok?
By Rey, the relationship of Coco Martin and Julia Montes is only revealed that the relationship of Coco Martin and Julia Montes is the person who has been in a relationship with the people who are in a long time but, he suddenly took it back.
We interviewed Onyok in the edge of the clinic dentist (2nd floor of Tony Galvez Bulang Malinao, QC) and he immediately answered our questions if they are in a relationship with his older brother and Julia.
Yes, his answer was, but when he looked at his mother, he suddenly took it back to her mother, "I did not know," because aside from being together with Coco and Julia, she could no longer know, "the two of them were together in ABS-CBN," that's why the two of them would also be treated.
Coco is my favorite, Onyok and fact that it is often posted by nude and being harassed by the two of her Instagram account, Coco, the child of the child, which is why she became a jolly kid.
In the initial interview of Julia, he did not directly answer the questions about them by Coco, he is pointing at the actor, who is just asking him to talk about it.
Only at the young age of Onyok, he is just worried that he might have a grudge and will be called by Coco to his mouth, if she really spoke about Julia and Coco.
Good and caring is the description of Onyok with Coco, two toys are given to him by Coco.
Meanwhile, one of the Wish is only one of his birthday is to have a front part which can be fixed by Doctor Riza Ramos de Leon, but he will not let the child look at it anymore because of its taping.
Onyok is gladdening because he is also the one who said that he can't take revenge on the teeth or wear a temporary fist because of his scenes on the taping of their series.

It is said that the child is afraid of his scenes just because he fixed his teeth even if only Onyok is a big influence of his being a Filipino to know and be famous in the series.
Onyok is just waiting for another year before he can do his teeth.
