The ID-M a New Year to the students of oneself Elementary School in Rodrigo followed.
They are the students of the raging river riding a dump site, as if they are going to go to school, look like they are going to go to school, whose legs are from his aunt, four aunt.
Because you are like that, to the students of our students, that is why some of the students, Pareng, did not take care of it earlier which is different from the competition in order to enter the school of this season.
He is answering.
The toxins from your life can be able to study.
Sometimes, they are in the manager of a little child where there is nothing else.
It's because they need to call the country even in the river to enter the school.
Now, she was in grade Salas.
They said that they do not need to pay because there are some who caused the country to do with them, and it is very clear how to have electricity in their school, in the mountains but as well as those who are not yet students when they have to be replaced with the cement in their classroom.
It is laid down there just to be an elementary school because it can be found in Barangay San Rafael in Rodriguez Rizal for the school of your school that this was a one to be able to study one person in-law.
Just a new school, before the students of Sabah, they are going to go to school so that five-year-old Marvin will be added to you by some of our classmates.
Marvin needs to walk one hour to go home three times in the river to reach school what you did now.
Covetous, fur.
How will you go home?
Body with you.
As a gift of Ma'am, it is hard for Ma'am, the mother of Ma'am, to go home on the fourth day, it is good to transfer the water that is why the mother-and-child owns the nose.
It is a big help, isn't it that there are boat that he used to have a new conflict with his class when speeding vehicles came up to us if we are poor in it.
That is the only thing we chose them.
Like we did not finish.
You are together with this.
When you saw that he / she found out that he / she came to the youngest's youngest, he / she went to me earlier that her eldest child was in an honor student who was also having a hard time to study because they still lack their livelihood in the mountain.
My Banker is only in Quezon right now because they do not have a low level of water in the river, that is why they do not need to read or get a nap.
Still, there is still no bridge?
Hhmm, very low; and to the river that we have been to Berto, we have been to you for a long time.
You are going to follow and can talk about it, because it can be discussed because it's just a discussion, the eye on the road will be discussed.
You're saying that up to 10: 00, to be deport; but do that, there is already a standing by four.
Very small, whose mother, whose mother, was to have a noodle house, fur, because it's also difficult that there is a hard time there.
Bridge because it's just a little bit low from the planet that has been set aside for this kind of bank that is set aside because there is a new school that we have seen in a school, however, it still needs to be a school, that is why there is still a need to jump off the nose in order to reach these.
This is still the actual school root of our reports.
In Lipa City Den-Den, we also went to there.
It would be good for others to be able to help each other that you have seen that there are people who get into books and you are on top of us.
In other words, there is still no change in the situation of the students of Rodriguez and Rodriguez.
You are going to be confused on what you are going to school on who are still in the same age as a person.
We are low; we are still the ones to contact the circle.
That's why we still do not see anything in the house, Break na, in the area.
Thank you very much to you.
