
The Marcos regime attacked the incessant offensive in front of calamities and the declaration of non-stop pork barrel.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
November 26, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Denad of the Aquino International Airport), which was called Malabar spinach, said to be defeated by the CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) has been criticized by the Aquino Aquino and the armed forces in the launch of the armed offensive and brutal campaign of the armed fight and fully neglect their request for a temporarily stop on the task that we are talking about.
"
"The widespread operations conducted by the AFP are trying to suppress the citizens and the sanctity of their community in implementing the tasks that are changing and rehabilitation for calamities and it is more difficult to focus on the development of corruption in economists," said the KP.

The KP has released this statement as well, the AFP is showing that the fight broke out after allegedly fired by an armed unit of Botchok (La Libertad, Negros Oriental last Sunday, Negros Oriental from the act of an active defense against the military unit of the AFP.

"Even if the citizens are still trying hard to search for an immediate encounter due to the simultaneous typhoon, they declared a few days ago about the destruction of the AFP to an armed encounter in Kabankalan City, Negros Occidental, a few days ago," said the KP has launched.

"In spite of the declaration of the ceasefire, the armed conflict will come out if the AFP continued to insist on the launch of the imposed operation against the people and their armed forces of the citizens to defend themselves," said the KP.

"What is shown on the participation of the soldiers of the AFP in the operation that we are doing is just doing the truth, in spite of the immediate action of the AFP which is allocated for the brutal operation under the Pambansang Kamao in the country," said the KP.

"He was only serving the most dangerous operations where the Bank conducted by the Central Bank of the AFP to talk about more than 11 soldiers of 8th and 3rd ID of AFP from the islands in the island of Samar, Leyte, Panay and Negros," said the KP.

"The citizens insisted for the immediate help in the middle of the severe poverty caused by the simultaneous typhoon," said PKP, "by the AFP and the campaign of domination and campaign for the citizens."

"On the imposition of AFP and rules of the law in the countryside and in the middle of the mountain in the area, it can be considered that the soldiers of the citizens are hoping that the soldiers of the AFP will wait to help just relax so that the rehabilitation activity of the citizens will recover.

"It is very clear that many of the places that were devastated by the typhoon are under the middle of the operation of Bagong HE," most of these places are not in front of the ongoing operation, "said PKP," most of these places are not reaching the slow and no operation that we are reaching.
