
Bad luck.

The actions of Director General Alan Purisima, Philippine National Police Chief, continues to show bad example not only for the institution that he is leading, but also for all Filipino people.
At this point, Purisima thinks that Purisima is the most bad leader who sat on the PNP as part of the controversy, including the said "tanim-bala" in Nueva Ecija, and receiving donations for the P11-million in the construction of the officials of the PNP Chief inside Camp Crame, which was called "White House."
The anomaly is said to be an anomaly between the PNP Firearms and Explorer Office and public service, Werro or Pentation Area last 2011 which led to six months of suspension from the Ombudsman.
Purisima insisted that he does not have anything to do with the agreement because he was only able to take care of PNP Chief last 2012 but in a report, a retired general and former chief of Civil Security Group (CSG) said that Purisima is CSG chief of directors that Purisima is the an agreement in Werness.
The highest official of the police was seen with arrogance when he insisted that he is illegal, and the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) did not have the right to follow the command of however, Purisima is not leaving his home as PNP Chief in Camp Crame.
While Purisima is close to the president it is just from his own life to save Aquino, in one of the many attempting to take the power over the administration of the government, he could not be touched or chased by other government agencies that is higher than the President, because he is always answered by Aquino.
This is the possible reason why he has no fear of receiving donations in the construction of the White House, even if he knows it is not allowed under the law.
As a leader of the PNP with 150,000 members, Purisima should serve as a picture of a good example that can be recognized by his constituents, he should follow the law and giving up his position if needed, for the sake of the negative issues that are surrounding their chief.
There is no one year left for Purisima to pour his hard work in order to clean his name before his scheduled treatment to his allies and friends who have connections with his leadership and campaign "Tuwid na Daan" for the government.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
