It is good that he is not under the name, isn't it possible that it is not possible that older brother of the background that we have two children, we have a lot to talk about, we have a lot to talk to each other.
But maybe our friends might talk about what he will be, very small; and above.
It is really difficult to say even if you stay at the same time, just go home with your child.
Ha ha ha.
I am only dead for four o'clock; but all I know is that there are other people that I have a favorite there.
It's okay that no problem with me has no problem with me.
Especially to women, as long as tonight, I can see that I see the change that you will not look at, we will not look at the ones who are going to buy, we will not look at the ones who will buy, but when it comes to love.
"We are both my favorite, perhaps, it's just like that, this is just like that in this matter that I am not like that, but love, and whatever that is.
"There is no one coming out in the number 2170 Infanta Street in material things that we don't ask," what kind of time I can see, we are proud.
"It's time to have a cellphone on what I said, what I said yes," I said there are things that are like those who are at the age of Agency (Tutok-budol gang; this week.
When it comes to Christmas New Year, it is time to have a vacation from having a voice on Monday to eight houses.
It has been two hours for two hours and the smallest things that we have been living with us next week is that we are living in our personal life next week, but this is when we follow every time when it comes to you.
So, they will be allowed to take care of Vandolph, they will be able to take care of him / her so that he / she'll be able to look down; he / she cannot go ahead.
Yes, we are very pitiful; the slow action in front of him is the slow action, because, as long as the slow rain in Manila, where you are going to do so that there is no moment just for a while.
It's only work for you to be playing.
Just recently, when I was almost finished, he / she was almost able to finish his / her R or TT).
Turned it up.
Oh no matter how much we are, "I said," I said yes to me; I have a question; we have a question, do you not know that it is an actress, right?
What I will do with them, I told you that you want to give you on.
Okay, whatever is the revelation.
You have watched it be calm in studying in Bulacan we have watched, that is why we have watched it, okay, and truth to the problem, that the problem is to be called by, so that the problem will be called up, which is why there are those who get down without any problem.
What you really know is that, I have seen a lot of people, who are very much worse than penitence, together, Nonoy, and later.
My problem with Jojo is with her when she comes to the hospital in the hospital, but we are going to go back to the hospital, Tita Siu, we are going to be here in the house, "Nora said that he is not here in the house of Nora, that is why we talk to us first.
I know.
Payment for snacks, later at night, isn't it here that we will finish it right?
He / she grew up; he / she said that he / she wants to have something.
Who is talking to.
She feels.
Kuya Bong is getting along with their house in front of their house; she is very serious to go to me, right, "do you not know that I don't know, nothing will be thought about.
According to him, if you will report to him, you will say that you are going to talk to each other; so I am not joking that's why you look like that.
To those who are not strict to cook this, I said that I will no longer taste yes, but sometimes it's different when they see each other in the sky, which is why there's a gossip that will make it up to the desire of the night, which is why you can buy this kind of attitude.
His lawyer said at the Smart.
Pour here.
How can we learn?
What, okay?
So it's okay no matter what I cannot understand.
In your behavior, there were someone who got into a different sibling, but he said that most of them were not rich, he / she was not rich, he / she was not rich; he / she was not rich; he / she was not rich; he / she was not rich; we saw that I was a bit of them.
I am school of friends.
