It was a week when he / she was with her twelve years here, he was with the actress tocino, which led them to serve as a former sim card in Agency, he was able to catch up with their boat, and then he was not able to stop with a close friend of a close friend that I know.
I still did not cry anymore, he / she wasn't able to cry; he / she wasn't able to talk to each other at night because I have nothing to talk to.
So that I can do something.
What should I feel?
So I said I will know that there is a mass.
Perhaps.
I cannot handle it.
I cried because I was temporarily wrapped with laughter because he / she said that she was wrong when she told her that she was the one she wanted to leave from her so that I could not do everything when she looked at her, I was not able to make it through the flowers.
Removed the mirror.
Because I am in Bicol.
And I even saw a woman wearing a black pants.
I should run to each other.
Me.
Yes.
I am not carrying it, Tito Paul Paing, who is very weak.
A reward.
What?
Too much.
Alright.
I said, why is it that when I want to cry here, do you not want me to cry because you do not want to cry anymore that he will not leave.
When we will go home, we know a lot of things that we see.
But he did not catch me, because I said.
"They also do not make a story of each other about the good part of their friendship that I should have a gift to you, even if you have a gift to you, even if you have to read, you might go to a bottle all of you.
"Is it for a child, if you have a piece of set, you will take care of your car with the person he has given to my car with an assurance that Uncle Mon is always saying that his / her two-law given to me to be taken care of, and she said, he / she said that he / she said that he / she should be taken care of.
"It's because we have been talking about each other about eating, I hope that I can get a good white uniform then I told me that I am going to take care of your breath, Tito Sotto, and this is where I will open the breath of Tito Sotto's breath and this is where I will be opened to the teeth.
"You are really a fish that I gave to me, so I said, I did not say that I might be taken care of, but until he / she might be taken care of, he might be at the same age; he seems to be in the same age, which is why he / she feels like that in the same age, which is similar to him.
I told me that in spite of my being with me, the Factor is not proud that she is a lucky person who is known to be known as good if you go down and love for others Boy, she is extremely thankful.
To those.
Of course, of course, for all, he can still see what kind of person he is.
And had a pity.
"He / she was like a cent like that, but for him, he still hasn't after him to be humble and thank you, I am in my birthday at that person in front of me.
"You are holding something like that, because you always see him with the person you always see, and even if the King of comedy said that her memories of every Filipino ride with him from the start of his race until the Holy Week.
