
The case of Vhong and doubt is more important.

Lily's Calvento File are going to focus on a lot of text messages and complaints about their employers or places, but like before, we will not mention their names and cellphone number as well as their request and protection.
However, it will be denied that the PRETE is published, that is what's stated in the things that I send text messages and email to lily's email so that I will not change or lose words.
Good thing, lily's Calvento Files, I am just wondering why this is the trend of our government now.
It is not common to our Filipinos that we have a lot of OFWs involved in other countries, but I do not see any concrete actions to our officials, while if an artist or known people are involved here in our government, the government is fully support here.
Like what happened to the actor, Vhong Navarro, that the government is now focusing on the case.
There are many who should focus on and should focus on our government, first of all, how corruption in our government will be lessened.
"Those who were affected by typhoon Yolanda, the victims of the earthquake in Bohol, where are the very big money given by other countries with the typhoon Yolanda, which is why it should not be prioritized by the Aquino government, not" the case of Vhong Navarro.
I hope that the fans of the actor will not be angry at me because this is just my own opinion because I can see that the actor's case is very complicated.
Thank you very much and long live with lily's Calvento Files and happy Chinese New Year with 0915-5-8-8-8-8-8.
Lily's Calvento Files, this will be sent away from one of our countrymen who does not want to mention his name except for one of the employees of our government.
Good thing, Ms. lily said that President Aquino would not really stop for the former allies of PGMA, after he should be impeached, the Ombudsman will file a case against former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
I am not pro-GMA, I am just wondering why President Aquino is mad at GMA, is it not that President Noynoy is very Catholic and what is the heavy sin that GMA did to her?
If our Lord has forgiven, who is Noynoy Aquino to forgive a person like GMA?
Lily's column is open for your complaints, suggestions and comments.
Just text 0917872336.
