EDSA People Power Plant.

What's being followed in Cebu.
The EDSA People Power Revolution celebrated 1 or EPR1 in the past three days and became emotional when they call the flag of the government and the citizens.
But in the two areas in the Philippines, the victims were held in EDSA and Cebu.
Ex-President Fidel Ramos led the celebration in EDSA while President Benigno Aquino III in Cebu.
There is no difference between what happened during the commemoration of Gat Jose Rizal that the leaders of the country have their own place in making it.
The carabao is a carabao first.
Many question the "questioning of PNoy in Metro Manila and going to Cebu on the days of commemorating the EDSA Revil.
Instead of going to the funeral parlor in EDSA, in Cebu, this was done by PNoy.
Those criticized, the spirit of EDSA has nothing to do with PNoy.
But others say, and maybe PNoy's reason, the anti-martial law is also the center of the anti-martial law in Cebu and Visayas and it should also be identified as a big truth in the success of EDSA.
Another thing is, the position of PNoy is clear that the victims of calamities first before other calamities in Metro Manila regarding the said revolution.
It is also said by the spirit of the Bible, you should put up the carabao that you fell from the well instead of going to church.
Whichever person should have a priority, especially in the ranks of officials of the country.
Children!
The priorities of the priority, according to the spirit of EPPR1, we remember the reforms are the reforms, massacre in Mendiola and Hacienda Luisita, corruption and corruption, the rehabilitation of the victims of martial law, media killings, and many others.
What is happening here, especially during the time of PNoy's service that is near?

The reforms are the reforms.
There is a continuation of the reforms to happen?
Especially the land for farmers, it would be better for us to say it is free, especially for the viewers of the Lord, the roads or thousands of farm or land.
The residents of DAR himself said that the reforms are easy, even if they are paid for farmers but until they are just owned by the small Lord Nazarene.
But when the program has already arrived in the owners of those who are about 50 hectares, hundreds of hectares and thousands of hectares, rifle is allegedly in front of the lawyers who are in favor of the reforms.
One more thing, the people of Judah were supposed to be busy with the pay of big money from the Lord Nazarene as a payment for land and conservation in the said program.
This is said to be happening even during the time of PNoy and the farmers are surprised with the real reforms.
Criminals!
This is part of the historical massacre, Mendiola and Hacienda Luisita massacre.
What is happening here?
We did not hear this priority of the current government and look for their minds in order to give justice to those who died and wounded.
It is very quiet and forget that EPR1 is very quiet.
Corruption and corruption?
Meow, a movie against corruption and corruption.
But this fight will be talked properly because the investigation and cases in the election are connected.
The case filed against the people from Malacañang and allies of them is a lot but we do not hear any movement and condemned by the Department of Justice, Office of the Ombudsman and Congress.
What is worse, those who are investigating, especially those in Congress are the same thieves in the Congress.
What's funny is, politics is the only noise against the KKKK while they are guilty for their opponents in the presidential election in 2016.
Public Works RTECAIDs.
The visible comment is only one by one.
Hundreds of billion pesos is set for the public to be given here but it can be given to the big companies that will conduct projects.
We was hesitant to give a direct help even just a few thousand pesos in those who were devastated by the calamities and not even the victims of martial law.
Charter change and social media.
In this issue, the different interests of those leading the country can be seen.
The actions now by those in the Congress and Malacanang will be removed from the Saligang Batas while we do not hear any protection from them regarding the media killings, especially the proposed law of Information Agreement.
