
EDSA People Power Revolution was held at the EDSA People Power Revolution.

Is it true the belief of many that the EDSA People Power Revolution was baseless?
This is in spite of the truth that people joined the celebration of Cebu the day before yesterday.
When Bishop Soc Villegas was holding a mass at EDSA Shrine, young Cardinal Sin who was noticeable from the chair of this church, Bishop Villegas was not able to stop himself from bringing bad feelings, even just a little bit.
SONAs have no experience.
The loss of interest of people EPPR1 and the citizens themselves is a big sign of admiration for them in the current government.
What if in EDSA, "Salunoy," said, turned dark, and if filled with the protesters against the government, do it?
Is this also a big reason why the government is not able to stop the celebration of EDSA and this is done in Cebu and saying that the government looks like an excuse that the government is just like an equivalent fight against the dictatorship and cooperation with EPPR1?
There is uncertainty.
For us, it is still a big meaning of EPPR1 to a lesson here, that the truth is with the people is the real strength in the downfall and build a government no matter how much the latter is.
The latter is powerful because he is holding the military, policemen, CAFGU and other armed men in making decisions, Congress, Palace and local government.
But through the People Power Plant, the citizens can crush the government even if it comes to the eog of martial law if it is contrary to the interest of the former.
What can the hundreds of thousands of armed forces of the government do with millions of people who want to build a government to support their interest?
He really failed.
It would have been a good start of the current government because it started in his promise to crush these kinds of corruption and corruption in the year 2004, 2010.
But it is only four years left and only two years are left to leave but it cannot be said that it can be said that it is a big change in the said plague of the government, if it can be said that it is only in politics, only in politics, and what he did not just get along.
Corruption and corruption are increasing and what's bad, to the people's opinion, they will transfer to their hands.
No.
Most of the bad thing, justice will be pushed through because the government does not do anything in order to put justice in front of the people who have no place in front of the citizens who have no space in the lives of the citizens who have no effect in the lives of the citizens.
It's as if the people from the Palace and the allies of these in the Congress and local government are not charged no matter how much the citizens are silent, that's why it's quiet but the citizens act on it.
If not in the election it is being shown on the streets, and what's bad, is that if they show their lack of interest, even like EPPR1 that is very important to our national life, the future of the government there is very important.
Suffering and hunger.
Among those to determine the citizens of being serious with the government in life, will rise up the poverty of many people.
In the past four years, why are the number of people saying that their lives are increasing in danger, this is contrary to the government's treatment that the Philippines has been used to.
But in front of this, it does not admit that it is very big if they think that the government does not feel anymore like the United Nations and International Criminal Court that the government does not feel, especially the laborers, who are said to be rich in the Philippines.
As long as there is no change in hunger and poverty, and if there are some who asked for forgiveness, the EPPR1 will just leave and will be seen with no credibility.
Bakar and KH.
Like in boxing, it can be considered that the opponent in politics of those in the administration will be considered as a put in politics by those in the administration and this is related to the controversial terrorism in 2016.
Can you imagine that the opposition in the opposition will immediately be guilty, even if it is still the investigation, it is the only investigation of the rottenness of these.
But if at the EPPR1, the administration has been put in a blacademics and pus to remove the administration, there is a big problem.
The standard of the citizens is different from what they want to achieve justice and proper governance of the government, what if the people's eyes are rotten and reeking in the government?
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
