
PPETeng versus PNoy?

We should learn how we are mad at corruption because we are mad at the thieves in the government now that we want to lose money?
"Those who are pushing for the impeachment, think about it when you filed an impeachment case against Benigno Aquino III (Bira 3), it is as if you said that you are ready to remove the money of the country.
Of course, when the case is in Congress, Noynoy and Butch Abad should do anything but look for money for our lawmakers in the Legislative Chamber and Senate., "they are the only ones who will benefit and will become rich in the money of Maria and Juan?
The Supreme Court has also said that the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) and Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) is just being irritated with the impeachment case so that Abad and Aquino will return again to the impeachment case again?
As early as now, on their defense against PDAF and DAP, billions of pesos are from the media counter Strike Special operations, which is very lucky for stupid operatives to buy the media!
I do not care if the attack of Noynoy Aquino and Edwin Lacierda will be transferred to the poor, because their boss used to give assistance to the poor, "good intentions," will it be given, right?
So if I am the people or groups who are pushing for an impeachment against Bira 3, I cannot continue it.
We know how much our lawmakers are smooth now.
Remember, "the impeachment case against the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona is from 50 pesos to 100 million pesos from the Aquino administration, there was no joke, it was not immediately examined, the case has been passed, the case has been passed.
This has been added, as a bonus, when the final version of Senator judges, who will be impeached, they celebrated there in Malacañang and when it went home, he had a check with the check that they went home.
If it is true that the people, groups, movement and end the local government of Aquino, do not make it to the impeachment case? "Do not make it as a game to oust him if you want him to lose him and the Kotong policemen!
