On March.
Lex always opened the water, but he explained something to him.
For seven elements, we have a lot.
He was wearing t-shirt.
Yes, of course, it is almost nine of regular members.
Make a ring even in Dolores.
It is bleeding in the smoke Gloria, do not be January last March next year.
Among four Indonesians, four-Illegal Drugs Group, four years old, later at the time of Gloria, because he continued with his family.
It was said that even if she was able to speak a while, he / she was the type of Alma.
He / she was able to look down; he was recovered from the medicine that was taken away by the medicines, so that it would only be fine even in the office member of the military, that I have to increase in the room of the military, so I have to add up to ten thousand to what happened two thousand pesos.
According to the report, it was also said on the report that, since he came from his campaign, he said that he is the campaign contract on the Iligan of gambling dens; and of course, we are the Special Action Force.
We are crazy; we are narrow-minded; we are busy busy with Two-four siblings.
Two Wives and four Indonesians, four Indonesians, six months, and I might get torn up by seven o'clock in his personal business in illegal gambling.
It is hard for Manny to reach the clock, almost three o'clock, thirty-five pesos and people are said to be illegal gambling.
You will make a patient's campaign.
For my request to me, if I was able to wake up, let the said illegal gambling in the house in Manila Zoo?
The rain is the first time of the honor that you gave to Barangay Del Rosario, as if there was a troops that's why the police did not respond to him.
The reason for me to say that I have shattered the money that I have shattered when I felt like a grossed out because of the city.
What can be done in the house but I am close to the questions of PNoy that's why the operation was forced to do that there is another unit in the ring.
Yes, aside from Iligan City, she is just tired, who is always at the right operation in front of him, which is why there is still a lot of barangays in my town.
Your muscles not allowed to go back to Bulacan who is scary because it is scary for those who were able to enroll to illegal terminals because you got the trees that were cut off, which is why they got ill-hearted.
