Daniel, you are not fake from Kathryn!
Kathryn, "he / she just asked Daniel!
Dondon Serrano Street July 31, 2016 Persist, and Daniel Padilla and Daniel Padilla) are said to be considered as the most famous love team in the country now, and there is no doubt that it is also one of the most corrupt, on the Con-ray.
They are really close to their tandem, which, where, Daniel, who took the door of the door, even if it was really the door, it would be said to Kathryn, who looks like the princess.
Kathryn and Daniel are the new ones who are going to ers of San Marino, Tprimarily, and will be able to find Chance with their fans to know how they met each other, but I did not have to know how they met each other as a love team.
"It has been 15 years that we have shown on our meeting up to how we exploded."
"I am happy I am happy, I am with Kathryn here, so they are complete," Daniel said.
"Choke, commercial drivers, and Kathryn.
Daniel also smiling, "giddy, but natural."
So, "the love that has grown up, is the real pension?
"Mayanta," the answer of Daniel.

"He is the only one who asked you there," according to Kathryn, they will go together again, "he said!"
The question is, in Kathmandu, live-minded which is the reason for people, especially their fans, continue to think and dream of how much they are in love for each other.
According also to Daniel, their date will be more than what they're going to know, it is more than to be known to the "Miss International Space Station, to watch a movie, to watch a movie, to watch a movie, in New York, group of dates or all of their friends and sometimes, their Mother.
And just like their love team that they want them to be the pairs for the co-worker, Arinoli, who is going to be a partner, Tantos, in New York, which will be a high level of step and a way.
This year, meanwhile, it is certain that people can watch out in their new movie that even got caught in Barcelona City and there is no doubt that one of them is in the box office that they are doing now because of the support of their fans.
"The fans of our fans, Kathmandu, who is cruel, is the record of horny."
Anyway, Daniel and Kathryn are very happy that they are the newly-amlodipine of San Marino, Teng.
"Marc Logan's, the owners are very kind," said Daniel.
Kathryn Bernardo believes in the delicious and low benefits that can be received by San Marino, Tana, good fortune for the heart, less oil IGAB; rich in omega 3 and Devera and good fortune for heart attack.
And like the relationship that is now between Kathryn and Daniel and as well as their fans, we can make sure that the new leader of Kathmandu, San Marino, Tindan, "
