
Even the politicians are looking for it because of Ebola.

After the disease of Ebola in Germany is going to stop, the neighboring countries of Sierra Leone, while the pain in the devastation of the nearby countries from Guinea and Guinea.
Because of the very much condition of Sierra Leone, even to amen, he was also arrested.
This happened after an interview of a politician who is an enemy of the President of the said country regarding the wrong handling of Ebola.
David, M RL.
While we are going to bathe this, Bro, he is still detained at the clubs.
In the order of whom from Sierra Leone President Ernest Mercado, Bareth of the program is sent and exiled again at the coldness of Saint Miss Philippines.
This is a pattern of Road, which is supposed to be just 324 but mixed with 1,200 prisoners.
Because of the crowded, dirty and lack of food are lacking in food, these have no cause of hunger, dirt and heart attack.
Baryo, has a high blood, and asked by the doctors to release and treat him, but we do not know if it has been achieved by Feng Shui.
Failure on, have the 3rd year!
Correct fever became angry when the spokesman of his opponent in politics made a failure in handling the Ebola virus.
The number of Ebola from Sierra Leone is continuing to increase and close to 2,000 pesos.
The opposition also said, it has been a failure to correct color, but he still plans to step down from his position for planning to have a third term.
Here, the bosses got mad, and the Baryo, was even caught in a head.
The reason of Feng Shui is that he has released a order for the state of emergency that the parliament does not doubt it, and together with the prohibition of some freedom of the citizens, including the freedom of speech.
Something will happen to the Philippines.
My question now, Bro, will this also happen to the Philippines?
Because for now, more than 100 soldiers who are stranded in Liberia are coming tomorrow from Liberia.
Our government is already taking action so that there will be more than 4,000 Filipino Workers who are in the said three countries and more than 800 pesos.
In other words, Bro, we might be able to enter the Ebola virus.
Even if it is said that all of these will increase before they allow them to leave there and go home to the Philippines, just like what was done to our athletes.
If we enter the Ebola virus, it will spread anywhere, it is possible that PNoy will declare a state of emergency.
If PNoy will review the Ebola virus, it is certain that there will be someone who will go to the media to stop PNoy.
And included in his complaint is PNoy's grip to the name of Ebola and continuing in the Tuwid na Daan.
Is it possible that he will be imprisoned at the acaden, like what has been done by Feng Shui as to Bareth?
Freedom against Ebola.
I hope that what really did is correct to happen to Bareth in our country in case we were able to enter the Ebola virus.
Instead, the government will look at the media who is a maid against illness.
The media will watch over the failure of the government and also help the ways to fight the disease.
The media quickly moved to other activities and it can reach to the country that even in secluded places which can be taken by Ebola virus, and not quickly entered by the people.
It will be quick to give information and warning to help the authorities on how to act fast and effective against the illness.
If the people who want to help and steal are being accused of trying to sabotage the government, they do not know what will happen to the Philippines, I do not know what will happen to the Philippines.
