88M shabu, explosives were confiscated by Espinosa By Betchai Oil August 11, 2016, more than 11 kilos of shabu which worth $88 million, ingredients were confiscated by the police in the attack in the house of Albuera, Leyte Mayor Rolando Espinosa Sr. in Brgy. Benzar, in the said place yesterday morning.
Based on the report submitted by Albuera, Leyte Chief of Police, Senior Superintendent.
Jove Nido, armed with the search warrant, identified by Judge Argueles, of Albuera Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 14, his staff was discovered around 6: 45 in the morning, where it was discovered that he was confiscated in a plastic bags in the kitchen which was used in making bombs and uniform of the police.
When they conducted the raid, Espinosa was locked in a hospital in Visayas where he was directly released from Camp Crame after he surrendered when he released a shot on a shot "and 24-hour ultimatum at President Duterte.
Espenido said, the information they received are from the personnel of the mayor who was first arrested and charged by the authorities.
In the said attack, some of the personnel found the police found in the raided the mansion of Espinosa.
"It is certain that there are more shabu that are set to confiscated if the search warrant was released early, and the raid was implemented," Aquino stated.
"That was why shabu was caught.
Meanwhile, the management of the Philippine National Police (PNP) was questioned in relation to the said issue that the huge amount of shabu was confiscated from the house of Mayor Espinosa.
To PNP Spokesperson Chief Superintendent.

Dionardo Carlos, the operation of the personnel of Albuera Police and personnel of the PNP Public Services Program (Police B) is legitimate.

Private Armed Forces.
Meanwhile, the PNP continues to confirm the information that most of the residents of Barangay Benico, Albuera, Leyte are members of the Armed Forces of the father and son Mayor Roland Espinosa, according to the revelation of the 20 personnel of the younger Espinosa.
Most of the residents served as the eye of the people entering and out of their barangay.
