
Anzon, Julia Abad and the pork barrel scam.

The gossip between Captain it Solis and Arnold Clavio at DZBB yesterday morning.
"Is it possible that the only ones who can see the Manunuri ng mga Bayani has been seen every February 28 and December 20 that Janet Lim-Napoles at the Heritage Park in Taguig City has an occasion.
The Heritage Park will allegedly be the cemetery of Janet's mother.
Like a celebration.
It seems like this date of the dead is said to be a celebration in the area of the dead and usually the visitors of Janet.
Usually there are five table allocated for us, known or famous visitors.
Thank you and all of yours Can, the wide area of Janet Lim's mother will be happy.
The size of this was a sack of gratitude that Janet led to visitors.
P2,000 up to 500,000 pesos.
The sack of clothing as long as it turned out money was filled with money.
It was a bundle of bundle when Janet given to visitors.
If the gift of Janet or members of the family or orders were the sack that contains 20 pesos, up to P2,000 will reach you.
If you are in a sack, P5,000 is the solution to be taken back.
With a sack of 100 pesos, you can go home to 10,000 pesos.
"When the contents of the contents is, you have a sack and" which contains a sack when Janet had taken a sack, it is certain that you will have 100,000 pesos.
The actor is famous.
There are famous actors who are surrounded by Janet.
One of the famous young boy who is annoying, from the skill and persistence of a child Miss charter change.
It is said that the said child is more clever because she is hesitant on what is given to him.
But let us forgive the child, Bro.
P58,000 pesos to 113 million pesos.
Who will not be happy if you will be given P100,000 or P100,000?
Manquil said, this is what he received from Janet because he was able to attend the upcoming occasion of pork barrel queen for now.
Pork barrel queen is now only because he is the only ones being attacked by gossip and gossip.
There are more big pork barrel that might be involved with the more queen of pork barrel if it will be revealed that all the orders of pork barrel will be revealed.
We just do not know if Manoy has been declared by Kim Henares in what he received so as well as some of the tax. Hehehe.
Does not want to talk.
Manay does not want to name the things that he sees with us, known and famous in the government that Janet Napoles is an ally of Janet Napoles.
But it is clear in their agreement with Arnold who is not only from the Legislative Chamber and the Senate but also from Malacanang.
It is said that no matter how big gentlemen will earn and a lady in Congress and Malacanang.
But their own friends, wife and chief of the office are the happiness of Janet.
They don't want to name the visitor that the visitors are undergoing in the movie since they might get angry.
Julia.
Who is Julia A, who is one of the famous visitors of Janet, Manay and Arnold?
Is this one of the children of a powerful powerful in Malacanang who are included in the investigation of the pork barrel scam?
Was she asked to be asked by a relative who is a member of the Congress?
What is doing this in the feast of the pork barrel in the Heritage Park, Janet's den?
A text message.
There was a text that the arrest of Janet is really full of intrigues.
According to the text message, is it true that Janet was with Janet before announced his arrest and before the announcement of the P10 million reward to the queen of pork barrel?
And some personnel of the National Bureau of Investigation were the one who witnessed this when they were supposed to bomb Janet?
Hopefully, this is just a gossip, President Noynoy.
Up to Malacanang.
The NBI of the NBI, this is the agency being crushed now after PNoy cannot control Janet here although this is the lead agency who ordered to investigate and find out of the mysterious pork barrel scam.
According to PNoy, two agents of the NBI had a tip that a warrant will be released against him which is why it was able to hide for two weeks.
But pretending to crush this is what PNoy has mentioned.
It turns out that the investigation on pork barrel is not just going to Congress or in the Chamber and Senate because its road will become stronger towards Malacanang.
So before the NBI reached the destination, he needs to be charged and destroyed.
Is this true, the president loves it?
What's good, the president, put a clear light in your surroundings because there might be a fire in your yard.
"Is it that the" Tuwid na Daan "is being used as" Tuwid na Daan "going to hell.
Wash and Si.
The treacherous people like Jesus are having a long history like Jesus.
Jesus is indeed the one who knows the content of his companions.
But, it will be more easier for PNoy because even if he is the boss of the Philippines, he is still a common person who will make up on his mouth.
If Je-Jesus has given a warning before, that she will bleed by one of his colleagues or 3,950 people, this is how PNoy is.
But if Jesus was not able to stop herself, PNoy cannot stop those who are bleeding in him because he is just a person.
Ask, Julia.
The good thing to ask is Julia.
He is known all the people from Malacanang who are boss or coercion of Janet.
He is surely known the lawmakers that have been given too much importance from Malacañang in the form of the pork barrel scam.
It's because the multimillion peso worth of pork barrel and contracts of the government go through the office.
