Coming inside there.
I have no class.
Us.
School, which is why we gave the third station here in Malabon.
In Malabon, in our minds, it has long been long.
Because it rained even if it rains.
Also in the time that I started the water, what I did like this is their four-ball.
They were able to see what they have seen to be complacent about what happened to them, and what happened to them is to gather, and when they were picked to read, I saw that I was still high and not yet done.
We now don't understand even in water what we have mentioned to the students that we talked to, when it rains, it is raining.
Their arms are cut off but it's as if you were his classmates, "right?
Up to water until here, what is happening here is that, what is happening is that our classmate is going to be affected now when our conversation comes to another country in the morning the principal who is living in Malabon in the past.
We know that in the house here in Malabon here in your area, it is not yet done what the solution is done.
You are so many who will be affected by the children now in times of need.
You say, we all have all the two that they use, if there will be a time, it is not only here with Shell and this can only worsen the name of the sibling of my school.
They will increase and start four o'clock in the afternoon.
Let us see that Jonalyn Viray and it rained even if you did not go down, I went down to the cold body of what I've read.
If possible, I do not know that I know a challenge and then suddenly.
When I go home, it is the same time for us to go back to ten o'clock when I do not think that there is no signal from the rain; however, there is no signal that we cannot understand, but when you do not feel that it is not possible that you could not worry you.
From those who came from this, we are very proud; isn't you very much thank you so much not to be Jonalyn Viray; we can't be Jonalyn Viray and we are very hard for students to live here.
Let's be.
We will also stay there.
Ah, it is good that later you wait for friends, we continue to go to school; we will continue to go to school; later at school.
On the other hand, how can I do bad to balance the children of the parents when I will drop by the children from that so that I can stay here, so we can go down.
