Jean, on the number of deaths because of the bad habits I have been ugly in the show of Chavit By GRTECAYETANO 2 in August 7, 2016.
EX-ED) shared to us by Jean Garcia that they will have a hidden grandchild in yes magazine.
Meanwhile, Jean sent the movie mano Po 7 of Regal Films and we discussed the grandmother and how he can take care of his son Jenica Garcia, his baby Jenica Garcia.
On the other story of Jean, said magazine was built on the showbiz grandmother and he was one of those chosen by him when he was charged when he was shot, and his grandchild, Mori Okawa, one year-old.
"When I called me" yes, my grandmother, me, my grandmother, I said that we are just two of Mori, okay?
"" As long as they are really a grandmother, okay? "What Jean said.
When Jenica is still pregnant, it seems that he is still awake when others say that he would become a grandmother.
"Before, I was saying, wait, when I was called a grandmother, that is just like that, but when my grandchild came out, I agreed to me!" Said the Kapuso actress.
Besides, he seemed to get more eye anymore because when he went out, it seems that he only has a new baby.
"It's like my baby who is not my grandchild, he is gay.
That is why there is no longer in his mind to have a lot of gratitude because he has been in his life with his love grandchild, Mori.
The former governor of Ilocos Sur, Chavit Singson, will have a show of show in GMA News TV.
This is one of the things that Manong Chavit said in the interview of Alum Aeking yesterday.
She mentioned about the show that she learned from GMA News in the TV Patrol to watch the said interview.
Mister Chavit is not only able to discuss the format yet, show show up, but it seems that it is a public service to take a show.
What his show is, happy Easter, where she wants to leave the people whom he has helped, to have a high fever.
They have grown up with the seven episodes, and when they complete the whole season, it is very 13 episodes, they will start to show it.
It might be that the show of his show that his show might be, because he's all beautiful songs.
"My companion is full of beautiful women, not ugly," he just smiles.
The difference is, in the places they go to, they have people who can help them.
"I have been helping it for a long time, I want to bring back to TV so that I would be encouraged to be encouraged to be followed by them.
"When they died, they can't bring them.
"I am, I will give me anything because I will not be able to bring him" when I died.
"
"If I will leave it, I will fight about it, right," he smiles.
He has not yet known a lot, but it might be shown this weekend.
