
US Embassy, target of anger of the youth, militant groups in US and Philippine military.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
April 17, 2012.

Seal of the embassy of the US, after the recent rally of the militant youth (Saba Ocampo / Conejero.

Militant groups lasted for consecutive days in front of the embassy of the US in Roxas Boulevard, Manila to protest about the exercises of military by more or less than 4,000 troops of the US and the Philippines.
This is the feast of different sectors from Manila to Clark, Pampanga in Central Luzon against the exercises.
Militant youths have started to fire in front of the embassy of the US.
In the early morning of April 16, the militant youth attacked the leadership of Anakbayan and League of Filipino Students (LFS) in front of the embassy of the US.
While the guards of the embassy were sleeping, a few security guards of the embassy called the Seal of the US in front of the embassy.
They wrote the wall here in the call against the Balikatan and the American troops, a few admirers which are comprising "Embassy of the United States of America," and had a fire in the flag of the US and had a program.
Even the employees of the government under the ConFootball Federation for Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of government that does not attack on that day in the embassy of the US, they announced their objection in the latest Balikatan last night in Palawan.
Because of the proposal to intensify the influential military of the US in the country, Ferdinand Galite, national President of Calaguas, President Aquino of his "infidelity" in the town.
According to Galite, it was stated in Section 4 of Republic Act 6713, or the Code of conduct the Eyebank Foundation, for the officials and employees of the government, "public funds that does not show up to the Republic of the Filipino masses, which is why the Philippine Drug Group (Pavo, to the Republic Act of foreign contacts."
Different militant groups are pointing at the leadership of Bayan and ILPS, going to front of the embassy of the US, on April 13, (KR Guda.
Last April 13, the embassy of the US was also attacked by different militant groups under the leadership of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), International League of Peoples' 8PS), Kilusang Mayo Uno (COPS), Kilusang Mayo Uno (Izzy Canillo) and others.
They are carrying a drone that is being used by the military by the military by the US, which is being used by the military and bombing of its enemies which was used recently by the military by the US and AFP to target the suspected terrorists.
Members of Anakbayan, LFS was forced to go to the embassy but they were blocked by the police and members of the Special Action Force (SC)) of the police.
"A slave of the US.
North Korea seems to be focused on the head of the Filipinos, but those opposing the US, because of the Visiting Forces Agreement, according to the militants. (KR Guda).
"In spite of the hopes of the citizens that he is for defense, Noynoy Aquino continues to command him by the US Embassy (D) because of this, it is possible that a slave to be a slave to those who should have been his boss)," it is said that it has been his boss), "it's said that it has been his boss)," it's said that it has been his boss), "said that it has been his boss).
Candeparture was also criticized by the US government, who are desperate to use the Armed Forces of the Philippines as "led by the Philippine Army (United States Armed Forces) to preserve the Philippines as military outposts in the Asia-Pacific Ocean.
He explained, the US's plan is surrounded and control by China and North Korea of the threat to their businesses in the region and South China Sea, where more than 30 percent of trade is today, or 60,000 ships every year.
Canayugan said that it is clear that he is following the declaration of US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in November 2011 which the US plans to pay the military forces from Afghanistan towards Asia-Pacific.
In the midst of the worst crisis in the US since great depression in the decades, 20, if, according to LFS, "he is desperate to use the business agreement in different countries in Asia-Pacific.
Included here are Tramo-Pacific Ocean, which can be used in the US to increase the various countries to open their rules and market in the businesses and company of the US.
