It is an award to Romeo Luneta.

By Jose Maria Sison.
July 15, 2012.

It is made by JL.
Julie, Julie, all my heart, sympathize with the family and friends of accompanied by Romeo (Romy) Luneta for his death; although we are grieving, she is grateful for his contribution to the democratic revolution of the country.
The man, Romy, is one of the members of the youth Alyansang Makabayan in Batangas and the entire Higashiyama High School from 1964.
Because of his effective action, he should be guarded and beaten by the agents of the country, arrested and was tortured under his own action but because he wanted to know the whereabouts of his brother Jose who has a duty in the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.
Later on, seven siblings of the Romy and joined the revolution in different positions in his research in history, he discovered the tradition of the ancestors of the Luneta Park to lie down, first against the Spanish colonizers.
The man, Romy, was not afraid of the enemy despite being tortured and in jail for a few years in Camp Vicente Lim.
The escape of Ka Roger (Gregorio Rosal's escape and some of his companions did not go with them because their number is too much, he stayed behind and faced the anger of the enemy.
After a few years, he was released because there is no evidence for him to act in order to defend their human rights and to reveal the criminals who are against the Marcos regime, especially towards the citizens after Ninoy Aquino was killed.
After the Marcos regime fell down, he continued the movement under the human rights such as siblings, desaparecidos, and cells where he fought with the ongoing violation of human rights under the regime of Cory Aquino and the next regime.
In a long time, he experienced diabetes, even in the occasions that he is planning to weaken, he decided to fulfill his tasks.
It will remain a life, Romy, to our one o'clock, heart and spirit that is important for the present and next generation that he will stay and the next generation will remain and a man will remain and be a man.

Propaganda of Jose Maria Sison.
It is full of traditional politicians.
National Bureau of Pritil, the Philippines.
13 July 2012.
