
The robbers and asset of Philippine Army were punished with death.

You are Samuel Guerrero.
Celso Mandez Junior - Bagong Hala Bayan, Sorsogon.
September 15, 2013.

The CMC-Bugnay, the death sentence of the armed town in Alvin Maputi, Barangay Cumadayao or, Pilar, Sorsogon, last September 14, 2013, around 7: 00 in the evening, Alvin Patintero is an important group of Philippine Army, both hold-uppers and bullets.

Based on the cases filed by the people of the town of Pilar, Sorsogon, it was proven that the following crime and anti-Remontadoses have been buried in a serious crime and anti-1090451.

1 - the murder of Eugenio Mirrian was killed last August 6, 2012, and Joseph Motilla, this year 2013, residents of Barangay Cumadtohan or, Pilar, Sorsogon.

2 - a few cases of hold-up that happened in Barangay Cumadtohan or, Pilar, Sorsogon (the victim is a bakery operator and one "Indian National").

3 - a few cases of love (or pretended to be members of the BHB) in the town of Pilar.

4 is an active monitoring of the movement of the unit of BHB) in the area and under the peak of other members of Bin HRO Network).

In all cases that have been mentioned in the top, along with Alvin Katidtuan in this crime, a armed group is already organized by the Philippine Army and in fact, the said group is pretending to be members of the Bagong Hiwatig and continuing to blame the crime and scare the people.

It has been a long time for the AFP-PNP-ukay because of the form of the "Organized Armed Forces" that serves as the hands and orders of the criminals and against the revolutionary movement, which has a goal to discredit the revolutionary movement, which can earn money that's why they earn money.

Celso Mandez allegedly appealed to the Filipino people to continue to be on guard in the lower part of Oplan Galugad conducted in our province and to be critical of the poison of the AFP-PNP-PIO) that can be seen in the implementation of the AFP-PNP-KMU) that will be seen in the implementation of the AFP-PNP-PIO.
