The tone of the mystery.

The Congress already celebrated their favorite tone - the topic of amendment to the Constitution.
There will be an old strategy on the proposals for a charter change (election) in every passing of the Saligang Batas and recently, Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile and the House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte agreed that the military will discuss the rules of the constitution and business in the country, and to make the military as a priority of the procession of the annual budget.
The Congress wants to change from 60-100 percent which may be part of the colonizers in any kind of properties in the country if the said amendment to be built will give way to the whole family and company, and even in the institutions that will give public service to the people.
In addition to this, the Congress also wants to give the military funds for the national budget, instead of becoming a priority of the government sector, according to Enrile, it is appropriate to strengthen our armed armed groups in the time of the conflict between the two countries in the island in the West Philippine Sea.
But it is not enough reason for a war to transfer the funds to buy bullets and training of the soldiers and not the standard of a progressive country, that may be used in order to defeat the anomalous force of society, and may cause a way to violation on human rights.
In pushing the said provisions, the government will be able to leave his two primary duty: Take care of the sovereignty and sovereignty of the country and push for the rights of the people.
While the Congress is busy in the reopening of the issue regarding the Saligang Batas, President Benigno Aquino III remains strict, his Cabinet remains to study the kinds of issues before going along with the country.
But it is not the first time that Aquino is being endorsed by Aquino, if it will be examined well, it is not far from the proposed bill of the Congress to be brought about by the said spread of the Marcos regime.
One of the personal projects of the Aquino government is the Public-Private Consortium (PPukan), who opens the public service like the health, housing, education and public infrastructure for the orders of the private interest in the country, which is owned by the private companies.
Aquino is asking those who will be famous like the mining Executive of 79 that will make a better situation for foreign businessmen to make peace in the country, in exchange for more abuse and destroying our natural resources.
It is time that all branches of the government are on the same floor for their head to sovereignty and abandonment of social activities.
It is expected that the government does not make the path to take the approval of the United States (US) for the desire to be part of the projects in the US and other countries in the Asia-Pacific, the government let the people make it even if the interest of the people are put off.
The government is everywhere these kinds of fraud in the US and some of their power in the proposed budget for 2013, it seems that the government has a new way of power for a high level of funds for a high level of funds for human services.
In the selling of the Congress, the abuse of different branches of the government is getting better to push for the interest of US and some of power, sovereignty and interest of the people who are planning to be involved and fighting against the people.
