
MILF: "Waiting for weapons, war.

Atty. Gen. Iqbal Singh, chairman of Moro Islamic Liberation Front, panel and Bangsamoro Basic Law in the Senate yesterday.
"He said," We will be the judicial system. "
The MILF will stay under the revolutionary taxes as long as the Bangsamoro Basic Law will not be implemented and implemented.
In the Senate, the letter was sent to the Senate because it is conducting an investigation related to the failure in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, which the 44 members of the Special Action Force of the police were killed and wounded by many of them.
Fight versus the government.
The primary message of the MILF is to not get carried away by the MILF by armed fight against the government.
Because it can only be said that the Pambansang Kamao will look at the right organization if they use weapons to promote his goals.
There are some possible objectives of the revolution.
He gets killed in his jurisdiction of its primary opponent, the government.
Second, to be successful in a revolution, he needs to have his own territory that will not be influenced by the government.
And he needs your own government and the people to form their own society who are not holding other government.
Weapons "
Because the success of the revolutionary organization with the weapon is rooted, the weapons did not support the organization and this is the waiting customers of the letter of Iqbal Singh.
Whoever the government should understand this is for them not to depend on any prayer or the MILF to support them.
Even if there are some who agreed that the said group has agreed to give up, especially since there is no BBL that they should hold on to so they will not be meddled with anyone.
This means, "that is the start of what he gave up the weapons from March and punches at the moon.
Especially if there is an unexpected event that has happened for more than fifteen pesos and it is possible that there will be a source of physical abuse.
"It is being given up by the weapons they confiscated, they can do it but they are going to surrender their own weapons now.
Even if.
Not only the MILF are the ones with the position that they are applying at the actual organization.
Even the New People's Army-NPA) of the Philippines.
In our studies in the actions of the CPP-NPA, its goal is almost the same as the strongest organization with the goals of the MILF.
It's only that, the CPP-NPA has no attempt to sell a territory and separate from the territory of the entire Philippines.
It is just the purpose of this to bomb the government and replace it in accordance with their beliefs for the whole country and society.
That is why, in the peace agreement then after the martial law fell, there was no surrender of weapons.
And their fight continues until now because no agreement did not happen in their agreement and the government before, except for the release of many of the leaders of the CPP-NPA.
BBL "do not rush.
We understand that the message of Iqbal Singh that if there is no BBL, they will remain organic anymore.
A simple and useless words, but you should not rush it.
There is really a need to make the provisions of the BBL in the hole of the needle and lay down all in front of the majority so that there will be no mistakes that in the end, everyone will regret it.
It is against the Constitution.
One of the things that we see will be a problem in the BBL in filing a charge of some groups that will be seen on the Constitutional or taking the important provisions of this proposed law.
It is a problem especially if the Supreme Court will declare the Supreme Court that is against the Constitution.
That means that if we really want the 1987 Constitution in the BBL, we need to surpass the Saligang Batas and push the BBL here.
It is really a problem because it has been a long discussion.
The whole process in the time of President Noynoy is free.
Remind us!
However, Mr. President: Do not force the BBL to be approved so you will have a good memories in your departure from the palace.
Do not put in danger of the whole country for personal interest and it is time to waste.
But you are not worried about the peace talks which is really the start of good news coming.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
