
I am referring to me; chairman.

It was a long time that many of the local government officials and even those who were able to take place are in suppressing drugs in the Philippines.
Various groups established several groups to fight against the country and in a Street level drug addict and drug pushers which are usually used to increase.
Many families were destroyed, youth lost their way, and lives lost because of the use of drugs but why is it nothing for the police to fight drugs?
Last week, the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) attacked the house of a chairman in Sampaloc, Manila because of the widespread selling of drugs there and some of the million worth of drugs were confiscated, aside from high-caliber guns and illegal gambling dens.
The police was not blind about the sale of drugs in the area but they could not move after the National Capital Region Police Office Director Chief Supt. Marcelo Garbo Junior was ordered by the Station Anti-illegal drugs (SAID) in his jurisdiction.
It's because General Garbo does not want to look into the small end or in the street level, which is becoming a way for them to be released by the police.
But it is okay with Bogard them to spread the spread of drugs?
For me, they can catch a kilo of shabu if your people are priority of gambling.
Your people did not show up that you are operatives that's why you understand your work but it seems that your steps are wrong.
Do not wait for the drugs to be controlled before you act on it.
Do not wait for there are lives to disappear and the future you will be destroyed before you take on their drugs.
Um!
Some of the residents of Barangay 131 Zone 11, District 1 in Manila were annoyed because they did not care about what happened in his barangay hall.
In their complaint, the authorities said that it is more important to chairman for the care of video machines that are scattered in their barangay, even the addicts that are scattered all over the area.
The latest incident that the residents were talking to was last November 19, where there was a victim who was shot and killed by a riding-in-tandem.
Instead of the investigation that the guards responded, they should have followed the barangay hall and did not listen to the asking for help from some witnesses to the murder.
