Lyle Camping and Taba, a captain of Barangay Zone.

Barangay 828 Zone 89 in Pandacan, Manila and that is where Cecilio Pnipple III, who is more known in their area as "Boycie," was published.
Boycie was the grandchild of former education Secretary Cecilio Piat, Bohol.
In his grandfather's grandfather, they learned the class of public service that does not get smeared by other anomalies, the family, and family.
He served in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, but he remained silent and respected people.
This is true, even if you are going to get married in Plaza, Virgen delos and asked the neighbors and the bystanders.
Just ask Chairman boo Gervacio, of Brgy. 826.
Pigcawayan is a product of Ateneo, Manila and Philippine Christian University.
He possessing the combination of being smart and humane.
The heart of Boycie was beautiful, which is why he admires every part of facing each other.
And, he felt the problem being experienced by the poor.
Which is why he is recognized in their area in Pandacan.
Even though he is often helped in need, he avoided politics in the past years and left politics in his in-law, Kallonza-Robles, who was served in their barangay for more than ten years.
A few elections are being made up by Boycie which is not allowed to run for by his neighbors.
Here is the style of the case, many are worried about the elected captain and they are asking Mayor Erap to investigate the expenses at the IP where one tricycle costs 2.42,000 pesos.
There are also those who complained that on May elections, the captain did not allow the suspension of Erap's posture because it is supposedly Kautasan in Lim.
But now that he is in Facebook, he is still in Facebook that he is together with Erap.
It is also known by other captain of Zone 89.
That is why the residents of 828-828 have been going to do with their captain because he promised a clean system of their barangay and does not allow it to be tainted and tainted by a good name that was left by his grandfather, Doctor Cecilio Payagan, former Secretary of the Department of Education.
