
They are the prisoners cut off from the military forces?

Macky Macasaverted!
June 18, 2012.

Tirso "Bart" Alcantara, a member of the rebels, after the military was caught by the military last January 2011.
Looking down by the military is SoAlcantara, who is also known as Ka Bart, prisoners who are pointed to have a high leader of the New People's Army (NPA) and the Philippine Democratic Front (NDF) in the peace talks with the government.
This is being complained by the group of ex-PDP Laban, a conflict between the cell and arrest (cell), a group of human rights.
Alcantara is currently detained at Fort Bonifacio, Taguig City, from the previous year, aside from the complaints of Alcantara, numerous mishaps caused by those who want to visit the implementation of the military.
According to the cell, Alcantara attempted to visit the three staff of Karylle, along with two lawyers and one doctor, on June 17, but the staff of Karl was not allowed to enter.
Only the lawyers and doctors were not allowed to see Alcantara, the group still said that he was not able to consult a doctor who was also accompanied by a doctor because he was not allowed to put his medical attention.
"They made a lot of things to be taken to us before to allow the burial of human rights groups," said general secretary of the cell, Inocencio, Office of the President and the office of the chief of staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
Based on the statement of Alcantara, he said that he is not being treated by the military inside the camp several times that it is not good and not clean the food given to him in 2011, he was reported by his lawyer for the sake of the military officials, but the latter was not able to do anything.
"I have given a viand for several times and will not be cooked well, sometimes, the viand of chicken has blood, and the fish was even placed in blood," Alcantara said, from his sworn statement.
Last November 21, he said, the military took his mirror and just returned on May 26, 2012, after six months.
Alcantara also said in his statement that the giving of food was continued to give him food and it is not clean and he suspected that he was given food and water causing blindness of his lips and dizziness.
Even if Alcantara has a high blood pressure, he is still continuously being given food fat and vegetables to give, it is too salty.
"One noon on March 2012, I was fed a fish with soup when I saw three of the matches given to me, said Alcantara.
He also experienced food with mixed fat or food full of ants.
According to Alcantara, it was said that the doctor allegedly did not introduce themselves on March 10 when his blood pressure increased by him last March 10 when Alcantara is allegedly given a medicine that became the cause of dizziness, stomach pain and shaking.
When he asked the doctor, the one who introduced himself as a doctor said that her feelings were said to be a result of ECG, but it was contrary to what another doctor said that Alcantara is still not a result.
"There are also times that they drink medicine from headache and colds even if I do not have a cold or pain in the head," Alcantara added.
Alcantara is worried that his health will be added to his health and be safety if his involvement in Fort Bonifacio will continue.
For the cell, it is said that the inhumane treatment of Alcantara is a clear part of the political prisoners.
"What is being done to him is not humane, this is a form of harassment and violence or shouting.
Ialso said that Alcantara is not right to be imprisoned in one camp because he is one of the political prisoners and Philippine Amusement and NDF.
Aside from the inhumane treatment, the military is also strict with visitors even in their own family.
"The visit to him / her, according to him, he said, there was a long time waiting for the visitors in front of the camp than the actual time of visit," Ang added.
It was the call of the cell and Karylle to immediately be transferred to a civilian cell in order to see and see the doctors' kind of good deeds, if he did not immediately free.
"He should be transferred to a regular illegal detention case, especially since he is an anti-governmental organization, they should get to know the Jasers (Joint Task Agreement (WBC) to release their duties in the peace talks," said Iterax.
Mig is an agreement between the government of the Philippines and NDF who say that they could not arrest or stain the justice system of opponent forces and leaders who are active participants in the peace talks.
