The goal of Carmina Villaroel and wife is marriage.

At last, Carmina Villaroel and Zoren Legaspi are already married after many years of their children and union.
In a surprise opportunity, Carmina and wife walked in front of a slipper factory in Las Piñas City where Villaroel only knew she will do something for the controversial scene with his beloved wife, Legaspi.
The actress does not have any idea that the scene will become real wedding and there is no need to be done.
Mina was very happy with what she experienced when she was seventeen years married in front of the altar and the woman already knows that she is true love.

The twins of the couple, Caston, and Mautes have helped in the plan of being sixteen years old already.
Caston, and Maire were crying and crying after they have children that the priest has no blessing for their parents.
Now it is complete for the christians in Legaspi on the name of marriage to the church.
Roman Catholic Church is able to convince his marriage to be tainted again than the first time that he has met before in Ang Dilawan, Bro, Eli Soriano.
Anyway, the year of Fausto was with the year of Fausto this year, so even a catholic and Mina also can live in the faith of Bro, Eli.
Isn't it that when Carmina and Rustom Padilla have been witness, Jews; ah, the religion of the two?

It can be recalled that Carmina and Rustom also got married but not long, the two have already been separated.
Padilla was just deceived and tried to go through with wearing a name BB Gandanghari as his name.
When wife and Mina got married, BB is only hoping that her two and her children will be happy.
The first wedding of Villaroel to Rustom will be approved because of the latter's huge woman and their long-time relationship.

Although no one is talking in the surroundings of Mina and wife in relation to their marriage, it seems that the woman and man are getting better than what the two men get married.
For sure, most of the people are dismayed by the souls of a woman and one man although they are proud of their sympathy on the situation of Rustom as BB.
Is it just pity that these will be felt by the former Padilla and now Gandanghari?
Or just going to the society, the people of society will also feel a person like BB which makes a lot of joy along with one male gender.
In a conservative and catholic society that like the Philippines, the marriage between two men or two women is a severe challenge in the freedom of each contestant.

More than not, Zoren already planned to plan the day she is married with Mina so that their relationship will be better and become a member of a catholic belief.
The citizens are prioritizing the citizens and Villaroel to get along with what is running and order in the society.
They are far from holding the tradition like opposition of the current administration, Rustom Padilla.
Carmina and Carmina are establishments while looking for a new truth that BB's intention will free the society.
Two forces have grown up but he had a chance to coordinate with Legaspi and Villaroel, on the other hand and with Gandanghari, on one side.
However, the process of their invention will lead to many decades if they are part of the two opposing forces that are involved in position and trying to prevent many cases that are connected to each other.
