
Well, Aquino's very well-tempered against China is to give a straight path to the military forces of USalas.

Bureau on the information.
It's the party of the Philippines (PKP).
June 13, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program: Aquino feasted in is the US military force of a duplex, CPP.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized Benigno Aquino III in the lower part of the Filipino soldiers in China to just give the Philippines to give reason on the continuous raising of the government of the US in the Philippines and other countries in the Asia-Pacific, this is not going to withdraw the Philippines' suspension of the Philippines of SpratIslands, and other land in South China Sea.

The PKP has stressed out about its view that he would stop and legal to catch the Filipino people in Spratings and the right to criticized the entry of China in the territory of the Philippines. "
"It is saddened by the PKP, the aggressive attack of China recently of Sprateng, however, it is also clear that these kinds of reactions have been made by the US in the campaign of the US for the campaign of the US in Asia-Pacific," said the KP.

"It is the purpose of a civilized US to protect China on the issue of economists, politics and military to force them to force it further open the economists like the toll fee of the US and stop its growth as a force of military.

"Instead of insisting the defense and policy that will be on the side of the Philippines, it is approved by the Aquino administration of the US in the campaign of the US in South China Sea and other parts of the Asia-Pacific," said the KP.

"In the case that the Philippines will use in the US Pacific Command, based on military, the Philippines will sit on China and put it on the Philippines in the midst of China," said the KP.

"The Filipino people should not be carried away with the goal of Aquino to be aggressive in China and insist on the rules of the US and China, they should insist and end the permanent presence of the US government in the Philippines and stop the use of the Philippines as the way of the military troops of the US."

It was also criticized by the KP, the use of Aquino to the name of Aquinos who ordered the freedom and sovereignty while the truth is he followed his statement in his speech yesterday at Liwasang Bonifacio in relation to the 20th anniversary of the declaration of the Philippines.

"The use of Aquino with the name of Andres Bonifacio to request the national unity under the current administration of the republic," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," according to a few million dollars and the decision in the new Brigada Eskwela. "

"Aquino is fully followed in a civilized US, the ones who ordered him to take off the national freedom of the country, released the burial of the Philippines after the new generation of the Philippines, who will be sure that the new generation of the leaders of the Philippines will be sure, that they will be sure that the new generation of the leaders of the Philippines will be sure that they will be sure that there is a new generation of authorities in economists, politics and military."
