Cine Anao.

Mary Joy Viado.

Revealed to the huge sum of the body of Greg (Alex Medina), who fell into the sweat.
This is only one of the scenes of "Babes," which was featured on the 19th of 9-Cantangan, a Volkswagen Sedan which is usually given by this daring document which is usually attacked by daring books about the Filipino masses.
It was the year 2005 when the copy of the CDO continues to support the leadership of Camply Foundation, a non-non-ranking government of indie films which aims to show their talent in making a new mind and experience that is based on the distress of the new mind and experience.
"Calaguas well as the Symposium of the Senator." the theme used by the Cantangan this year from the words of the Cantangan this year from the word race which was featured on 25 movies which was featured to capture the feelings of the viewers.
Even in the minds of the viewers, the scene in the end of the movie, she left the decisions in whatever it is in case if Greg would know that it was fooled by his victim on Facebook scam.
Opening the height.
They are often attacked by indie films such as poverty, lack of sufficient education, stories of violation of human rights, forced disappearance (disappeared), and other issues that have been shown by the movies that I understand.
It has been proven that this has a huge potential of the art of arts in giving a critical comment on the social activities, of the release of films which is worrisome, being thrown in the violent actions which is being used for everyday.
On the other hand, the stories of love in different parts are not missing, like the movie Ang Dilawan, which is the primary root of the viewers.
He is a big part of the issue, he is now a big part in choosing and release of films who have a critical theme because there is no fund coming from the government, the movies of CDO continues to break off the theme because of an idea given to the resolve and the state of the state.
That's why it cannot be avoided for the entry of the crooked movies such as head, shape and Burgos to Camply, which is a direct challenge to the government's position in society.
It is also being a chance for the new actors to play in movies, therefore, there are no known personalities who play in showbiz like this year, big personalities in showbiz like Paolo Avelino, Gretchen Barretto and Vilma Santos.
What's expected from the featured indie films, especially that the objectives of the viewer would be able to capture the feelings and conscience of the audience who were left in indie films which is why they want to make steps in order to solve the issues being attacked by the movies.
But as time goes by, it seems that the topic and traits of the indie films in the movies I understand will gradually agree with the progress of hornets, "feel like the clear difference between the two parties.
If indie films will continue to be suitable for the standard of big movies, it is not impossible that they get thin and will eventually falter.
Glass of experience.
The avid fans of CDO is shocked to leave the small theater of the UP Film Festival and goes to Ayala malls, former included in the Heroes' Cemetery and UP Diliman, but it was replaced by Ayala malls this year.
Hao further explained that it was not yet released by the Cantos from UP Fi because they got a wide pillow in order to reach the huge audience of the institution that has long been the lack of budget for a long time that is why it is no longer good to receive the terrorism that is leading to the terrorism.
In the entry of the movies of Cangenos to Ayala malls - Greening Program, Trailagutan, Alabang Integrated Center - it could not be avoided by the controversial interests of the foolishness of arts that should have to serve as a sharp criticism to society.
From Cantangan, "Cuya was free," the contestants entered an indie film where it is considered as a common product or business in the market, which is why their real purpose is missing because the objective is to earn more.
It seems that a critical condition of indie films will be critical in exchange for the recognition received from the terrorism that will be received from the terrorism that will be avoided.
It is also added that in the transfer of Ceateries in the malls, those who want to reach "- middle kinds of viewers, who want to reach the malls, however, the number of people who don't want to go to malls but always be left, people who have no ability to go to malls.
Although there are a lot of indie film fest season in the Philippines such as the One National Film Festival, Cantangan, and Cantangan still remain to be put in line with the indie films for the controversial traits of the movies I understand.
There are a lot of indie films in the country, disunited and will not be organized and will build the foolishness of arts that they will get rich, and this is not an alternative ways for what they are increasing in art.
It is a very difficult place for them this film fest season so that they can take a scene that is why it is considered that the industry of indie films will be considered.
Contrary to the goal.
Nothing is dependent on the Camping that is expected to show desire, having a relationship with the same gender and what are the things that are not acceptable - although true that is happening - in a clear community.
Camply emphasized that the suspension of a feeling will wake up in the minds of viewers to give meaning to the formation of indie films which seems to be forget and a friend that he gets to worry about.
Meanwhile, if CDO continues to pay for what is under the path, it is not impossible that he will lose its credibility as beneficiary of the alternative form of films about things or thinking that it seems like a common content, the father of the audience is numb.
With the entry of Ceateries in the world of economy, it seems that the experience with this has become a common business that has become subservient.
Even if it is not announced, indie films are instruments in training at the minds of those who watch out in the minds of those who watch out in the minds of those who watch out, instead of having a hobby or building, it seems that the violence in society will only be normal, instead of arresting them.
In the end, it is not favorable for the size of the production, movie and actors are the success of Camply and indie films in the country, but also by its contribution in the advancement of the society - a long time ago which has been a long time ago.
