It is in Disiplina!

During the time when there is a law in the Philippines, "in the advancement of the country, discipline is what's needed." This is the primary element of success.

Included in this is the perseverance, perseverance, and for the status of your constipated. If no discipline will be followed.

One of the culture that I am glad about is about the Japanese country that I have made it a habit to watch the Japanese with my actions that I have seen in the past week, on YouTube, the "Japan which made the discipline is made.

This is about their system inside their prison in Fueru, Japan, we salute and we really salute their governance, if this is what can be done in the jails in our country, the rotten prisoners can lessen the crime and even criminals again in our society.

Last night, I have watched the documentary on the wedding of Jiro Drew of "Susi" this is just a story about the life of 85-year-old Japanese, that is why she will be considered as the highest award in the whole world, that is why she will be considered as the highest award in the whole world.

3-Star.

First Class.

First Lieutenant.

First Class Sungala.

It is repeatedly repeated and continued to visit the food that will be visited in the whole world, you need to raise many months, and do not spend just to have a right to sit on, and experience the rare leak of food in arresting them.

This story is a meaningful and extravagant spending about work, family, and art of discipline to achieve the connection of your task or ambition in life.

Five Milwaukee Bucks won, according to Jiro, to finish his studies first.

1.Kotong is going to take the job and do everything for his best.

2.

They teared up to improve the ability.

3.

Improve the cleanliness of all things.

4.

You will be bored and annoying for the things in your own ways.

5.

This is said to be addicted in that position.

His habit is always hard to improve oneself.

Always focused on what can be done and will cause the level of work.

There is a need for three P: 00, giving importance, and concern.

Extraordinary and amazing people are the ones who have the ability to do this.

We need to possess this ability, and if we really want it, we can also do, the key is in discipline.
