General Ronald dela Rosa to Kerwin: Pray that By Betchai Said, Edusma.
This is what Philippine National Police (PNP) Chief Director General Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa strongly warned against Kerwin Espinosa, son of Albuera Mayor Rolando Espinosa, Senior, who is said to be the drug lord in their area who continue to hide and are not giving up even if he was sent to a cauldron.
My patience has been gone for a long time, not only to him but to all of them, dela Rosa also warned Kerwin that if he continues for the surrender of his family, his family will have the outcome or will be faced with uncertainty.
Dela Rosa said that he does not have any noise to return to Kerwin's return but he was given a extension of his father, Albuera, Leyte Mayor Rolando, who will be sent to a temporary release to the PNP Walis house when he has not surrendered to the whole day.
"" They do not want to leave until now, you did not arrive now, "you are still not able to go back to the White House," I will take care of your life, "said the PNP Chief.
But dela Rosa said that in case the Espinosa Family left, he made sure that they will be given security guard because they know it is dangerous after the encounter that happened in the house of the Espinosa family which caused the death of six people that were said to be his accomplice.
One of the reasons of Dela Rosa is why he wants to leave the mayor for the smell of cigarettes that the mayor and even his wife are always smoking and even his wife, even his personnel.
The day before yesterday, Kerwin initially sent Kerwin to his father, who waited for dela Rosa for a long time.
Kerwin also asked.
The Philippine National Police (PNP) did not allow the request of the drug lord Kerwin Espinosa to be fetched by PNP Chief Ronald "Bato" dela Rosa for his surrender.

But the police are now deployed a sufficient number of people who will meet Kerwin, if the return of its country will push through.
Kerwin is said to be responsible in the distribution of drugs in Eastern Visayas and the son of Albuera, Leyte mayor Ronaldo Espinosa Sr.
It can be recalled that drug lord initially said that he will just surrender if the PNP Chief will be followed by the airport.
Even the local and foreign media are already placed on the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) Terminal 3 for the possible return of the younger Espinosa.
Based on the record of the Bureau of Immigration (BI), Kerwin was able to leave the country last June 21, 2016 to go to Kuala Lumpor, Malaysia.
Even though it was reported that Kerwin received information to Clark Suzuki raider in Pampanga, Kerwin will increase in case he returned to the country, this is not confirmed by the management of the PNP.
According to the PNP, they have no idea of the said information, that's why they cannot give any comments about the issue.
However, the PNP assured that the forces are on alert in all airports in the country which is possible to have burns in the airplane of Kerwin when he comes back to the country.
