Oh, there are many things.

There was sixteen (19) local government units (GOCCO) and government financial help (Guna), the only ones serving the government.
It means, the GOCCs and what's being called is that this is continuously being given funds by the government but it is really not beneficial to give income to the government.
But, most of these agencies "are becoming strict, only the government officials, so that they will continue to be guarded and hit.
In these kinds of GCCO and what's being pointed at the people, "the administration did not give in the government.
It is not unknown to us that majority of the officials in GOCCO and Gabinite, perhaps, it was helped in the campaign that's why PNoy was elected in power, "they are coordinating with Malacanang.
Or maybe they are, "the people who have been recommended by people who are strong in the palace.
That is why we are in favor with the desire of Cagayan de Oro City Representative Rufus Rodriguez to just separate those who are unemployed GOCCO and what's being called.
According to Representative Rodriguez, if the President is true in implementing the violation of the government, now is the right time to remove the "pork barrel" and for the payment of the funds for more important projects in the country.
The agencies that should have been served are the following: 1) Banaue Hotel, 2) Northern Land Cruiser, Incorporated, 10) Northern FFF); 8) Philippine National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Authority (8) Philippine Amusement and Development Assistance Fund), 18) National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Corporation of the Philippines; the 19) National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Corporation of the Philippines; the 19) Zuzurueggi Street, 18) National Bureau (Development Assistance Fund), 18) Philippine National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Assistance Fund).
But in total, around 120 GCCO and what's being called by the government and most of them do not need it, there is no purpose if they are going bankrupt, however, the officials and employees are continuing to pay for the tax of the people.
Billions of funds are going bankrupt because it just goes to the expenses of GROs C and GFi.
The influential officials here are lucky, while we have many fellowmen who die in hunger and poverty.
