
Back in social media, the government of PNoy is leading.

We are happy that the authorities will be able to solve the case of the murder of the ID-called executive executive, who is Eleutetio "," Davao. "
Almost no two weeks after the crime, the culprits got caught and they were not in Guy because they admitted the wrong she did.
He showed that if the police would want it, resolve a case immediately.
But why is it that if there is a case in killing journalists, the authorities are pointing at them?
Is it because President Banoga, I mean, Noynoy is the issue of the order that he wants to resolve the case of the murder of Davao?
We are not wondering, but it is as well as it is as well as the police or NBI should still need to step down by the police or NBI to protect them for criminals in a crime?
Do they still need to get sick "so they will wake up to the noodle house and ran hurriedly to capture the suspects.
But what's more saddening, is that a angle should be sped away by a angle, I mean, the President to be given protection to the authorities in a case of murder?
Isn't it that PNoy has issued a P2 million reward for whoever can give information that will give way on the early path of a case?
If there is no blood pressure from the superior and there is no need to release a reward, maybe one of the Davaoeños are also one of the distressed case?
It is frustrating, which is becoming the attitude of the authorities that there is a need to bribery first before taking action against criminals just like in an event that their vehicle needs to be transferred to in order to respond to the conflict that happened.
After all, Banoga is possible that the authorities can release a reward for the arrest of the culprits in a particular case, why did he not do this to the murder case of journalists?
In the three years of Banoi in Malacanang, 20 more journalists were killed but one of the cases is not solved.
And the life of journalists in the country continues to be dangerous while he is in Malacanang.
Similar to Banoga, many of the officials of the National Press Club lost its hair in thinking how justice will be given to the fellow victims of the murder.
As said by Ka Paul Gutierrez, Arlie Calyo, and Joel Egco, it is better for their hair to go up to the pillow, just to continue the exhaustion of our siblings at work.
But if that kind of president of the Philippines is kind, we will be consumed!
