Straight at 161, name for 31 years of position for the ambassador.
By Ellen Toribio, October 3, 2016, people have a problem in the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).
It was said that Malacañang sent a list of 161 million names in order to give a position as the ambassador.
The problem is, there are only 60 candidates for the whole world (the ambassador to the leadership of a embassy), four political mission and 20 Consulate General (branch of a public service, the commemoration of foreign services, the ambassador of political service, the ambassador of political services.
This is what was said in 1991 Foreign Affairs Office, "the The President Ferdinand E.
We salute the 60 embassy who are four or four or less than 64 of 64 of 64 of 64 of 64 of 64.
The four medical mission is by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) headquarters in Jakarta; United Nations (UN) and the International Criminal Court (UN), UN in New York; and World Trade Organization (Wthese) in Geneva.
The 1991-Illegal Drugs Act was passed to protect the foreign services in excessive politicking and this is to maintain a professionals, foreign services, which is included in the officials who have been asked by the Philippines to other countries.
According to our source, there are a lot of list of the retired military and police station for President Rodrigo Duterte to support the support of military and police in his campaign against drugs which is caused by other countries, United Nations, the European Union and human rights groups.
The well-known campaign on him last election was also dead.

For now, there are still five who have been submitted to the Commission on Appointments, according to the United Kingdom; Jose Laurel, ambassador to Japan; James Lao, ambassador to the United States, former congressman of Makati, Teodoro Bacani, Jr. as the ambassador to the United Nations.
Malacañang has also talked to the former journalists who is Chito Lavana to become the ambassador to China.
Running for Lagdameo now to the ambassador of London, the former in DFA is a bit good because according to the ambassador of the country, it is still not yet given a ambassador to the country so that his service will be more meaningful and it is also expensive to send the ambassador to the whole family in another country.
However, according to the DFA, what is really their big problem is how President Duterte will fight back in his writings, just like in one day when he was compared to Hitler and he said he will still have three million addicts in drugs.
Too much with the DFA is too high.
