The news is sad today.

It is time for school again, the vacation is over, even the election is back to school when the children go back to school.
Up to 24 million youth entered the schools this school year.
The reports on the preparation of the Department of Education (DepEd) for the education of the Department of Education (DepEd) for the start of classes are very sad, it reached to a point that the children are just waiting for their own bank, because there is a lack of lack in chairs and crowded in the chairs.
The teachers experienced a huge number of classes in elementary students of DepEd and even in the corrupt officials of the Aquino administration, it is considered that this problem has become an ordinary problem, however, it is considered that this problem is not ordinary, but the problem, that is why the policy of the Aquino administration is severe.
This past month, after the election, Aquino is expected to pass the law in the program K-12; however, the teachers also recognize the quality of education of the children, it is clear in the price of the K-12 that is focused on the movement of the K-12 that is focused on the speed of the K-12 that is focused on the speed of the K-12 that is focused on the speed of the K-12 that is focused on the speed of the K-12 that is focused on the speed of the K-12 program.
Meanwhile, the Aquino administration is still investigating the negative policy in education - in giving a small, and unreasonable, budget for public schools and institutions that would lead the increasing number of the poor and to treat the increasing number of the poor and to treat the increasing number.
Aquino is proud of the record that the economy of the country (a "progress" which is far from the truth of ordinary citizens), but what he did not say is that it only reaches up to 326 percent of the United Nations Eye Movement (GAS) that needs to be spent on 6 percent of GDP in education.
The salary of the workers is not increasing, and even the teachers, for private and public sectors of education, the Commission on Higher Education approved the high tuition in 354 in college and university, and DepEd is the high tuition in 260 school in elementary.
Crowded in public schools and increase the tuition in private schools, it is not surprising that almost 26 million youth now are out of the school-school Youth, said by ACT, representative Antonio Tinio, that not all students in elementary school will have a little bit in school.
What the Aquino administration wants, this is the end of the implementation of their training to TESDA), the poor who have no tuition in damp and college.
More than two months have passed, an unexpected news happened: A scholar of the Bayan ended his life because he does not want to be a slave, but because of poverty, he is pushing the system of education to be a real slave.
It's a sad news to the parents and citizens that there are tragedy that are happening like the tragedy of crystal-Tetuan, it is probably time to remove our sadness and end our sadness and end the system of education that makes us happy and to our youth.
