
The heinous murder of the 201st Brigade in a HE is combat, NPA, owned by Apolonio Mendoza?

You are Arvin De Guia.
Apolonio Mendoza Command, NPA-Quezon.
March 2, 2014.

The killing of the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army identified as Roberto Camanger (Ka Brando), a wounded NPA, who was caught in an encounter between the 201st Brigade last November 10 in the morning of March 1, 2014.

In the said encounter, they caught Brando the wound he acquired because of the wound he acquired, but what they did was that the wounded soldier was tortured, and was abandoned by the wounded soldier, Ka Brando in order to bring him to the hospital in the town of Lopez.
According to the statement of some officials of the barangay, Ka Brando is not serious about it, but in the same day, the family and pensioners who supported human rights are Ka Brando which is one of the cold body in Magsaysay Hospital in the town of Lopez.

In the examination of the body of Ka Brando, it already had 9 gunshot wounds that the worst was the two gunshot wounds in his chest and a gunshot wound which caused his death.

Not humane, the demon is made by the demon and a indication of the blood of the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, that this is a clear violation of human rights and the national forces of the Armed Forces of the Philippines under the international law and to ensure his right to live.

What he did to Ka Brando is a sign of desperation of the 201st Brigade of their failure to save the forces of the New People's Army at the South-Quezon-Bondoc Jr.

This heinous crime should not be allowed to let the criminals be punished with different ways that can be filed against the criminals in different places which can be filed by the criminals in different parts of the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army.

This deed of the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, on the daily service of Ka Brando and the citizens, is already tired of supporting the indigenous people and will be the citizens in order to submit their hardship and power over the hardship and power.

It is free to give the Saligang Batas to the ranks of the masses up to the line of the masses to raise their awareness and the price of the masses to help the masses, and the price of the masses to help the citizens of the masses to give treatment to the problems of the masses in their jurisdiction.

The killed force of the 201st Brigade, Ka Brando is a great servant of the masses, Ka Brando and protector of the Filipino people, Ka Brando in Barangay San Diego of Gumaca, which should be a hero and protector of the Filipino people.

There are no choose of regret and sadness the feeling of the filipino masses, the Filipino people who are suffering and criticizing the disappearance of Ka Brando, 2nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army, the filipino masses, and those who are stubborn ones in order to make the Filipino farmers and Filipino people suffer.

In the inspiration of Ka Brando, the struggle of the citizens in the Sevidal will continue in the coming days and time will surely be punished and will crush the enemy of the people.

Punished the evil force of the 201st Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division!
Brando is our followers of the Filipino people!
Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Long live the Filipino people!
