
Camping and K-12.

By Rolando Nana, June 11, 2012.

Estimation of the ID, and the program K-12.

I can be watched for a person who does not want to cook because I am sure that there is still no educated knowledge about the reason why the audience is popular in the television, that the audience will cook after getting angry.

A popular destination is popular because it can be considered a popular concept of "possibility," the collections of a delicious viand, a resort and preparation, a napkin.

If this is just a show of travel, there is a possibility of traveling in other space, places and countries, in the program on top, an extraordinary age, and Batan, the goats, life, worms, life, worms, life, worms, life, worms or balut because of thousands of prize?

The K-12 program of Noynoy Aquino is also a copy of the possibility that as long as the country has been taken for global warming, the Philippines, there is still no clear plan, the reality, and the effect in college.

The only thing that is there in the K-12 is the television - one is going to attend to global warming which is impossible to achieve the proliferation of education, even the television remains in a apparatus that can be achieved by those who see the image.

The number of people who have been involved in chaos in the world of Silent, we are not eating five kilos of hamburger in Chicago, but it seems that we are there in the shoulders of the host, as well as the best angle in cooking or food.

But he doesn't have anything there even if she knew that she is watching over and Angles.

He is in the living room or in the room, watching a regular food for lunch and dinner will be able to convince and patronize the restaurant, the audience is lacking in the condition of the possibility that she is being offered to a point, but believed that it might be.

Which in the future, maybe it can be implemented, there is also a strong feeling, to have a energy, and there is also a possibility that there is a possibility that there is a possibility that the effects of desire and actions going to the ring will be lessened.

The K-12 has this kind of boils. "Maybe because we do not have a promise, it would be better if the country is going to be a better possibility, and if not, it seems that the country is going to be a bigger possibility, and if not, there is a high kind of thing and experience that may lead the possibility.

The truth is, there is a possibility of being rude and K-12) in this current state), it will be a big deal to him, and from the very high position of a bigger and extravagant future.

Just like the good upbringing by an insurance so that they won't have a different opinion in the end of the implementation of the implementation of the K-12: Temporal-NUCD-asa, because the students and children were able to graduate because they were able to finish their studies and children.

The privation will be resolved by the end - even if it is added to the most worse condition - in order to remember, that is why the state of the dream is to invent a state, and additional pension for the majority of the poor.
