Corona!

And now Chief Justice Renato Corona is going to be impeached, he is the followers of former president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and there is a big obstacle in the motive of Pres. Noynoy Aquino: The continue to play blind at the motive of Pres. Noynoy Aquino: The continue to play blind at the motive of Pres. Noynoy Aquino: The continue to be implemented on the motive of Pres. Noynoy Aquino:
How can Aquino do this?
It is also important for a hero's role that took a glimpse of Senator Juan Ponce Enrile: A big mistake by the camp of Corona from the midst of the prosecution's camp, but why, he wanted to clean the name of Corona in the midst of the prosecution's revelation, that's why he decided to clean the name of Corona in the middle of the successive attack, he would try to resign from his post.
The group Akbayan also has a role that he looks like the sentiments of Corona's sentiments, but because of money from the government, he continues to have a huge sum of protest against the government, but because of the lack of protest against the local government of the citizens, he continued to have a huge sum of peace in the hot issue of the citizens.
Perhaps, others do not see any problem in using the reconciliation of Aquino and Akbayan as a popular decision against Aquino, but it can be seen that there is no direct promise to the Aquino administration, they are not directly a direct promise to disanswer to Aquino's speech.
More than those, are being used and being used by the two of those who are being arrested, and defending the citizens of the US, wage increase, lack of work and against the citizens of the US in defense o in the program Condleweight championship, Oplan LS, and others.
This situation is a big challenge to those who are pushing for different wishes and the call of the poor and the citizens, that's why it's more important that Aquino will push through with the rules of the poor and the citizens who continue to prove that they will be given a chance, along with the chance to be revealed.
