
Gabriela who sat on arms around the privatization of the public hospital.

By Filipino Weeker.
July 12, 2012.

The mothers of Gabriela, and their children, in front of the DOH compound in Manila as a protest by the group about the plan of "corporation, however, the plan of the poor in the service of the poor in health services (KR Guda.
A human rights launched in different places in the country, the group of women who are Gabriela in front of public hospitals to express the approval of the "corporation of the public hospitals in the country.
In front of the office of the Department of Health and Jose Reyes Memorial Medical Center in Manila, hundreds of women from Gabriela before they are coordinating with the Aquino administration, they will not allow the Aquino administration to sell the budget and order to continue the budget and neglect it.
The poor women also had human rights in front of Quirino Memorial Medical Center in Quezon City and Amang Rodriguez Medical Center in Marikina City.
According to Gabriela, the poor poor children are already having a hard time in making their children, especially it's hard to pay them to health service (KR Guda.
"We insisted with President Aquino and (DOH) Secretary Enrique Ona to stop working in public hospitals that are the latest victims of the Public-Private Conejero, who will surely cause more illness," said Jimboy Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela.
The allies of the President in the Congress are pushing the resolution of public hospitals, to ensure that they are allegedly stubborn and save for the expenses of the government, including the House Bill 3269, Representative Anthony Rolando Golez, in the legislative chamber and Senate Bill 3130 meters of Senator Franklin Drilon.
Different parts of Gabriela in the provinces were also held by human rights in the provinces, like Gabriela and Negros Occidental, who are fighting the corporation of Corazon Aquino Monsalve, Memorial Regional Hospital in Bacolod.
The women of Gabriela in the said city launched a while in front of Southern Philippine Medical Center in Davao City, Gabriela because of the movement in front of Western Visayas Medical Center in Iloilo City, Capiz Provincial Hospital in Roxas City, and others.
Meanwhile, employees of health services are ready to conduct protests to fight the said plan to make a corporation in public hospitals.
They will conduct a protest tomorrow, July 13, the Filipino workers, including the Network Suzuki raider (NJ), in front of the National Transformation Council (NKovalev) to express the current plans of the Aquino administration.
It was the former administrator of the NJ Vitaliano Aguirre, and he considered that a model of the NKimXi.
The women of Gabriela, together with other groups, in front of Western Visayas Medical Center in Iloilo City, to protest the plan of the corporation "traslacion" here together with the said hospital in the 26 targets of the proposed bill (contribution).
As explained by Doctor Julie Caeg, one of the authors who will be held by TikP, the poor are the most who will be hit by the privatization of the health services.
"Filipinos are already having a hard time to live under Poverty.
