God, the US.

Postanes and his mind.
On January 13, 2015.
In opinion.

But God, the love for the US in which we was impressed by, the Christ, for US. Romer 5: 8.
The Lord is like that, although what we are doing to him is that he still loves us, the perspective of many people in the world about the morality and proper state of God in our time now is changing.
Last year, there are many changes that happened in the society and in the world that they will not only go to ashes in the most venomous snakes of the family but even during the time of Apostol, they are warned about the situation of the world.
"Datal out, if you know it, that in the last days, it would come that in the last few days, you can be loved, those who don't want to be loved by your parents, those who do not want to be loved, those who do not want to be loved, those who do not want to be loved, those who do not want to be loved, those who do not want to be loved, those who are innocent.
Umali is directly warned that the last few days are true because of what is happening to many, especially to the youth, those who do not treat each other, those who do not treat each other, those who do not treat each other, those who do not treat each other, those who have no joke in our lives in the country and in the society, will have something good to happen to our lives in the country and in society.
We will support all the programs of PNoy so that it can damage and become great as the economy of the economy in the country.

We salute the NBI because of the good and good leadership of Director Atty. Virgilio Mendez.
They are really not stopping in investigating the case in Bilibid prison and on top of garlic, which is allegedly involved in some government officials.
The residents of NBI can't be stopped because of their good relationship and they want to show that they are the number 1 Emergency Shelter Assistance of the organization.
Keathy of good Social Work and long live all of the NBI.

I interviewed my friends in AOIana that what those seated at the Bureau of Customs have been good, and of course, we can see that there is a proof.
It is good to help especially those from Asayes, or in Port of Manila.
Everything they are doing is to help the carCommissioner Sevilla so that the collection is heading to them by Finance.
In what we see, all the reform presented by Asukal will be overcome which is why the good Deputy Commissioners and Collector Dela Cruz is working hard for the government.
