Guballa does not want to take a vacation; he does not want to be a worker.

We are watching and socialize with those who are arrested by the rice field, those who plant rice and plant crops and owners of the rice field.
We are amazed, we are amazed, to our fellow farmers.
"Those who are holding the motorcycle, don't get tired from being able to catch and gain weight on the rice field.
Next to this is the six who plant rice.
In the near you are five who hang out from overseas.
The farmers will improve their endorsement, deception, charming and planting the hope that the harvest will be good.
It's because they are also a nuisance, who will be called by the owners of the land to cut rice, save them before the Thresher shark will come.
In their job in the start, there is a pay for them and for lunch.
Each day is playing 150 every day.
In harvest, they have a part of the harvest depending on the discussion.
It is possible that in every seven or 10 kinds of rice, it is a budget for them.
If they will earn more than 100 pesos in every hectares, they can go home to each of the rice.
The pay for a month for the start of farm is only for a month and in a month also in Luneta!
Between these times, they are on their separate ways, their strategy to live together with their families.
But most of them are not pitiful from hunger and poverty because their income is very small, even in harvest because if they will be able to save every funds of their part, up to P400 pesos from the rice field.
By a sack, they have nothing to go home to their homes until they see that the people who are full of cheating in NFA rice is what they always plays.
But the children of the owners of the ground does not mean anything that they don't want to go and be better than the work and narrow others.
Most of them want to go abroad because they have failed to farm.
They also do not want to be a worker in the Philippines because they only have to go against each other.
And only in working abroad is their hope to live humane and have a future.

We think, what will happen to our beloved country?
She cries.
Why is it that politics and robbery is what is being done in our country, all of our loved ones in our country.
