I said that it's going to go through the camp of pork that's why it's said that there are other parts of Mindanao that are probably in different parts of Mindanao including the city of Zamboanga and they have not yet gone down after they rushed to the group of Charlotte September 24 from Zamboanga in the southern part of Zamboanga.
It was only known for a lot of good news that was only during summer but it was not allowed to stop the fear of some of the people who talked here in Zamboanga especially that he was still cut off in the roof of this next year, which is why he was able to go there, which is why he asked to go there.
Give first before this month that Lion is up to peace; we will look down to look at first if it is going to succeed.
There was a resident who will be finished in Zamboanga and it is said that the situation of Miriam is still ongoing because the situation of Miriam Pampanga was forced to evacuate after having been killed by armed men to be killed.
With two thousand, there were two thousand, who were able to go to school; he was texting and texting each other in the house he was able to do.
It's so hot last night.
When the water is slow in their bed, they were given a lot of rice without nonstop.
She is about to dress with me.
Dedicates the incident to them but now that he was able to block the agreement, he is already waiting in Morong and he is already waiting for an agreement that is why they rushed to a month of what they did.
Hopefully you lose our Muslim brothers and our families in our house.
The negative Badjaos are more intense in the street.
Before, you are still young.
He said to bathe the youth but now.
The day of our friends is the Badjaos, we will be able to give anything.
What is the local government of Zamboanga and they are doing everything to hear the affected.
!
If you will buy / her, if you will buy his / her Ate Vi, he will be able to buy at the High School.
The grace of the grace is possible to do what they're going to do so that they can take advantage.
It was their former boss in Congress and I now went away from us.
They have also had help in Pio Pio Pio Catapang, maybe that is not what will happen in the bad time to be drooling!
According to him, he also has a request for the Manila January gay.
You should have peace.
You should keep it first.
Yes, are you happy?
There is a witness code there that's why I am not with the death without being a call for Marawi plan, but a security fight is still a way for the follow-up-up one of the follow-up-up-in-law, which is only for the follow-up-up-in-law.
