Nothing will happen to the story, it is right that a white airplane usually goes to and see the residents watching.
That is why those from there would not push through with the airplane to ask the airplane to ask when Amy is asked to give up, he is just here in order not to be included in the report.
Even those who went to Mindanao were not able to go to Mindanao on what he / she was able to capture.
In the airplane going around here, there are still thousands of times but we get wet and also wet in our operation to escape what is important to those who have seen such as an airplane that passed by.
Because it's been a long time like entering into a long time.
A cloudy weather in circumference is the root of our camera in the whole three hours that we are going to go near to you here.
March 20 - Two often see that it is being cooked by a good to work.
We asked that it is the mother of the police that I am also not there in Mindanao but they stopped giving a statement about it.
There is also no statement from the T-bala "Supatan, else when you sing on this, my aunt said that you will go back to me directly, let us go back to the position that you have said.
We will wait for us to wait for the newspaper Contact Policy "
Go to the protagonist.
If I still have a little bit.
"In choosing the senate, you have mentioned the rights of the owner to be seen before the right side of the owner, who can be seen as a white airplane that has been seen by the Whole so you have seen something in the ring.
Yes, someone transferred to an airplane.
So there is a pro.
We can't say if brochuces whatever it is in Taiwan to be able to turn around in circumference.
We are good to ask Leah and I saw a white airplane but you are not answering us.
What's the news that you came out of, there are some who have gifts for its natural operation.
It was only here that I bought so much and aunt.
They are also going to put off the lights, which are part of the state that their role in the operation to get her aunt in school Fifth very rare as four.
Only here, he went with the white airplane.
Here, wherein forty-four to sing, the one who died from there were eight people who passed away from the group of M.
Afuang is on reconciling with a new leader.
Maria is also trying to ask the operation of the operation called me and action here on the roof of his life.
It is believed that before, we can see that we have been chosen to live in.
He is not inside his room, however, he is even asking me to be seen even if there is a fire.
Covetous, fur; you are the only one to burn down.
Your blood.
It was not broken.
This is what I am saying and I also know how to be.
Even my brother's house was Malita which was hit by the bullet.
Why is his aunt say?
Hole.
It is said that this is where I am sleeping.
It was Marlon.
That is why we have not seen anyone in the end which might have blood in going crazy.
Earlier that we were able to talk to it, we were able to talk to them through the telephone and for the mayor, Ato just doesn't want him to go to school; he / she was staring at him / her; she was staring at him and at the eighty four.
I will get what we want to get a photo yesterday, I am sorry for what day to tell the Special Action Force six.
Even in the part operation, he did not say that it is near the same part.
Reconciling with PNoy?
Your one among you is made out of darkness.
Who's the Surveillance Response Gang; we are saying that he is mentioned.
Okay, one more.
He also mentioned that, in the operation, they watched the bag that they were carrying, and it can be seen by everyone.
I agree.
The doctor said goodbye to the use of drubbing for such as Natanne Calment of Ang, which is why it is said that the trash can be fixed.
Covetous, fog; and here on the side of Senior Police Officer 3: 00; we are really closed; are they really closed-tempered and anything.
We are anxious; we can help on what is really the airplane that was really mentioned, which is why he said that the officials of the P-laws are also mentioned in him.
And what is the thrifty person that they experienced in the conflict about this, they say they didn't do anything about it, in white, but how they only have no idea, we do not know where it came from, they do not know where it came from.
They say they have a promotion of whom this airplane is, but we hope that Kia will be able to discuss now that Kia will be able to talk to each other; that's why we really know that what we are really, will really be.
You are going to have a voice to get a friend solution to other countries to help the date of challenges in relation.
I am stupid; we are deport; Youth.
To be able to help our enemies; he / she comes to their opponents, but until they suddenly say that what kind of dogs are being used to have been used to each other in the province, who are always saying that all sorts of money are being used in the province, who are always saying that you are seen by the people.
How much was he inside?
If ever they have mentioned something when we go there.
What are the Americans do?
And then, we still do not have something to do with any personal yes, any four children.
Last February here in the Philippines, he was said to be just like that in the camp of those who can be delivered to by Commander because Zamboanga really has something.
Yes, the camp there in-in-laws here in six-five, you can't see that sometimes, you can see that you can see those who are going to see each other so that we can see each other but we don't want to.
On what they are saying, who are the ones who are going to go to school; that they are inside the politicians, that's why there are many politicians who say that we can't see anything.
Cherness, whose only four-ighty-200 million pesos in Mindanao now that you have a lot to me.
