If the farmers Santa Lucia was unable to take care of a little bit; he / she said that she might get a live-in partner, he might be able to talk with, Junior, "
Our car is a waste of waste if the farmers are wasted after the result of many in the war in land.
Those who are rude are not included in the problems in Baguio and they are going to be close to a small house in Barangay Balete Drive, they are taking advantage of the voice of Ate Tell that is why his voice is behind almost five thousand.
For help.
It turns out that it was very clear that he pushed me happy.
Three years.
It was only four o'clock.
We are anxious; we were not carried away by a fist, that we should not be swayed by a fist, that we should be used by the government so that they can be given too much to them by nothing.
A other buyer, Linda.
You are just sleeping and we are sitting there.
It is personal that they do not have any decision anymore.
You are my siblings.
He / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that you will not go home to his friends at times but he did not even make the end of the end of money.
I am so happy with the help of the farmers, because, if it is not, Kuya Darwin was not able to stop the growth of the farmers, for those with a closed problem, it would be said that we will buy each other but now, we are going to succeed.
A shortcoming.
Sleep, very much!
That is why I have not made it yet to the farmers what the land that has been fighting for a long time is that the people are fighting for you for a long time.
They are on earth.
The United um order of the head, Delfin, was called to be at the part of the land, and was there on the height of the land that was sold at the L-B (C-Laban) which was given to making a text message.
I have five years up to now that your child is not running out.
Here, they talked with them.
Now, nothing is still there.
On the list of September, a six-year-old teenagers in the report of September, two people who have been working in the center of September.
That is even if there is a story in the room that mother is not there.
Then a while ago, we were able to go to school; we go there to him, but what should I face me, ah, it is good that this is the decision of your phlegm.
That you were able to talk to one hospital, who was able to talk to the office of one day, he mentioned that he has not yet visited us in the office of one day, but he still does not have any intention to attend to us but earlier at the interview of the magistrate that they have done, that's why they were able to deny.
"It's right that I did not say that, we are saying that they are friends and they are friends and they are friends and they are friends that are part of the land of the land that has been sold in the ground that is not included in Jojo Binay.
We are proud; he / she didn't go to school; he / she said that what they want to watch is that they would be the one who wants to watch it in the ground that they would be the one to give money for the land that they will be free to buy the land.
Yes, thank you very much.
