Association-for-A cause start tomorrow is Bo'clock in November 19, 2016 for the game tomorrow.
(PhilSports Arena, Pasig.
1: 30 p.m.
3 Malayog got the Turks of Star Game.
5 p.m.
5: 15 p.m. - Shuler's V-V-Fullido.
7: 15 p.m.
Fans will pour this day at the PhilSports Arena in order to get a glimpse of their favorite players played in Okinawa, Coll and Realty Corporation of this season that will happen on the all All Soul's Day.
Aside from the fans, the said monster is also a fund of relief for the victims of typhoon Lawin. "Fight IT led by the fans of the super typhoon Lawin," said President of the super typhoon Lawin, "said President of the super typhoon Lawin," said President of CalSports), Ricky Palapal.
They are also included in the Turks who will be playing on the all of Star.
"Men of the municipal hall and fans of Sebunga, which is a high-year-old child, who has been a member of the funeral parlor, even asked to be a former fiber," said Sports Vir chairman Moout Marayino.
Michelle Guesao, Myla Cruz, Ginger Consignation Sy and the slope of the Realty Corporation conference champion the Papal visit of the group of Rebalde Valdez of Customs on 5: 15 in the afternoon.
The fans are also having a chance to be with their favorite players in fun and games on 1: 30 p.m. up to 3 p.m.
All the side of the patron's patrons who can be able to join the players in the court for the commandments and anti-OPS.
Papin owner of coach Rommel Abella has to be accompanied by Coach Freddie Yess of UP and Kathleen in UST to guide the troops of Guao.

The other members of the squad were Jia Morado of Ateneo, Diana Carlos, Marianne Buyo, and Ria Meneses of UST, Amy Asumba compound of BaliPure and Toni Basas of Far Eastern University.
LAOAGCITY - Laoag coach Nes and Jasper Jimenez of Air Force and Sherwin Meneses of Customs who will inherit the group of Valdez.
The allies of the JMBM Building Valdez, Dr Gervacio are allies, Jessica Galanza, Jessica Galanza, Jessica Galano of UP, Rementice, Aramzon of UP, Remy Tinio who were arrested and Elaine Costales, who were arrested.
