Stories are deacing in stories.

By Joanna.
August 20, 2014.

Release of women: From the left) Eugene Domingo, Shamaine Buencesino and Gladys Reyes.
Looking back to the local government of Jun Lana in the film that was brought by Jun Lana in the movie that are the bark or Barrettos (Tales (RNT'boli, 2013), this is also a statement on the birth of an individual who knows the lost consciousness.
These were completely fixed on the hands and feelings of the six women under the crash site of Marcos last 1975.
Just like what the woman is expecting from the woman's woman, she has no dreams and own decision, she has been used to work in Manila instead of accepting his honor, father, Father Arturo (Eddie Garcia) and Mayor Alfredo (Nangie Buamino).
"Is it just like that, if you are not married, the role of the woman in the society is a house helper," from a simple idea that the old girl is identified by Marilou B. but the culture of having a filling the woman's ability to cheat on the prevalence of the ability of a woman.
On the genius child of Jun Lana, you did not expect that the Magdalena of her husband will become an angel to the first step of acknowledging the prostitution is a famous type of society who has a crisis and full of dignity even if his role is good and giving attention to what the man who cheated.
The staff of Susan (Gladys is also used in bed when she thought that there will be a meeting with a baby boy to rest at night from the whole day selling rice field.
Meanwhile, Cecilia admitted that the pregnancy and offer of his son to Mayor Alfredo, a disability, which gave her husband to his / her husband for his own face and thinking, was able to give his bruises on his face and thinking.
He was very silent, witnesses and who pretended to be the incident of Marilou, who seems to be interested in the river, but for the series of complications in the river, she was slowly able to step down from the river, and it might be better if she was in a relationship with her niece when she pointed out with kisses on the lips.
In the first discovered by Marilou Cabaccan, an active member of the movement of the rebels, it is natural for her safety, second is the regret for his safety as well as his mother's sacrifices, which is why at first she's closed the door of the barbark for the NPA.
However, Marilou quickly realized the logic of the weapons against the non-control of the young lady, who left their studies to address the call of the armed rebels, with father's house, for anyone who needs to be in a shade, food or medicine.
It can be recalled that father of Father Arturo Cacdac, a good barb in giving up the level of a woman in society has been compared to the development of a woman in society, which can be compared to the ceremony of Jose Me Tangere and El Filibusterismo, even in the proliferation of reading materials from Europe, which is the cause of the violent protest of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
A race which is made by Father Arturo Brion, which is contrary to the Roman Catholic Church,, 1815-42 years old, who were members of religious groups, who are all members of American troops that are both bakers of environment and human rights, North Cotabato), North Cotabato), and the mysterious Korean, who is Wiltshire, Geometry when 1945, 2012, Pampanga), is there.
In the end, Marilou was holding the person who was holding her own life by Cecilia, an event that was given to the NPA, who was able to give a move by Pres. Marcos as one of the things that was given by President Ferdinand Marcos as one of the mystery that was being talked to by Pres. Marcos, and the ice cream-tempered Ali, and Joe Frazier.
In the drug campaign against Mayor Alfredo Lim, the crooked path that has been discussed on the rebellion is the non-disagreement in the store, river, street, chapel, house and Baruel shop in a point, "not all people can accept what is right." In the movies, this is like a temporary state of the people.
The fear of Marilou, who was recognized by the events, was found out by the events and were related to the cruelty done by Stephen Soneheals, 1979; a medical version of cruelty to the force of cruelty to the force of the cruelty to the force of the cruelty to the forces of the cruelty of the cruelty of the cruelty of the cruelty.
With the offer of Mayor to sympathy and peace, Marilou chose the direction of the light to revolt against him.
This issue might not be the first time for Marilou if it is proven that the death of Jose in the first part is a mystery because of this case, he has a motivation of copper, the resolution of the movie has a type of reason.
Although the action is made by an individual, the non-mannered family of the indigenous people and the Israelites, where the debt of blood in the people should be punished as example of Jovito Palparan, which is known to be involved in the hundreds of persons of the killing that may be implemented on the hundreds of deaths.
One goal of justice is for the questions to be given protection by Marilou, at this point that the struggle for those who experienced the abuse and taking care of those who experienced abuse and abuse.
There are many stories about the last debate of the travel of Marilou, the patched-up possibility that will experience the film that was left alone in the end the movie was left alone in showing a clear truth about her name that seemed like a light of his dream to give birth to Aling Cecilia.
Different from the position was the first meeting of Edusma, all men, the last ritual led by the woman (Nora Aunor) and cannot be seen with the participation of the women by the woman, "Ang, is a popular destination or in the kitchen where the heart of the woman is in the struggle."
Although the staff of Marilou is the center of the movie, the other personnel who are members of the movie sector, listening to the native body of the people and actions are key to the native body of the people and to make his real role as protector of land and rights.
In the movie, the support of well-known actors like Gladys is also prevailed in order to prove Eugene Domingo who is the actor who experienced blood and sweat, and only the role of serious drama and not only on paper.
Lana approached the second in his project Traided with Marilou Diaz (1955-2012), the director that brought us a meaningful movie such as New Year (2001), Jose Rizal (1998), Jose Rizal (1997).
Most of this, stories are just right to have been cut off by the filipino families as a material contribution in a part of our history, 1971) and Gil Porac, 1971) and Tandang Sora, 1971) and Tandang Sora, 1947).
