Happy Easter!
Because of the first time, it should be such as well as well as the typhoon Lando, which is why it slightly weakened.
But it still continues to file a copy of the motorcycle that was held here, which is needed earlier this morning so that the entire afternoon, the capital, which is the capital for the farmers, will continue.
There have been two months for this matter of Independence Day.
But maybe earlier at dawn.
The cold season has been dark.
It is something that they have a group of farmers.
We sent them as a branch of the ground where the rice was cut off to buy.
They will greet the incoming typhoon.
But they are not thinking about this kind of time here and it is raining.
What are the farmers, who are very stubborn, are proud.
Of course, this is the name of my mother.
This is a storm that's very high; we are a little bit more than you, "that's why it's too late that's why it's too much.
Not far from home last night.
You are fond of people.
It is like a sea when there is a strong typhoon.
Something that is going to make land in this place.
But it is also the one who owns the lives of those who are living near the river.
Seven years have passed on the color of Tugegarao, here, we have huge Red Cross.
Where are you sleeping?
What time the typhoon came and went down the water first in the mountains of Sara.
The scarcity in the island is already numbered.
Because of where they parked the procession, do not allow the procession to not be forsaken by P-R: C of their rude drivers in the area which may possibly sunk in flood aside from the nearby areas.
Their almost one thousand pregnant will also be asked to give in every barangay in the province.
They are stupid.
A gossip.
It's too much.
Our fellowmen, what are we talking about?
We are low; we are texting that we are texting each other.
They were going to shoot the barangay in the barangay.
Fuck, deport; I said, at a little bit.
Where do you have that we have experienced here in Tuguegarao while we found out that there was a sudden outbursts of wind but tomorrow it's already at that time when there is a strong rain.
It is said that he is just being swayed by typhoon.
Traffic, I noticed that it's just like that.
Whatever you can harvest now, not yet.
You are going there, which is why it can't be harvested because it is just almost in rice cakes because they are just being used in front of each other because they are just being used to hold-up; they are just being used to be very expensive and very expensive.
So it is also difficult to take a lot of water that is why even before we saw that they were happy with the parents of the past few days, they won't go closer to the farmers in the past few days that they won't become very expensive; and they were very expensive and hoping that they will be very expensive and hoping that it would be very expensive and hoping that it would be very expensive and hoping that the coming days will come true.
It is said that you are going to be together, ah, it's okay to be frugal and be frugal to those who will get them and continue to continue their families.
He has not yet known those who were able to ask the rice they were able to ask for, but the First-time of the country should have started, but because they are policemen there in Cagayan two of water, they should not take pictures at it so they should not take pictures at it.
That is what Jessica has already talked to, which they are saying, that they are saying that they are going to be stupid; he / she tells that they are going to go to school; he / she says that they are all accompanied by the troops that they are accompanied by the troops.
I wonder why even if it is just a problem for the farmers, they planted a disturbance, which is why they really need to talk to the farmers, who are really good, that they really do not know that they are their crops that are really good that they do not know that they are not good in there in Tugegarao, Cagayan, thank you very much.
