
Congressman Tiangco and Franklin Drilon, to whom are you?

It was released by the press release of the employees of technical education and skills and Development Authority in the person of "Annie Geron.
They are calling the Sandiganbayan to hasten the hearing against former Iloilo representative Augusto "Buboy" Syjuco Junior in the corruption case!
I am not identified as Miss Annie Geron who is General Secretary says of the Public Services Program (Lakas ng Football Federation, and former President of Samahang Malaya Extension of an employee of TESDA (ALS).
It is his freedom, but our question is, will the whole group make it or just the command of a high official of TESDA?
If examined, the cases filed by Cong. Buboy Syjuco against Senate President Franklin Drilon. Earlier said, "the construction of Drilon's building, but it was destroyed by a little by the earthquake, it was already destroyed, that was when the senator was former Justice Secretary.
It also spent almost as a huge amount for a Road, project, but since then up to now, there is no need to wait for the road.
Include the strong (face-face) in the act of Drilon in the illegal Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) who abused all angles, and add to the case of his friend Janet Lim-Napoles.
I do not personally know Cong. Buboy but also in the social media, I interviewed him in my programs in radio.
You can easily meet a person in talking and you will think about his true personality and behavior in fulfilling his work or duty.
We have drunk a lot of Serena Daan, Pepito alias Bombay and in-up products that I am still young, Syjuco which is the mark of those who are in-minded which I want to say, Cong. Buboy is an expert who is rich even before.
That's why if he will be released from TESDA to have an wealth, find out his character and what I know is, he is a happy person and humble despite her aura.
Drilon, when will he get rich?
How much was the gift he received from PNoy when the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona is kicked, and many questions.
The case of Buboy Syjuco against Drilon is simple, for the citizens of Iloilo and in the country.
To the documents I have read against the case filed, I cannot see any personal anger but it is still there and it is still there for how much of the people's money.
