
2016 will be bloody, and they should be careful.

If the election will push through, it is as if we can see that it will become bloody.
The turmoil that is happening with a national level is also the cause of chaos in the local level.
And because they will get involved and getting involved in the turmoil because of their work they have now a place and release an advice, their lives will also be put in trouble.
"Is it that the possibility that there will be a big possibility that there will be a big possibility that they will meet a life or they are just going to join because of the dirty politics.
Prison.
For the politicians to win at present, they will not be allowed to damage the words from their opponents, like during the first time.
They played with them for so long.
If their opponents are imprisoned while the court gives their cases, they will invent or not, their victory is certain.
But this does not mean that this is a very painful incident.
And this will be the cause of the stronger arguments in politics.
The killings will get bigger and what we see to happen will get worse.
Power.
If you will notice, those who have no grip on their posts are at a disadvantage with politics now.
Just in lawsuit, with politicking, those who are in front of all the agencies in favor of them favor them.
He will just take the Commission on Audit and the Bureau of Internal Revenue, they will go out of evidence against their opponents.
And next to this is the bad feelings for those who have no grip on the office of the Ombudsman, court and Sandiganbayan.
Even the Congress which is composed by the Senate and the legislative chamber, the people who are in front of conducting an investigation "in exchange of case against those who have no grip on their posts.
The Supreme Court is the only ones that they cannot take off in order to follow the materials that are in power to breathe at the disadvantage.
Covered with a knife.
Which is why, those who are at a disadvantage and joined the knives they are at.
Here, the police and other armed forces are going to cry.
Because it cannot be avoided for all part of protection from the said armed forces of the government.
Being a famous Lord is not a trend.
If there is a trend at present, it is very rare to have their own armed men.
Their own personnel are doing their own personnel, police, military, CAFGU and others.
It is painful to think that many politicians will be like the Ampatuans.
The armed groups, which they will serve as lawyers and also a blood already.
And in fact, there is something like this, a sample of a sample from the Ampatuans who is believed to be responsible for the Ampatuan massacre before the election last 2010.
Recently, we are being picky.
The media is really powerful in expressing the news about truth and lies from the mouth and actions of the politicians.
Especially if you think about it, there are journalists who are forced to show and show their opinions.
There is a newspaper where they were able to build a caen and this is a mixture of news being reported and being made by local and national politicians.
There are also many stations and television who are making the same social media.
There is also the internet where it appears in an effective way of communication, they have a place and place for opinions.
This means, Bro, there will be no news from politicians.
Good or rotten news are involved with politicians, that the people will know everything.
And with the number of more worse politicians, it is certain that the condition of Camen will surely end up.
Libel.
That's why, they are ready to be prepared in the living room of libel which is a case for libel.
It's as if there is a violation of libel to normal and traditional media: Newspapers, radio and television and libel cases also on the internet.
It will be said that this past month, libel has started on the internet.
The filing of libel will be an effective way to make the mouth of Camen in a place, especially the statement of truth about the rottenness of politicians.
Especially if the court ordered an exchange of order or order to stop the place of Hamen.
But what is really teasing is the power of politicians who are pointing up on the fiscal from the fiscal and judge in order to lower down the amen of bail and to the hearing that they will go to their own place.
The media.
There are followers of the demon who are politicians and these are the people who will be with people in dealing with the amen.
A bullet of a gun was said to be given to the journalists anywhere, even in their homes.
Usually using these are the notorious riding-in-tandem and it is scary to think that there is no checkpoint in these, police, military and other armed forces of the government to kill and conduct the media.
So let us be careful, Bro.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
