
I am not accusing the Lord of God.

Before the National Shuler and National Football Development Authority) had a press conference about the hunger and poverty in the Philippines, we already know what to say.
"That's the reason why many Filipinos remain in poverty and hunger, and their situation does not change despite the preservation of the right path.
More than 20.
In our estimation of those released by NSkakel and NEDA, more than 20 million from the total of 95 million Filipinos are suffering and hungry.
This means, Bro, their income is lacking in order to meet their needs for normal lives.
Here are the government use to determine the poor and experience hunger for Filipinos.
For the year 2012, a family of P7,821, a higher than P7,040 in 2009 and P54086 in 2006 is allegedly for a month.
And the family consists of five people.
If your income will decrease, you are unfortunate.
You are not the ones who are suffering but are already hungry.
The biggest right.
Most common people are being spent on the food, especially in the ranks of the poor.
This 2012, the expenses, P4,4.3 last 2009 and P3,894 in 2006 is about P5,43 last 2009.
If this is true, how about the light and water, the medicine, the medicine, the clothes, the rent of the house and others?
You will end up suffering and hunger, if your income is like this and you are the only ones who earn money for the five members.
2 years of running for 2 years.
In other words, Bro, despite Madam Dinky Soliman's Department of Social Welfare and Development to save the hunger and poor, the government still failed to improve the lives of millions of poor people.
It has been two years that they showcase money and training to the DSWD of poor families so they can help them recover.
But it is still difficult to achieve the change.
Included in those failed in improvement of the filipino masses is the other agencies of the government.
What happened?
This is not just the DSWD who is moving against poverty, Bro.
The Department of Public Works and Highways are saying that there are so many projects which are being used by the poor.
The people of Malacanang celebrated the high score of the Philippines in the eyes of the investor.
And get distracted and the corruption is getting worse which is the cause of suffering and hunger.
But why is it that the poor are poor and hungry for those who are hungry?
There is a big problem here, Bro.
GROs at US A Chance.
The people who spoke in NSkakel and NEDA Chief contagious, "Ginger Conejero were said in relation to the remaining three years that President Noynoy sat in.
They should give them three years to prove that their straight path will be done to improve the lives of those poor people.
Alright, let us give them.
Because if they talk, the past administrations are being accused that they are being accused not to do anything but to get rich in position, that is why the poor are hungry and are hungry before.
So what if there will be no change in the condition of millions of people?
What should be done, Bro?
A few advice.
There is hope for change, Bro, if people in the government would just want to.
One of these is the unity of all agencies to find a solution to the problem.
DSWD and DPWH should not only take action.
Everything should be the department of the Palace, together with the local government.
What if all these are for each other and the only consolation I have for each other is the only thing that they will do, especially every election it is only being shown by them, especially those who are asking for a new mandate?
On the straight path.
This is one thing we saw, Bro, almost all of the past administrations were on straight at the end of their term.
That's why the people who are seated on the end of their power and the twin of their faces will be cut off, which can also be destroyed by the people to milk the government.
That's why the straight path or path that they will be thrown at the first year of their seat, they have to pass through too much fear.
Will this not happen to the current administration?
I am impressed by PNoy, but how are others?
"It's just the lawmakers of the Congress who do not want to stop from being a law for their pork barrel.
Shouldn't this happen to other agencies.
God "
Maybe this can help the authorities so they will take the problem with the poor and are hungry: "The Lord cannot identify the person who is suffering and hungry.
