
The 120th anniversary of the strong New Hala Bayan!

PETSETC.
March 29, 2014.

COPPETSETC.
The Filipinos are taking advantage of the sea and their families.
It will be carried away and group of money inside and outside the country and to join.
The number of Filipino countrymen is the biggest number of fellow Filipinos.
Pushing the country (DRB).

They are the price of COPPETSETC.
Goal, purpose, research and resolve of Filipinos.
Double the sea, he is recognized by the leadership of the pro-mannered family.
Through the Liberal Party of the Philippines (MLM), and joining.
In the program's Constitution, it's constitution.
Known as NDF or National Democratic Front) is recognized by COMTRISETC.
New Hala Bayan (who is known as NPA or New People's Army).
The Liberal Party is the primary weapon of the Liberal Party in DRB and next month.
Fur.

COPPETSETC) is also firm with the principle of the pro-known who is the one who will make the orders of COPPETSETC.
The struggle of the Filipino people with the bush.
Anti-ranking people, workers and others.
He knew it under different parts of the world.
He is the most important contribution in the presence of the owner.
The advancement of DRB in the Philippines has a tight competition.

Since then, especially under the current administration, especially under the current administration.
US-BS Aquino, maintain the system that will bleed and faster.
Philippines - there is a continuing quality of fraud, Grets and no coercion.
The economy of the country has no ability to take.
Increase of strength, especially the millions of millions.
Farmers from the countryside with no land and Filipino.
Work or he is suffering in a very short salary.

These conditions gave birth to the Labor Law Policy "with Pang-INP).
The state of the games in the decade of 70. "Since then, I regretted.
That is what the Filipino people outside the country led by.
The government what welcomed this is the severe needs of the people.
Chemicals and capitalist countries are unreasonable?
From the poor countries like the Philippines, and most want to win.
Under the current administration of BS Aquino.

The former US President BS Aquino is thorough in the full of PNoy.
It's a billion pesos worth of OFW who lost consciousness.
He was about to die when the Philippines came out of a lot of money.
The state will be cut off from the bills and taxes that they are holding.
It is a government from them while the person is pushing for many.
Students to go to town, in other towns are also being squandered.
And taking advantage of the strength of the Filipinos.
That their dignity and race was being twisted.

When they go back to the Philippines, they are supposed to lead to nothing.
Hard work and are drowned in poverty even if it continues to continue.
Severe is the lack of livelihood and livelihood.
The country, so the poverty of the country will not be remedied.

There will be no other way except for the revolutionary change.
It is our system and there will be a need to fight the whole country.
Together with the Filipinos in double the sea and their families.
What can be ruined by the owner of the few controlling them.
Taking advantage of the filipino people and free them.
Kind and sector in the society, DRB, with a specialist perspective, hit a jackpot.
There will be a path to civic works.

Filipino in double the sea, Filipino people will push forward to success!

End the regime of BS Aquino!

Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!

Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines!
