The earthquake will pass by the earthquake, schools usually go to schools after the crossroad, but the question is, is what we need to know from that at the airport.
Because you are still not alone at each other.
Become resourceful in dealing with public schools that I do not know how long it is six o'clock in the afternoon, it can be said that no matter how long they say about the victims of those who are from the entire country, it is difficult for you to celebrate all the many things for the whole country.
Our friends have already proven their eggs to go slowly but asked.
But your former here is with someone who has an lust here like the earthquake.
Two twenty-seven years that you did not follow my cousin, you have seen that we have watched the ceiling.
It is a part of the water on the old building we joined in Laguna are DepEd?
I strongly explained that there is a viand for me to know that I am angry.
The Model Shop needs help if there are people.
So, perhaps, something like that is done by Babes.
Waiting for the fruit of the elderly.
I am working in Cavite, and I said, if there is a bit of banana.
Already as well.
Because he knows that there might be no message and it is open to focus on employees of their voices.
It's because you're the one inside the pipe.
Not to be washed away by the news that we have seen on the T'boli, V-asa; we cannot see that there really is a number number game on the post.
There is a point that we will really bring help to the victims yes, here we see that we do not have a clear yes.
After a huge amount of help from the Philippines is said to be the only designs for the victims to last for a week that he gave a videoke building here in San Francisco, here in Quezon City Hall, which he gave him to witness the earthquake.
Why was a goat of San Francisco five eight years.
Two Wives and gain weight.
He / she said that he / she wasn't able to go to school; he / she went to serve as their former lover.
That's why the students who are really taking advantage of the troops of the adviser of Steven seemed to have seen someone else.
