The visit of Obama will meet a protest.

Editorial Department.
The country.
September 21, 2013.

The Filipino people should wake up and meet a widespread protest about the scheduled visit of the chief of the Philippines, Barack Obama on October 11-12, and the plan to be released by the military by the US to thorough use the Philippines as based on military.

The protest so that the protest of the Marcos dictatorship from the declaration of the Marcos dictatorship from the Philippine government budget should be discussed under the Saligang Batas of the US government to support the approval of the US government to support the basic goal of the US. "

Since he declared the plan of the US to the Marcos regime, China, Indonesia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia, India and others to be allowed to enter these countries and use the facilities in the ports and airports.

These past few years, the US was able to complete the critical agreement with the military and based on the process of the military in Singapore and Singapore which is in the process to form the facilities in Singapore so that the US can implement the facilities in Singapore to protect the warship from East Asia, Central Asia until Africa.

The US continues to progress with the help of its military in Japan which is being pushed by the military in Okinawa and other places he is pushing to the US for the guidance of the US, Japan, which is believed to be sent home to service to the tourist spots in the US.

Under the outline of "the US in Asia, the strict position of the Marcos dictatorship from the government of the US is being given by the US to build the coast guard in Zamboanga City, there is no hindrance to raise the coast guard in Zamboanga City.

According to the command of the US, egging on the invitation of China in the issue of Spratings and other islands in the South China Sea, the goal of the US to implement the capital of the US will be more aggressive in order to give the investment of the US and will be given importance to the investment of the US and will be given the investment in the market of China.

The recognition given to the US in the exclusive interview in the Philippines was last January 2012 and the government budget for the US and Aquino agreed to ensure that this is not interested to have a new agreement that will return to the Philippines, but this will only be used by the facilities in the government of the Philippines, even if these are built by the military in the US.

Obama's visit will mark the new chapter in the Saligang Batas of the US in the Philippines, which will be recognized as the new rules between the US as a friend, and the Philippines is a victim of colorums in the Philippines from the 25th anniversary of the US this past more than half a century.

Let us use the visit of Obama to show that the Philippines is a direct effect of the US to make a stand against the highest number of people in order to fight the highest number of people in the US and to enter the highest number of American troops in the Philippines.
