He / she had to go back with him / her.

President Alfredo Pascual continues to investigate the students which launched a protest against the budget of UP who attended by Secretary Florencio Abad of the Department of Budget and Management Council.
According to Pascual, the professor and council of the University of the Philippines High School (UP), and the University Engineering Council (USC), the students who will throw at the architect of anomaly and illegal Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), allegedly stated that the students would just call their anger through a calm dialogue and in exchange for an agreement.
But if you will be asked by the Alliance of the concerned Lord, and other academics inside and outside the university, there is no space in the weather and the violent actions that are considered as violence or theme of the heated debate about the worsening violence.
In the increasing case of corruption in the country and the continuous rise of the number of poor people, no work, not able to study, being raped, and forcibly lost, it is only right for President Benigno Aquino III in spite of the violation of the law, the Executive continued in implementing the program until the Supreme Court continued.
In the recent deliberation of the national budget in the year 2015, the budget is considered as the pork barrel of the President, while the budget of UP remains low for education, which is why students continue to increase the increase of bills particularly the tuition fee.
In the released statement of Pascual, he considered that the students, who were part of the university who were included in the incident happened, have an end to academic and human rights in expressing his self in the university.
Kabikolan, it can be considered more agreement by Pascual in a free journalism because he directly expressed his limitation on the rights of every individual in expressing his behavior in a debate or theme, and it will be more assurance that the flow of ideas is no assurance.
In every debate, the space of the arguments is limited, which is why the other form of protest is needed, which is why the other form of protest will be made as a result of protests going to the university.
Contrary to the mark of the tradition of UP, which has been the response of Pascual, to investigate the students and to treat them as enemies of the university, and it's a big joke that the students did not respond as a response to violence and high blood pressure.
If there is a connection with the incident that happened, it is not the professor who invited Abad to be involved in the issue of DAP, or the council of UPolice District and USC) instead to address the pickpocket to protect their fellow students who are allegedly being harassed by the students.
For the long and heavy issue of pork barrel, the councils of the students in the university remains silent, the students who continue to call justice, not only on the streets and even in Congress.
It is not only due to the feelings of students that happened, that is why it is possible that the action of students is considered as a violent actions for the officials who are considered as enemies of the state, but it is possible that the purpose of the students is considered as an enemy, they can be registered to be registered to the students in continuing corruption.
He revealed the fact that some critics are disappointed, and students who are destroying the corruption of the government, which is the primary reason why students need to take advantage of all the opportunity to show and express their anger.
It is only right for the students to continue firm and are still investigating the colorful tradition of fighting in the university which can be considered as a hot topic in spite of the heated discussion on the issue of pork barrel, and on the side of the people involved in the issue of pork barrel, instead of thinking the welfare of the people and students.
A big success became the widespread corruption because of the protests conducted by the students that the incident has emphasised that the incident is the lack of responsibility of the involved officials like Abad, who refused to be surrounded by students.
That's why, it can be considered as a desire to break a challenge to fellow students and people who are going to buy and stand up without doubt.
