
It is a tribute to a Gadversary (Ka Edward / Insp. William), a martyr of the revolution!

Reporting, Ka Karylle.
Narciso Anacorita Aramil Command (NPA Rizal)
March 21, 2014.

March 20, 2014, between the 19th of 6: 50 in the morning up to 730 in the evening, in Sitio pond, Paradise, Barangay San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, Brgy. San Rafael, Montalban, province of Rizal.
Accompanied by Gadversary, Ka William "Cueto, was born on March 27, 1972, native of Aklan, who came from the clan of Tau Gamma Phi, who joined the fight for their rights in the land that they till.
The farmers were able to heart to the legal organization with the quality and became the vice president in spite of his campaign against illegal drugs in spite of this he has been in a training at the Libingan ng mga Bayani, according to him, he had a lot of damage that they experienced in the New Year in the next year, he had a lot of damage in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, according to him, he had a lot of damage in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, according to him, he had a huge damage in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, according to him, he had a huge damage in the Libingan ng Masang Pilipino at the same time that he had a huge damage in the country.
Even if she is feeling the pain due to different reasons, he used to be buried there.

Ka William is one of the most happy companion in the field, but his experiences on the fight of farmers in legal to the entire world are not important, but sometimes, all of our serving are becoming a joke, just like all of our fellowmen in order to continue to serve the people.

Often, during the time of course with the masses in the countryside, those who are included in the hard work of production, which is one of the primary tasks of the armed men in the countryside, are close to the poor people who will borrow money, not only to the people who will borrow money, especially in his kind of source.

In the time of action, just like what we are always saying, there are times that we can do a weakness and one of Ka William will have made to face and be able to face each other's distress.

He worked hard to enumerate his family anymore, he said, along with his knowledge on the course of the revolution, her family should have been aware of him, so every time they go to his home, he should have been in a part of the filipino masses.

March 17, 2014, Ka William was able to return to the place where Ka William will return to the country, which is better for us to die from the mass and to continue to serve the masses, and according to the police's death, the death of William William will continue to serve the mass and to all of the revolution of the revolution.

It was a tribute to William William!
Listen to all the saints to be a martyr!
Listen to all kinds of sweat!
