
Money, money money!

Even if he won a boxing fight with the American Chris Algieri at Cotai arena in Macau, China, the National Fist Manny Pacquiao has been closed down.
He was closed down on the expenses!
He / she was wearing.
Because of a cauldron containing 20 million dollars, Manny needs to pay in the government of Macau to 10 percent from their earnings.
Aside from this, 22 percent is also from the said earnings that he should pay for the government of the Philippines.
All of all, the earnings of Pacman in a mess in Algieri, will lessen if not less than P320M.
He / she was wearing.
That's why when Manny went back to the country, the dogs quickly spread money at the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
It is clear that they will be able to receive a clear money from our artists in boxing.
He / she was wearing.
Of course, aside from being paying taxes for the BIR, it is certain that there are trees surrounding Pacman.
Smell like giving and waiting for a cut.
He / she was wearing.
As they say, while Pacman is taking the face again on top of a Toyota Innova, the fan are screaming of "Manny! Manny" Manny! "
It is said that Commissioner Kim Henares of the BIR, while Manny's punches at the opponent is screaming of "Money, money of money!"
Because, because, even though it was not yet done by the declared winner, Manny has been declared as the prize.
He / she was wearing.
So Aling Kim is very happy.
Because the BIR, who has a lot of bra from the BIR, has a lot of money, that's why it's money that comes to the Pambansang Kamao.
"I am happy because he might get along with the economy of the Philippines, not for me," according to Aling Kim.
He / she was wearing.
There is really nothing wrong if Manny will lessen the tax of BIR.
This is the job of BIR and obligation, not only Pacman, but all Filipinos, to give percent to the government in income.
The bad thing is that if the thieves go to the government our tax will go to the government.
"Are those who make the projects be made into a project (said project, and we can see the crooks' stomach and their wallet.
It is a good to beat these kinds of people in the government.
