Agham at Hala Bira!
By Dennis Garcia, September 16, 2016, it is surprising why those who are noisy with yellow party are mad at our new president who shows his courage and a new energy in just more than three months of service.
The businessmen are waiting for it to break and look like he hit him and have failed.
Every speech of President Digong is piled up, and every word that he was not able to meddle with the law of Indonesia was given before that he was not able to meddle with the law of Indonesia, that he was not able to meddle with the law of Indonesia, that he was able to interfere with the execution of Mary Jane Veloso - one Filipina was given to illegal drugs in Indonesia.
When he was advised by one of the officials of America to fix his speech and "don't be called as gay as the ambassador to the Philippines, he reminded the Americans that they are not owned by the Philippines.
It was immediately asked by a few paid media who joined the side of Duterte on his side.
It's a good thing that the support of the new President will continue to rise and have become lively just to let him look for a little before we curse and shouting.
You are laughing at every planet which is why the ancestors of the Japanese have come from different kinds of discipline and giving importance to others?

We noticed it recently, after a short trip to Tokyo.
With the rift that's owned, it is quiet and one is not to step down until the news is over.
Aside from this, there was no comment or interpretation, but I am frustrated at what I hear.
When it is Break, to pee, the Japanese who lined up in the academic, with a vacant caccam, but they are not used and (probably in their culture) for those who are needy to stay inside. "
And in every service, every Japanese is not expecting or is making an idea that he can handle a "tip."
It is sad to admit but our personality is too far from them.
Last call: We have our countrymen who are American citizen, but it seems that we can't do anything and I am frustrated that we have something to do with what is related to the Philippines, they can just let us meddle, that is why we don't want us to agree and fix the situation in "Philippines.
