He has been working for four weeks.
Me was the one killed.
One Zailon and Islamic Liberation Front, 66 years old, are giddy.
X-M he / she's girlfriend of the bank.
What happened to the town is what happened in Mindanao.
We should give us to the government between the M Riyals, but I will leave my stomach to them before they entered the area just like the agreement between the government, the two Tristan (NL-M), who is really a problem with Jason and the Americans, Cotabato City here, Jay-Jay.
Continue to members of prominent Special Action Force to not just ordinary members.
As well as well for those who were killed, most of them are calling the receipt, not yet to the common members of the Special agent Maestries, they will get the two titles of one of them, they have mentioned the members of the Emplayer.
Will not be known by prominent people.
When the Americans were talking in the house of the good price of the house, they received permission that they were able to talk to.
!
The one who is a member of the money is done by him.
F-B - there are Americans who are involved in the past two hundred pesos in the morning yesterday, the venom of the police at the barangay has been applied for two days yesterday.
It was first reported in the operation which was burned under the Mesa when it suddenly appeared.
I trust in Bicutan.
Next Sunday, someone came.
He is going back and forth in the area to look for a slap to the program.
Just that!
The?
Outside.
"Why would you go to the country anymore but I was only able to leave the motorcycle but I was able to look at my cellphone, which is wrong.
True.
There is no 5 pesos.
The problem was hit by the police.
For them, which is why they will go home to seize the ten hours of going around one o'clock.
He was almost done at the pier, fifty-one of the youth in the prison when an ugly woman died.
They will buy money for them to have died.
It was past seven o'clock in the morning there will be some of the members of the members of the soldier because we might think anything about them because they do not have anything.
According to the operation, they have been going to be a result of their sleep that he would be able to fulfill the opportunity to have been surprised with him.
I am here in Quangie Corps.
Suspected.
No.
I just want me to go inside.
For what we have later.
Because there was no car in the market.
We are again.
Of course, mother.
YogUno when he saw.
Not enough.
Really.
Those to see.
Uncle Mon said no matter how long the house is on the roof of the house.
The thickness of your face is where I am riding a taxi.
It turned out.
They are what they are.
He called a head with the change in Juan Luna only after what happened to him.
Which is said to have already been dead.
To someone.
I still see a chance inside the men, before what we are going to watch.
Their help.
Yes, this is what they are living with as their co-workers; they themselves, whose stories are the ones who are focusing on the story and that is one of the things they are focusing on, and then they left the residents in place because they left the residents in place.
There is it.
You should explain how the king is stories about.
The M TEL and Biao worried about this separate group, because they are full-minded; how are they coordinating with any of our troop which became the two of our troop.
It appears here to our guests who are low; we were able to give importance to the target of their targets, that he / she said that he / she has given him / her that he / she went to, which he / she went to, both Teresa, both Teresa, and two Germans themselves are high grades in order.
Before arriving here in the corner where to protect the two titles of the members of the rice cakes are to protect them; he / she was distressed.
I passed by a member.
Here, there are a dried number of people around ten people who are at the same age, so the people of Star Magic are saying that their problem is not being looked at by PNoy, they should not be focused on by PNoy.
That's why he / she was distressed; he / she wanted to have a wound, he / she didn't have any wound, that's why they did not have anything to support the other side, because they were surprised that they were separated from the police because they were surprised that they were living in the back when they were in the back where they were in the back.
"That's the right thing that we have to look down; we are not just being used by the inwage increase because they have seen a sermon to those who are calling him, which is why there are small things that they are calling on, which is why there are small things that they are calling on, which is why it's not easy for us to answer.
This child is saying that this child who entered here are members of the government, not just because this is not just because they are the ones who are stupid; we are calling around ten o'clock in the same age.
Under the Mesa, when he appeared, but we know that our troop is here, R: Some of what are in Sibol, "
In my work, they are repeating their jobs that are just repetitive; we need to talk about the three roads going to them and those with canned goods, that is why the members of those who are playing here in the terminal.
On this day, we were able to look at this day; we stopped the things we talk to other victims because earlier he said that there are policemen who offer to wait for them but they are being killed but they are being killed, but they are being killed.
Here, we look at each other.
They stopped going to the Araneta Coliseum, we do not know if it will continue.
For them, it is possible that he wants to enter.
!
"It is possible that we are high even if you say that it's as if you are at the company of a chance to end up in the company of a chance to reach a stray line, which is possible to climb a stray bullet that might lead to a stray bullet that might lead to a stray bullet that might lead to the stories of M Riyals," maybe even the house.
It is just right that the number is out of saying that, in the internet, it is still not able to go to work in the internet because it is very quiet for the residents of the Caloocan police who are going to go to other few days for the victims of the Caloocan police that can be removed from the victims of many places in the Caloocan police.
Operation conducted by them is really being done on the corner of there, which is why there are also those who were able to go to school, so there are also some who were able to go to school, which is why we, the residents, who are helping, are the Americans who helped each other in the middle of the operation.
That is why it is not playing with me on how they were able to study for help so that it can be determined about it on Tuesday that it is just like the Americans are saying that the counter, Brad son of the military, who is called Brando in the military, is called to be famous.
April already.
You thought.
He / she was moving to school; he / she might be the only support that they will give but it was just earlier that we were able to pay.
We talked to the American soldiers here for those who went with him in a question that's why I am being searched for by the woman I asked.
I, later.
He / she was feigning ignorance and fur.
It is still good that there is a malfunction on them, which is really the older sister-in-bust operation on you.
Why is our question about that, why did they not go on the M-L. "There is an agreement between the owner or the government or the government.
What he sits on for two months but here he really wanted for the authorities for a long time but what are the new Intelligence and Communications Sec.
A total leader of the integrity, you are not mentioned in the name of Mother's name, we are not sure if this is an expert right now at past six.
One leader was first in this operation but it really has long been interested in going back to the area here to get to get along with Marlon now.
Yes, what happened next is that they resign.
He / she was shocked; he was waiting for that, they were waiting for her friends that she could not go because of the anger of her friends, she could not just use his cellphone because it was almost three o'clock in the house especially those who were looking for him.
Tawooooooo and then said that he is not like that.
First.
And it is not the first time that this would be the first time to have a problem coming out, which is why the government had something to do with what happened to him, because there were those who have died because the counter did not happen again.
They look at the trouble that he is looking at.
Not yet answering, is it true that the trouble coming out is true.
There are those that are being looked up for a very big thing, that's why there are no more positive interview, that is why they do not really want to be a result to those who attack that are really not from here, that is why it has already been a group of Sibol, which is why it has already been a group of Sibol, which is based in Bicutan.
It is not that their family in the area does not say anything, it seems that this role you look at their job is not a strong reason for the members of those who are from Manila Police, who are still under the part of the beautiful scenery of many people.
