Two thousand of six thousands of fishermen were here in Cavite and I called out that the number of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo is long because this is where you will also change and put on a narrow face if there is no problem with this.
!
One hundred thousand when the missing house is gone.
He felt the strong rain.
If the enemies already have the coins in the coins, that's why they look at the coins, they were hit by the waves in the shore of the shore.
Is there a different news in the area who can reach them.
"Of course, before we are in our relationship, how do we need to give us back now, we do not want us to leave here just because you are going to go to us from far away.
Four of the fishermen were caught here in Pampanga.
The two title.
So just like that, they are about the news that she is about to leave here in the hours.
About five colors and it is about to be an hour that will come true here with the bank.
That's why I graduated in Cavite.
They are only two of two thousand more than two thousand of water, but the government is going to be affected because this is still far from us, but it is still far from our Miss International Airport and perseverance to keep the secret in Cavite a former news.
He will be seventeen years old and will run by the country.
Will the Philippines will run directly hit by little things.
It is an investigation that they are going to be affected but you are affected by how they were able to go out of their homes and it is as if they're a sound in Dubai and it is even if it is too far from you.
We have even tried a statement about the negative of March two children, they said that it is good to have something to speak to Basud, which is good for them not to have a website that they do not have any details in his behavior towards four-four-four.
The continuation of the website of R is the statement of Angeline Junior, Philippines Corporation.
The project will be a big help to solve the system like in the country.
It might be possible that a lot of supper will be placed at stake in front.
They are using the dizziness.
So when it comes to the old people, they will be needed for four years.
Four o'clock.
It can be said that the parents took the way to the Singapore's house and then together with his telephone.
There are too many people there in the next place.
You can prove that you are able to talk to a person.
I am also the ones who look at each other; we are the ones who give more than one hundred thousand pesos.
The country's income from the country is already here.
By the group of small things they will be affected, and what kind of government is that we are always with that in public places, hopefully you are still living there and we are still living there.
In us, we have to look at each other; that's why they are just like them.
He felt the length of eight of those with father and it is also there for him to take a bath at the outcome of a few meters in case the case will push through.
Due to the students yes, I am the one who cannot be removed from the high school of course, we were given children.
We are very pitiful; I thought that, at this time, I thought that this is a chance for them to be waiting for this, but the start of Marco's stingy time is the start of the 25th anniversary we have the fulfilment of the soap.
Now, up to more than one hundred members will support this.
Table.
She is not here who was able to get carried away from the house.
What's painful is that, he / she cannot take advantage; maybe it will not be destroyed in the right way.
According to his mother in Cavite, it is still swaying to the 25th anniversary here and it is far for them to be different from the Saturday what happened to Saturday and April.
Yes, it is in Cavite.
In our place there is nothing else.
In the body.
Nothing.
I am going to do so that I will not be able to make all big problems there in the area that we will just keep all the fruits, of course, we will surely avoid any country, and then our friends, and all of our friends.
It is important for the airport to build the door of other countries and you will enter a business when you are going to bring in, for the Philippines.
It can be understood that this child is familiar to Cavite people to sleep in the political in his position to get a proper mind on the remains.
He did not ask for help from our next talk.
It is the situation of the night that he will sleep for a new project, so we can still sleep in a small house; so that it will happen to this, it will take care of it here in the community who are planning to be careful not to worry because of the noise of the small ones who were hit.
They are making an excuse.
When it comes to the scene.
I am Juvenile.
The color was taking her color.
And did they have siblings?
In the Philippines in the Philippines with the most cases of the accident, fifty-hectare of the country has many cases of accidents that it means that it is not yet a friend who sank into our friends now last Sunday, but a little bit far from Masbate but it is still unclear who has been spared from a washbasin with seven passengers.
The next day, the water inside a hut has already entered the sea for five thousand, which is why two more than eight hundred houses have been evacuated last six o'clock in the afternoon, wherein five were wounded, both were wounded, both were wounded, both were wounded, which were hit by September 28 billion pesos.
It is not in Mila's near Sunday where forty-three were killed while three were killed while seven were wounded in the area of Two armed men who were submerged in the middle of a Yellow, when he said his strict life was lying down in front of Batangas.
The worst accident in the sea history is the change of computers, M tablet.
Four of the provinces have already been done there in the ocean of December 22 which is said to be more than four thousand, all of all were killed by the residents of the sea that were taken to the sea for more than five thousand pesos, the reasons why these serious problems are proven to be our workers in the repeated tragedy.
I am not saying anything.
