Outside.

Atom Araullo.

It has been more than four months when the length of the roads of Danao, Canada has been anxious, since it was reported that the proposed increase in tuition in the university in the said province was gone, the militant students were not able to go out on the roads.
The rally launched will be submerged in different parts of the world, from Berlin, London, up to Seoul, in the coming July 13, this campaign to hang out and will vote for the cheaper and quality education.
On that day, the participation of the residents of UP is expected to have a long time in history, but to the current generation of the country, it seems to have been free to join this kind of form to avoid fighting and fighting back.
Going crazy!
It is the tradition that having a campaign to break out of UP.
But every Holy Week, an important question is for an effective question: Is the actions being launched in the road?
According to the history of the movement of the youth in the Philippines, the students' education has a big contribution to the political leaders, including other sectors, including other sectors, including the corrupt President Joseph Estrada last 2001.
These past few years, the Strike was done by the students against the budget that recently, the Department of Budget and Management Council promised to reduce the funds of the university under the term of President Benigno Aquino III.
In the success of this success, we will be able to get any truth to the disnoise and chaos that is given by the rally in the whole world as proof, the widespread protest of students in the whole world is proof that the widespread protest of the students in the whole world is proof, the widespread protests of the students in the whole world is proof.
It is already wide.
Aside from the emergency room and group, there are a lot of gimmick that are being implemented on the disputed organization so the students can better understand the use and needs of returning to the rally.
Last year, there was a Budget Calaguas, "a reasonable show fight against the budget, on July 11, it is expected that the students of black t-shirt and short-shirt are expected to wear up in shorts as unity with the fight against budget for education.
The way that has been mentioned is more than a funny gimmick that they have also carried out the haunting of them from going back to the destined end.
The slave, for example, is an activity where the designer is showing in their liquid, so that it can earn a foul odor in order to be used so that it can be used for giving a medical advocacy.
When he / she was just about to avoid bringing the head by his wife, the same color of t-shirt and short shorts against the budget of UP where the students did not have a single uniform, the deepest sleep of the same dress.
This is part of the huge indebtedness of the fight that shows unity for the students who agree with the implementation of the protest to express their readiness to face the direct threat that caused the fight.
In 2011, for example, a relationship will be held in many countries in the Middle East for a vacation in the Middle East.
No assurance.
At present, we are in the history of history that can be treated, "or a transition team in politics, and even on this point, our new system is weakening, and even the new system, we want to get free from the old, there is no sure shape in the old system.
To the group's groups and clinics, even in the right action such as rally, the possible solution to different problems of the society, aside from the time that the rally will succeed in the future, but in the time that the rally will succeed in the future, but in the time the fight will succeed in the future, but in the time the fight will succeed in the future.
It is possible that in the assurance that this is the doubt of some students to join the actions because it is not sure that many can go to school, many just choose to be silent and hug the current system.
But the past fighting will also not have a promise, included in the rights of women who voted and the advancement of the rights of the women to vote, they should also fight because it is better to protest against the change instead of putting on in a crooked system.
This is a proof that there are everywhere rally and protest in different parts of the world every day, those who are ready to risk for this point are increasing, there will be more sure that there will be a lot of gambling dens in the streets, for sure, there will be a lot of changes in the streets, for sure there will be changes.
