"We can't do anything about the agreement to abuse the safety if we have seen a good position here in Batangas, who is calling him in his heart as well.
November 1 to Arvin Amistoso, one of those to be focused on by our schools here in Batangas?
That is why there is nothing in that.
The Ace teacher taught us for the help of the National High School.
And if you are busy with small; as well as well, there are boasts around here, because there are high school students who are high-minded; they have to call each other.
The SEA Games is focused on their decision when ever since we are to be seen by the children, we have not used it to have been used by the children so that they will not be able to pass our hands and believe that they will be able to build a forbidden project, so we are able to build a prohibited project, so we are used by the children.
I will bring you one another when we finished.
We love a lot of land.
I do not know that we are lucky; we are very lucky.
Five armed men were five girls.
I could not have able to enter your destination.
Project is project.
Problem.
These children are helping so that there will not be a chance to visit the water, which is reason for the rain of land, which is why there are benefits that all of us will benefit from here with my motorcycle with me to earn money there.
The water supply at Balagtas this month is that's why my siblings, who are our siblings, are proud.
I did not go to the needs of the water by the people if there is Social Work, which will be given attention.
Yes, we are not expecting that we are going to believe in this so that I can just call me, "I said," I said.
Girlfriend R - Bon-Bon-Bon-chan or May as well as their sister's sister-in-law; we should only go to school; we should just leave the right thing that we are able to go to.
We, we are at the top of us.
So that we will help us for help and this will be the fulfilment of this every time that we gather from those who have no class.
We are in the fulfilment of our agenda to have a big agenda like four o'clock at five minutes of course.
We are convinced that we are convinced that I have a house helper, where we can help them after Jewel Reyes, we will wait for our projects.
So that I can help me.
He is true to face all of this projects because tomorrow to our difficulty with the safety of our safety at the safety of our safety, they have given more than and helping with the call here.
Color than taking care of love.
As I said, I can also see the players of our number, I thought that I would be alone and I do not know if in school, I continue to see me.
By more.
It is more rightful for us to use us.
What kind of time is that it is not for almost five years that I have been cut off not just to help me in our place.
We went to the former government especially here with us.
It is a saying that the youth have hope for all that we need to be different in order to have a good result to us.
To our people.
Friends should be orderly and will continue to be orderly for the next generation.
Try to meddle with and see and always remember the heat in order to get back in order for proper future.
