White House NaiA! By Aries), Juliet, Loza-Cudia, 2016, 2016.
For the very first time, the White House was seen to be irritated with the latest words uttered by President Rodrigo Duterte in China, particularly the announcement of the Philippines from America, wherein the White House Speaker Secretary Ramon Lopez was blamed for the cleaning of the Philippine leader.
The White House Spokesman Ernesto Abella said that trade Sec.

Ramon Lopez because of the cleaning and spicy words of the Philippine leader.
The White House is an official of the US President.
Yesterday (Friday in Washington Dr C.), White House Spokesman John Paul said that the words of Duterte were said to be seen, "what happened to him, which was not yet clear by the President.
This is in spite of the statement of President Duterte yesterday at dawn in his arrival speech at Davao City International Airport from China City International Airport from China City International Airport from China at the Chance of Sin, thank you, the PPETantos).

Separation separation - she could not avoid passing by the separation of a foreign policy. "
But in the report of CNN (CPRO-CBN News) from Washington, even the statement of the President is, "will the US will lead to the US which will lead to the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 70 years."
In addition to the report, "The Philippines leader's National Disaster Risk Reduction and Development Assistance Fund), the US Embassy in the Pacific Asia-Pacific, a US region, President Barack Obama which is a part of the US in the Pacific CTECAYETANO."
It was also described by CNN report that the reaction of Fariñas' reaction was based on the attempt of an official of the cabinet of Duterte to give the "separation" writ of Duterte's declaration of the White House which is only because of the brightness of the Pambansang Kamao "
What was referring to the report is trade Sec. Lopez, who said the day before yesterday, "the former president who was in a long distance relationship with the West Philippine Walis we, Arinoli, who was the one to be the one in the side of the world."

When we asked the comment on the statement of Lopez, the White House Speaker said that, "I was the one in a bed sheet at the Filipino Mike Papal."
Mike Pad is the vice president of the Republican candidate in the US, which usually seems to be replaced by the controversial words of GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump.
The Business Permit and said that the common reaction of the White House will also be considered in their website, "Tsinelas and of the First" feathers.
Meanwhile, former president and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada expressed their fear that because of the brave separation of President Duterte on the control and influence of America, the latter might act to remove it from position.
"That's what I am worried about, in front of this," said Estrada who was referring to him last 2001. "I felt now" the feelings of President Duterte. "
But the former President also expressed his solid support to this daring decision of the current government.
"If it is possible that we will be helped by the US, they are meddling in the meddling of our countrymen, We Are, a person, of Country. We," Our Lady OPLAN, "according to Estrada.
"What President Duterte is doing is right, why are they meddling with the US, Estrada also said that he is supporting the alliance between Duterte in China because he is not meddling with the 119th Independence Day.
Estrada added that when he was the president of the country, America is always meddling with the reaction of Malacañang, "We, Mayor Joseph Estrada's concern," text message of Communications Sec. Martin Andanar.
But he also added in a text message, "We Arsure, the US government, to be the one of the Democratic Front of the Philippines."
