
Local government of America.

What is frustrating, for more than a week, "said the government of America because he doesn't really like it while we are here.
This is the truth: The park and "tourist spots is closed which is given by the government.
But there is a bigger dismay about the Americans because we are not like in the park where the problem is in the park where the work or business and livelihood are affected.
"They do not get along well with the Republican candidate and" Democrats, "of US President Barack Obama, that's why the government's" budget, which resulted to the "traslacion" and stop many services. "
The park and "tourist spots is first hit, which is why our visitors are not in the right timing even if there are still many who can go to it.
The "government official" is bitter, "to the veteran, retired and even the American soldier" in Iraq, Afghanistan and others because even their benefits and failures were affected.
Many employees of the government of America got removed from work, as well as the private companies are in tourism or depending on the contract of the government.
"Those who lost a job in private or not just like the" government worker "who can accept"
"That's why it's just like that when they are mad at" Republicans "Atong" Democrats "and of course, from Pres. Obama.
The American soldiers said that we went to the airplane from Washington DC, Los Angeles, his belief with Obama when he was still a senator because of the huge change since he became president.
This is the truth, although we are not American, we are being given attention because we have a lesson here, especially when giving to the good of the majority.
He / she was wearing.
We thank the brows in Masaya in San Francisco, New York, Washington DC, Los Angeles and San Diego because of the very beautiful acceptance.
We are together with GLP, female boss, Jena Ko, who is an official guest of the Great Britain in the US and Canada that is why we will be fooled even just for two weeks.
