Deprived of a hat.

The three Editorial Department of Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (Zamboanga City in particular, who was called the crisis, based on the crisis, according to Nur Misuari, is in critical condition in negotiating with President Binay's leader with Misuari himself, based on the severe damage of the leader of the Moro National Liberation Front, the third ("Pogi"), who has condemned the severe damage of the Moro National Liberation Front.
Of course, who will make it through the critical condition of the Philippine Daily Inquirer's critical condition, there is no other than President Noynoy Aquino and what's possible to continue, and what kind of story has been presented by Binay, and the actions of Aquino and the government.
According to the first Editorial Department, the military found out the "peace rally" of the MNLF three days before the said activity, according to the police, the military did not deny the information that the Aquino government did not release, which is no longer the knowledge of the Aquino administration, which is said to have been broken by the military, and electric posts, and attacks by the military.
Let us think that Misuari is wrong and the management of MNLF is wrong with his troops when he shot in a city, but is it possible that the government did not respond right? "We should not look for a way to resolve the issue."
There is also a early negotiation between the MNLF in the middle of the shooting that the Aquino government does not want to offer the proposal to attack the MNLF, because this is related to the cause of their action: The government of the Aquino government in relation to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.
Many are angry at the alleged robbery and use of human rights as the MNLF as well, if it is true, the MNLF government should not do anything about this violation, but on the other hand, it is possible that it will lead to the international law, based on its traits, if it is done in a crowded place?
It's clear what the Aquino government is saying, that the Aquino government wants to launch a violation of the pork barrel scam, because it is not good for the government to stop the Priority Development Assistance Fund or PDAF as well as the surrender of Janet Lim-Napoles.
And the damage is already severe, more than 100 were killed and more than 100 were wounded, in the evacuation centers, there are also a severe violation of human rights that were also affected, in the middle of the evacuation centers and helping those who have evacuated so that the cause of garbage is not revealed.
The role of Aquino on the pork barrel scam is clearer than the pork barrel scam, but it is very clear that his role is attempted to be covered up by the said scam in the launch of a race which was broken into a disastrous scandal.
