The text of PNoy, Et's text.

So that President Benigno Aquino III has returned to our country, there are still some of the right hand that hit him.
We do not know the real reason and I am not interested to know what is worse, the train that goes to the public while speaking, he will stop smoking or not, as long as there is a reminder from there, he will stop smoking or not.
In New Zealand it turned his personnel to go back to the local government officials to let the Filipinos see each other, they refused to attend the present time of GMA, GMA, GMA, who were opposing against the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, they don't want politics!
The presumption of the refused OFWs from the statement of President Aquino came true, but why are the rich in our country who are involved in corruption when they buy a vehicle, they are also being taken, but when a case has been charged? "
It is only natural that those listening because it was led by 90 people with Noynoy in the airplane, they laughed and applauded even though his stories were stopped by the President, which was only a joke that was sent to him.
It seems that because of the expensive car, it might be nothing for the person that he showed - the former President and now Pampanga Congressman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, and almost all of the Filipinos, and almost all of his escape from them, but almost all of his escape from them, he cannot drive and locked up his fast car.
The President has a bad joke that in New Zealand, he thought it is possible for us to understand the New Generation ers, many are disappointed with what he hurts, not only the Filipinos, especially that the former president of the Philippines - Gloria, is not unknown to them.
Many of PNoy are asking PNoy, can't he speak in front of a person who does not even know Gloria?, does he not know any other administration except for Gloria?
The text message was not just ashamed of GMA, but all the expert doctors who looked at Mrs. Arroyo, together with those from the Veterans Memorial Mecy Center (VMMC), so that they were his accomplice in front of him when Arroyo had an accomplice.
There was also a call for me to say that our lives are good now under the Aquino government, "IT's Humalig), Fullido, FFF) and most of all, the President is Flabio Zaragosa, FFF) and most of all.
It is fun that I also received a text message and hopefully the Malacanang will not be angry because according to spokesperson Abigail Valte and Edwin Lacierda, "and the end of the Philippines, the text - Fight IT is a joke!"
