Vice Ganda, where is the heart and soul of the thin dog? By Alwin, July 24, 2016.
There's 2,000 people who agreed to be cooked in bad habits.
It's because he was able to step down from his happiness because, the book he has was the author, there was a new record, "in the number 1 of his post.
"Sure, we will be able to show to you the case that you have done. We, hope that after the 2,000 pesos, there are those who buy again.
There are many who do not believe that you are really the one who has the author in books, which is why you keep any political ambition.
The sale of this to the Philippines is only one testimony that they are fanatics were so that they can be held up with the garbage being thank Ram, so that he can go out.
In his eyes, thank you, it is no matter that even if it is a king in exchange of a comedy back, you can find a copy of a comedy.
What can "be a lesson from" guidance "for the daily life that you will get in your book?
The letter will be the will of the Lord, to be the wonder because what is written here is a joke?
If they will just be thankful and will be followed, it's not bad, especially since we were we all know, especially when we know that I am not sure, "thank you," the "best doctor" to the Pad of all.
Maybe, if you really think about it, you can use the influence and fame that you are idolizing.
That it is not only the only ones that you will give in to your adic public. By Taba, you should know that there are a lot of young women in Little each other, that is why you will be able to beat up the "image of" of an laboratory lab.
You should put an end to the image of gay folks.
It should be better now, if you are going to be a bigger problem, you should be able to show up to your wallet.
"It should also be," the TV and film that you are going to do, "the more enne."
The drama that has been shown by the drama, horny's, is the shape of the ice cream that cannot be removed and cannot be taken away.
Do you still not get tired of hurting himself?
Bad habits, thank you, thank you, who are you still seeing?
"It's the Vice Ganda who are in the new dog of the Star Magic or the Jose Marie Visayan al with heart and soul?
If there is no longer a holdup and wig, it is no longer the light and camera, can you say that you are really happy?
