Women, it was revealed that there is no lack of abuse and lack of livelihood.

By P2,500.
March 7, 2015.

Mix of the domination of the Filipino workers, meow!
It was a part of Jinky's job as it was still a part of the work of Jinky's job, 19, was caught in carrying heavy rainfall in a factory in a plywood in Valenzuela City.
It is said that this kind of job is said to be a man, but he has connections with a knife, like this job, it is lucky that if he is two than 50 in one day.
It is hard to call the class of Jinky's job, which depends on the production of factories, afterwards, he also did not take this way to work.
Aside from its proximity to the machine of the machine, even the urge for him to go against him is that, he always gets the bad luck in this job but it is difficult for him to get sick because he gets sick.
Meanwhile, like Jinky, his hard work is also cruel, 49, from Northville 2 B in Valenzuela. Street, Laqueza.
His income is not enough to support the three children because in debt, that is why the ATM card was always sold, that is why when it is cleaning the road, he will also sell an amount of trash, that is why if it is not cleaning the road, he will also sell an amount of trash, but when it is still lacking.
Jinky is just a few of women who are having a hard time to get a job - a job that has been used to send their own lives because of desperation, they were oppressed, everyday they have no rights in the factory.
They also won't be protected by the government which should be used to take care of their most powerful nation.
Lack of livelihood.
You can also see the ability of the Filipino workers like Daisy, 37, who are still alive with the saints, while living in a vacationist.
"It is still difficult when it comes out of it, that's why it's still difficult for him to be released by the government (when they were transferred to him (when they were transferred to him), but there is no capital," said Daisy.
He knows that the government needs to make sure that the people who can help them have a permanent work, so now, we are just hoping that you will be demanded to pay you (your house), "he said.
The lack of livelihood of the policies of the Relocation Site, which is being done by the housing projects, instead of helping ease their difficulty.
It is a worse part of taking advantage of the workers, including women who are workers, the implementation of illegal detention cases, the workers or those who are going to do their own work, they have no benefits or right, they can easily get their salary.
As a woman, as a worker.
This is the situation, for example, Leonila Delos Reyes, 28, when he was able to interview the contract by Filipino Weeker, just recently in the contract that was held in a factory of diaper and his wife and his wife were able to support the three children.
He / she said that his work is about 1.200 pesos every week for his income for work every day in order to earn bigger and of course, he is not sure that the deductions have come to his salary in SSS and PhilHealth.
According to Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela, it is too much different from the capitalists have, which is why they do not need to spend money from the employees such as electricity and it does not need to spend money from the employees and it does not have any benefits because it is often at the house where the Filipino workers are working.
"With its end of this, how can the government) allow the capitalists have to go out of danger of human rights even if we say that we have laws which should protect the rights of women," said Salvador.
Because of the severity of work, I could almost do not have time for the family as a mother, I still need to cook, I still need to cook, my house is complicated, "he said, this is the amount for them as a worker and the mistreatment towards them as a woman because of them having a spendresses.
He is also oppressed like she memorized as a woman in where he works.
"The other who passed through the agency, narrated to me, they were asked by the one who had sex with him, and when they were the latter who had sex, they did not have anything to do with it, because of not beauty, she refused.
This is the policy of the test given to other factories. "The person who does not want to provide the women to make their own wife and child cannot be allowed to provide for the maternity leave and others," said Salvador.
This is what the government is experiencing.
According to Gabriela, the policy of the Aquino administration - and other administration is a part of the Aquino administration, it is possible to make the rights of the workers, including the assurance that there is a wage increase in their work, salary, and human rights that cannot be provided anymore, students, and to protest.
Because there is no powerful industry in the country and there is still no true reform presented by the workers and low wages, this is always limited or not enough for their rights to be used by capitalists have, you will be easily supported by other workers who are desperate to work.
It is estimated that around 12.4 million Filipinos have no work, according to the survey of the Social Weather Stations in the last part of 2014, the number of women have no work at 41.7 percent last December 2014 when it was on 42.5 percent last September 2014.
"In the Philippines, there is a big reserved reward that wants to work or" those who are at the age to work but no longer a regular job, low at ng Wage, the workers are receiving, "said Salvador.
Gabriela said, even if there are laws that will assure the protection of women like the law of maternity leave, it should be done for the law for regular workers just because aside from this, there is also a lot of women who are all Filipino workers and are also widespread in these laws.
In Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR), the center of the militant groups of the country might have reached 10 percent of Filipino workers, perhaps, 90 percent of Filipino workers, but there is no actual data to the government - or he is hiding.
Meanwhile, Gabriela discovered the various ways of the Aquino administration to make the data of its data about jobs.
In the agricultural sector, for example, a lot of women are involved in no work such as time when they do not have no or stop going to the nearby towns to work in different jobs or selling.
"He is doing it as a tactic in the government to bring them to the number of their jobs that is not far away, it is not sure that this kind of work is not safe, especially in the whole world," said Salvador.
Because of the intrigues that are like this, the Aquino administration has been made to look down on the lack of work in the country, in spite of this, many experts in the economy is still saying that the agricultural sector is still lacking in the economy for a few of the Lord people to create a job.
"These things are important because this will create a real job (it is the real reforms that the government does not do because in following the policy that the government does not do because in following the constricted streets like the United States," said Salvador.
Strength of women.
For women like Jinky, Ela, Daisy, and memorized, they are taking advantage of the factories in their area in Valenzuela, but this does not mean that there is a permanent work for them.
This became a place of taking advantage of them due to the government being pushing for the policies of capitalists and foreigners.
But this is also the taking of poverty and poverty that is allegedly the ones who are asking them to fight and deny their rights.
They are currently the participants of Gabriela who are active that among fellow citizens and workers who are studying the situation of the workers and women to the Filipino people.
"In the action I found out that the woman can fight, especially now that poverty is getting stronger, there is really no need to join, cooperate with other oppressed, nothing will happen to us," says memorized.
The participants of the people like them are getting stronger in order to hold the elected President Benigno Aquino III - who would be recognized as a leader of those who would make them as a worker and as women.
