Lowest for three days.
It is out of a friend of the military against Deniece Cornejo, who are from Morong and partner in total, it has already reached a point that there will be a member who is a member of the ID-M-bala; which can be killed in an accident, isn't it?
One of the bodyguard's bodyguard was said to have had something to do with that.
Four soldiers who died were killed after John Lloyd came from pity from Mindanao, is there a report, Jun, is the reason.
Jessica has said that on Saturday and Sunday, the highest damage from the head military as well as a few of his towns are being carried away from some of his fights that was why he was able to move on and on his way to force his contribution, it was even caught in the afternoon in the video and in the video of it.
It was then that you were the game yesterday at the start of six Marie for a long-time operation around the area.
We were able to share stories from the gunshots as to how Zamora Islamic seven five years old will be investigated.
Very much.
Who knows where the bones come from.
Ah, right?
After the end of January.
!
To be true.
There was no one with father last night.
A pig.
I don't know that you are going to the salty.
And slowly rope was part of the enemies.
Next.
All are focused on.
I need a lot of things.
Next.
You are your sweet enemies?
What is there?
Yes.
Covetous, deport; isn't it right?
You love.
Father.
From where he is from.
You should kill you.
!
For those who know, he saw two men.
Are you the ones who will inherit the gun and are able to go around anything.
They are members of blessings.
Wrapped the body Avida just wrapped in the town.
Said the wrong.
There are almost two of their bodies who were left alone in the area.
But their bodies are not yet recovered.
Today, we have a little square square meters.
Ten-ten people entered to go to school; and deport; C-S / S.
That was really left by that inside me.
D's girlfriend.
You know that we buy and continue what happened, that is the cousin of an effective case.
It is said that a sack is like a sack and is the first leader of Visayas.
The blessing from other people has two bodies that is why we were able to know each other.
One maybe your points are just like a uniform.
What the military belief is that we are only here in the previous conversation between four stories when we go with them.
The relatives took the other body.
As said, there is also a blessing from what he killed by his cousin.
It is also a record from those who are believed in Visayas.
Will be followed by different kinds of guns and help.
But call the news on the news.
There are those who look like this in a week but not.
When you were not able to go home immediately, they were easily able to go home; he was also conducting a huge training in Mindanao.
Maria is already married to the Philippines and lived with them.
Yes, we have a lot of people, who are stubborn; we are looking, there is a possibility that trouble is happening and there is still a craving.
The towel will pass through the right process.
They have this, that is what we are looking for and laugh at Singapore.
Which is also one of what is the budget that has a wooden bed.
Remove the operation against blessings.
Four soldiers were killed.
Along with a captain from the Philippines, there was a lot of Hooters came from six million pesos.
But you are now the one who loves to experience.
But the operation of the U S. a T-T will continue to become chaotic; rather than the people who will come near him.
Jessica, he insists that the one who bought after him / her return to lotto was saved after they had a bag that fell in their operation, which is why when it comes to me, she is the one who passed out to me, who is the military, which is the military right here in Mindanao, which is said to be the military right here in Mindanao.
What's the situation, whose name is deacious; he / she got fond of tocino, tocino, shrimp; and godmothers, who are just going to wait for each other.
This is what is being made up by the Holy Week which is the center of the situation there on the ground.
Whoever who are at the disadvantage and your father are at a disadvantage and as well as your father, you are the ones who can trust that we can trust that we can trust the number ones who have seen each other for two decades that they bought.
He / she says that he / she says that he / she says that he / she says, that you are a blessing in front; he / she's a blessing in front; he / she grew up on Saturday, she is the only four who will be forced in spite of that.
He / she wants to go away from South Korea but these numbers, perhaps, all of them, might have been broken; we might be put off and put it away.
Ah, we are really here at around.
"Those who are on the side of the streets under the tree are just going back to the right side under the tree, and then the government is saying that they are also doing this for the residents to have a friend, who are all residents of buy, we might have a friend.
But are you going to leave that we are going to live in that kind of race.
You will see that she is requesting her to have a savings with her savings.
To whom and to be the leader of the graduating, that is one of the things we are asking for, I said that we will be careful all of all of these to all of these.
It is more than a week when he / she is going to help you in the office.
That's why I did not see it and I was able to put it to a petition; we were on the way home; he / she was on the way home, but until now, we have not yet received five news that is why we also need to understand that it is a big brightness.
Vitamin C (in Makati, how can you not just like the ordinary areas in Manila that you can see in the video of Deputies we can see in the video of Deputies we can be seen in the video of Deputies we can be seen in a video.
We are anxious; we are saying that what they are saying is not enough, it can't be belittled.
You can keep the blessings, but instead of just being told by Mary, they already saw it, that is why they still see it, that it would be better for us to stay here in the area where the military is conducting an operation, which might have been conducted by the military now, Mariz.
Okay.
It is certain that we could not forget that, who are rude to this, because it's as if First Class Serena Daan, that's why we saw each other, that's why we saw each other, who has been a sound of word; that's why we saw Steve had a word; that's why she saw Steve Area in D: M / her daughter.
It is an operation that we have seen in the enrollment, but you said that there is a huge area, assurance that there is a huge area, no idea, they will get it, "they will get it.
According to Jessica, no one can tell that because this is an end of praises for those who are chasing them in the area, which is why they have already known each other, that is why he / she didn't know that there was no rip-mindedness; that's why he / she didn't know that there was no rip-mindedness; that's why he / she didn't know that there was no rip-mindedness; that's why they were not able to go out.
All of them have already been gone but, that's where Jane and sir, in their interview, they still have the ears, they are still there in the span of seven years to wait for the military, that's why he / she's going to be one of the military that was why he said that he / she was going to say that he / she was going to say that he / she was going to say that he / she was there.
It's a waste for six-four children.
To the blessings that are being done, he / she said, that if he / she wants to go to school; he / she wants to show up; he / she said that the military still said that you will not give up on March only, that is why we also know how to fight back on March.
No matter what he / she says, the elderly, this kind of military, is that this kind of military is here, but it is really up until she is not playing with Josh to travel to a very smooth knee.
They were able to look down; he / she said that their operation will continue to escape.
"We can't say that it's just the light that we can say, that's why it's just the video of the video that your report is coming from where it came from.
This was a seven video machines that was degrading, Calayes, Jessica saw.
What our short term is really like that, which gave us as the same age, deport;
Ah, on Sunday, the medicolitos' medicolden; he / she really doesn't want to say that he would not mention that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she just watched the pan from your trouble, that's because when you watched it, we watched the pan on your trouble.
You are holding the technology in what he is holding.
There are those who resigned from these troops that were left in the middle of the funeral parlor, whose legs are really very beautiful but they are really beautiful to be able to get along.
There are already a lot of people who got caskets that are not just stories, but there is only one thing given to us.
We were able to look down; we are proud that we need to buy an avers, which is why we need to buy a medical exam to a higher official, which is said that we can see each other for a higher official.
It is very difficult for you to see what I see in your mother, because what I do is that, because we can remember that we are allowed to go against the troops that are included in the war that are included in the war that are included in the war that are included in the war that are included in this war.
The video was finished.
I am not stupid; he / she cannot go ahead and to tell that it was an approved unit which is really the pageant that was really released.
Very small; we can be allowed to stay alive but now in this situation, but now that they are not allowed to go near Manila, we can still not be allowed to go near the area, and we are also pleading that we can no longer put up with those that are like that tomorrow and we might not be allowed to go to those things.
It can be said that we cannot determine what he can possibly happen in these situations like this in your situation as compared with us.
There are some congregations that we are going to go to, we have to go to the streets; so that there are big problems that they hit and something else.
You should really avoid us.
Thank you very much.
