
Strengthening the boasts in each other.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
NDFP chief superintendent.
Member, NDFP National Executive Committee.

Talayan was the disconcerns in the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the strong New HE.
Mirrian was arrested, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
30 March 2014.
Disbursement Acceleration Program (the anti-feasts in the United States, this happened in a secluded area of Negros in the Middle East, after Marcos passed the law, "said a farmer," said that, "as a farmer, he insisted that I will leave my land," I did not leave my land. "

Those with friends and friends, I want to discuss the excessive movement of the revolutionary movement, I mentioned the concrete experience of the poor farmers, because they are pushing for their land to fight for their land is the solid foundation of the cowards.
4 is the primary content of the democratic revolution.

The revolutionary solution is the primary content of the democratic governance of the country, this is the Saligang Batas and aspirations of the majority of the population of the Philippines, the farmers, which is composed of the farmers and Filipino Workers which is composed of a democratic revolution.

It is just right that the Liberal Party of the Philippines is going to be held by the Liberal Party of the Philippines and the middle of the poor farmers and Filipino workers in one side, to destroy the power of the Lord citizens in the same side, to destroy the power of the Lord citizens in the same side, to destroy the power of the Lord citizens in the country. "

4 square meters of the revolution ignited, construction of Basti and armed forces.

On the 45 years of the revolutionary movement in the Philippines, resulted to the cancellation of the nearest mass and armed fight for the construction of the 16th masses and armed fighting against the construction of the agricultural sector for more than eight thousand pesos and some towns.

'Kath' program is composed of the cancellation of the rent on the land, put off or reducing the price of the farmers and armed groups which are implemented by the thousands of farmers and Filipino workers who are benefiting from the sanctity of the soil and Filipino workers.

The other benefit from the revolutionary solution is the increase of the price in the farm by the farmers, building of simple cooperative, and additional jobs to protect the farmers and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) that's why their success is being supported by the Filipino farmers and their success.

4 of health programs, Pang-education and culture.

The other campaign of farmers and Filipino workers like the campaign of health, education, including the SEA Games, education, and some European countries, are giving their education in the care of the body and medical services that resulted in the custody of the body and medical services.

The schools are taking a class in a farm, and second level of education and second level of education in the history of the Philippines, of the Saligang Batas, by the Saligang Batas and a program under democratic country.

These groups are currently conducting the programs of misuse of the airports and theater in order to give inspiration to the masses and for the masses to give inspiration to the masses, who got rich from the rich tradition and experience of the masses.

4 is the strong leadership of the poor farmers in the Samahang farmers.

The poor farmers and low ranks of farmers who are taking advantage of the majority of farmers in the Middle East are placed in the middle of a deep poverty of the farmers, who are placed in a deep poverty of the anti-citizens and the local farmers in the militant group of the militant groups and the militant farmers in the militant group of the militant country and the Marcos regime.

The rich farmers, most of them are having a hard time to face the land of big Lord citizens, corrupt politicians and military who pass through an analysis, and enadore of the farmers.

It is one of the farmers who are in the national establishments that usually destroy the foreign companies in the mining companies that destroy their livelihood and surroundings, they know!

4 of Number of No. No. Zones of Aquino are affected by the affected areas of Yolanda.

Aquino declared No-Build of Number DZones ("Mangudadatu to build a house and have no live-in-law, which contains law in 40 meters from the coast, which led to the millions of fishermen and farmers in the area of homes.

Aquino presented this land to the irresponsible businessmen for the building of a resort to create the very noisy policy of Aquino and the fishermen who showed the militant fight.

4.

Some of the success of an avers, which are the construction of the powers by the workers, farmers, women, youth and children, youth, youth and kids, in the levels of politics are spreading in the entire cities of politics, which is spreading in the entire 71 of the country.

The success of the revolutionary solution is what the farmers are applying for the revolution.

The PKP has declared that it is hard for it to reach the chapter of basic commodities in Filipino people, from the current chapter of quality service, for the next year.

Those with friends and friends, the solution to all the success of this success in the wide scope of the country and the Pambansang Kamao, the love of farmers in the land, is the love of the farmers in the land, I want to let the farmers love the land, and I want to focus one grain that state the love of the farmers in land.

Sometimes, you'll just talk to Lupa.

Sometimes the land is just speaking.
He will talk for us.
She will say it, like us, who was already a mother.
It is time for us to be protected from us.
Because of our strength the land is worth it.
And according to her, she is the one who provides for us.
We and the land are only one!

However, who will listen?
Are they listening?
They cannot see them.
They, it is too far, that it is too far.
Where is the land?
Because that is what a piece of paper was saying?
Because of the piece of paper.
A man who is threatening us!
Who are people who have the power to shoot and kill.
Who is the person who has the powers with our men and children?

Sometimes the land is just speaking.
He will talk for us!
Because we are the land!
