I also said that we are very angry; we are very hot-tempered; you are too hot-selling.
In his behavior until the heat in your entry to Isabela because of what is right.
"Maybe even if I feel the heat, how can they get the heat here in Cagayan Valley, in the other Isabela, two of our countrymen are low in the same day, but our fellow countrymen here are low and complicated.
There are things that are called.
Starting in the morning until one way, he needs the water open to help those who are not the one who can take care of a thousand like being stepped on the foot of the beggar.
There is no number in there were eight o'clock in the afternoon.
Fuck, dearse; and too much.
Those who are dead are already dead.
What should be the one to die in the afternoon?
How much would I be worried about what we have to worry; we were able to talk to it; we were able to get sick because of this.
Puri is really like a kind of attitude, therefore, you will greet you once he got sick.
Tuguegarao City, all of the airport.
This Wednesday, he entered the funeral parlor that was already known in Isabela due to the province.
I am now here in Saudi Entertainment Television, we are together with the credit card, after we look at our seminar, so I will look at around ten o'clock in the afternoon, we will look at that five point, but we are still fat.
Two questions that we have five years.
What is the call of Two people to say that we know that they are inside the room in the province of Isabela that is because surrounding the mountains why it is hot here.
Let us go to school the sermon of Two people that have a huge order, so that I will have a lot of patrons; I am not the one I can do.
You said, we are just here in the early morning or in white vinegar for me to come that I will be sent a Filipina, it will be easy to give in Cagayan Valley, we will kill each other later.
The heat you feel is still the end of it.
While he will not be sent to the farmers here in Isabela because it is not right now that is why it is not affected by the hot weather now.
