Liza, Jodi, nosy mother, Jennylyn and Angelica, was awarded with the influx of fame in Jun Lalin this November 27, 2016.
The Walk of Fame Philippines - on December 1, is on December 1 in the cision, Quezon.
We saw at Greenhills, San Juan last night, John Nite, and they said that they were able to go out for the right age to start his uncle, German Moreno (SLiwag).
Even if the Master Showman passed away last January 8 of this year, they continued the project of Kuya Germs' project, "has a board of cision," Perez-Perez-Perez, Maceda) and Tito Ricky (Lo).
"It's okay for 15" to be given and divided.
"In the arena, which will be held here is Liza Soberano, John Arcilla, Jennylyn Mercado and Angelica Panganiban.
"What happened, for Television, Jodi Sta. Maria, Shaina Quinto and Barbie Forid za was awarded.
"Kennon Road in News by the Public Affairs, Ted Failon, LubuCruz and Susan Enriquez.
"In Bombo Radyo, Eddie Ilarde and Manolo Kovalev.
"You and Jackie Lou (Blanco), the host is in the top of us, to be a hotel, only at a hotel where there is a hotel where there is a hotel where there is a hotel where there is a hotel there.
"Every year, they are going to come together with a limousine because when they come, there is a video, and they are the ones who will be married, Dr. Love.
"Everything went well, that's why we were able to take care of us.
"Of course, all of the companions in this house, we did this as an enemy of Tito Janno, she is the one who started all this and we cannot handle it even if he is gone," said John.
John clarified that it is one of the based on giving honor that it needs to be able to go to ces.
Other people that can't be held on December 1 like James Reid, Nadine Lustre are not the real reason why their group just snubbed but for other opportunities, he can be given a long time.
Ogie Alcasid has become a Kapamilya, Ogie Alcasid.
It's because a celebrity is going to start with its online clean face Sambulo wherein he is one of a celebrity judges together with Sharon Cuneta and Gary Valcariano.
According to the manager of the singer one named Leo Domogan, they are still fixing the details of the contract of Ogie with ABS-CBN.
And because the contract of Ogie will start, he brought his friend and best friend Michael V and his friend Michael V and those from GMA 7 to persevere in the 21st century of Bubby Salisi Gang.
"Fight IT led by the Bubby Salisi Gang," Ogie said.
Even if they separate from TV network, Regine Velasquez is happy with the new contract of her husband.
