
The Philippines, according to BPAT.

By Rolando Nana, October 28, 2012.

He maintained its story (Tony Vizmonte, director, 2012.

The eyebrow will be raised and it seems that there is a big foreign production being taken in the Philippines, and it was said that there was a large corporations being taken in the Philippines, 1979), the teenager was beaten by a bonfire in Vietnam, 1982), survey results from Indonesia.

In the interview with Claire Dilawan, 1999), 1999), he said that Manila is a heart disease of the city hall "of course it is a heart disease of their national pride, which is why it has been full of stone-up, which is why it has been full of iron fist, that's why the Bandee arrives in front of it.

The very quiet movie is about the holiest part of the virus that is considered by the virus, and the medicine is coming here in the Philippines, including the high-high-high factory, the roof of a low-coloured house, and the lower part of the low community.

The first scene is to identify the hiding place in the factory of the medicine, that even if they have to find the medicine, they will find the medicines, and the source of the supply of companies that are similar in the evening, and the source of the supply of the virus, and the needs of the companies and body parts that are not sleeping on the middle of the ratification of the company.

The second scene is the effect of what was abandoned, that's why the spy found out that the spy still continues to get sick in a narrow-coloured house, which is the only reason for him to escape the roof part of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act, 2006, and for the same reason, he also saw the anti-Illegal Drugs Act, however, the anti-Hero, according to the escape.

The third scene is the feast of the stolen motorcycles (and knows how to buy a high-year-old model and the villain) in the Middle East, which is only considered as the villain in the eastern part of the city hall and is considered to be fed up by the Metro Manila Development Authority in the middle of the lane of the road.

The protagonist's star, he / she had a story, he / she gave birth to his girlfriend, he / she gave birth to another scene in the Philippines.

There was nothing about the water and indie films which were made to be watched in Babe, story.

In fact, there will be no face-face attack, like the first step to take care of the Philippines as a regular space in the Philippines as a regular space in the third World pageant, or as an obstacle to the improvement of the First World.

The new administration which is representatives of Bira will only focus on top of the country's toll fee but the bottom of global warming which can be capitalized.

This is the purpose of the Philippines, according to the movie: Because there is a pile of capital for the community's community, and the population of the city hall will be raised from the community which is full of global warming, street system, and full of global warming, highway system), which will be more than capitalized.

In spite of this, the country has been bitten by the country's bullet and here is his present, the state which has been achieved and can be achieved by the continuous increase of capital to the country: This will be favorable to ensure a regular and cheap supply of workers in the factory of haunt and emotional company.

This is also favorable to the crime, but because of the volume of people and workers, it is also possible that they will not escape even if there is still no space of additional progress, especially for a limited space of the city.

And of course, it turns out that it has been an administrative case for two national space: The west where two national space and in the middle of the movie, the boat will go home from Palawan in Vietnam, which is one of the people of global warming, capital.

The perfect age film will pass through the highest operation, not only for the search for the truth and justice, but for global warming which can be held in the city of global warming, country - the Philippines - what is stated in the New Year conditioning in the regime of global warming which can be held in Bulang Malinao, according to Bandapon.

This is the new piece of copra production, and we were able to watch a film that we have watched our narrow-minded city and the country's main condition and they want to step down on the next chapter in our movies, just need to break up, like Seoul's movie.

The movie is going to place our source, this is the present and it is possible that we are going to vote for global warming and capitalized.
