Chaos: The result of garbage from the food stall.
By Zaykit, Hala on July 23, 2016.
"This is what the Lord said, that all the Holy Week, the holy of Israel: I am the Lord, who taught you on the road that you should go out, and if you have heard the peace, you should have been in the river, and your reason is like the waves in the sea.
"Your race should have been like sand and your children are like sand and their names don't take it or will be cut off in front of me." (Ibu48: 17-18).
The holy God is simple and very clear in their situation during those times that the king of Judah were put in his hands by the Lord God hoping to protect the nation's welfare, and not to the power of the country that is headed by the people, which is headed by the people.
He / she was also fooled by the adta, Yo'clock, himself, will finish the strength of the armed forces of Asiaties, he himself came back to them before he fully defeated the town of Judah.
Siblings, there are a lot of lessons given to us by God in this part of the history of Israel on the first time, our obedience to his orders.
He stated in the Bible the way how we need to live; what kind of deceitful people like him during the time of Ib, the holy command of God will be clear.
I have been together for this: Blessing is the reward of God for their following; it is a curse on the results of the common people.
What is only done, "the Lord Almighty, the Lord of Israel is the result of his love for him, he wants them to be brought to the regret, which is the key in the way to restore their broken relationship with him.
God is good.

He does not like the popular witnesses, the rape victims to others.

Their lust and distress of the morality is to worship other God or other planets, aside from Him.

Watch a show on TV or on YouTube when you look at what kind of phenomenon, which is popular to the audience of YouTube, which are the popular among the audience of YouTube, which are all those who take advantage of the audience and release of their own plans.
A New Zealand inside the 21st CNT RTEL.
And after that, because of the away from the people in God, violence and criminality in society are widespread in any part of the world.
A friend, while the Lord Jesus will not go back, each person still has hope that he loves us, he died in the cross to pay our debt to God.

So while there is still time, let us go back to Him.
Let us regret it and the widespread return of Filipinos to the Lord is the true that will bring peace and justice to our country.
