TTECATECAYETANO and ignorance of the senators.

Senator Alan Peter Cayetano challenged Senate Minority Juan Ponce Enrile (JPE) just when.
The challenge is to file a complaint against his former chief of staff Attorney Gigi Reyes and another staff to prove that the issue about the anomaly in pork barrel is not surprising.
Meanwhile, Alan Peter, who is the one in his brain, run as president of the republic!
He has a point in his challenge to Enrile, but the true content is it is a good thing for the political ambition of the son of Cometero Rene (SLR), because there is no story, he will suddenly appear and make noise outside the news.
Just like what we said, all are being revealed in the investigation of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, especially if it is holding a sample of the senate on the case of the senate on the case of pork barrel queen Janet Lim-Napoles.
We have seen several times that the questions on the issue are everywhere, the anger of a senator to fellow senators that means, politics and no different garbage!
Jinggoy is right in his anger with Guingona.
We never think that we are not part of Estrada but on the pork barrel scam investigation, the foolishness of some senators together with the officials of the agency of Benigno Aquino III surfaced.
"What they are saying,"
It is not said that Tuason's good is the script that was given to him by the DOJ, which is why he maintained that the fights against Enrile are almost nothing. "
Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago is a good judge who can raise the law but his questions are the ones who are teaching the answer to their "hness" instead to prevent his true and participation.
"Isn't it that Senator Trillanes got mad at Tuason, so even if he has a suspicion," I think he already accepted the answer of the woman who died instead of being imprisoned?
We, the people are the source of your salary and pork barrel scam, we hope you should be given weight than your boss in Malacañang, we hope this is your priority and give real service and blessing.
The investigation in the senate about the pork barrel scam is stop and it is still different if the court will let it be investigated, and to decide when a certain senator shows your foolishness!
