
Wrong.

I was worried recently because of the wrong wrong mentioned by Presidential spokesperson Edwin Lacierda, in relation to our history, while he is strictly defending President Benigno Simeon Aquino III for the surrender of Janet Napoles.
According to Lacierda (and he / she was also not new, not before what happened and there was no "Special Action Force who gave Napoles, he insisted that the surrender of the law for President Manuel L. Quezon, Luis Tarnate not surrendered to President Manuel L. Quezon, Luis Tarakan.
Lacierda explained that the fear of Napoles for his life is what pushed him to surrender to the President.
He insisted that the president's desire to find the truth is the reason why he faced Napoles.
I have no problem if Napoles surrendered to the president although I did not agree that he brought him to Camp Crame.
First, insult to Acedillo, Tarzan, and Honasan shared that they are compared to Napoles, especially Asedillo and Tarzan, who are considered to be the heroes.
Asedillo and Tarakan were fighting for the freedom of the country from the foreign colonizers. Meanwhile, Napoles was searched for because of the serious illegal detention case that was implicated in the multimillion peso pork barrel scam.
Nicolas Dolly, a bandit that Lacierda said that Lacierda said that he surrendered to President Quezon last 1936 was the first to surrender to the governor of Tayaban, who was presented by Rodriguez to Quezon.
Second, Lacierda should know that Acedillo should not surrender to President Manuel Luis Quezon. Acedillo, one of the anti-American soldiers and known anti-American soldiers (Philippine Constabulary) in a fight in Camp Aguinaldo, Laguna.
Tarzan, who is the leader of the Hala Bira will serve the government and not to President Ramon Magsaysay. Meanwhile, according to President Ramon Magsaysay Boulevard, according to his statement, was conquered by general amnesty or Ram, he was not faced with President Fidel Ramos to surrender.
Maybe Lacierda did not expect that the data he said will be stopped.
To defend the president, since you are your job, but do not let us stand up because the credibility of the credibility will be you and the current administration.
He / she was wearing.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
You can contact Gene Lorenzo in a fineness of a resort to be for additional information.
