
Let us return.

There in the province of Quezon, particularly in Barangay rest Norte, town of Candelaria,
A hot discussion is the coming Brgy. Election.
In a gathering of the residents, the theme of the agreement was, they said that the order and order in their barangay due to the worsening turmoil did not go to peace.
One of the reasons why their barangay does not make peace because they can stop the sale and use the plague of illegal drugs.
They are blaming the lack of leadership of the current administration of their barangay as if he is an expert drug addict in the said barangay.
That's why they thought, "the former captain, who was the former captain, and properly served a lot of years as chairman of Barangay rest Norte.
In his time, "he said that the guards did not take advantage of it," like now, they will shoulder it because they are abusive towards their duties.
One incident, "the residents cannot stand the rape recently of the 7-year-old child in the barangay.
It is saddening but, "that is a bad example, they said, to selling the votes in the past Barangay election.
So hopefully we come into your come in the coming election, choose the one who has a strong and kind of kind of leadership in our barangay.
P2.89M for the legislative chamber.
Make sure of P2.1 million pesos will be received by fear of our town in Zamboanga City from 289 members of the Lower House.
Each congressman gave ten thousand pesos to celebrate their salary in exchange for financial help in the said city.
A huge amount is needed for the rehabilitation of the damaged houses.
Infrastructure and livelihood in Zamboanga City due to the chaos there, according to Marinduque Congan.
Because of the good purpose, Representative Reyes led his fellow human rights that will be released on HB - up to 3 congressmen who will give up to every congressman to donate to the financial status in Zamboanga City.
Examination became a nuisance, speaker Sonny Belmonte and the entire Chamber should also increase in their action.
