TV Patrol, October 15, 2012.

Long live with something.

The world has three traits that will not be ill-tempered; she is aware, and Pag-asa, and Pag-mindedness.

Whether we are worried or not, even if we are ready or not, the scheduled time will come that everything will be finished.

You are not sure when this will happen, in an instant, we are not expecting it, we should have closed our eyes to completely.

All the things that you see, you hear, that you will taste, and feel that they will not return to them completely.

This is not the time for the fact that the bisexual who is bisexual in the day is gone, without a circle and clear height of the month, there are no moments, during times or days that you will feel and will let it pass.

All the things that they collect or saved, even these are money or vehicles, house or clothing, you will go to your destination if you will not be brought to your destination.

Your wealth, fame, and power have nothing to do anymore in your position or duty, there are no trace of anything that you have something or if you have a debt that you need to pay.

Your grievance with anger, anger, clothes, friends, friends, and jealousy will finally be lost, and with envy, all of these have no meaning.

The success and failure to eat a lot of times for you and the excessive attention of your attention is also no value.

There is no doubt where you come from or in every community you live, and how great your house or a model of your vehicle, and who are your friends and colleagues, all of them should just let them be.

It is also not important if you are smart or whether you are intelligent or ugly, tall or a thick, or white, you have no meaning.

Because of your death... all of these are with you to leave everyone who have been placed here and will end up in red.

Nevertheless, what is more important is what is more important and there is something confusing, how will you implement and give importance to your days that you are here in the world?

All of us are on queue, passed, and happens that there are many things that are not given proper attention and beauty, but when we notice that there is a little bit of attention, it seems that there is no bad weather and beauty now that is why there is no resentment and bad effects that can be restored in front of the mirror, that is why there is no resentment and bad effects that would be taken from the heart.

But do not be trouble, everything is not too late while there is a child or old when there is a child or older than what you want to change, and those who are scheduled to happen in your life will voluntarily happen again in your actions.

And this is what you should face and focus more attention.

What is intentional is that... those they bought, instead of what you bought, instead of what you built.

Not what you want is not for you, instead of what you did.

Not what you have saved, instead, the help that you have helped.

What is scary, is that what you received are not what you received, instead of what you have given.

Your success is not your success, but your importance.

You are not what you learned, instead of what you have taught.

What is amazing is that, the typical passenger and school diploma, instead of the memories and haunting of you.

It is not your belongings there, instead of your character and covetousness.

Your promises are not your promises, rather, your plans.

What is confusing is that... your goal is not for your goal, instead of your efforts and determination.

Not your fear, rather, your direct face to the truth.

Not your words that you made, rather, together with his resolve.

What is confusing is that... your time is not your time in the office and work, instead of the good time to your family and loved ones.

It is not your grievance against things, instead of giving attention to your children.
The clings and as addiction to friends are not the fulfilment of the responsibility and they rushed to your loved ones.

What is scary is that... that jealousy is not the envy, jealousy, and lose hope, instead to make sure, give thanks, and wait for the good fortune that will come.

That is not surprising and hoped that, rather, to clean, and improve oneself.

It is not just right to dream, rather, plan and start saving it thoroughly.

What is true is that... that it is not a waste of waste that has no meaning, rather focus on improvement of self.

It's not enough to meddle with other people, instead to suppress them and control the negative thinking of self.

It will not be your hard work and remain second in a feast, but also the original and creative in each task.

What is scary, is that there is no matter how many people you know will do, instead, how many are proud and sad about your disappearance.

It is not your memories that will be left behind, instead of the important memories of those who love you.

It is not just how long it will be recalled, rather, who can do it at one o'clock and where it is.

To live without assurance is the most great and this is not really waiting for us to choose what is important for each other every day we have a power to change our lives.

Change the things that can be made up and bothering us, let us not let the moments we are not asking who we want, which is why we are going?

I hope that if I have known this before, I should have been able to make danger and destruction to others, hopefully we should not wait for it to reach each other.

Just like old age: Those who are going to win in the whole of entire politics are those who have no principle; prosperity that are not used; religion, not used; religion, not used; religion, not used; many are sleeping, sleeping, and trying to sleep on.

Just a simple songs.

Long live to love.

Learn to love to live.

Love so long to learn.

... that it is for you to live in the life of your dreams.

On this day, do you hear something like you?

Well, if it is not surprising, can you wake up?

... that it was too late.
