
PNP Leyte: Blessing or case?

I have been able to talk to a lot of people who are members of the police in different parts of Metro Manila.
The policemen are prepared to their duty but they are also the military as well in fulfilling their duties as an ordinary ones, the police who lives in the public is focused on the citizens or civilians who are living together everyday and in full peace in all community and towns.
In our conversation, they cannot hide their resentment in the leaders of the country with Benigno Simeon Aquino III (Bira 3) because of his final order to investigate the police assigned in Leyte and nearby places where they were not in the midst of typhoon Yolanda and calamity.
It will be investigated by many of the policemen in Tacloban, Ormoc, Guiuan, Aklan, Coron, Capiz and other towns.
I do not know what is related to Roxas and Aquino's group, because in their minds, it's because you think they are criminals, what you think are criminals and what you think are criminals and what you think are criminals?
Totoy's blame and Boy Abunda, according to their chief and colleagues, many have lost a huge waves from the sea, many of them drowned, many of them have lost their families and many of them have lost their families.
Also add to the order of the government to file a case against officials of the local government there, because what they are saying is strong and what they are saying is the strong typhoon or storm surge?
Meanwhile, as a puppy to the NDRRMC, their boss said that they have warned those from Eastern Visayas two years ago and have passed by the residents of Eastern Visayas two years ago.
Because they say that because the preparation of the storm that will come for two years will come, your escape with your shortcomings, you have the negligence, you are the ones to blame the people?
The police in Leyte did not fulfill their duties as long as they got killed by a disastrous typhoon so they themselves were affected.
Many saved a lot of people who helped the town of town there now, instead of blessings, cases will be given, alright, will it be done by the PNP!
