Stop the increase of bills from neighbors.

They carry the medical version of the locations they will go to, he went to Mendiola, closer to the foot of Malacanang, the students to express the anger towards the incessant increase in their university.
They are targeting the lack of action of the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections), the Aquino administration, and also the administrator of the university who is Protestants. "Of spite of all of these kinds of votes which is expulsion."
"It is clear to us why we are here in Mendiola.
For them, the government and Commission on Audit) has a clear responsibility, it shows the Commission Order (CMO) 3 or "Enhanced Defense Cooperation (Cutud," that seems to be charged by the suspension of their tuition and bills that seems to increase their tuition and bills that are not more than 28 of February.
And usually, to get the steps from consultation, the militant students said.

No.

In spite of the CMO 3, the increase in tuition in university is still ongoing because of the high tuition fee in the hopes to increase their tuition, according to National Union of Students, the Philippines (EPD).
Aside from this, boasts and the non-governmental organization will not be measured again and the data of RL-Friends that aims to increase their tuition in three to 15 percent is the average increase.
"The Aquino administration has nothing to do with its three years that he is giving way for the privatization of the education and this is not the task of a worthy president," said Dianna from Solmayor, general secretary of Anakbayan, Metro Manila.
According to Sarah Jane Elsee, chairman of NUJP, the university is set to be exported in education or removing the power of the government to give its limitation on the laws that will be focused on the law enforcers of 1982.
That is why the low tuition and other bills are not only the private sector but also the state Universities (Colleges (SUCs) because of the lack of funds allocated by the government, the Elsee.
Like a private university, various reactions will also be considered!
"The education of Aquino's education under Aquino has a consultation or not, billions of dollars are being sold at every year, the billions of dollars are being sold in the top of the country," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
"Are you going bankrupt," he even asked.

Very annoyed with those in critical condition.
But not only the high tuition fee is the problem of the students in the university that they are also facing the questionable policies, according to the Holy Christian Movement of the Philippines (SCMP).
In many in college and university, the scope of the organizations such as League of Filipino Boxing Organization (LFS), Anakbayan, Liberal Party-list, and others know that these groups are supporting the rights of the students, "Einstein said, the chairman of the Stukenbrock.
"It is not just a simple blood pressure, but it's also not only a simple blood pressure, that's why we consider the students to be a slave," that's why we are asking for a slave to become a slave, "according to Recana's rights.
The College was pointed out by the College was pointed out by the Philippines, which more than 200 have been recorded in the campus of Agriculture in the previous year-academic (achen-71).
Most of these are said to have caused the violation of bills that will increase in university which is also the target of the length of domination of the establishment every time they reveal what he considers the "anti-students."
Included in the domination and harassment of journalists for reporters, which is being done by the agents of the military when they will release a hot issue or national issue, according to Charismatic, "according to Charley, chairman of CEGP and National Capital Region.

"As early as now, various violation of rights are experienced by the students in the university who are expected to worsen due to cybercrime law (Republic Act Number 10175) of the Aquino administration," according to the master.
The agents of the military are instruments, as well as the institution of the Supreme Court (PUP) recently, the officials of hazing are involved in a democratic university in the Philippines (PUP), who have experienced hazing or physical abuse of his officials.
"The bills inside the university are already beaten-up, not for the youth the government has no right to continue the Marcos regime," the end of Charley Uruguay, chairman of the Central Bank of PUP.
