Bela Padilla have another request to Sam YG.
Reporting, ill-tempered at the PhilPop By Allan Diones July 25, 2016.
There are a lot of people who were surprised when they saw the Kia Sorento in the Philippines last Saturday night and he went to the finals.
Aside from a celebrity, as a celebrity, Brother Jim season 7, that she was born in the house of Kuya in Vietnam, that's why she was surprised that she was able to commit suicide.
Fans thought it will not reach until when we last night, his brother Nadine Lustre was suddenly held at NAPC yesterday so that he would be his girlfriend because he is in Vietnam.
There was even a drama when she joined again because he was coming out of the Kia theater she came out, he went down to the car, entered the door and walked to Clark while singing.
The epicenter was brutally killed, which is where one of the 12 Shornets, which was thundering by Mike Villegas, Brian Cua.
According to us, this is a week, he was given protection to the PhilPop.
So, what happens to PBB?
When someone asked for forgiveness from the show of the show, he said he did not want to speak with Fight IT.
There are also a chatter of a possible attack from Kuya Germs' house, she is part of the first Toyota Innova for Humalig) together with Humalig) and JK Laboratory.
Even if he was able to attend the finals night of the PhilPop 2016, her beauty is still surprised because the brutal burial winner was identified as Jojohnn Hayman who was known by Jazz and Wally Acolola.
The First Republic is his partner of Lola Villanueva and Lola Soc.
33-year-old partner of Miguel and Paolo Guico, who was defeated by Bayang Barrios and Campie Chua, together with The Legal Wife.
The Special Action's People's Choice is also taking care of Soc's Lapian ng Masang Pilipino at the winning role of Guico twins.
Bela Padilla is the host of the PhilPop, with the teenage boy, Sam YG, Tony Velasquez and Salas.
This is a good upbringing by Bela Padilla which is made by Francis Faulve, but hopefully he prepared for the host of a person like this.
It is better to read that Bela Padilla is okay, but she is okay, but she is not lacking in the energy that he is dependent on the clubs.
And in their union with Sam YG, she has an apology of Bela Padilla's request.
"That is what Chance is going to show that no matter how he is at the Smart of you, but in the time of the time, he cannot answer the simple question of your bothers you.
Even if I felt sorry and prosperous line of Sam, Bela Padilla was not able to feel pity, so it seems that he does not have a transportation.
It would have been better if they will be able to watch out if Bela Padilla's name is to be a virgin.
As his wife, to be the host of a night, it is hoping that Bela Padilla was able to pull the three boys if he knows how to undergo or to greet them after their fight.
It would have been not only for the things that he will wear if Bela Padilla became a hero but, especially to his own skills as well as she knows about his lack of duster. "
In the hness in Her, he has encountered several times with his movie Camp Sawi because "the PhilPop Single Entry Approach where the band of Kathleen, Hanglement, the film of Bela Padilla in August 24, was held in August 24.
.
The song has just made an agreement but it has a former and strong appeal to it.
For the 12 cherness of the year-old song, this is the type of songs that will hit on the radio and even the masses, you will be together!
