"

Durian Shake by Edith R. Regalite.

She is known by her nickname "Nonoy" not only here in Davao City but also in the nearby regions and in the entire Philippines.
Most do not know that his real name is Manuel, who knows that he is a simple man, Nonoy.
He was former Second district Representative Manuel "Nonoy" Garcia who served as a public official even during the time of the regime of former President Ferdinand Marcos until he died and was not able to return to Congress until July 31 in Cardinal Santos Hospital in Mandaluyong at the age of 82.
Nonoy passed away without any good memories and things that became part of what Davao City was left behind.
Unknown to the knowledge of many, Nonoy was first elected as Davao City Councilor last 1967, Asqueia was first elected as Davao City councilor in 1984, and congressman in the Philippine Congress in 1992, 1995.
He / she was also Deputy Justice Secretary Delfin Lorenzana last 1985.

But his public official also built a lot of important projects in Davao City with a lot of important projects in Davao City together with P4.9 billion worth of construction of the Davao International Airport; and the two bridges connected in 2nd Avenue in the city appropriate.
Nonoy is also the one trying hard to have a proper way and even the entry of Mount and Buhangin, which is formerly hard to reach.
Nonoy was also the one who worked in the construction of the SSS building in JP Rizal Avenue and in the construction of Boy Scout building in Davao City.
Nonoy was one of those who were supporters of the Philippine Eagle Foundation, and became a big part of the non-ranked leader of the non-Illegal Drugs program.
Nonoy was also one of those who led the burial of Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines-Middle East Gatid, Area (Humalig)) last Saturday.
After all, Nonoy was the one trying hard to have a direct line between Davao City and Manado City in East Indonesia that brought more than 100 businessmen here.
Nonoy was also one of the three "godfather" who offered Mayor Rodrigo Duterte to enter politics with more than 20 years ago.
.
Thank you very much!
