The Baclayon was the one who lived last Easter Sunday or got mad at the MPD?

Postanes and his mind.
On April 7, 2015.

The treacherous ways of Jesus Christ's life last Sunday or on this day will be bigger than the call of Easter Sunday.
Wait, it seems like this is chaotic and it means that Christ is not only the one who lived but also the treacherous and sold of Christ for the amount of 30 pieces of color?
Is this news or a speculation just like that?
No, it is not true that the physical abuse inflicted by Christ was not true, but he lived with the sale of Christ, but he lived with many times in the character of many people after they experienced selling of them by their acquaintance or close to them.
This Christmas day, it is saddening that the news went with Easter Sunday is sad, "the treacherous."
The former President of the National Press Club, Jerry Yap, now is the chairman of the National Police District (MPD) Terminal 3 this Sunday, by the warrant of arrest released by the Manila Regional Trial Court because of libel charges.
We respect the action of the court against Yap, what's worse in the arrest of the former President of NPC), the former president of NPC) can be said that it is contrary to the PNP and various groups of journalists.
Rowena Guanzon, Spokesperson of the National Union of JRRMC), the said agreement signed by the PNP, NUJP, NPC, Kapisanan ng mga Brodkaster ng Pilipinas and the Philippine Press Institute.
In the statement of Chairperson Rowena, of the National Union of JSF, chief of the Philippines (NUJP), he said: "Session Road, the PNP), which was the legal will be held by the legal system and harassment from the legal system and harassment from the legal system and harassment from the legal system and harassment.
We probably do not need to explain the agreement and instead, it is clear that the agreement with what happened to Yap is clear.
Aside from being verified, this is one of the attack for the freedom of journalists last weekend and Sunday to arrest Yap.
Yap is the former president of NPC, that means, if this happens to Yap, it is likely that this will happen to all journalists.
"Whatever it is, this is not one of the things that we want to go the arrest of Yap but the" tanim-bala ""
When Yap arrested, he almost had an agreement in the airplane together with his children, including a vacation in the country Japan, yes, that he was arrested and a Sunday to not post bail.
The question is, what if the one who arrested said that the one who arrested him will arrive that is why he was arrested in NAIA, that is why he was arrested in NAIA that's why there's only one thing that Yap goes out of the country with Yap with his children.
OPS, wait, there might be nothing that happens, however, if it can be said that the INTEL-MPD is really good, maybe if the day is really good for him, it seems that the day of fighting for him is wrong, it looks like this is happening in the agreement.
Wait, Yap, the owner of the town (HATAW) recently released a heated argument caught by our kidnapper, Bong ang in relation to the failures of the MPD.
Is it possible that this is one of the reasons for the WPD for revenge?
Whatever it is, the NPC is supposed to act on the incident that Yap is also the former president of NPC or a journalist.
Sir Joel Egco, our courageous president now of NPC, Hala, sir, press press will be under the attack.
