Narco-Calaguas BS Aquino III will be recorded dead! By Betchai arena, Boyet JAG co, September 26, 2016.
It reached more than 50 million or showbiz personalities who were included in the new drug list which was held today by President Rodrigo Duterte.
This was revealed by the former Volunteers Organization (Izzy Canillo) chairman and to Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) chairman Martin Diangco in a press conference in Quezon City.
Dialogue, most of the more than 50 years, are all drug pushers and 10 here are the drug pushers or drug pushers in spite of the revelation, Dimatulak, to name those who have already undergone rehabilitation tests.
National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO) director Chief Supt. Oscar Albayalde earlier stated that it is already holding him and by President Rodrigo Duterte on the list of cases related to illegal drugs but their investigation is still ongoing.
Albayalde stated that the said list of narco-Kidnapping Group is all from the information given by some who were arrested in the illegal drug trade.
Meanwhile, the Presidential Communications Office (NPC) has to investigate the Philippine National Police (PNP) to investigate the said list of those who are involved in drug trade.
"Yes, let us find out from the Philippine National Police. That is also what I heard in the Philippine National Police. That is what I have heard in the Philippine National Police.
The secretary also clarified that he has no information that President Rodrigo Duterte is holding a list of famous personalities in showbiz who are involved in pushing illegal drugs.
"I have no direct knowledge in saying that there is a said list of people involved in illegal drugs," according to the secretary.

The new list was made several times by President Duterte for some senators and his visit to the military camp but the public is not the same.
In the first time that the President expressed, it reached 150 people, which included the judge, congressmen, and local officials of the government.
