ABS-oligarchy dominates the industry of insurance.
On September 12, 2016 last 2013, the bill that aims to amend the 38-year-law enforcers is fully implemented as the preparation for the suspension of the member of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) that today President Rodrigo Duterte is the chairman.
There are many reforms that were brought to the new Insurance Corporation, including the crash site of the bank and company of the bank and company of an insurance that makes its insurance for its insurance.
In different words, it is in the hands of a few rich families who are owners of the banks, as an alleged owner of the banks, and this is the reason why they can pay the insurance for their clients to pay their client especially those hundred million pesos or more than 100 pesos.
There is no doubt that the industry for an insurance would be strengthened even if they have forgotten to give attention to the client for its insurance which is based on the experience they are crying and saved.
This is what happened to the steel Corporation of the Philippines (SCP) that despite having its insurance for nine companies, the two fire that occurred in the plant in Balayan, Batangas last 2008 and 2009.
The SIA will have a contract with two groups of insurgency and both do not want to pay the former has a contract on July 25, 2007, and Oriental Mindoro Corporation (40 percent; and Eisma), Incorporated - 5 percent, and Eroela, Incorporated - 5%.
The second group is the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office - 29.5 percent; Mapait na IOS) - 26 percent; Standard Insurance Corporation) - 12 percent; and New India, Co, 18 percent, and New India.
On the second group, only the Standard Lunch Program of INC) is the one who paid the amount of more than 5 million dollars which is equivalent to 12 percent of its contract in SCP.
The SCP tried to ask for help from the Commission on Elections) headed by Atty. Emmanuel Hospital.

This is for some years but a few years passed and he has not been able to decide on the two complaints filed by Skakel and two groups of insurers who does not want to pay.

To my knowledge, Dentic of the Philippine Life Association of PLIA) has 33 members of the insurance so that it is not surprising why it is not surprising why it is being implemented by the Commission on Human Rights.
Dentice also supported by the Philippine Amusement and Realty Corporation (Putatan) organization with the 78 of its insurance which is why the suspicion that the IC and its insurance is getting stronger, which is why there is nothing happening in the complaint of SCP.
President Duterte is angry with the oligarchy that for a long time, in our country, because the biggest businesses that have a direct relation to the lives of Filipinos like electricity, telephone, water, internet and mass media are in their hands.
Maybe it is also time for the President to look at the new oligarchy in the industry for an insurance so they know that they are known for the frequent fighting for their client such as gold Corporation of the Philippines.
