Just a simple life and full fight of Benito and Wilma Tiamzon.

Macaravers, at the end of the lower post of Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria last April 24, 1969 until Rizal High School, Pasig. Salamzon, Pasig High School and Wilma Tiamzon, free all political agenda.
They became the content of the news, and every time their arrest was used, this is a big story for the attempt to be proud of the military and the state of the end to them.
Together with this are the gossips that they distribute to destroy their personality and thinking that their mother will not be destroyed but many are asking why they are the ones asking?
Young!
They are Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria: The two to be identified as the two of the leaders in the longest movement, particularly in the entire Asia or the whole world, because of their service to the masses, because of their service the revolution.
From the poor family of four siblings Benito managed to become a family of four siblings from the industry of shoes in Marikina, according to their relatives, Benito was naturally smart, which is why he became a scholar of Rizal High School and graduated as a scholar of Rizal High School.
Wilma Matas, from his family, compared to Benito.
Both of them entered the University of the Philippines (UP) as a scholar of that time, all the end when there was a series of electric post in a public utility vehicle, Benito was not able to enter the said university who managed to go to UP.
The last part of the '"60 days ago, there was a widespread damage in the whole country, on the second term of the forehead of Pres. Ferdinand Marcos, the national under democratic movement, inside and outside of UP.
Benito and Wilma Matas who was immediately joined in the organization of the Sangguniang Kabataan (SDK), a militant organization of the youth, and active to join the First writ of habeas corpus to suspend the writ of habeas corpus and declared Martial Law on September 21, 1972.
Even before they were able to act on it, including Wilma and Benito was one of the hundreds of students and other sectors that built UP Diliman.
Along with the bark.
"The fight against the increase of oil and gasoline was intense during the first time of the national group of the driver, it was also seen on the appearance of the national and declaration of the law," Joweelyn Jumilla, member of SDK in Kaklase) and a member of the First Class Zuzurueggi Street.
"The couple Tiamzon is with the barbells as well as their students, driver and poor people from the community who joined the barracks," he said, but even if they were not as the leader in Diliman, he said that their contribution in the bark was not surrender.
The two became active in protests and protest of the workers in the story of Jimmy who is also a member of SDK in Marikina, who was also a member of SDK in Marikina who was said to be a good and good kisser.

From UP, Tatsuya Nakamura, Rizal, who was considered by the workers, "I was with him in SDK," Jimmy said that she is still having a huge respect and admiration for Wilma DDK, Jimmy said that she is going to join the union and the group of activists in Rizal.
"He is pointing out what he is pointing at, which is why she is pointing his self-off from the condition of the ones that he / she says," Jimmy said, she told her to give a study to the workers and activists.
Even if in the past I have not seen any vices, Wilma Bu" since I met him and in all times that I have been with her, she is just living the simple life and honest service to the people, "Jimmy said.
"I did not see him with luxury in life but he is still living in the hness room," he added.
In the streets.
Later on they went to the countryside, with the ranks of farmers, "many responded to the call to take the highest level of struggle, along with them and wife there," Joji Mendoza said.
Since then, their awareness is broken on the participation of the life and fighting of the masses and the deeper their knowledge about the principle of the Saligang Batas, even now that they are old, their stand is not fading.
Some of the colleagues of the couple Tiamzon has made the suspicion that the two of diligence in use of work, to sacrifice the personal growth of the country.
"It was a good and quiet for him," Mon Ramirez, who was a member of the organization of the country, he was able to be accompanied by a couple in Fort Bonifacio last 1974.
"It is a low key to Benny," he said.
With the stories inside Inocencio Street, Benito was known to have been separated from his room, but we were together in the town hall, but we were together in the community hall, along with the call of SDilawan, who went to the community and factory to give him anymore.
"They are submerged in the masses before," he said.
Led to jail.
Mon also said that Benito was made to undergo autopsy because of her innate intelligence and dealing with them.
"RTECAYETANO (now said columnist, former spokesperson of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, was replaced by the camp of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and we did not want him to go out of the column of Tigum that's why he was being asked by Benito.
"What I know is for him to go straight and Wilma Buyagan, not in Crame, we just let the couple as Tiger," said Mon.
He added that when he was freed, there was a time when he was able to join again with other activities inside the movement, but before he was free, he was transferred to Irisan, especially his character, especially his personality, especially his personality, especially his personality.
Dedication.
Pilo (not real name) is one of the colleagues of the couple as driver after he was freed from the prison.

"They are like parents - all of them are looking for their companions at the late hours of night, he said that the two have been working with him for a long time, and he was also included in 1989.
"Benny was not able to catch him before.
Pilo said, their way of living in UG house is simple, they are only eating the same food, and often, vegetables have a healthy food, "he said, they are also not seen with discrimination for their other companions.
"They are thoughtful with your companions because we feel that their treatment of us is not a driver or member of us, we felt that they are ready to risk their lives for us," Pilo said.
Pilo also related the shouting of the couple in the task, even if she is sick, he still continues to use him, but when he worked, he continued to be distracted.
Even the relatives of the couple outside the UG house, have a big faith and respect for the couple Tiamzon.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines said that his name does not want to be identified, Benito was silent but also sharp. "
"In some parts that I have been with him, he is just quiet in listening to the debate and discussion, but it is time to talk, just a simple commentary, straight to the point, and as if you want to take every word coming from exactly, he said.
He added that no matter what is difficult and coming in the secluded area of the main area of the countryside, Wilma Matas who was forcefully coming out despite her illness.

Calm.
According to Randrino in the National Democratic Front of the Philippines on the peace talks, "in spite of the age of them, you will see the shouting, determination of the two companions, you will see the shouting of the revolution."
According to him, the husband and wife were really confused, he is calm to talk to him, even in a gathering, she is not raising the voice, Wilma Matas who is not raising his voice in spite of the hardship and sacrifice.
"They are strict with the principle of principle, and respect, and they will be swayed by that kind of companions, he said.
Many of those who have listened to the couple Tiamzon, said to be the model of the married couple, said by Pilo, "it is a big honor for them to know them and be with the task to free the people."
It appears that their fight will not end even if they are in jail in the interview of Filipino Weeker, they said the following:
"It did not reach our mind the retirement of the revolution. We could leave a bigger responsibility for the younger and more important life, but we do not want to be a part of life, but what's important is to live in accordance to the nosy perspective and resolve until the last moment."
