The factory in the position should be protected from the price of petroleum, two ways, like the price of petroleum, they will be selling Quezon City around four o'clock in the morning, why are they going to be able to enter Quezon City at the beginning, that they will be allowed to enter, that is why they will be able to enter.
We are our fellow countrymen in the barangay who are still beautiful than you.
Okay.
Are you rushing in where you are going.
I will just go back to you early and we will be with you so you really want to be able to inherit the pork barrel Cabanza.
For this, the government is going home for a long time by the government, if you are president, I will leave there, we will go to all of us in the celebration of Transport Corporation.
In my side, you are with each other.
You are immediately included in your face that is why it seems that the fare is not doing something, even just a simple call that we call you, or even if the government is already dead, you will get stronger when the time you are with you there.
Which was given by our fellowmen, is it a way to make it free.
In the call center on this way, when we are doing it, especially in the governance, we are doing the price of the house of a friend, that's why I am looking at past six-years of your own bait yesterday, why are you not included in there, your parents are together.
The police needs a positive workers later, he is stupid that there will be money to buy food to the very full of ten million pesos, we want to be held up to four million pesos, and what we want to be held up to four million pesos in your opinion is that there will be something that can stop the fare.
He will be filed in a case but there is no fare for the workers who want us to live there.
It's a big honor that the time passes and the time passes by.
We think it is fixed but we should trust food.
I do not have a job yes, then we say that I was able to go down, that's why we were able to go down, that's why that's what their problem was, who can help but in Marikina, the workers should also help but in Marikina.
You are on the line of a while we eat at the Office Secretary for the future morning of you.
Yes, before I am a Catholic in our videos, this is the beauty of the morning.
Yes, you are also the same?
He / she had a t-shirt he / she wakes up in-foot; he / she was able to wake up; the fare is not for fare.
Yes, your self is complicated.
In the past, they have been paying for a long time for a long time.
That we want to help the Church operators, we are the only ones who ride the water.
Everything is used to prostitution because we brought all the heat here, we saw.
Covetous, deport; and not an official are easy.
Yes, it's good for those who are close to those close to the clubs; we are doing all their only consolation, the talk of the shirt that you have been saying that you are annoying.
Because, where are we doing?
This does not continue to continue the drivers and then the operators with this.
I told him that Ethel's salary, on how you pay her husband to enter.
Here.
Okay.
The secretary is looking for this kind of drinking, that is why there is a lot of water that they need to live with many water so that what they need to say to them is not the government in the decision.
They eat.
We have the rights of our countrymen who did not have the price of the night coming from it.
What the government can do is the payment of oil price, nothing will happen to the government that is old but what the government is hospitalized for so not?
How much should we do?
Then, we also say that we look at the second six-six months.
!
Okay.
"We are anxious; we are only able to answer to the Olongapo people that you will get married here in the exam, so we should also ask him to go straight at the exam, so we should also ask her to go straight and go straight to what we think is giving the role in the height of the price of oil.
There is a point where there is life.
