
The Philippines will be dragged to the competing military in Korean Peninsula because of the presence of US for rinsing.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 3, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program in the US, Philippines - a military competing in Korean national explanation for CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) warned that the always presence of the warship of the US and the American troops in the Philippines can be taken off by the US against the citizens and the government troops that was led by the US government which is headed by the US in the territory of the Philippines.

Whatever it is, the PKP has taken off the KP, that the citizens, to stop the rights of the country, including the rights of the country, including the rights of the country to improve the newspaper, rocket and air for the advancement of the economy.

In the past few weeks, DPRK creates a huge threat after the US filed a resolution of the two nuclear-Illegal Drugs-2 system which shows the forces of Korean peninsula as a show of forces against North Korea.

Last March 30, DPRK already declared the "status of the war on South Korea after finishing the agreement of ceasefire, 1953, and after this was the cutting of the lines of communication.

"It was criticized by the Filipino people and the revolutionary movement of the Spanish US Embassy in double the tension in Korean peninsula which can be exposed by the tension in the Korean peninsula which by the force of the military near DPRK," said the KP.

"In the use of the Philippines as one of those who will be released by the military and will go to the Asia-Pacific, the US made the US to use the US to use the Philippines as bait for the Philippines as bait by the US."

Yesterday, the military forces of the US in Korean peninsula is now deployed in a new warship of Korean peninsula.

There are almost 30,000 American soldiers in South Korea who patronize the unexpected 20 based on the military and facilities in the US while the US will try the US to suspend the military troop in Japan which is currently busy with the military troop in the US Pacific Command.
