
It is the KP that Aquino should release a dialogue in ceasefire, if not?

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 27, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) insisted that the Marcos regime should release an immediate order for the passport extension of his first declaration of the ceasefire, and for the special representative of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
The temporary ceasefire, which hit martial law from December 20 to January 15 to gather the peace talks on January 18, and it was proven by the peace talks on January 18, and it was proven by Ambassador Tzipi Lund h, a special followers of the Royalty Lund h in the peace talks with the NDFP-United Nations.

The National Bureau of PKP has immediately released an order in the said time on December 5 to January 3 to all the masses, especially those who are watching the real efforts of the Bagong Hagdan in Mindanao to give way to the armed forces of the New Hagdan in the islands of the Bagong Hagdan in the islands of the Bagong Hagdan in Mindanao until January 15.

"More than a week has passed and Aquino, as the principal of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, has not yet released a dialogue in the ceasefire, that will take the same declaration of martial law from December 16 to January 2," said the KP.

"The loyalty of Aquino is becoming a serious issue on the peace talks that he did not hesitate to release the unilateral ceasefire, according to the corresponding declaration of the ceasefire, it is possible that he will not release a corresponding declaration of the ceasefire, it is possible that he will file a corresponding declaration of the ceasefire, which is possible to have a corresponding declaration of his order to the unilateral ceasefire."

"The failure of the regime was made worse to address the clear declaration of the ceasefire with the PKP, that the PKP has expressed their own order in the ceasefire, Quezon by the elements of 767 IB, Quezon by the elements of 700,000 IB, Quezon by the elements of the Bugnay, the victims of the Bugnay, the victims.

It was also mentioned by the KP, it was reported to have been arrested for Felicisima Chappz last December 25, Negros Oriental.

"In spite of the declaration of the ceasefire, the AFP is still investigating the implementation of the operations against illegal drugs and order to conduct the armed presence of the community in order to conduct the members of the AFP and ordered the citizens to conduct operations in the Oplan Galugad conducted by the AFP).
