Rails (this) of power: Politics and Kultura at Daang Matuwid.

Mary Joy T.

Noise of the train.
It seems that there is a root of life if the train will be treated because it is serving as a entment of far places in the country, the trade, and communication of Filipinos.
The early trains are able to get the attention of the businessmen and politicians, that's why it passed through a few series of change but this has not only served as an alternative but it became an instrument for the economy and politicians who wish.
From the invention of Babes, Persist, and Asutilla, "
It can be seen in the progress of time, and in the continuous change of transportation in the history, it seems that is focused on a dominant power of the rich.
In the Philippines, the train of colorums in Manila-Dagupan reported the first train in the country which was built on 1891 after the Hiwatig and Public Works of the Philippines ordered to make a plan on the road in Luzon.
In the record of the Philippine National Railways (PNR), 120 years have passed by the train in the country, this was followed by the construction of the line of Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Manila Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Manila Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Manila Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Manila Light Rail Transit (LRT) and Metro Manila Light Rail Transit (MRT).
Aside from being main of transportation, the train in the time of the Spanish-Spaniards, Japanese and the Americans have a mark of a historical "revolution.
It is connected to politics and economists that are spreading the culture of throwing rice to the citizens as if the Filipinos are tied up in the power of the hours, with the scheduled time of work in factories and office in exchange for sure income.
For example, in LRT or MRT, two to three minutes of waiting for the passing of passengers, five minutes on the arrival of the next train, and ten minutes or more than ten minutes or more than the trip from the stations.
As well as the opening of early and opening of train, the train will be caught in times when there are many passengers who will enter or going home from work.
Under major hours, I am sure to be strict and violent in writing to the workers within eight hours, in exchange for its salary which is usually not enough to live a decent family.
Rules inside the train.
Meanwhile, aside from being put under the power of time, capitalist system of the train will go through the bitter truth to the poor and rich in society.
For the poor, the price of the ticket and space of the train is called "Atong" while the First Republic is called "a bed sheet, an example, the Bicol Express, one line of PNR from Manila up to Naga, where the executive assistant has reached up to 100,000 pesos.
Aside from the real slave to the passengers at the time, there is also the rules of the train that are on the movement of the train, who are interested or insisted on their situation: Separation with women and men, and the author as well for the most part of the train for those pregnant.
Michel-cajada, the issue of regulations which are implemented based on the interest of the leaders of the government, capitalists have, and the Lord of the Lord.
Together with the huge progress of the train is the damage brought by the LRT-7 from SM North to Bulacan which will be the reason for the forcefully asked of poor Filipinos in their home.
Even in the university of the Philippines in Diliman, the construction of the train will also start, this is allegedly a symbol of progress while the important issues of students like tuition and low budget for education will still be left.
The issue on the country has not yet finished, there is still a number of fare increase in the train because it is said that the government is being paid by the government for every passenger and in relation to this the government is pushing the plan of giving way of operation by the train in the private company.
This is due to all the intensified program of President Benigno Aquino who is a public servant (PPP) where the government is with the private companies in construction of infrastructures like train, buildings and other parts of the society's society.
He fixed the space.
Usually in the cities that were built in the cities where the trade was placed in the center where the trade was called "Ninoy Aquino City" Robert Reed, "the Batavia," this is where the train near the malls and big markets may be seen.
In the city this change is happening because it can be found out that the population in a "modern in life can be found, this is also not separated from the primary issues of society - poverty, discrimination, violence and many others.
Manila is currently the capital of the Philippines because here is the center of different kinds of trade, work and livelihood in the country, while there is only one train in instruments used in Manila to complete the system of trade.
Huge tarpaulins will be met by the passengers who are going to the stations.
Upon entering the actual train, there are several small pictures of the products, on the side of the wall, on the side of the wall, on the side of the wall, it seems that the model of the huge scene from the train, it seems that the model of the large size of the huge wave-Bench, Pinky Webb is laid down.
Even the length of the train Globe Awards is covered with an announcement of the train tracks, every space of the train is important because it seems that this is not enough for the government to implement and increase the rules of capitalists have.
She would just go back to "Tuwid na Daan"
On the other hand, Filipinos will not be defeated by the continuous abuse and violence that seems to be implemented in society, along with the violent fare increase in the train and the privatization of different protests done by the citizens.
The "selfies" will come out from the social gatherings, "taking their own picture in any place - using the rainy season when Strike was released," we was impressed by the members of the MRT and LRT, and continued fighting against the anomalous group similar to the rails of the citizens (railway).
In the total operation of the train in the country, those who are full of progress will be seen, those who are always dependent on the country as well as their instruments in order to earn a lot to avoid passing through the straight path that should have been allowed by the train tracks.
