
"The government of the Philippines, lying in the case of Mary Jane"

By PO 1 liter of April 25, 2015.

Migrante International was said to protest in front of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the sake of the life of Mary Jane Veloso's life and the Aquino administration was discovered by the lawyers of Mary Jane Veloso in their arrival in Indonesia to help the case.

Contrary to what the government of the Philippines is saying that they are doing everything for Mary Jane, it's clear that what did the case of Mary Jane was clear, according to the Philippine National and team led by Edralin Obol ia and Minnie Lopez, the law of Mary Jane from the National Union of People's lawyers (NUPL).

According to the reports of the took place, the government of Indonesia ordered the leadership of Pres. JoWidodo in order to be executed by Mary Jane.

Meanwhile, the government of the Philippines has not yet submitted his appeal to the Second judicial review, last April 24, 2015 at exactly 3: 50 in the afternoon the appeal for the Second judicial review for the case of Mary Jane.

Human rights lawyers are coordinating with his fellow Filipino Indonesian in front of a factory in Jakarta if it was not true that the embassy of the Philippines was also confirmed that it is not true that the embassy of Mary Jane Veloso is not true that it is not true that the embassy called Mary Jane and the embassy who gave the service of R and P.

Before running for the hearing in court, a lawyer of the court, like the Public Assistance Office (PAO) in the Philippines, ordered Mary Jane to surrender.

In the past years, the R and PNoy has already asked help from the Aquino government to investigate the alleged recruiter, and exiled by Mary Jane, even before they submit the petition for judicial review.

It would have been a big deal for their appeal since they were disappointed when the government of the Philippines was disappointed after the Indonesian Supreme Court junked the judicial review of March 25, 2015.

It was only last April 16, 2015 to submit a complaint against Sergio on, with the help of the lawyers of NUPL, all the pro-Laban (PDEA), and the National Bureau of Investigation, Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA), and the National Bureau of Investigation, Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA).

The said architect is still waiting for the present.

It was only last week when the embassy of the Philippines to the R and second decision of the Philippines and second decision on the case of Mary Jane.

Based on the report of PDEA, for the plan to help the submission of the Second World for judicial review, which came from the testimony of Mary Jane after she visited on March 29, 2015, this only last April 23, 2015, this only last April 23, 2015, this was received by the PDEA of the testimony of Mary Jane.

PDEA is allegedly not able to go to the Indonesian as part of this Indonesian as a part of its route, Basti (BGHMC) to prove that compared to the result of their investigation, the Philippine legal team has not yet been able to get the copy of the report.

It is said that what the government of the Philippines is saying is not true that the execution of Mary Jane will not happen again until he is not resolving all the appeal of Saint 9 (a syndicate of drugs in Indonesia where he is trying to cooperate with Mary Jane).

R and PNoy clarified that the execution of the appeal of the Commission on Mary Jane was not an effect to the influential death of Mary Jane, that's why he immediately got the necessary documents from the government of the Philippines to save Mary Jane.

"The truth is that the Aquino government did nothing to do with the case of Mary Jane, that's why they are still working on the brink of death by one of our fellowmen because of the negligence and lack of neglect of the government," according to Jennifer Laude, according to Garry Martinez, Brig. of Amnesty International.

Martinez appealed to all those who are supporters of number NWC-NUCD-Veloso's campaign to hold the Aquino administration responsible for the criminal case of Mary Jane's case in the case of Mary Jane.
