June 12 - ready.

It looks like Malacañang is still trembling with the new forces who are calling the Resign All Soul's, jail by corrupt politicians, Jews as judges.
In the talk of social media, sports and other places of agriculture, it can be said that the Supreme Court is ready to be ready tomorrow June 12, Independence Day, this last meeting, which was made to have been done in two large houses, can be seen and high.
The middle of the scope of corruption is to overthrow the corrupt and abusive leaders of the current regime, the last debate of the current administration has been visible and asking why many activists will suddenly join the decades of the '"70 and" 90 as well as the former activists' camp and other politicians now.
In the feeling of many, it seems that some individuals have had doubts and are also included in fear, that they might be shot in the role of the members of the politicians on this day.
This is what we can say that based on your planned fighting against those opposing corrupt, you should avoid doubting your plans for the people who attended and joined in your meeting.
What is important now is for them to have enough number or many of those who will go to make sure that there will be no trace of gratitude, especially the proper doubt, that the people are going to succeed in the amount of number and believe.
If you will not do that and you will show up to negative reactions or acceptance of those who want to join, it will surely be a failure to remember that the questionable individuals and groups that will be able to make up instead of the sweet fruits, instead of the sweet fruits.
Be united, especially the intrigues and concentration in order to make sure that the action is insufficient in order to succeed after that, to follow choosing who is loyal to the country and movement to fulfill the next steps.
Be united and win the courage of the truth and skill of the organization to not be carried away by individuals or groups who are followers of the politicians.
They should not be allowed to do the time of the fight.
June 12 Coalition, your success is with the strength of the country for your struggle in the Independence Day, I am sure many will cooperate with you.
