It is not a violation of the command of the command-up-up.

Luis Jalandoni.
Pisces, NDFP Needt is our panel.
May 28, 2013.

The kidnapped bus who is a group of the Special Action Force of the Philippine National Police (PNP) of Bagong HRO) yesterday in Allacapan, Cagayan is a legitimate target military based on the national force of the government of the Philippines (GEGA), which is part of the armed forces of the Philippines (GEGA), which is part of the armed forces of the Philippines (GEGA), which is part of the armed forces of the Philippines (GEGA), which is part of the armed forces of the Philippines (GEGA), which is part of the national force of the government of the Philippines (GPhilippine).

It is not a violation of the command of the command of the command of the Putatan, it is a legitimate weapon of the Botchok (equivalent to the armed forces of the Philippine government budget for the national force of the country's territory and the whole country to destroy the citizens.

Which is why, the accusation of the regime of the regime and the Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (OPAPP), which is not any basis, it cannot be carried away from the provisions of the Marcos Gloria Arroyo last November 11, 2009 because it could not be carried away from the provisions of the Marcos Gloria Arroyo last November 11, 2009.

It should not be tried by the panel when GPAPP) should not be picked up by the violent and brutal characteristics of the Aquino administration for the status of the filipino people for the benefit of the big majority of the filipino people for the benefit of the big majority of the filipino masses.

It was released by the Aquino administration to the filipino people that the US Marines who owns the community, civilians, including the children, which result to a lot of violation of human rights and making crimes on Filipino people and human rights in the Philippines and other countries.

The deceptions of the federal panel of GPAPP) is said to have allegedly had a peaceful resolution of the armed conflict with the armed forces and the citizens but to defend themselves, the citizens cannot have a choice but to defend themselves, the citizens, who have no serious damage on the side of the enemy.
