Their love this February - up to the bills of the university.

February: The love for the education in the Philippines is a month of love.
This is the statement of the National Union of Students of the Philippines (Bojo Molina) in the office launched by the Tuburan Network (TMental) in Manila to gather data on the increase of bills in the said place.
Based on their studies, it is expected that the tuition fee is expected to increase and be charged with different places in the country - and the government agencies do not do anything to stop it.
It turns out that the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Elections) said that it did not even investigate on the way the high tuition and height of consultation to students, according to NUJP.
It was also reported that the 280 percent increase in the tuition in the past year in the whole country was recorded to 148 percent, the average increase in National Capital Region.
A alliance between the TMaker is made to monitor the bills in the university and giving information to the agricultural sector that needs to increase the bills.
It is started to gather and launch a consultation to TMabog in the City of Quezon in the university of the Philippines-Diliman, Cebu, Davao and Negros.
The data was started.

In February, it is expected to have a consultation for the increase in tuition because up to February 28 will increase in Commission on Higher Education.
"But what is happening is not a consultation, but only to the students, there will be a increase," according to NUJP.
The rise of 75 percent is the tuition in the University of Santo Tomas in the past ten years, from P71 in 2003 towards P1,249 per unit at present, Mary Jean Lazo was explained by Mary Jean Lazo of the Alliance of the needy.
"There is a point when they will push through with us in the form of development, Special Action Force that is allocated to college, economic growth," according to Lazo.
It is said that the price hike for their guidance and NLEX's toll fee is expected to rise and charge for National Disaster Coordinating Program or NSTP and Respiratory Syndrome or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act and Respiratory Syndrome or ROTC.
"There are bills that are similar to P600 million pesos to 80s, so you are not able to pay anymore because there is no money to pay, and if you are not able to pay immediately, there is a 3.5 percent bank that will be used," according to Lazo.
In Pahiram ng San Juan de Letran, the Center for economic Planning against Bangsamoro will have a plan to increase 7 percent in their tuition, according to Paolo Domingo, public utility officer of Alyasang Makabayan.
"We are because we are used to be used in Letran-Bataan, that's why they are going to increase their income," the Bangsamoro Basic Law is also the reason why we are paying for the elementary building, "according to Domingo.
Around 2,000 pesos, the tuition fee of XT, Malerado, Senator for broadcaskets of alliance with Alyasang Makabayan, according to him, is said to be a loved one that they use in college with their communication.
Up to P5,155 meters wide and 8,100 pesos, 6,000 pesos and 8,100 pesos in the laboratory laboratory, Malerado said, that many students are paying in using facilities in Letran.
According to Temporal University, the tuition in the past year has increased and it is feared that this will be repeated in the next achen-year Year, according to Bong Reyes, the president of student Council.
"Aside from this, we are going to have bills like a seminar survey results as Shield Law, but we are not every kilometer path," said Reyes.
The tuition fee of Reyes is up to P40,000 pesos for the first Holy Week which costs 113 million pesos to P12,000 pesos.
"There are those who are not able to respond because of the high level of bills," others, no longer pay, "according to Reyes.
It burns.
In the Philipines of the Philippines (PUP), the students who are going to study the fund of P505 in their questionable NG Os) because of the father and education that they are studying.
"He did not pass through consultation to the increase of chemotherapy for the medical position, 150 to the medical and 50 pesos for its insurance so we were surprised by all of these bills," said other students from PUP.
Although there is an attempt to remove the amount to remove from PUP such as Kathleen and sports where the administration is not up to 150 every Holy Week, the administration is planning to enumerate it.
Because of this plan, the students are worried that the charge for them will increase and this is also based on the initial information gathered in the council, according to Constantino was made.
Iza also reported, Secretary General of NUJP the National Capital Region, the impending price increase in the Trinity University of Asia and Parking Bureau of the Philippines that both have no date of consultation.
Around 200% of the tuition in the whole system of TUP last year from 50 pesos to 150 is allegedly about 200 percent.
Another problem of TUP reached the payment of candidate's toll fee for those who will run to the council because the university has no fund for it, according to the mind.
Higher Education, Nogu.3.
The TMental also explained the release of Memorandum Number 3, which aims to be the guidance of the university in the increase of bills.
According to TMilan, along with the harassment and chemicals released and different from Higher Education or No.13, they are using the jurisdiction because it has only been the jurisdiction of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that's according to TMilan.
"But based on Higher Education or Number 3, it is possible that the administration is strong so that the administration will increase their tuition in the First Division, but we still need to address it," according to Isnain, general secretary of Sitio SP-National Police.
The problem is, according to Baguiran, the policy of the Aquino administration is to gather funds to the State Universities (Colleges.
This is said to be the reason why there was a derailing of the university such as the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.
"There is also a need to representatives of students from the councils, which are not more than 10 if there are pieces of consultation, it should be known by the students to notice that it will be noticed that up to 15 days before the consultation," says Limited.
In addition to this, the students are said to have the right to ask for financial help to know where the additional bills are going to each other when there is a huge amount.
It is also possible that the students can also have their own strategy if they have the ability to steal the students in the increase of tuition fee.
"If the consultation will not push through, there is also no need to increase in line and other bills," according to Baguilat.
The filing of complaints about 30 minutes after consultation.
"There is a need to protect the fight because it is only February to serve as a celebration of the increase and March to April the approval of these.
Taking advantage of support.
City Councilor Pinggoy Bagatsing is united in the implementation of TMilan, Councilor Bagatsing and City Ordinance Division, the prohibition of "no permit," of the supreme court. "
This is also one of the suspension of the Saligang Batas-list in the legislative chamber that Senator Manuel Villar has its own version in the Senate.
Bagatsing has already passed a resolution to push the legislative chamber to investigate the bills such as development of NLEX's toll fee, toll fee and other bills in a private university in Manila.
"Thank you, thank you, thank you for you, thank you for this," according to Bagatsing.
The Sangguniang Kabataan in the Legislative Chamber is pushing the legislative chamber to give a limit to the increase of oil.
The goal of Tuburan Moros, to stop the increase of bills in the university which pushed for the time the country has passed through severe calamity, and severe crisis in economy.
"If the school station in the Legislative Chamber wants to push through, it should not push through this law, it should be better for us to make noise and pass through to fulfill them and pass," according to Baguiran.
