With PNoy: Business is the water.

From the brows, helping is given, up to the faucet on each house - in simpler terms, the entire service of water: This is what the Aquino administration wants to control to a private sector.
If the Senate will be passed by Senator Edgardo Angara, and the House Bill 3297 and Davao City Representative Karlo Nograles, the service of the water from Senlo Nograles, this is open to the local and foreign contacts to earn money.
Of course, the employees of various local water in the entire country were against this last June 18, together they protested in different parts of the country to express the belief of the country the water, and this could not be made into a business.
PPP in the service of the water.

President Aquino first set the proposal to join again the proposal to join the whole country in the first meeting of Legislative Chamber Development Authority (Nac) last February 2011.
From here, the proposed law of Angara, in the Senate, and Quimbo, and Nograles in the legislative chamber, the proposed laws are the reason why there are still many Filipinos who have no liability in clean water, and will be given to them again if the private sector to participate in it will be guarded.
"Achuces, which will be held for a long time, became a person who is on top of the Intertropical Convergence Zone in the operation of service Development Assistance Fund," said Nograles, when the proposed law with Quimbo, was submitted.
But for the Water Security System (SEAG), the alliance between employees of the water and local water pipes, it has proven that an answer to the private sector is proven to be given to the citizens of this service.
According to them, the implementation of the water supply in Manila last 1997 is proven that the basis of the proposed law in Metro Manila Water (BTAC) in the East Manila Water (equivalent to Ayala) in the territory of Manila Water) and 449 percent) in the jurisdiction of the Manila Water) and 449 percent) in the services of the Manila Water) and 449 percent.
"While the services of Maynilad is not able to have a 24 / 7 degree that happened last 2010, there is a lot of water that happened last 2010, which needed to be the rationing of water in many places of the same company," said Water Company, of the position of the same company, according to 35.97 and HB 5097.
Even more than the poor, the water service, according to them, they said.
It is the problem of the privatization of it.

The two proposed law wants to give incentives and investments of the private sector (local and Army or foreigners), including the ten-year tax holiday (they do not need to pay taxes when there is a special compensation and equipment, and many others.
In the management of the water service, it wants to be estimated to be 638797 and HB 508, instead of spreading the water services in different countries like what is stated in the Presidential Dec.198 in the year 1973 that will be implemented under one "Water Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency."
This only means, according to Ramir Corawon, general secretary of San Pablo City Water District, snacks, a local water level, which means the work of 30,000 employees (public service) in the whole country, "he said.
There is a basis for their worry, because the case in Metropolitan Water and Sebuage System (MWu) is also wide after the privatization of the water in Manila last 1997.
Corawon said that it is still the best for the government to give water to the citizens, he said, that the government should give public service such as July 28, 2010, with the rights of the citizens to undergo clean water.
The wish of Water, the government must allocate enough funds to support the local water service to destroy their operation.
He is the movement of big businessmen.
Even before the proposed law regarding the implementation of the water supply is implemented, big businessmen are slowly allowed to enter this service.
Corawon, in 2007, the government has given a huge water payment from Cabuyao, Laguna which made a good water payment from Cabuyao, Laguna which is so strong water payment because it is strong and fresh, and almost not running out of water, "he said.
The Manila Water is the 25-year-quick procession for the distribution of water not only in Cabuyao, but in Sta. Rosa City and Binigan, which is under its implementation, which is under the 70 percent of Laguna Water Water Company which consists of water in the said areas.
Through a signal number 797 and HB) -Aklan, the Aquino administration wants to widen the Public-Private (PPP) in the service of the water, not only the faucet on each house, not only the faucet on each house, not only the source of water level.
The Water Station is decided to fight this. "The water is life of human rights that is also a human rights, but the government cannot treat them as a business," said by Water.
