Frankly said that it is an additional protection to the pet dog being endorsed by Trillanes.
By Ellen Toribio, August 29, 2016 with the fighting against corruption, those who have known to speak about bad deeds are important.
Who can be the lower judge? Of course, "those who are part of racket is the reason why he knows the details about the former governor of Ilocos Sur (now, Manila Mayor Joseph" Erap "Estrada about jueteng, which is why his testimony is strong.
Similar to Rodolfo "Jun" Lobo Jr., the primary witness in the Middle East-ZTE.
They are not the only ones in danger and also their families.
There are a lot of ways to resolve the lower part that happened to Jun Loiz City but he was charged and he is now being charged to imprisonment.
Who wants to save for something that is happening and there is no help from the government, if there is no evidence, those who are spreading fear in our society will not be charged with, or if they are charged, there is a weak case and Madi.
That is why Senator Antonio Trillanes IV ordered the proposal (Senate Bill No.

290) the additional benefit and protection for those who received the lower post to pull the lower ranks of the lower post and join the government's campaign against corruption and other illegal activities.
"A few laws have passed, which aims to push through and testify but these laws are not enough to answer their needs as giving appropriate incentives and protection to them, in exchange of danger they are facing," Trillanes said.
Under the SBRC 290, Trillanes wants to answer the needs of those who gave them enough payment for their daily needs, housing and personal security, they will also receive enough protection from the employers, company or corporation who will refuse to their office for the reason that they can be taken from their office.

All the agencies of the government will also tell their office the important provisions of this law, including the rights and protection of the distress.
"There are many proposals that the lower part that they will go through with different danger they will go through, including the threats of their security that sometimes becomes the cause of the destruction of their future," Trillanes said, to encourage more to talk and join the campaign against corruption.
