Full of Spratch was lurking.

To those following my column here in Remate, they will surely remember that I wrote the potential of the Spratly Islands as the next point or use the fight because of the misunderstanding of the countries that are spreading here.
Even before, I reminded our government officials and military officials to prepare for the severe tension between China and other countries that are spreading there.
With the current show-up force of China in the Scarborough Shoal, it looks like what we are calling the Panatag Shoal is what I can say that it is possible that the issue that will possibly become the cause of the war on the Spratly Islands is true.
While we are insisting on the Scarborough Shoal because it is closer to our territory it is a strong resolve of the Chinese, that is why they are calling the Judiciary as well because they are the first discovered by the said place.
Maybe many will be surprised why the islands of Spratch was not fighting back while we do not have any benefit from there and most of them are submerged in water when the High School comes.
The answer is, it's because it's a big belief that it is a big belief that it is a big belief that aside from the natural resources of the oil and petroleum which costs P125 billion pesos.
And because the oil companies are already preparing from the countries like Saudi Arabia and Russia, it is not surprising that the Chinese are becoming aggressive now to find a new destination of the said product.
And this is the primary reason why they are using their force to scare the other countries which are part of the said place.
What is worse, the Spratings was also the primary route of the ships that travel and food in different countries.
That is why it is not surprising why China wants to make the entire Spratings coming in the end that will be the reason for the start of war which will surely be held.
And because that is what is needed for the Philippines to be prepared for because it will surely come if not now, in the next year.
We should not be ashamed because there is a saying that the time of peace is the best time to prepare for the war. "
