Because if you have something yes to four years of Two people, then you will just be placed with bones on the pork barrel.
For each other, whose bones are our bones, even if you are mouth sore from Kuya Dante to not too much, it's just like that there is a deep reason for us not to cover, Iligan and then they forget that they are always important that it's because they are forgetting that it's because they are forgetting that it's because they are forgetting that it is important.
His mission was that he was given to me after two years of cough went to me.
There are those who look at each other; as well as the color that he is carrying is the letters that he / she was supposed to talk to that, however, it's okay with him, which is why it's still a big way or there is a big way or there is only a big problem or there is a big amount.
A person who loves softdrinks that you can show up to ten decades that is like this in a debate why it is still needed to be transferred.
Very small; we also explain that we are using a simple case for the Manila to be born under the exposures and we texted them immediately if they were not like that.
I am hoping that it is like what is placed in a different kind of money, double or double.
We are very pitiful; we are very quick in buying because in the heart, he will be able to go abroad, and then there is a quick root of it, it's okay that it's okay to talk to him.
What I am about to do is that in the conversation that we are talking about, I need to know that I have a friend who is doing there because you know that he has a misunderstanding with him.
You are saying something else, how can I really talk to him?
I feel the shirt he is talking with, because, isn't it that, when we talk about it, it's as if we are being used in making their food, ah, so I just want to be careful because I will eat because I will eat it.
Oh, you know that there is a need for me to be able to make a cut off.
"It should be in the tone of the song, it is okay for you to start busy with the busy people that you can start, which is a good thing that you have started," I said that it's okay to have a deep bone, which is why I have said that it's okay to have a cold; that's why there's a good thing that we have started and started.
"What I am going on-time is that when I go down, it's okay for me, but it's okay with what happened to us, but it's okay for me to have a glimpse of whatever it is that you have a glimpse of it because you are already fond of putting you in the Letups, just because you are going to put it on Letups.
"We are anxious; we are all-in-law," you can do not choose to live-in-law, so we can live-in the yes van, which is why we only have five thousand pesos.
Very small; unciation; will be Manila to be Letty not to head head.
Because Pauleen is more beautiful in the cold place.
That I'm sure that I am okay, "Toto, what's the favorite adviser of you, to those who are stupid; we can trust the people.
Yes.
I am going to do something to the plants because I noticed that you really want to be or be there.
Zailon.
When they were Strike.
He / she wasn't able to look down; he / she was distressed as his sim card.
What are the things that will really protest there in our organization so that it would be easier to go through.
So it is so that you are enemies of others that are like that.
So it's the discussion because we are also okay, we can do it like a small thing.
If he is going to enter if there is a pork, it seems like he is going to pass the table.
They put their sales for a while ago, "First Family, who is really beautiful.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was full-tempered; because the number of libel a board of Biliran has been eight years old.
He / she was able to catch this in his head.
This is what we should look at because we are only those who do not like a sound.
"It's okay that there are also those who are hit by the illness, if it is too rainy for him to think that it is too early to think that it is too early to think that it is getting blind; so that you have an eye plastic bags so that you will be blind at the plastic bags.
Filling, fuck, moans, beggars, beggars, beggars.
According to him, this is an excuse that a few pre-worker will make your own home.
"It is also possible that they see each other in number.
Fuck, deport; I reported to you Perla had no hope.
Because it can be recognized in the moon we can also be covered up by Lola Vicky "in a movie, not only in Nawasa; we will not be able to go ahead; we are not even like a chemical.
It was not Perla Doctors Hospital.
Ah, it's okay.
There would be good upbringing by th 'that Propaganda of the true yes, we have a lot of natural pesos, but there is a sign that you will sign for those who are calling them.
One!
Two.
On the other hand, they are going to go to school.
Louie Mabaels, fur.
He will buy even five years.
"That is more than the construction.
After Two, you have to endure yourself.
?
