Veteran and youth, against the second term of Aquino, is the return of Marcos.

Activists failed in the decades of 70 to commemorate the 45th anniversary of the martial law, together with the youth who did not experience the lashing of the law, or in the books, they have been able to study only one hour, "according to him,"
According to the different groups gathered by Plaza Miranda, September 21, a Marcos dictatorship under President Aquino, declared the intention of having a second term through charter change but the administration continues to follow the orders of the foreigner, particularly the United States.
Also disappointed with Aquino is Maire dela Cruz, a veteran in the fight of the law, "he said that democracy is a democracy, but the democracy is only in the care of power," said that democracy were only in the custody of the Filipino Weeker.
According to Danny dela Fuente, former prisoners, the wide corruption that they have seen on the Marcos regime was ongoing, "since then, there are those who are similar to DAP (Disbursement Acceleration Program) and PDAF (Priority Development Assistance Fund) and what they've promised," he said.
"The generation should continue now, continue the fight and they need to understand what is happening in society," he added.

In the commemoration of the law and protest on the second term of Aquino, Brian Sabnal, a student and son of activists in the decades of '"70." I do not want it to happen again because the next generation of Marcos would not happen again, "he said.
In his speech, Meisy's, the president of the Kotong Alyansang Makabayan, the severe abuse and corruption inside the 14-year prevalence of the law.
"It is said that the time of martial law should already be sold so that the true events before, who can help the youth in order to understand the poor military," says, a journalist who became activists.
Ocampo added, just like before, the violation of human rights are still ongoing until now, human rights are still ongoing, and up to now, there is still a counter-governmental organization that caused the kidnapping and murder, while there are still lack of abduction and murder of the society, he said.
During the law, a more than 300 cases of kidnapping were recorded by more than 300 cases of murder, and 764 cases were assigned to the people involved in the Marcos dictatorship.
According to Edith Burgos, the wife of Joe Burgos, who is also a journalist in the Marcos regime, "if they know the true events before, they would not want to have another dictator," he said in his speech.
For activists before and now, the fight against poverty has not yet finished, violation of human rights and severe corruption, especially in front of the threat of the law, and during the time of the law, the movement is ongoing, "said Ocampo.
To blame the objection in the second term of Aquino, those who joined the protest to commemorate the law military has marched towards Mendiola.
