Roque's New Jersey in New York.

"Land of Fire" should be treated in New York City in America and this is where I met the Bangsamoro Basic Law.
It was year 2005 when I met Mister Roque, employee back then of South African Consulate General in New York.
According to him, he has been a seaman who has been to a lot of countries like Japan.
Although there is a good job in the ship, Mang Roque chose to take a ship when the ship he works in order to look for a job.
She is lucky that she has a cousin before who is also living there so he helped her to start a new life in the said country.
Because of the number of Filipinos being known for the skill and diligence in work, Mister Roque immediately received a job as a driver of the UFC l General of American Embassy there, if it was 360 dollars every month that he earns in the ship, that was almost 700 dollars every month.
"In the demand for Filipinos, because if they are going to get the American, a small salary of $700, a small salary that is only received by Filipino, Indonesian, Indian, Pakistani Army and other people from the Middle East will be paid."
Not long, because he was seen with dedication and effort, he was slowly liked by the officials of the company and his income grew up.
"At the beginning, you can find a small income but you can get a big income from the person, if you did not destroyed the reputation of your job."
Despite the huge income that he is receiving, the bad and loneliness that he feels as a result of taking away her family left in the Philippines is not able to escape.
Mister Roque has not been able to be with his family since he went to the Philippines, so when she was given a chance to go home to the Philippines, she brought her husband and children in America when he returned.
Even though it is complete and can be said that the life of Mang Roque in New York has been better, he told me that sometimes, he cannot avoid to look for a simple life in our country just like the food that he wants to go home to the Philippines during his retirement.
At the end of our conversation, Mang Roque shared to me the lesson that he has learned from living in the United States.
"He will ask America to wait, all of these are full of boasts around 5, restaurant and Ties, you will learn to be light because you will have a chance to reach America, what is the end of his patience," the end of this.
