
Earthquake, Yolanda and the people are the only ones who are the only ones.

Consecutive tragedy will hit our country.
From the past typhoons and other things that could have been thrown by the nature, next is the action of the calamity, the small war in Zamboanga City which is brought by the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) by the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF).
Even if the problem is not solved yet, the 7.2 strong earthquake that destroyed buildings and houses, including the lives of people in Bohol, Cebu, Siquijor and many towns in the region of Visayas have not yet been solved.
This is the last, while we are writing this, the storm Yolanda is said to be the strongest typhoon recorded in the history of the world.
What would be the next thing, PAGASA said, there is a building of a typhoon?
My Lord, my God, may you be blessed with us filipinos.
I do not want to give comment or criticism against those who are ruling to us, officials, local or national or national, but I cannot stop them - politicians and officials they will replace at their side.
It's amusing that some of the senators have said to remove their annual fund which is the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), who is a simple called pork barrel.
But that will only be done in the next year.
It means that it is as if all of them are senators and congressmen on this year.
Hopefully, even once in your life, politicians, senators and congressmen do something good to our countrymen.
Just simple, even more are left in your pork barrel until December 2013, give all of those affected by the earthquake, typhoon Yolanda, and other victims of the past calamities.
Hopefully it will open your mind, even now.
It should also be like Noynoy Aquino III for the end of the end, I mean, giving Conditioning (CCT) and his Presidential Social Weather Center, Presidential Security System, Presidential pork barrel scam, if there are still funds from the billion pesos of Malhacienda.
And if it is just possible, Mister Aquino, can you not think that she would show myself in the camera who are still smiling while you are still smiling if you do not even get tired?
A lot of people lost a loved ones and important things as well as the home.
Hopefully, all politicians, especially those who earned huge wealth while sitting on duty, sparked the humane.
Release your funds that I have received from your positions and let us share to it, to share to everyone who became victims of consecutive calamities even now.
Are the leaders of the country?
Um!
(Just text 09178548686 for your reactions, opinions and complaints.
