Straight at the school year.
By Ellen Toribio, June 12, 2016 is open to school again that is why heavy traffic is sure.
We are used to traffic everyday which is why if our trip is just a few kilometers in the destination, it is possible that two hours will be given two hours.
Just like what happened to us in Las Piñas, they are going to go through CAVITEX Subdivision and those who are traveling from the subdivisions in Molino, Cavite, which will pass in Alabang, Zapote Road because it seems that Maynilad is going to pass the election last May.
Benigno Aquino III still has the president when they did it, until now, Rodrigo Duterte was not able to return to the whole street only two weeks ago, and when the whole of the Philippines was returned, he was hoping that the entire road will be restored in the area. "
Rogelio Singson was the secretary of Public Works and Highways when he was cut off this Alabang-Zdote, Mark Villar, the representative of the Las Piñas and Highways by Duterte, which is so embarrassing to the DPWH secretary who is very horny.
It will be more problem because it is rainy now that is why it is like a fishpond that has no fish when it rains.
Wait for the parents and children.

Always bring umbrellas and raincoats because what's difficult with us now is hot in the morning, and in the afternoon, "that becomes the cause of cough, cold and flu.
To those who have a big umbrella, be careful when riding a jeepney or a bus, with a sharp parts of the umbrella, which might never be smoke from other passengers.
It is more preferable that you will bring a folder.

Just bring Malabar spinach so that you will not be left behind by the gate.

It is often, when it is not raining, you forget it.

For children, it is better to raincoats.
Also, be careful in the flood because the water becomes stronger when it cannot be avoided, when it comes to the house, you need to wash your feet.
Because it is also difficult for the flood because the shoes of the children is closed, so it is good to bring a slippers that is why it is good for the children to be big, including those who are in the office that need to be formal the shoes.
A noodle house also spread quickly because it is not too confused by a place, which is why it is easier to pull their money well.
Eat well and sleep early so the immunity will be strong and it is hard to get sick.
