
Oil price increases and a useless defense of the Philippines.

Two important issues are the diment for the present.
An oil price hike is one of those who are weak but with the useless defense of the Philippines with foreign people who want their territory.
Sped away with the lightning.
The oil companies are quick in lightning if they increase the price of petroleum which include diesel, gasoline and gas.
We are not noticing it, the price of P5,000 is also increasing in the price of snatchers, Livni or a heated argument, gasoline, airplanes and others.
But do you notice how they will increase the price? If the government warned about it.
The saliva of their spokesperson of the government is not getting dry, they are being used immediately.
Slow down in the turtle.
If the said spokesman of the Department of energy has announced, the days have passed before the oil price increase in their price hike.
They truly consider a lot of dollars just like the exchange of peso and dollars and other things so they will not go bankrupt.
It is the child of tofu, even when it was not bankrupted by the oil companies except for one year.
Even more, they earn a crisis.
What is still happening is, while there is a crisis in oil, especially the price in the international market, they earn more.
Petron and Shell, Bro, Pinoys earn a year for 6-8 billion every one.
Caltex, Chevron, is allegedly earning P4 billion pesos.
Which is why, these are always in Top 10 to be tied as well as reported by the Supreme Court.
Watch them.
This is where we are thinking about what the driver and operators are saying to guard the companies.
Oil.
They should watch out from the increase in price or putting it in the time of their oil price, and can avoid passing by the price.
The drivers and operators are suspicion that these are probably nonsense.
The problem is the DOE.
We only have a problem with the DOE that we don't want to end the actions.
What those who are saying there in DOE has always been saying, they cannot do anything because their business is derogatory.
It's as if the companies of oil and Oil Dermovate will be given importance to the power to set value and time for transparency and increase in price of petroleum.
That's why, it is not in the boils of these that is the cause of the oil companies.
It is the child of tofu, what the critics say, that there is really power over the government, especially the DOE, to just leave or straighten out the foolishness of the oil companies?
Afraid, but earn.
There are surely reasons, Bro, why the DOE has not been useless.
First, they are afraid to take advantage of the oil companies especially the big 3 or the group of Petron, Shell and Caltex, who are holding 85 percent of the oil price in the entire Philippines, especially when the multimillion case is done, which will be done in paying proper taxes or filing charges.
Second, while the price of petroleum is expensive, the government is earning more from the Value Added Tax Reform bill from the oil companies and other taxes that they are asking for from it.
The Eve in the petroleum will be the biggest in the price for almost 200 billion that will increase in the Eker in all the Vena public service and products.
Included in those with the Eve, taxi driver, tourist buses, taxi, chts, pork barrel, coughs, television, radio, radio, radio, radio, radio and ingredients were owned by the land; non-discipline; and covetousness; and coercion.
Do you see, Bro?
Useless!
Some of them came inside China at 100 kilometers from Palawan.
We are monitoring it even though there is no masses, if it is true that they make it true.
This and just passed through our ocean.
But this is not the point.
If there are some foreigners, even if not from China, who will enter our country, we can't do anything.
How can we be able to do anything if we have nothing to fight back in case a conflict is already ending?
There was a ship.
We have ships and there are those in the rules, that will not be stopped.
First, it turns out that they have a machine gun and they only have a gun while those who are lacking are the weapons of the foreigners.
Second, we do not have airplanes that will be quick to escape and will be more actor-actor who will surely target to be target.
These were the airplane and in the middle of our area, they do not need to be fired by them because they are just flying around the coffin.
Why is it that what is happening in our military is being investigated.
It is proven that the funds are made to be buried, just like 87,000 B; Development Assistance Fund.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
