It is possible that he will avoid getting involved in the lessons of those who have been seated during martial law.

(This news was published about the issue on 13 of the Philippine Cologne last 13, 2012.
Mary Joy Viado.
It has been four decades since the declaration of Martial Law in the country of former President Ferdinand Marcos, the groups of youth and students, together with other sectors of the society, are already launched.
The students will complain again to request for sufficient budget for education and other public service, to object to the increase in tuition and other bills in different schools in the country, and to allow the general to happen to the country's education.
Coll invited some of the students of students, writers, teachers, and other leaders of the poorest groups in the country to make a part of the appropriate action against the Filipino people who continue to be part of the Filipino people.
Is it still important to be an insane youth at present?
"What you have been able to know is to know the problems of our country and the people and the action to expose, to fight, and intrusion of the youth, especially the scholar of the country, in the current time."
Judy Taguiwalo, been able to school and the political prisoners in the time of Martial Law, professor in UP, Facons of Regent, 2010.
"Those who have been able to know, who are asking the" good system of the government and society, their critics and even the romantic views in the country are important to worry about the past, and it should be done to the events happening to the majority of citizens.
- Joey Baquiran, tourist and writers, professor of the Filipino and Panaligan of the Philippines (DFPP), student of UP and an active members of UP Realmonds) in the time of Martial Law.
"It is important that a student who will go out of the education of the youth is important, to stop the situation, to stop these things, and give a proposal, if you have no idea, those who are in position are confident, they are confident that those in position are confident.
- he was tortured, the president of Alyansang Makabayan, Co who was a National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front.
"The current situation has no changes, the hunger and loss of the future of the families of the Filipino people, what is needed by the families of the Filipino people, what we need, to study and act on the ranks of the farmers and workers."
- Rodel Mesa, the general secretary is coordinating with the farmers in the agriculture sector.
"The old people are afraid because there will be a lot of things that will be lost in the country because there might be a need to take a risk and protest against the youth because they will not make a move when the youth will be forced to live in a world of crooked and understanding.
Dela Cruz, writers and professor, currently the president of the The Manila Times College, the Filipinos in America during the height of Martial Law in the Philippines.
"It is important for a study to be able to make a study because it continues to be a bad system that will be taken away by Marcos and will rise up by the Marcos regime, but it was replaced by the Marcos regime, but it was replaced by Marcoses who are cruel and violent in his sweat even if there is no martial law.
Jose Maria Sison, the president of the International League (People's Fawle-International Coordinating Committee (ILPS-ICC), Propaganda of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.
"It is important for me to have a study, to avoid the worsening traffic rules, it is only right for our students to change in our society, because we will look at the history, most of the IDPs, most of the revolution and warning.
Suntok sa Buwan - sister, UP Staff Regis blender.
"It is important for activists to study and fight for the desired freedom and fight back where the action continues for completely, wide and long-lasting change in the society and to support the interest and improvement of the most kind of sweat.
Atty. Edralin OPLAN ia, lawyer, in the case of their disappearance, Karen Emano and Shermelyn Bensani, general secretary of the National Union of People's lawyer.
"There is no other identity against the violence of the state but the legitimate aspirations of activists.
Dr, Roland Tolentino, Dequia of UP College of the mass.
"We are not allowed to go and let go of it because you have grown up, all of us, whom we should wait for us, we have a proof that people have the ability to be instruments in change."
- Vazole, writers, writers, manager of DFullido.
"It is not the Martial Law that you have been able to make up, but you have seen one of the lacking of the Marcos administration, a relationship, a relationship, and loving of a person who is natural to ask, challenge, challenge, and silver.
In this desire, the youth are known for being aggressive and creative, observant and creative, which is why activists will not lose to us while the activists will not disappear while the reason is not missing.
MD of Ma. Hambi, 2011, Regis.
