Supreme Court, winning actor in 9th Camply; Vilma Santos, resignation.

By Boy Abunda.
August 9, 2013.

It is not only now that he shook his head and in this generation, there are those who are gay in the ditures coming from acting because even before it was in 1980 when Bernardo C. Bernardo said the former "Manila BE," of Regal Films.
Even gay director, writers, craving and Creator of the movie, is often brought home by honor for different souvenirs.
There are actor who are suspected to have become good actors and has cooked awards but more advice.
There are some stars who are spreading the award which is also made an award which is why such honor is not new for the third race of Adam.

Just before the gay operation is running for sex or those who are pointing at the biopsy are transgender or returnees, such as Mumps Juaning is because it is serious to accepting a gay person to receive a gay person in this community.
It is by chance that the Reproductive Health Law is controversial and its implementation is the right way for the freedom of the country that has passed and the right discussion about the alleged sex marriage or being together with two people who are both gender.
It is by chance that Maker is calling for the nine-year-elected Cantangan in the film "Quigaman situation, in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Junior in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Junior in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Junior in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Junior in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Jr. of the ordinary flow of life in society in the whole world.
According to Juaning is in his speech after he accepted the recognition given by an honor from expressing his recognition, she received an award to his colleagues and in the community of LGBT or Leslagan, gay, bisexual and transgender.
Mabog, who is Oanglement, is feasted on, which was covered in the waves, which was found in the afternoon before the night of recognition, the friends who were not able to enter the sidewalks where they were able to go to those who were not able to enter the sidewalks where their ticket were gone.
Juaning is in his success of that night and she was like the Miss gay Philippines or Miss gay World, because she was not able to speak immediately but when his mouth started to open, she had a lot to say.

But Mucal has forgotten about his final speech and this is his parents.
"I am sorry, I have forgotten to greet and thank my parents, who are competing with what happened," Juaning is in the exclusive interview with her at the exclusive interview of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office or Single Entry SEC.
"My First Republic is this in the movie," Mucal.
"There is still no longer next to be seen in the movie," Juaning is said that those who have watched her in the film are saying that they will pretend to be the recognition given to the New Break na.
"I am thankful to Director Eduardo Roy in giving attention to our world," Mumps at the public.
Juvenile is also included in the act of being the sister of Marissa Delgado, Shukri al Luna.
Did you know a lot of transgender and the transition team of George, who were taken by Eduardo in his movie?

Not only "Quatar would not only be the one who overflowed the gay but also the movie" Porta, Jr, who even did not do anything that won't be held in the implementation of illegal activities in this country.
It is the role of a man and gay operation on his sex ATM card to become the spirit and body of the woman with Angel Aquino.
According to Delos Reyes, the house helper of Adolf was in the project, she was really showed up the sex personality of Angel's character but it was said that she will be put in double the actress.
The veteran infant of the movie, Bibsy, Carlo, said that why is it not true that he is not the real gay against the sex wheelchair being taken by Alix, Jr. to make the protagonist right.
According to Reyes, according to Reyes, the role given to BB Gandanghari is being offered to BB Gandanghari, but it is not possible that the role of gay men who put the sensitive parts of a woman is given to BB Gandanghari.

It is true that the winning actress in 2013 Camping in the character of Vilma Santos is true for the foolishness of arts which is an extra "of Cantos and Quaura.
Atty. Jovelle was able to go home to the director of the movie, Jeffrey Jawo, and the actress of Vilma, because the actress was not around every night with an award.
We are really believe that the lesson from the 5th of 9-Cantos is free because even the parts of the 5th-9) who rushed to CCP have no idea of what will happen, not like the other continents that can pass through a tip of whoever is going to win.
The CDO really surprised everything.
There is a hard time that Santos is having a hard time and close to her so that he will come to be a loser or win so he just stopped a house and has a rest of rest?
However, Jojo Lim is there, the President is the president of all the dreams in the whole world to support the fight of their idol.
They say it is in one corner of Sucat, he hears the name of Ate Vi's name and that is why her film is kicking in.

Gretchen Barretto has arrived not only because he is the one who loved the life of the Camply but as the protagonist in the movie "The diplomat Hotel and directed by Christopher Ad Castillo, the son of the deceased priest of arts in showbiz, Celso Ad Castillo.
Gretchen and Tony Boy were next to each other.
However, Barretto failed to win the best actress in New Break na.
He also did not even do it or in reading the cue card, just like Chanel Latorre, "The diplomat Hotel" and Babes, which was made by Jason Paul Lamasan, which they become idle in one corner of the theater.
Such as waste.
Why did they not act as Greta and Chanel Panganiban while a lot of actor and actress who were able to attend the reading the result of every category?

With the directors of case, Best Actor, TJ Trinidad for "Fallen 44, which also gave defending Director and UFC Octagon.
No idol actor who won in the category.
Crazy, isn't it?
Special Alyansang Makabayan, audience favorite ice cream and Network for the Promotion of Asian Games or NETE, "an extra."
"Mamondiong, where the stars are Lovi Poe, Paulo Avelino, Benjamin Alves, Liezl Martinez, Noni & Cheese, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor, Best Actor,
In New Generation, UFC Midditioning (Best Actor, Jennelyn Allowance (RES), who won the "Rail Transit, Best Actor, Supreme Court for Hannah EpiPen, judicial director for Hannah Emanuel ia and Special Action Prize.
Best Actor, Joey Paras, for "Babao."
Best Swift, supporting Sumang and Special Action Force that was also held on "Quigaman situation."
Best Production is the "Rad order" of Mikel HRed Cross.
Meanwhile, in the short Film Festival, audience gnomes, "Taba" A" Boni'll be able to make it alive, Best Shanaura and Special Caano, "Paula," Paula, "krrrik," krrrik, "Tuwid na Daan" of Paulo or Humalig).
