Wednesday, July 2, 2014.

Is the vendors be capitalist or pro-mannered?

Vendors are intrigued or PRO-budol Gang?
Gregorio V. stars Jr.

KFC loyalists have, but it is still alive, that is why the vendors do this like this?

Capitalists have because they are thinking of a pipe in their small business, like buy-and-sell business, but they are still living in areas of squatters, because they are living in the places of squatters, because that is where the fate is washed off.

They believe that they work hard to work with integrity, sellers and sell just to buy small amounts to each other for more than ten years in business, they are still vendors, and have no own business.

Rich businessmen, Henry Sy and Lucio Tan, started in selling the shoes, and was able to build a shoe, and was placed in making cigarettes, and was built on the factory of Formal Entry SEC.

But not all vendors are like this because they are rare like them when they have a golden hand and what kind of style is, they have a golden hand and what kind of brain is, they have something to reach their situation now, vendors, and then.

Most of the vendors in the country are living on their own strategy, buy-sell, risk for every day and the families are known for Divisoria and Baclaran to many vendors, that even the roads can no longer be passed by vehicles because of the destruction they sell.

During the time the vendors in Metro Manila arrived, it is considered as if there is an aluminum foil that was prohibited from them to sell their goods so they could not return again to the place where they will not return again to the area of mga Bayani, which is why they also treated the Libingan ng mga Bayani, which is why they are also treated at the Libingan ng mga Bayani.

At the height of the vendors, this is against the vendors, the vendors were built on August 30, 2002 in UP Diliman, which is right and right to defend their livelihood, that is why it is not right to answer that even if you are hurt, yes.

If we analyze, the vendors are even just an issue of Pandian, issue on how to be deceived by the workers and the poor, they are still not fully put in areas of squatters or poor, they are still not able to take care of their businesses in crowded places.

Because they need to live under the implementation of the existing system, whether they do not have a boss, Kotong is really serious, because if they will not give it, they will not make them sell the place.

As of now, the vendors may be treated as a part of the pro-law, or people who have no private properties aside from their strength, they need to support their families through a good life and with just a small life.
