Time of darkness.

We do not have a reason to celebrate.
Even more stars in different corners of the university, cannot hide the glitter of them on the problems that have been placed under the future of a university.
Since Holy Week, we were caught in the new fields that were implemented in some parts of UP.
Meanwhile, the new generation of UP were successful due to the strongly opposed by the students, seven students of UP LB who were not able to make it to their school because they were able to make a tuition, according to the Student Regent Cinyras.
Recently, the Board of Regulations (COR) is approved by the highest decision of UP, the price hike which was held regarding this, there will be a deeper consultation to students in the next Holy Week, "Arguaving.
Although there are a small sparkle returned, it is still not enough for them to finally exterminate the people who have been placed in every corner and parts of the university.
It was also December in the year 2007 when the toll fee of UP started to pour at that day, thousands of students went to the Quezon Hall in order to stop the implementation of boal in Quezon City so they were able to go to the College of Law and went down the increase of high tuition from 300 pesos.
It was said that Lanting was not pushed back in that year - in the middle of the grand reception of the university, the students were not afraid to hit the atmosphere of happiness.
But the continuous pour of darkness in the university is not right, after the five years of the implementation of TFi to make sure that the education of UP.
The university has not yet done in the raising of the tuition fee along with this, there is still no more income from its land in order to have a greater income in the year 2008 when the UP Revolution was opened in Commonwealth Avenue, and is being held today by UP Diliman Center in Katipunan Avenue.
In the continuing exchange of UP to earn its own way through the increase in tuition and giving payment for the land, the government is slowly accepting his responsibility in the university.
It's been three times when Strike launched UP against low wages given by the government for the cooperation of other State Universities (SUCs), the funds given to us by the government is not enough, which is why many places in the country have not yet been enough.
For the past Strike, the increasing number of students who are ready to go out from their homes in classes will be prevented from classes, and be involved in the issues being experienced in the university.
It is easy to put the blame on the passing by TFI because the tuition fee is very expensive, many students who have not directly experienced the burden caused by a high fund, there are those who say that it is not important for the scholar of the country to release a tuition fee.
Along with this, the voices of students are divided, even during the height of the campaign against TFI, there are students who chose to give chance to TFI, even if this is a direct slap on the public traits of UP.
On the issues where the public's character depends on, there is no space for the disunity of the towns.
That's why it's not just a celebration of Christmas that was brought by the air in December when it was a sign that sometimes, sometimes, no fear to fight the students, that the administration has been made to fight or to be a decent steps.
And while there is a threat to the public characteristics of UP, until it is far from the students to give quality and affordable education, it is in our hands to maintain the darkness in our loved university.
