TV Patrol, July 12, 2012.

There is an agreement!

The world is not a problem, the problem is if you are asleep.

If you think about it, small things will not be noticed, but if it continues to be given attention, it becomes a big mountain in a small house, and instead of an example, there is a big fire in a small house, and instead, they evacuated the house, carrying some of their clothes and asked to live with their small piece of clothes.

Just a few days ago, the drinking of the two elderly and forced to see in the clumsy, the wife cannot handle it.

In his desperation, in the following days, he went to the barangay hall, with his childhood friend, and how to tell what is bothering her mind, I asked him to be able to ask him, "how do you not get to be able to get away from others," do you still have a way to get away, "is there a need to get married," said the barangay captain. "

"There is one, Kalhorny, why, and where do they get a sound?" Asked the wife's question.

"If possible, put a bath inside your clumsy, you go back to me after a week," the barangay captains.

Even though he is confused, the wife followed him but the one week was not yet finished but it suddenly came back to the barangay captain, who was furious at anger.

"

"We have eight chicken, four ducks, and six months of mine," what will I do to me, "what will you do to me," what will you do to me, "what will you do to me," said that she will smell again to me, "said that he will smell again to the suggestions of the barangay captains."

After one week, the wife came out of extreme anger and nonstop to blame the ducks, the ducks, and they were not able to sleep well with the quails, the ducks, and the entire family, together with the two elderly, together with the two elderly, together with the two old men.

The wife did not pay attention to the clothes of the two old people, because every time he / she will think of taking care of his pet dog, it seems that the sound of anger towards her is like music, now instead of being with the animals.

Even if we will be consequence for each other, there will be consequence for each other and sometimes, we forget that not everyone is going to go home, instead, it is better to return to the floor even if the blanket is short, it is better than to bend.
