
After the demolition of Silverio Compound, "violence of the poor, under PNoy?"

By Filipino Weeker.
April 23, 2012.

After the firing of the police and son, he was found sprawled on his own blood, Arnel Leonor, 21 years old, a resident of Silverio Compound, Tantos).
The militant organizations and lawmakers condemned the use of violence, including the shooting, from the houses of the poor in Silverio Compound, Paranaque City today, April 23.
"We consider out the grief of the victims of the state of the state of the state this afternoon, our siblings defended their homes until death, we salute the courage of poor residents of Silverio Matute who were not afraid of the courage of poor residents of Silverio Matute who were not afraid of the strength of poor residents of Silverio Matute who were not afraid of the strength of poor residents of Silverio Matute who was not afraid of the strength of poor residents of Silverio Matute who was not afraid of the courage.
There is an confirmed dead, and many others were wounded in the shooting of the police, in the middle of the residents who fought in order to defend their homes.
The residents named the victim, Arnel Leonor, 21 years old.
The residents were filled with anger at the direction of the police.
"Our feelings towards the violence that was done to us by the government budget and the police were done to us by the government budget," was stated by Prla Bernal, chairman of Castilla, Silverio Matute.
Bernal said, "we can clearly see in the video report of those from media that even if our fellow residents are arrested, they continue to be hit, abuse and abuse of the police."
"We can clearly see the reckless shooting of the members of the Armed Forces (Special Action Force (Special Action Force) in our residents who have no fight, only the reaction of violence that happened to our ranks and defending our livelihood and residence," he added.
That is often violence.
APD and Rafael Mariano also said that the violent demolition would be more often under the Aquino administration last January 2012 at Barangay San Roque in Barangay San Roque in North Triangle, Quezon City, and many others.
"It is true that the Aquino administration is not doing anything good to our poor cities that we are calling him (Aquino) to stop the response of the leaders on the interest of those who live the Elite like Henry Sy," said Mariano.
Meanwhile, the center of the militant Security System (Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR) was described as the policy of the Aquino administration, the war against poor. "
"Instead of allocate the decent and young housing program for the poor, the Aquino administration has decided to spread violence against them while the Aquino administration continues to spread the anger of the poor city against him," Elmer "Bong" Liscano, chairman of us.
"Sy's greed.
The local government brought the SM Development Corporation (SMDC) to kill a billionaire businessman Henry Sy of land in the area to have a condominium.
However, residents insisted that the place of Silverio Matute which is the place of Silverio Compound, and the residents are already paying the land is said to be in court when the local government of the land was suddenly sold by the local government of SMDC.

The residents of Silverio compound, last night before the attack of the police officer (Tantos).
"We condemned the greed of Henry Sy and those who are poor and for the income that is planned to progress by the government, it is clear that the Aquino administration has a clear accomplice of the Aquino administration," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
The local government of Paranaque which is part of the implementation of a condominium project is to attract the houses at 9.2 hectares of land in Silverio Compound, which is the house of its own family.
But the residents said that they heard Paranaque City Mayor Jun Bernabe, who plans to join the condominium in SMDC in the area.
Henry Sy was said to have a life after being cut off the trees in Baguio, he was removing the thousands of families from their houses and livelihood just to earn money, "Bernal said, Monkayo, Silverio Matute.
Some of the pictures of the violent demolition in Silverio Compound, from Thea, Productions.

In the gathering of the residents of Silverio Compound in Paranaque, to protest about the demolition of their houses (Tantos).
Like the violent demolition of San Juan last January, the police use the residents who are fighting in the demolition.
Only Bato was used by the residents to defend them, front of integrity, as well as the destroyed cheon and gun of the police) (Tantos).
Residents who fought against the police that attack them (Tantos).
Policemen on the back of the post were finished after being hit by a gas around the residents (Tantos).
The policemen have started to catch them (Tantos).
Many of the arrested were beaten by the police -- if they were not hurt or hurt even before the end of them.
Some of them were arrested by the police officer (Tantos).
One of the serious hurt in violence of police officer (Tantos).
For other photos and coverage of Thea, they will visit Facebook or go to their website.
He / she was wearing.
A few more information about the issue by the residents of Silverio Compound in Sucat, Paranaque) from Naguilian, Paranaque) were reported.
In 2004, the land of Silverio Matute who was a wife of Silverio Matute is a text message to the management of the City Ordinance Division to attract the lives of the residents here.
Last March 7, 2012 when the forces of the police were able to gather and representatives of Local Government unit of Silverio Compound and violent, due to the plan of Henry Sy which is the construction of his business condominium in the area, the demolition really surfaced.
Since then, they are ready for the next plans of the local government of Paranaque, the big businessman Henry Sy was an accomplice.
Last April 13 when we received information that they will give up to the area after ten days, they strictly prepared to fight and defend their livelihood and home until the onset of ten days in the evening of April 22, they were said to be united if the LGU and Henry Sy will not allow their planned demolition.
"
Within this day.

It was 7: 00 in the morning when more than 300 police arrived from the Philippine National Police Southern Police District.

It was 9: 45 in the morning, when there is 20 more than 2,000 pesos.

11: 30 in the morning, the violent destruction of the store in the market was started.
