
DOTE. "General Dellosa and evict Salas.

Let us just make it clear, he cannot say, "what I want to say about the former AFP Chief of Staff General Jessie Dellosa and now is Deputy Commissioner for Intelligence and Bureau of Customs) because the" desaparecidos, "has no interest in blessing!
Meanwhile, what is being revealed is that, it is a former-off page but it suddenly happens, "many are wondering why it was elected by General Dellosa since he was elected to BOC on the cave for a cave."
"In the word" they say, "or without interest in the grace, this is the opposite" that there is an extensive "settlement in those who introduce themselves as members of Dellosa.
What we are referring to is alias Ka-gay who introduce themselves as "tanim-bala" or "Ipit Gang" Ipit Gang "and" tanim-" generals who Dellosa!
The people of Ka-gay will be brave to let the diler with his two personnel, "Abu and Santy" but in the finals, you will surface so that you will surface so that they will get the same for General!
Do you know this, General Dellosa?
If not, where the military training went to, and for what has been the Depcom for Intelligence and Intelligence?
If you know, why do you just allow you to have a big fish at the back of Ka-gay?
Umm, it seems that it is unlikely to happen that you are in a sound, sir, or maybe you also have the blessing of Ka-gay? "Are you eating this, sir, of the system?
Entice the President.
The director of Manila Police District who is C / Supt. Isagani Genabe is just confident that even if he knew Mayor Erap's stomach is insinuating, if he hears a famous architect.
After all, Erap is not really the one who wants him to be MPD director, but his son, PNP Chief Director General Alan Purisima!
That is why illegal in Manila is now widespread because all of Director General Isagani Genabe Jr.
Marquez also does not care, even if the gambling Lord Boy Abunda and VK queen Gina Gutierrez will be direct to it, I mean, the office of General Aglipay, if coming!
Just a reminder, Mayor Erap, in the eyes of the people, Binay is being destroyed because of their illegal acts, but for them, until now, there are two things that they say that you are receiving you or if you are fed up!
