
Wednesday, November 27, 2013.

"Ipit Gang" will be cooked "and" civic. "

The doctors are truly stupid "and" the political "of Gregorio V. stars Jr.

"Hmmmp" and "our favorite," the two of our favorite songs are becoming popular in many gathering, "Bayan Ko" is popular in the gathering of activists, especially those who are in the movement of activists.

The "civic works are popular in the gathering of the workers, especially those who are in the movement of hornets.

It is just two chore that you need to be popular and sing into any loving of freedom and do not want to be opportunists.

"Pogi" Baba "is one of the customers of the company of Jose Corazon Jesus, who is also known for the Batanglement, and became the King of BGHMC, which was published in the book, Jose Corazon Aquino, who were decapitated by Virgilio Mendez, who were around 184 to 185.

According to the hairline of 63 in the said book, it was around 200: "When it appears that the letter of the letter in the year 1929 is based on the course of the hole of the widow's widow when Corazon Aquino was published, a businessman inside a widow, Manila."
Jose Corazon Jesus.

The town of my Philippines.
Land for gold and flowers.
Love is about his palm.
She offered beautiful and changed.

And his dirty and beauty.
A foreigner was seventeen years old.
In my town, you held you in town.
Have been locked up suffering!

There is a bird who is going to fly.
Even if you will be helpful and crying.
People can still be talkative.
Don't hesitate to escape.

I was mocked anymore.
I went into a nest of tears.
I's advocating.
You can see that you are talkative!

The "Ipit Gang" is from the pen of one Resty who won the first reward of the Catholic Church on Human Rights (ASG), Joey AOIL), Joey AOIL), Joey AOIL), Joey AOIL), Joey Atejano.

The awooooooo is set aside from the cover of the cassette tapes, which was given a "Harper Bayan," that was held by the theater in the cooperation of the Philippine Eye Movement (KABAKA), which was launched during the first part of its 0s decade.

Civic.
Of the theater.

Alone!
The tears are flowing all over your eyes.
Your picture is sadness and lack of hope.
Good dreams in your life.
You are alive at times.

Correct!
Wake up, friend, your mind is open.
You should discover the real reason.
Why is there a crisis like you in society?
And on that way, look for the answer.

You are right, friend, they are the only reason.
Opportunist kinds of society.
Our own wealth, they are the one who asks.
That we should sympathize with us and the whole country.

Correct!
Taba, you, a friend, let us be.
It is time to end the abuse.
The spirit of our goal is to be united.
The whole of the whole family was humane.
Full of energy.

(Indigestion.
(AOIL.
(This will be repeated or included in instruments.

Taba, you, a friend, let us decide.

"Horny is very humane, because aside from its contents it is better to go into a lot of gathering or actions, such as rally, etcetera, etcetera, and it should be given a trend, such as a survey as a trend of" Bira. "

"Bayan Patroller" is just about the love for the country, and the problem that was seen based on the amount of songs are foreigners.

"

"In the" social media, we will be defeated, not only the foreigners, but more than there, the Filipinos will lose each other and taking advantage, and finally end the abuse of people in people.

"

However, we should not push through or choose which is good songs or good for the two, because both of our countrymen should not end, but for all, we should be united for the future, but for the future, and for the next generation.

It is a good thing that we put the difference in town and society with what is written in the book which is "investment and making" of Ka Popoy Lagman.

"There are many who think that the" country "is the" country's "country," it is natural for us to be a member of the country, "naturally, we are going to be a member of our country," naturally, we are the Filipinos who were born in a country. "

But inside the factory or plantation, he does not care.

Even humane, the difference between type, family relations is not humane.

I advise that in every gathering of a gathering, it is not just "Bayan Ko" so as not to forget the songs of "society" so that it will be more important to the people who are not only love for the country what is important, but to hold back the type of opportunists and construction of a society.

Let's let's go to our songs and use it in many gathering, and we also send the more meaning and importance to the awareness of each one towards having a higher change in the country and in society, when all of them are included in the progress and not only the few.

Being investigated.

Eyes.

.

11 / 27 / 2013.
