Instead of buying a vehicle.

Being discussed now is the problem of transportation in TV, radio, radio, newspapers, in big meeting and conference, and even in a simple gathering.
Maybe it's not just because we have all the issues of transportation in the country, but also because of the government's plans to fix this problem.
Plans that will be planned on the public and it is natural that the problems being faced by the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC), of the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO), and even the Land Transportation Office (LTO).
For example, is it not and we think that it is rich in the countries like Singapore, this is rich, if we visit in Singapore, what we have been noticing is just a small and effective system compared to other countries, it is natural that their land is small, which is probably only small in the roads.
Maybe it became a big challenge for them how to give proper service to transportation and those living there.
That's why we should not lose hope, maybe if the government is owned by the government, it is easier to fix.
But there is a consideration for the Land that feels ship that's why they do not have a simple solution.
Each of us encourage each other to study the system of transportation in other countries in order to help our government, one more thing, if we know the rules in other countries, we may understand the policies of our government.
One more inspiration once I heard and said in my mind and heart - what we should do is to encourage the rich that they want to ride in public Transportation instead that the poor would be forced to buy his own vehicle.
