TV Patrol, July 31, 2012.

Long live to the present.

You will be certain that you are alive because you are not ready, not ready, no ability, and busy with various attention without benefits.

Soak it in a gathering that you have a time today, not in the past and even in the future.

If you are carrying your life in the whole afternoon, you will know if you are still alive at this moment, you are really awake and experiencing these moments?

Most of us, in this scene, do not fully feel the importance of each moments more, always busy, and hoping that the happiness that will be brought today will not be finished, instead of reading the happiness that you will give, but you will not regret it, but the regret on martial law.

One factory.

First, I gave all my time to finish his seat and start studying in college.

After this, I gave all my time to finish college and have a job.

After this, I gave all my time to get married and have children.

After this, I gave all my time to free my children and let them finish their studies.

After this, I gave all my time to help them to progress and start over their own lives.

After this, I gave all my time to watch their families and fix it completely.

After this, I gave all my time to re-Retiro Street and taking care of my children to leave and leave her children.

.

This is the usual story of many of us in your own lives that are really busy and focused on a strict obligation to you, especially if you are always happy with what you want.

All problems have a solution if there is no solution, it is not a problem, this is a result if it cannot be avoided.

It is at the show that it will be used to fix our minds, how can we take care of our minds, how can we take care of the whole day, if we spend the important gifts during the whole day, this is a blessing that we need to consider the importance.

Look at your surroundings, pay attention to the plants that are beautiful flowers, mixed with their innate capabilities.

Go to the shore, taking a deep breath, keep it up to your personal travel, "to each other, for each other, in every moment, for each other, for each other, for each other, not tomorrow or in other day.

Life is now.

All of us live under the same heaven, in the same time, we have different feelings for the same time.

If there are questions, there are answers.

- you are very lucky to visit the present?

So that you will improve all of these moments now? As a life and wake up what is happening to you now?

"Why do you last hugged your loved ones?

Anzon is the one who calls you more attention from the whole afternoon?

After a long time passes you are applying for your family? There is a unique kind of family?

- if ever there is a new ritual being followed by the family?

What is the most important thing for you to be with your friends or take the family of the happy and perspective?

- it is very hard to take a vacation of your family?

: Who in your opinion, if the great need comes or has a disaster, who will be the first people around you?
No matter how much we have, but how much we have is, but how we are going to be sure, this is what we will make in the future, instead, they do not know what is making us happy this day, now, in these moments.

Success or failed?

Whatever it is, you are in your power to choose and this will be your fate.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.

Watch a 31 important topic in topic.

His own tribute and study is strong.

Postanes and Jesse Guda.

And 9: 53 in 53 million pesos.
