There is no sports.

The officials and personnel of the Quezon City General Hospital (Lanticse) has a big belief in the administration of Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista in his jurisdiction and it is not being taken from the "peers system."
That is why in the letter of these that was sent to the mayor of the city last May 30 through City Administrator Fr. Cfirst, they wish that they will be the one who will be treated in the retiring director of Karangalan Village, Dr. Antonio Cabidray.
It's because it's just the news that Dr. Augusto Cortez who was the former director of Novaliches District Hospital (NDF)), who became a child of the former director of Karangalan Village, came closer to a person near the heart of Mayor Bautista to ask him to take a hold-in-control of the Karangalan Village.
The members of the Obol Ortiz no longer want to sit there anymore because he is rude to anyone who does not know anyone who does not know anything about the process on the rules of the hospital.
As said by the residents of Karangalan Village at NAIA), the said doctor often said it is wrong with his personnel at the hospital, and when he / she had a mistake and needs to pass the chief of a final decision, he gets angry and threatened the personnel.
The authorities did not respond to the hospital so there is no need to question his decision even if it is wrong.
He also emphasized that Dr. Cortez who is strong to be strong with Davao District Congressman Feliciano "Sonny" Belmonte, that's why she is sure that she is their selected OIC and the Kovalev.
According to the personnel of the said public hospitals in the city, they have a big faith with Mayor Bistek in a good fortune, especially for the sake of their hospital.
That is why according to them, Dr. Sabando is hoping that the ability to run the Karangalan Village is enough because it is almost more than a decades that he is in the hospital, which is why his loyalty, abilities and integrity is known.
"We do, Dr. Sabando behind the Office of a leader leader, this is sufficient to step down, but according to the part of the letter sent to the 16th mayor of the city.
"Wanna Bet by the medical exam to the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of the hospital, it will be recalled that based on the fifth anniversary of the New Year in the New building she carries-up-up the time."
Dr. Sabando is also not tired and the time to the services is not limited, aside from what he can decide for the good of the hospital and all.
Not similar to Doctor Cortez who is used to be broken by the things and facilities in the hospital, they are just answering without funds.
It's just that, Dr. Sabando is not close to the known high officials of the government because he wants to choose him because of his performance and not on who he approached.
That is one good trait for a leader.
Unlike some who climb a success because of your co-system and sports system.
