
It is covered with business.

"Two Wives" Mamondiong, "Yan, and Yan were proven by the Filipina friends who were beheaded by business, Lilia Tiamzon and Irene Yco-co.
In a British Coling, in Canada, there is a famous in the Filipino journal which is owned by friends Lilia Tiamzon and Irene Yco-co.
Lilia and Irene have been friends for a long time when they thought to form and start the Philippine journal.
According to Irene, he was still a child when he asked to write to a newspaper so he encouraged his friend, Lilia, to enter a business related to a vacation.
With the cooperation of the two, the Filipino Workers who have been able to do life has been made to do not only by our friendship instead of the fulfilment of a dream and service in the community.
According to the two, blood and sweat became the capital of their ticket, Irene was assigned to writing while Lilia was the one busy in searching for 500 ers.
Even if at first, many are going to judge and capture the said journal, but the two don't get back down, instead, their hard work has been doubled up for a long time.
"All the filipino people who were called by me, I was a person who can be sent home, I was we we were able to go to your journal.
They also once arrived at a point that they were fighting back together and they admitted that they want to surrender and just stop the newspaper. But because of love for work and desire to help our countrymen, they continued what they started.
It was not long before, the friends took the result of their lengthy service, the former twelve-year-old pages in the Philippine journal, forty-two, and its eyes were also strengthened and more were identified by many.
As time passes by, it is time to open the friendship between Lilia and Irene but their source of income increased.
If in the morning, what they are doing is writing in the morning, they are busy with what they are applying for.
It is true that Lilia and Irene are very far away, and for them to have the determination, strong organization and strong faith in God is the key to their common success.
