The call led to Noynoy.

It is really time to forget the leaders of the country with the leadership of President Nonoy Aquino with too much politicking.
Instead of all politics, they pour their strength, intelligence and time to things that will give comfort to the people especially more than the youth who are real hope in our country.
I said this because it seems that our officials did not know until now that according to the latest World pageant, it came out especially the ranks of our schools compared to the university in Asia and others.
What is painful is that, it is not one of our primary university like UP, Ateneo and De la Cruz, not in Top 10 but even in Top 300 percent, which was held in London-based on the year-2013 survey conducted by London-based on the 2016-2013 survey which was held in London in the 25th anniversary, Quac (US).
The highest number of UP came out but it was only 338 which was more low from the 332 that were recovered last year.
Ateneo also fell from 451-500 which can be taken from 360 and even De La Salle University also fell down from the 604.1 now from 551-600.
What can I say about this?
And most of the leaders and the running of our country are all from what we thought was the prestigious school.
I will not be surprised why our country runs like this.
If we are compared to the leading games in Asia, those who are studying from Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, Japan, Japan and China are going to be compared with Top 50.
If they also notice the most progressive countries not only in our region but in the whole world.
That's why it's not surprising that the government's support was given by their government to those who were delivered to the inlet canals and students.
Not like this, instead of supporting, the great Budget Secretary Butch (Very before Abad led the funds of our State Universities (Colleges (SUCs).
That is why it is not surprising that the rise of the quality of our education is ongoing, but what is surprising is that we do not know where Abad wants to put out the money that they are experiencing in the coming election to ensure that the victory of their chicken will be signed?
That is the problem with our country's leadership, all politics and self are put first before the welfare of the citizens and do not want to depend on the future of our students and youth.
Hopefully, this survey should serve as a challenge for us to wake up to a friend to take care of our leaders and pay attention to the real condition of education in our country.
