Respect for every religion.

Even if we are part of a society, where most of the population are christians and others, followers of us are christians and others, Tausug, Tausug, Taisan, and other faith, the respect of religion of each one should not be applied.
Tomorrow, January 9, thousands were together together in order to join the Feast of Black Nazarene, a annual gathering of devotees of the devotees of the cross going to Calata.
The big procession is with the route of six kilometers from Quirino Grandstand in Luneta until "Bashenzor of the Black Nazarene," who is better known as the church in Quiapo, where the black statue of Jesus is staying.
On the continuous increase in number of devotees who are attending the annual occasion, the whole world is being given a picture of catholics in our country and the strong faith that they have.
All the types of people - even if these are common men on the streets, the teller is walking on your bank, or the politician who wants to get their votes in the procession while giving prayers to many problems from health until the improvement of work.
The others continue to attend the procession as part of their vows even if their good manners is fulfilled, to show their no gratitude for the Black Nazarene.
A sibling in the media said to be the devotees of the Black Nazarene, until now, she once told her friends about the reaction of her former boss in a television station in the eve of the Nazarene.
While they were watching the television on the television, while the Nazarene is playing with a thick person on the feast, his boss had comment on the feast.
"Let us look at all the damage he has done."
All of them in the office saw each other when they heard what his boss said in the living room and he directly said to his boss that he did not need to talk like that, because the devotees just shows their faith in the Nazarene.
She admitted to her employer that she is also devotees who always visit the Nazarene once a week.
But his boss stood up at saying that that is his opinion and he is "Sabadda" or followers of Sevidal-Day.
In the following days, he got sick and continued to fall for his health as time passes by.
On the eve of the feast of the Nazarene, the boss of his wife went to the church in Quiapo, because he might have done something wrong about the Nazarene.
The next day, a year after she told her bad comment, the boss of our sibling passed away.
I will just make it clear that I am not mad at any member of Sambh-Day Adosto Church or any religion where the tragedy that happened may have been a result of many reasons.
My only emphasis is the truth that we should respect every time we need to pray every time, our state or religion in life will be careful to avoid any disaster and may answer all of your actions.
