
P467million pesos in the head of the PKP, is the source of corruption and abusive military.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
November 14, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) strongly condemned the release of P466.8 million fund for the arrest of 235 people who are considered by the Aquino administration, illegal drugs, violent and other abuse of human rights.

The system of Jojohnn 14-2012 released yesterday by the Department of National Defense (DND) and the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), who was active in the peace talks with the Aquino administration.

"The military and police are just going to use the system for the millions of funds to go against the millions of funds and their rights to the 48-year-old civilian guard in Asumba compound in Asumba compound in Amatunding, and living in Project 4, Quezon City.

Last October 7, the arrest of the 2nd ID of the AFP was announced to the public by the arrest of Pantukan, which is said to be a 61-year-old leaders who were leading the head by the PKP, which was said to have been tortured by the Pukan in Southern Tagalog, which was declared to cause damage to him, "Benjamin Mendoza."

"It is certain that Maj. General Alan Peter Cayetano are benefiting from the announcement of the alleged arrest of 'Mendoza, before his scheduled retirement."

"Let us expect that the cases of said leaders of the PKP will increase, especially now that they raised the amount of reward," said the KP.

It is also insisted by the KP, that the release of those who will file a pile of heads is aims to create bad intentions and criminals to prevent politicians to solve the armed arguments through the peace talks. "

According to the KP, it will release to the system that is against the Joint Agreement on Human Rights) which prohibits both sides that will implement, the personnel of the personnel of any side which serves as the hathy to the peace talks.

"It's said that the Marcos regime is pointing at peace but it is contrary to what he is doing, which is considered as criminals that are supporting and pushing for the struggle for the national sovereignty and the national goal of the Filipino people," said the KP.

"The peace talks for the Marcos regime seems to have no meaning of a criminal case for the launch of the revolution and the armed fight against amil and opportunist system," said the KP.

It is being insisted by the KP, "a very much insult to the Filipino workers and farmers who are taking advantage of reform the land, strengthening the price of goods and fighting for the national and DILG with a reward for the arrest of General Jovito Palparan, which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan, which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan, which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan, which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan, which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan which are wanted for the murder of General Jovito Palparan.

"More than more, the Marcos regime seems to be further strengthened by the Marcos regime, it is being used to be used in the community of the countryside which results the cases of abuse of human rights, from the massacre until the cases of abuse of human rights are widespread and feared to spread a noodle house to the people."
