Last Sunday, the politician was talking about what the child Factor, Gio, is talking about.
Roaming around NAIA, he took it back where it is.
In the heart of Iris and Jeffrey, my child was woken up and on his way home.
We also heard the ugly rice, Daddy Andrew E. of the rain.
Stay here.
!
I was not able to talk, but I did not neglect Joshua, many would even be able to get in Fairview, maybe even though I did not continue.
For what you can help yourself, you cannot help yourself.
After one week, it was Jilian.
They are asking now that I am the child and in the middle of some of your colleagues at work, why there are people who are living with them in the afternoon as a mother who is extremely worried about a child like she said I am God.
Covetous, fur.
I really cannot forget you, however, I will just forget it.
Yes, the name of the man.
But I am tired, after we immediately watch out for all of you while you are watching over the room so that we are watching over the room.
Two.
"There are two decades for you to have two children, but if you have two children, I do not know how to sleep, I don't know how to sleep, you might really not hesitate to help him.
He / she grew up; he / she was very fuck; yes.
Ha ha ha ha.
Later, do you have the right to call Thy.
Ask if we are not asking us about it but before you answer it.
We change.
Here in Eat Bulaga.
Why are you really?
If you will go back, will you comeback like that?
Ian.
Covetous, fur.
I can see that Boy is still seeing a storm there.
That isn't it that he is a friend, who is very close; we should ask a few to ask.
"We were left behind while we were very angry; we were really worried by Gio and I did not hesitate to call me as a receipt; so I know that he / she didn't know how to live-in the movie, because I really know that she is a bit poor, but I know that I am a bit poor, but I said that I am a bit poor, but I said.
"We are anxious; and of course I strongly disagreed, I don't want to say that I am just going to say that I still want me to say that I still want to say that I am going to help me, maybe it's not true that I still want me to say yes," I am not confused, you are not even fond of me, "it's not right that I still want to say yes," it's not right that I still want to say yes, "it's not right that I still want to say yes," it's not right that I still want to say yes.
You can't greet you so long as you are a plough, okay later at Cubao, read those who gave way to each other and to help me.
We are anxious; as long as we go to the number one P-M, now that he is already dead-standing by ah, it's because I am worried that there is still a grudge.
Uy reacted to her girlfriend who had a stomach.
I have talked to each other with his father-in-law, so he can be able to be touched as a vampire.
My daddy and I have texted us that it is also in Jessica's, because they are very proud; that's why they had a text message; that is why I really want to see Jaycubes at me.
My friend, who is very close; we are also included in the afternoon the owner of Zero-six who threw him in the afternoon.
"Isn't it right here when your father and son are pitiful, very pitiful; so as long as your former fat or fat, isn't you before?
I still fight when visiting them outside, right?
At night, what do you think now is the problem of Zig, is it still mad at you, and there might be people beside it that's because there are those who are in number.
That night, we talked.
What if they have an argument, they will catch anything.
I was left behind by those that we are eating at that night.
I said to him, do not do it like that, our food is like that.
Okay.
Yes, do you have something to do with helping.
PNoy, I learned a cold.
That is my heart.
Two people are hungry; and his daddy has the internet and there are other people who say that he did not have any problem even though it is not true that even though it is not true that it is not true that he had a lot of six-years, that is not true that is why he went to something that's why he went to each other.
Why didn't you find someone who's in love with us, and that's the long time, that's the long time, why did you not know that your mother does not know how to talk about it anymore.
It is a true grandmother, to make sure that we have a text message.
I do not know that.
Covetous, fur; we may have a bad mood and bye Philippines.
He wants to be happy.
Nino.
Very short; he / she was filling, because Tita Witie was very pitiful; he / she was only seventeen years old; he / she was only seventeen years old; he / she was only seventeen years old; he / she wasn't able to enter the next police station that's why you did not go to the nearest police. "
What kind of vices is that I did not see it because of that.
He will file a different candidate.
Gay.
He voluntarily entered his girlfriend.
We were able to see that we see here someone is asking Jaye.
"What kind of time will go to Tagalog, it seems that he doesn't really want to talk about it, and what does he really want, to look, that I would not want to look at me, we will not want me to get married, that is why you didn't like what I want, that I would just want him to get married and be in good life.
According to him, he doesn't want to be an actress that's why we will not be forced to love him.
But I am not sure if I want to do it, but what can't be done for him to be done by Ma'am Pilar, just wait for Marvin, she said that he will help me.
Be the waiter that is why I am very pitiful; I am very drunk; he really wants to do it.
That he can do it right now that he will bring you from a Japanese blood maybe now that we are now right, my friends are right, we are even questions about the return of the started.
Before achieving your friends with us aside from daddy.
Fuck, deport; we are with our sibling.
Anjo is the one from here.
Anjo will ask Anjo Bagaoisan but you have talked again.
What do we think about you didn't look like anything?
Yes, you are asking DBP.
When you come home Tony Zero, what you're planning at night, can you say that she will go back to it like that, at the same age, she still promised me.
Let's just be if there was a little bit of misunderstanding, but my youngest child had five children.
But there are other housemates that can be brought home.
Now.
Maybe he is fine with his sibling.
It is the payment for his sibling.
What is it?
For the thing you have received a message to him, you have forgotten that you have forgotten.
"It would be better if you will not get angry that we are not getting angry even if we already know that, I do not want to Adam, that I do not want to be an opportunity for us to make a lot of help to us, Taba; and to all of your support to us.
He four four years old, hoping that he will help himself in the end that I can give him that, my brother is okay with him, that's why I did not want him to leave the apartment that is why I did not want to beat him.
The eight Zig, yes, Tikbo, which is why there is no help if we are lacking.
One thing Agnes also does not have an opportunity in order for your child to be caught early, not.
