
It is hot.

By Campos.
April 5, 2012.

Defending President Noynoy Aquino and attacks the Lefur, the leaders of Akbayan, who is under the Aquino government, is also the leader of Akbayan and the CPP-NPA-NDF "in one-page of the National Defense College of the Philippines in Camp Aguinaldo.
On the other hand, Longon is needed to clarify first the difference of politics in politics by the CPP-NPA-NDF.
But Llameg, so that it is possible to put an drama and make it more believable "for the military as the clarification of his members of the Lefur, the alleged threat of the Pambansang Kamao in the life of his companions with Akbayan as Walden Bello, Euphrasia ERosales and Ric Reyes.
Looking Back: December 2004, Ang Bayan, newspaper of rebel Party of the Philippines, was released by the picture of those who were fighting back to the country, they said and promised the issue of Production. Jose Maria Sison, the welfare of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
Production. Sison is cleared by the Lefts the right state and cannot be punished even if the New People's Army is still alive, but their campaign is still alive, or they really have no public service?
"Whatever it is, Linaw, who both use the word" krrrik, "of course, said to be called" Ipit Gang "in simpler terms, the process of" Midnight Cabinet "is called" the actual organization of their side of the Leflawless, "the actual organization of the Pambansang Kamao in the actual service of the majority.
Second, he reiterated what the innate intelligence are saying about the outline of the current system for the advancement of the current system, and it is not for the many people who are taking advantage of the political system, but it is not for the majority of the corrupt citizens who are giving up to the majority of the corrupt citizens.
With this use of the word "democracy," emphasized that the lack of democratic governance is the lack of democratic governance, which is why the progress of the person to be progressive is the act of the people for progress.
