
Black Nazarene and Shanaels.

What could have been done here in Zambales Governor Migz Villafuerte who seemed to be able to do everything he wants, that he did not even give attention to the Ombudsman and the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)?
It seems that the power of the money coming from black mining is really strong, that is why he is not given birth to the politicians who are going to travel now at the PNP Custodial Center and in Bicutan.
Since last 2012, he was criticized by environmentalist Ndane was criticized because of the Chinese black spirits in Zambales and according to our athletes, all of these are only in front of them and the real owner, Ebora ane.
The gruesome end is the surroundings of Zambales because almost every corner of its ocean is severe because it is almost every corner of its ocean and it seems that it is as if DENR Secretary Ramon Paje, the so-called HB (King of lazy) in the cabinet of President Aquino.
Instead of improve the coast of Zambales and use the natural beauty of these to improve the tourism in the area, they are cut off and full of numerous holes because of a black spirits.
What's more painful here, the Chinese are allegedly the ones who are going to be the ones who are running the black spirits in Zambales and they were brought to China, their own mothers, who might be used in the steel war which can be used against the Philippines.
In other words, Ebdane was not only carried out by his own province but also in front of his own country, maybe he should file a case against our own country.
But because it is obvious that we will not get away from Paje, it is just the Ombudsman that, the Department of Justice and the Bureau of Internal Revenue, what we can expect from, is that it is good that they will sample them and it is good that they will sample them.
It is good to look at how a Ebora is who is only a former PNP Chief who earned a lot of wealth which he used now to control politics in Zambales.
As long as there are politicians like Ebdatas, who are in mind and not the welfare of our motherland and nature, our fight will never happen to protect our natural resources.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and suggestions, you will just email about gum .Humalig) and gmail! Hala Bables as Gil Bira.
