It was caused by the road to unite and business.

If the government will not solve the slow traffic in vehicles inside the two to four years of making the local government of the government like the skyway 3, the business will probably be brutally murdered in the country.
Not only Metro Manila will be affected but the whole country will be affected, and this will result to bad conditions such as 3 centimeters.
Metro Manila as well.
It is considered that Metro Manila of the national economy is considered.
Here is about 13-15 million people who are almost permanent living and the biggest damage to almost all of the products which are needed by the citizens from Batanes until Jolo, this is where the citizens from Batanes are going to be found here in Metro Manila and provinces.
In the slow traffic of vehicles, people and business, the whole country will be affected.
Pier, airport.
So that they would not be measured or not count of the businesses, even the journey of the citizens and foreigners, we need to use all the pier and airports outside Metro Manila.
If there are business, an example is the target of the sale or the legislative chamber that is outside Metro Manila, all of these from the pier and airports in other places, as well as tourists who are said to be million, are said to be millions, which are said to be millions.
There are said International Airport and airport in Davao and Zamboanga City, of Mactan, Cebu, in Batangas, in Subic was etiquette, in Laoag City, at Clark, Pampanga and others.
All the main office of the government which can be found in Manila, Parañaque, Quezon, Pasay, Makati, Pasig and other cities should not be approved.
Where is the program regarding this?
School for another.
Included in those who worry about the traffic like traffic are millions of students from nearby provinces and entering college and university in Metro Manila.
What are the ready programs of the government for them?
One of the problems of the students is their return to the First Year if they are moving to other school, how can the government solve this serious problem if a student will transfer?
How about the quality of education of the students that they are expected to get from college and university to MM?
Road, bridge, Pier with others.
It is easy to say that businesses, people and education in other places are easy to say, but the government needs a way to make them comfortable.
How are the roads, bridge, airport and other places that pass through nearby places and other places?
Help in business.
Of course, what is the government's program for those who are extremely affected by the too slow traffic, especially for those who will increase the financial loss and cause their livelihood.
Only the partner of the government, which they are calling the Public-Private Parukinig, and other players of construction materials and food of thousands of workers here are the ones who will benefit from the projects.
Can there be help that the government will give to the businessmen who may end up so much and their livelihood will be slow?
Really different.
In experience, there are so many whose businesses or livelihood built but the LRT and MRT are already standing.
What is the government thinking of helping the businessmen here?
More often affected are the small businesses that are being said by the big leaders of businessmen who are taking advantage of 70-80 percent of the businesses in the country, and they are also the ones who have the most influential people.
What are the government doing so many things to live and progress?
Tax!
Even the government himself will experience a taste of income, especially in the tax of businessmen and people in the upcoming problem of traffic in Metro Manila.
That's why, it should be made a way to look for smooth people and company for different businesses and livelihood.
The only one who passed by the government, the tax that will be gathered is more big from those who will be gathered over the broken business instead of those who will come from his partner in the said locations.
In fact, the funds of the government which are used or used for the construction of illegal towns are from millions of people and are not primary from his followers in the projects.
That is why, the citizens should be exported for sure that this will increase in a traffic like two to four years.
