Editorously called the anti-corruption.
July 30, 2016, the majority of Filipinos are happy with the initial performance of the Duterte administration, especially to anti-illegal drugs.
The iron fist of the government against those suspected drug personalities will still be fierce and there is still a fear and improvement of the guards of human rights but it seems that the use of human rights are still prevail today.
But President Digong said in his campaign before and in his first SONA, he will make sure that the corruption in the government will make sure that the anomaly in his former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo will make sure that his family will be buried in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, that is why there are still many who believe and depend on the promise of the President.
That is why President Duterte has a very beautiful chance to make his anti-corruption campaign.
Just this July 27, the Commission on Audit (COA) released a report on the 1 billion peso fund which was being deceived and wasted in the numerous irregularities and violations of the regulations and proper process.
This city government of Tacloban was seen by the COA, according to their report, the DILG, DSWD and BFAR was clearly ordered by the DILG, DSWD and BFAR during the time of the PNoy administration.
Funds to be fixed are the structures that were destroyed, first that the housing project for the victims of Tacloban and the office of the local government and barangay officials should be solved.
At stake in order for their broken livelihood such as Fish, devastated.
But a big percentage of the projects which should be spent on by the funds accepted by the Tacloban City government from the national government should not end.

There are those who were canceled because of the anomalous contract, there is a project that will fill the "No Contact Policy" and there are people who, according to the record, received funds even if they are not gay or qualified.
All of this is a clear form of corruption and what's worse, the victims of fierce typhoon Yolanda have been utilized by the victims and have helped a lot in their recovery if it was not hit by the Tacloban City government, agree with the COA report.
