It turns out that a house was cut off and I had a class in the town hall of Lucban, my sister, who was a love tourist in our center.
What kind of people, who are together with the people but of the U Vs, Manila now, I have a child, but I am also a child.
So what kind of father is, you are looking for a house.
He applied at me.
The life of mother Emma invited her children to be amnesty.
Here, when I cut the filipino people who are eating this Saturday of Sorsogon, he / she was taking care of a small person just like her child, that's why when I admire the children, that is why I am having a huge knowledge for them to return to each other.
What?
.
I have money.
What is the five-year-old Michael and thank you for her mother who is taking care of her here in Domingo.
Fourth.
Twelve years have passed when he started to work.
Unlike other kids that my parents even noticed that Marco is already sick with Marco, what's painful is that her intestines are not complete.
Hala.
Every time Marco is eating in the video karera to where she parked her mother, she parked her food, his food using a small salary.
He was able to leave because he / she was able to leave because he / she wasn't able to leave.
He is his throat which is why he's eating all about it, because it turns out that he / she has a Standard Lunch Program because the hole is small.
For a few days, we are even hurting a candle.
I have no way to open a Sunday when my mother still left.
They say that they have a good luck or income earlier in four years of living and marriage.
This is because of the children, of course, there are people who get hurt and are just making a little bit like this program.
Most are four years.
Then, he was not able to catch anything but it is normal for us four pesos, which is not only four children who left me wherever they put in a Plaza terminal hospital and on the streets.
Well.
Ten children are standing because the mother is a mother.
"Marco, said to be the one to read the children from the pipe.
Mother, mother, are really a lot of people, who are proud and are going to need a show up earlier.
In line, he / she said that he / she said that even if we were talking about a good conversation, we already went down, there are only seven who went down and there is only a whistle of a mountain who is ready to be ready.
Will you not abandon you?
Let us just accept yes, if we, ten children, four older brother, have added that we will add up to five out of us that will also be added to us by the stop that is why we and Cesar Diaz are different.
There is a need to add up when they add more.
Okay.
"It is different when I called, because the children left here are different, not just like the children who are living here in the car, we know that there are children who are living here in the car, we know that there are children who are living here in the car, we know that there are children who are living here in the car, we can see that there are children who are living here in the car, we can see that there are children who are living here in the car; we can see that there are children who are living here in the car, we can see that there are children who are living here in the car.
It was found out if the children who say that you have told me here are different kinds of money in order to help a few parts of their bodies.
This is what was their five four-four-four-four-four-four-Illegal Drugs Group who may be able to study because it's only one of the soldiers there for the children here for the children of C-R City and it is hard to visit the children who were supposed to visit because they are hard to visit their lives.
Every time it is like that, it is already pregnant for me, the one who ordered me, whose illness is cut off; and this illness is still the reason why Michael knew that he was given attention to the toys.
That is what is coming from.
There are almost four o'clock.
In their age Labuan, there is no other country that the small days that I found out for a small day, I discovered that he / she discovered that he / she found out for a child with a child with City, they want them to be helped.
We are very pitiful; we don't have the end to talk with him / her so there's no end to talk to him and it seems like Anthony Torres is the same way for you to have a way for around seven o'clock in the evening.
