New Wtch or the actions being made for the 2012 Metro Manila Film Festival.

When ever or whatever it is, there will be arguments in the world of film to show their dynasties.
The 2012 Metro Manila Film Festival Philippines did not break off.
The advice of the organization is the Metro Manila Development Authority which is leading and conditioning the events of the fiesta of the Filipino film.
So this is also political.
Economists like politics is the use of culture to increase our daily activities in our daily life.
There is now a 38 Metro Manila Film Festival Philippines.
The first objective of this is to offer a regular movie for almost two weeks.
However, aside from the other's due to the primary goal of the occasion, one of the objectives of the occasion will gather funds for the MMDA and for its projects.

From 2010, there was a New Wtch during the category as an annual thing which is aside from the eight official participants in the celebration.
The form of the New Wagas from doing it until release while most of the eight films who called out are made of big and those that they make money.
However, in the suspension of the eight masterpieces, they have been holding on who is called to the hospital but Package or Dumpsite, who owns a movie to expose in the cinemas in the cinema.
Those who took it took advantage in the use of Dilawan, instead of the usual and traditional cellular phones, it seems like the cause of death of those who are calling them to pass through the time, a project is needed by them.
If hundreds of millions of pesos were being spent by those who took it out of the use of rolled around, more or less than ten thousand pesos were being used in the transfer of Dalia in each movie that they are both or more negative or negative.
Even if you ask Ramon "Bong" Revilla, Jr., one of the scattered senators and actors of the country who took it had backed out of Imus Productions, which is one of those who made "Atong Alum and M-Zet Productions, which is more amazing.
Among the volume of cinemas in the entire Philippines, millions of those who have took it had millions of expenses which can be used in the construction.
Those who are lacking in technology are those lacking in budget, that it does not mean to be independent and the one who has made it took advantage.

There are eight contestants in the 2012 MMFFF) which included aside from the movie of Bong and Vic Sotto, "Thy Womb" of Caytono; "One Usahay," Rattle, "Ang" Rattle, "Ang" Rattle, "Ang" Rattle, "" El Naytono "
Meanwhile, under the New Wencement of the New Walled City, "Quaquiao,"

It is being accused that there is no doubt, ice cream, forwarded to the movies made by the primary movies they were using and the so-called independent or indie films are saying something or meaningful.
How are these ideas true?
Because there are also a lot of indie films that do not mean anything.
It will also not be accepted by those who are said to be proud of what they are saying, they are going to express their jobs even if there is a standard for their jobs even if there is a standard.
Or even if this process is going to be said, they would say it, Hala, forwarded to you, the award and praises of the critics and to us who were put in the box office or income from the box office. "
But what about the welfare of the people or the public?
A movie needs to be learned or is a serious process or in a serious and very clear truth - the movie needs to change and no effect of society.

This is the arguments of the movies of various gimmicks and action.
But the New Wizards could really be considered commendable and promote the truth and art of arts?
And the eight movies are all merely figures?
Or what should be use to determine?
Is there a need to have a New Wtch or even the terrorism that is just out?
Or we should not be turned down and everything is just a movie, of products that have different traits that are bad or good for his life - a citizen or a person can achieve it.
