
Rice and SBoy Boy.

At last, the National Food Authority also admitted that it is just pretending to be President Aquino when it has been proven that it has been used in his past State of the Nation Address which is important to the country at the end of this year.
It looks like his favorite Midnight Cabinet Secretary Production Alcala is treated at him because of Assistant Secretary Romeo Recide by the Bureau of Executive Secretary Statistics) said that there is no truth that the production of rice is enough.
On the first day of the legislative chamber's hearing about the revealed P457million pesos in the revelation of the rice of NFA from the country Vietnam, it seemed like a chuces that Recide admitted to his boss Production.
According to Recide, more than 500,000 pounds have been lacking in the Philippines that is why PNoy is proud of his SONA that we can keep pace with the countries like Vietnam when it comes to the production of rice.
It turns out that, why is it that Alcala seems to be in the world of phenomenon, and he still does not want to go from the world to achieve his department to achieve self-tempered in the end of 2013.
"Why is it that he added that Propaganda of the country who is hoping to be from a country who is hoping to be the Philippines, is the Philippines, which is why the Philippines has officially announced it?
"He said," he will not clarify, "what he did for French President to other countries is not enough to feed even a small barangay in a day.
And because she is really kind of Recide, perhaps he already admitted that he also admitted to all of us, including PNoy.
The funny thing about this is that the NFA and DA experienced being done by NFA and alleged opportunist businessmen who are responsible for the continuous increase in price of rice, but in the conducted hearing, NFA admitted that they have no evidence on their allegation.
Even the excuse that Calayag of NFA is still new in NFA that's why he still has not yet able to get the character of their scheme and opportunist taxi drivers.
If that is the case, why are Calayag of Calanoga, it seems that the name "Boy's name seems to be just something like him but he has not done anything but to arrest him!
If NFA just admitted that the price of rice is increasing, because the price of rice is increasing in the market, which is not enough for how our problem with rice is.
