Let us go against them and the culture of treacherous ways.

Mary Joy T.

It is a strong feeling that the start of the 119th Independence Day is a sign that it is time to start the statue of those who does not want to and the rightfulness of their hands in the wind, faster and it seems that the crook in their hands are cut off.
This is only one of the inventor of the Intertropical Convergence Zone that may be a Filipino or-tra-M-kilogram), the group who approached music and music from the gathering of the southern in East Asia.
Also.
It was first established in 1989, the 11-kilogram LPG which can be merely instruments such as Herrero (gnomes, drums), made of metal and wood which is made of wood (IED), seven) and other instruments used in wood.
The-kilogram LPG is also used in the form of the Intertropical Convergence Zone one (eateries, apple cider vinegar, Pavors) and snacks, avarse, Marchs) and snacks.
However, maybe if it comes from the word-kilogram LPG at present, it is from the words uttered by Indonesia the "use of Indonesia" on the group of traditional instruments.
Production. Pedro R. it became an inspiration to undergo an LPG which is given music and dancing from the common kind of noise because it is said to be different from the common noise because it is often separated from the ordinary noise because it is often separated from the common kind of-kilogram LPG.
Just this August 30, the 11-kilogram LPG was held in the garden of the fairies where "Pad will be in the garden of a day as celebration for their 24-year anniversary.
Compared to other organizations in the university, the applicants have not allowed to pass through the historical process - shouting, casian, final interview and the final interview with the only ticket to be a part of the group.
He also added that having a free form of singing or music in an LPG. "We did not need to follow the pattern, because the form of our singing and dancing, a former member of an Arab Emirates," says Carlito Caidic, former member of the kilogram LPG.
The said group is open to all individuals even if they do not come from a university, as long as they want to show the ability of their talent and learn from music.
"An 11-kilogram LPG which started to be carried out with a piece of coconut plantation for music, but it can be exported to the interest of the company in the funeral parlor," Tuwid na Daan, "says Mister Iwill, an 11-kilogram LPG.
However, they are being harassed as a group so they still need to assist each other, said to relax and also their perseverance in training from 6 to 9: 00 in the evening, everyday.
One.
Meanwhile, despite the success of the kilogram LPG, the low number of students who hang out here and the lack of appreciation for the native music was noticeable.
In relation to this, it can't be denied that too much exhaustion of students in the southern influence - K-Pop, NCC), while it seems that it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as if it's as a contest for the indigenous people in the month of language, or for example.
On the other hand, the peso is making a new way of LPG at dawn and the audience will look at their continental qualifiers or dancing to their inspiration because it is being treated by a new noise and topography.
That is why, they are trying hard to spend an kilogram LPG at the coming days, "we are just trying to make a symbol like the flag of the Philippines that shows the division in the country as they say,"
According to Raymond Williams, his culture is being divided in the three category process of mentality, and to give birth, a way of living a person and animals; and the importance of tasks, tradition and arts of the people.
It is usually used for a final decision that is why it is considered as singing, covetousness, and standards of product of culture.
The community is considered an 11-kilogram LPG, which is why it is free to be a part of studying and enriching this, within a disciplined manner, one example is the instruments used by all members of a community.
"The primary goal of the peso is to continue the Filipino culture in the appearance of their dancing and music," Cainguitan who can show to acknowledging the Filipino culture for giving information or the use of instruments in the present.
In this way, the culture will be known more because it is not imprisoned just a few of them, where there is right and ability to join any activities like drinking, he does not want to join and be music.
According to Barista, many of them are roaming the culture of Filipinos, not only in the country but also outside the country, it is important to take care of and get to know the traditional instruments in respect for the native culture.
The culture was quick to influence, which is why it is being done by the owners of big companies or those who are being carried away in order to earn big amount.
In the middle of the low version of capitalized in the vandalism of our native culture, the-kilogram LPG owned and it will be faster if there will be a lot of opportunities, going to crowded places and society.
Full of taste.
The 11-kilogram LPG is trying to bring their construction in a bigger jurisdiction of the viewers, Iwill explained.
They are also trying to follow the idea that the workers and the listeners will just leave the university and they were able to leave the university that was left in the country.
However, the-kilogram LPG is still being instruments in taking care of the problems being faced in the community and to show the real actions that will be taken from the school.
"
In the interview with some social activities, they are becoming instruments to make the call of the audience of the call about the issues of society who are facing different sectors, farmers, workers, women and many others.
That's why aside from the show to the culture of Filipinos, it is better to serve as a gathering of the kilogram LPG to save the people the issues forcefully locked in my society through the box of violence.
