
Barangay AOIL?

In the law of Local Government Agreement (LGC) and in our Saligang Batas, the Intertropical Convergence Zone that can help national and local government can help in the national and local government.
This is the barangay who has a small unit of service to the people, the barangay, as an institution should be the only ones to be the only ones in the face and hands of politics and politicians.
The recently concluded election case was released by the said barangay, it showed that it is not safe and free from politicians.
In the official list of the national police, more are killed, the cause and victim of dirty politics in the barangay, it means, this is not the first step towards the high level of politics.
Just in the campaign town, there are already a lot of holiest parts of the brimming of votes which has money, there is rice and delata who have a lot.
Let us include the more conservation in the poster of the candidates who travel and make its own community.
It even worsened that politicians get worse in the election time until the counting on the process of voting, but the one who is an ally of the candidates who are giving a flyer but some of those who are not known to have a fluster of money, "the others, who will pretend to be" voting Assistance center, but those who carries money and food to the voters.
This is what should be given solution to as a politician who has a representative, not only the clouds that are being done not only by the officials of the barangay but the candidates who want to run in the election.
On the other hand, the voters also showed the foolishness.
They already know that their leader was not able to make a good leader, there are still votes who are blind, hard and deaf!
Our politics is alongside us in raising the culture of the attitude "clad or a clan.
Include those with co-workers, relatives, friends, together with those KKK in Malacañang, it means that our political system will not change, voters, will not change.
And if in the barangay, he is taking care of an avers, how about the national election?
It would be more weight of those KKK than choosing the right leader, if the answer is OPLAN, we should not wait for a change in our society's system.
Let us just let us rot thoroughly and that is what we want, not only the leader of the country should change.
We, in our self, should learn first before asking for change.
