They are applying for a new generation that can be enforced by my new boss, which is a new salary, which is also a new salary for the students and their parents, as well as the new salary in the plastic bag, is it a big help for the students and their parents like what was looked into by them.
It does not care for the time and expenses from Parañaque on T'boli, it is difficult to be C Bam o'clock in the three.
You are very drunk here in Parañaque, both of the students whose students are full of students, who were able to respond to, who were able to enroll for a few kinds of class before July is also a new opportunity, the program, Tito here, would not be fulfilled.
We are the same feeling for the first day of school for many years.
Meanwhile, the fourth year of the SEP in our Filipinas, this is a fool, that is why they say that one of them is speaking with the T-L HQ.
I followed the line up of its students who thought about what they chose at around three o'clock in our place, it seems that many are going to wear clothes because they have a lot of classes in the bank.
Because your former is, I can visit from.
In business, there will be someone who will get along.
Then, you can earn.
If we are all women, I am full of men to live when some electric fan are going to live-in.
It will be imposed on the success of success but they are so arrogant to answer the content of the items being thrown at each other; the First Class.
What happened.
Criminals!
One condo that we have.
Yes, I need to.
An expert one.
Five districts will come in the third year-High School which are exported; Mindoro is still chemicals, but when they are still parked in line, we can still meet the teaching of the bed to use those who have seen him in the past years.
Which is for them.
I am here.
There was a famous student.
Me?
It was almost over.
That is before the question of the questions, let us look like a sound for the call of your safety just so that we will be caught in all-in-law, maybe it's not only until the First Division, all of the students, who have been passed by the government, or not, when it comes to the government's program.
