
Amadeo, in grade.

By Teo and Marasigan, 28, 2015.

A scheduled release or revelation of this proposal is the primary reading on the story, controversial, and pro-adversary, Production. Lanuza, who is wise in dealing with a lot of 1.0 pesos and being smart in the ranks of students in the university of the Philippines or UP.

It is revealed or revealed to a reality about those who are called a scholar of the country, who was able to get high grades from his observation that it cannot be avoided, even activists, who made a lesson from a university in Pramis, his intellect and intelligence from the United States.

It has long been the observation of the students and teachers of UP and another university what Lanuza, how a high grades are going to get.

Perhaps, what he said was that, he said, because he made the public his observation in a Facebook post, it is easy to identify the highest score of Lanuza, all students, especially since a student, or former professor was criticized by Lanuza.

Of course, Production. Jinggoy Estrada, Claudio Aceret, the professor of Women, Development Assistance Fund) of Akbayan, the leader of Akbayan and against activists, in her Facebook account, the fans of Miss Uy, is in his side and against Lanuza, the fans of Miss Uy.

He is also sent out that Lanuza, his co-professor in UP said, that he really wants to worry about his side and fight against Lanuza, it was clear that his professor was convinced, that he / she didn't want to worry about it, which was why they thought that they will probably decline it.

Whatever it is, there are a lot of negative comments that Lanuza in his Facebook post as a reason, it is certain that there is a weakness of the person, especially for individuals, the condemnation of the rules of education, economy or society.

One more thing that he was able to finish the political system, which is often at the table, that is often at the table, that's why there's a lot of society who has a high grades in Facebook, and it can be said that a professor was treated and he is looking into a professor in Facebook, and it can be considered that a professor was signed.

But it is clear that it is clear to have a severe negative reactions, the strong opponent of Lanuza, a solution to the quality of education in the country and is considered to be a huge sum of intelligence from the country, and it is considered as a huge amount of education in the country, and it is considered as a huge amount of education in the country, in defense of a Bangko Sentral ng Masang Pilipino, in defense of a Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.

The critics of Lanuza, in the system of condoms will be brought to the system of unity, but this is also a part of the development being given to us, but it is also a part of the progress of everyone to improve the progress of everyone, "with the free improvement of all the ability of each other.
