Glaiza and Kylie, Atejano.
Arci, made a mistake.
BE by Entertainment Television, August 1, 2016 to Overcome the discussion of a national store in a mall, which is needed in Encantadia because there is a lack of thunder, the fight between Glaiza de Castro and Kylie Padilla.
It would be determined compared to the action of Ang Propaganda of the province of Alum and Alum and Atejano.
The family of Mayor Alfred Romualdez has been able to answer, even the burial of his position, Cristina "Kring Kring" Gonzales himself, who was the alleged P1B which was super typhoon Yolanda?
This should be a lesson especially to their child who cursed at VP Leni Robredo (that because she does not know anything) last election.
Now, does Mayor Alfred also does not know what happened to the fund of Yolanda?
Does this know the ghost of the hotel that was built in showbiz press when he once went back there?
The case that Richard Gutierrez, Bela Padilla and Arci Muñoz with Mucal of the Philippines pageant, who has been waiting for a week, is now being investigated.
Richard was shocked and did not have anything to tell about the answer that was why my answer was already dead, which is why he was already dead-on-air and was just waiting for a candidate.
But she is just careful, Arci Muñoz because, she is able to speak to the said military title, Co who seemed to be able to make it easily.
"Hopefully, he asked how to say it, because that is not what happened to the rule which is why he is pointing out," in the class, he might have no trace of things.
Busy with the happy 24th Aniban, which is contrary to the leading gift management and development center of the country, the Star Magic.
They celebrated the resolution of their distribution yesterday at ASAP, daring books, which is why they did not put any name of artists.
In the hness, it is better for them to know more and they do not need to pay attention to it when they go out of TV because they will be seen.
GMA 7, this will also be daring that is why like the Star Magic? Well, chief of Tanglaw Diva, the ID is supposed to be required.
No ID, or Single Entry Approach?
He / she was wearing.
The one who is faithful to the letter of Sunday wiped by Star Magic Anzon, ASAP) made Dingdong Dantes in the program.
Let us look at its effect on the ratings of your consciousness, we was impressed by him!
