It is perfect for a priest of arts.

18, 2013.

There is a big loss of the consecutive deaths of veteran director of the Filipino movie, Mario or "hara, Marilou Diaz-Abaya and Celso Ad Castillo when it was considered that the three in making a movie last May 70, is considered as the quiet loss of March last 80s, director of more than 50 kilometers per kilo of drama in the '80s or 80.
This May 28, Eddie Romero has passed away, National Bureau of Sining for the movie, Romero is known as the director of democratic movies such as "Noli Me Tangere and director of Jose Rizal in 1992.," he said, he is also the director of the longest race in the local industry of film.

Many do not know that, like the Spaniards considered as de Leon, he also made a low budget movie in America before he was recognized in the Philippines, carrying the style and discipline which he learned from the Hollywood actress, it can be seen in the Hollywood actress that he learned from the Hollywood actress.
The theme of the questions that he wants to discuss to his masterpieces from the most venomous snakes as this happens, the other day and Aguila, even the series of television, Noli Me Tangere - the theme of the television and history of the Filipinos.
At this time, it is very rare for these attempt to use the arts of the movie to challenge the sensibility of the Filipino viewers, for the current trend of the movies, art and as part of the identity, culture and ocean of the Filipinos.

Despite this, Romero will not lose hope in the art of movies in the country, although it is not yet active in making movies like before, Romero will not lose his time in supporting the movies, which is also part of the new and daring books that he supports.
He also tried to use the use of technology of Filipino hospitals that Aling Cecilia, no matter how he was identified, is his last two movies, Romero will serve as an inspiration to children who wants to join in the ongoing history of the Filipino masses.
In the last debate of his life and race, it seems that it is more important to Romero for the next generation of arts of the students of the past two consecutive times by the Filipino movie.
