The root of what is happening in the head in Batangas is being said.
So there are a lot of people who have said that the government should be neglected by the government to become a-month-month-old million pesos.
Following the door of the government, the Islamic Freedom Fighters did not do it.
This is one of the strong ones not to do not go back to Quezon City.
It is not a tricycle not left behind the other number of names of the Philippines who are applying at the back of those who move towards the back of Zamboanga but before it seems that there is an official operation on the side of the Philippines, there is an official operation in the middle of the situation where the government does not pay attention to the government.
That was for a long time.
One one was pointed.
Dennis Villanueva.
Did they end up together with the barbells.
In the death of his vacation in Barangay Zamboanga day, it was possible that the investigation of the incident happened, and what time was Flor talked to his things about driving a different country Republic to breakup with the Philippines.
You answer to find a witness in the death that we have done that they are going to convince peace and legal.
Let us first see that those are happening in the 'game in Road Salas.
It is said that the government being neglected will be the cause of a billion pesos.
Those who are in S-M (GAA (Islamic Liberation Front, who went to the world to be known to the world.
Agreement.
That is the difficulty of your motorcycle, I can't hear that we have heard the checks; he can change in other countries but not, but he does not want it anymore.
Manila.
The ten percent of the Two Wives were almost four o'clock in the span of two hundred pesos.
Four pesos a meeting yes.
Avoid insisting on Indonesia's appearance.
Bon-Bon will be killed.
Yes, a coconut plantation of January said.
When you talked to the size, you had a lot.
The politician.
!
He should have been careful about his vacation.
That he is worried so that he is in danger; as if I am in chaos, it seems that I am not noticing it, and that's what we are talking about, ah, I said.
She said that she should not be annoyed by a table, and how much is they going to help the former here, she said she is still big with the former leaders who have no idea, he / she said, he / she is still a big person; he / she didn't have an intensive care; however, he / she will not be Ms.
He has a high fever that is like what is of the former Commander Director we are.
Students.
Why?
One gay.
Where?
After a while.
It was cut off.
Yes, that means, not deceived or that kind of Christmas party.
Alum and cut the tragedy.
The release of the Philippines is not neglect.
Here, the people who believe that the people who believe in the room of the government of our resort in a free call here in the free agreement with the administration of our resort in the free agreement are going to go to the governance of the Overseas Filipino Workers who are fond of April 4 for six pesos.
Only in just a month, two thousand have been ugly but just wait for it to just wait for someone who is calling me as if there are five who are calling the million to make them eat, they do not have a lot of things on July August when we know that they have a lot of things on July August.
"You are aware that when they are already hungry, they are the only ones with the question now that is why even if it is not his strong faith in God, I tell you that you have to talk to your sister.
There in that position in order to see this, there are a lot of people who showed up to the other room and they were not able to see each other in the other room and they were not able to see each other in the other room and they were not able to see each other than the military that they are using, but they are using the word that they are using, but they are using the word that they are using.
Our economy is now going to talk to that, at peace, it is said that it is not yet done by the government because it has not been talked to by the government because it is said that it has been a person who was able to talk to Santa Rosa, and it was said that he was the one who talked about it at around twelve o'clock in the morning that he was already dead.
He can also use it as if you won't be used to talking to him by the government, he could not say that he really loves the meeting with his father, which is why he / she didn't really tell the meeting with his father-in-law, which is why he / she was also seen to be fetched by his father, that was why he was also with his father-in-law, which was why he was also with his father.
In the room now, they're really trying to find school where they can make it easy.
She said that maybe, in Quezon, I cannot understand.
It is just being talked about that, at me, all the challenges that passed on October.
Because you will be able to finish you before, we have not yet known each other before, because they have not yet seen any inspiration because they say that those who are going to be the ones who are going to move, are the ones who are going to move by the Dilawan, we are also heard by the Dilawan, we have also heard.
You are saying that Rodriquez is really saying that Zamboanga really is going to leave here.
Thank you very much.
