
The report of Jose Rapisora) stated in the statement of 9ID, on the series of fight last March 19, 2012.

Luz del Mar.
Jose Rapisora, BBaba, Masbate.
March 20, 2012.

Jose Rapisora) wants to clarify the said consecutive fights of the military and NPA in the province of Masbate where there were many weapons and deaths of the three red pickpocket who died on March 19, 2012.
The true what happened is that the NPA attacked a place in a place in order to wait for the time of the soldiers of Nepal who were found out of the city of Dimasalang and Palimpinon, which was reported by the masses with suspicious people who did not know and look at the direction of the posts of the military who were saying to have changed and observe the truth.

It did not last long ago when a group of soldiers arrived and fired at a part of the land in front of the former in front of the house and without a long time, another group of soldiers came closer to another direction and no one reported that the two groups have fired shots that might have been placed inside.

There was no retreat from the shooting and shouting at what happened, after almost 30 minutes of gunshots, it seems that other soldiers and weapons were noticed by the soldiers and they immediately fired their guns, which was why they immediately fired their guns, which was why they immediately fired their guns and quickly escaped towards their condition.

At this time, the red pickpocket was unable to run away and the masses just came away after the vehicle of the military reached almost in the morning after their dead and wounded companions were found almost in the morning.

The ten guns allegedly confiscated by the soldiers from the red outposts which were taken by the soldiers who killed the soldiers who killed their companions, or they did not have any idea about their companions who were killed in order to reach a big embarrassment.

Perhaps, Colonel Jun Pacu did not have any idea about the real incident that's why it was immediately reported to his biased in the 9th Infantry Division of the fake report of the alleged success of his personnel or could not be covered up by their big mistake.

We admit that we will admit that it will be a lot of people who will talk about the side of the citizens and the Armed Forces of the 9th IB, to continue to be a kind of criminals involved in rape, bringing a bird, illegal drugs and this last is the killing of their own companions.

But we are saddened for the ordinary soldiers who entered the AFP about the desire to help their families but died in the fight and those whose officials are taking advantage of extravagant police and offices.

We are calling the soldiers who are not addicted to evil and vices to do everything so that they won't be involved with bad habits and being used to achieve people, and if their will get along with the ranks of "permanent," said the New People's Army.
