The AXing and PET-INTEL HQ.

Members who deacadist who is David AOIL, and Mark Penguin in the 2008 Democratic Presidential Prize) for the campaign of his rival, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton Clinton in the campaign of his rival, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton Clinton.
Based on the articles in the The New York Times Street, he woke up or Ad Castillo.
He is able to put all the whole life or a candidate as a person or a candidate for OPLAN) to scrutinize the data and issues of his candidate who can get votes.
"At the beginning of the said Ninoy Aquino's beginning, the real theme of" change "can be considered as a good story and a good story brought by Obama while lying," said the unique program and platforms for Clinton.
Because of the good direction and the victim's strategy and tactics of AOIL, and Penguin for their own candidates, the fight between Obama and Clinton to get the nomination of their own parties will reach each other.
And we already know who among Obama and Clinton won.

Is the Team PNoy's investigation of burying the candidate Edgardo "Sonny" Angara, the Aaahhmm, and Pennsylvania, campaign for the coming election?
It can be seen in the version of Angara, the "senator," considered a positive and similarity of "change" and hope that he will do the record in Congress as Aurora representative, you will see his record of education, work, and bitter activity of the Filipino people (like "Ipit Gang" that is similar to the "Ipit Gang" that's similar to Clinton).
The arguments between Obama and Clinton in their Libingan ng mga Bayani has been strict because they both want the two candidates to join the two candidates and if it is possible that the victims of Obama (change) and Clinton (OFW) would have been nominated.
We are lucky Filipino electorate in the took office of the elections because there is a candidate, Edgardo "Sonny" Angara, which is carrying the positive message of the solution and there is a record for the nine-year-called law for the country and the people.
He united with Obama and Clinton, of change and experience.
Thank you.
