Damn!

John Toledo.

Jovon Calinao, 17, fear and happiness in the morning of Sabino, along with almost 70,000 students, along with almost 70,000 students, scheduled to set a peaceful future - the UP College (UPU).
His family has no ability for the review center that is why as a preparation, he chose to be a lesson from his former lesson last 2009-February.
But in the opening of the school starts, in a different university, Jovon. "The love of UP arrived," he said.
None of the Philippines.
Second with the three siblings Jovon Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP), is in the fourth year-ranked leader, Mary Joy, and in North Fairview High School, their youngest sibling, Mary Joy, and in North Fairview High School.
"He is good especially in the discussion and extrajudicial." Said Mary Joy.
Because of its natural skill, it is not surprising that Callamard is one of those who passed the UP. But, a state university which can be considered, the parents cannot pay for his tuition here.
The security guard in La Mesa Dam is the father Victor Victor, while Nanay Joyce got pregnant.
Nanay Joyce paid the attention of P780 every day of his wife for expenses like money and water, and even his monthly payment for the Social Security System and PhilHealth.
True or not?
With the amount of bills, Jovon UP just decided to study in UP. "A waste said that I should send UP.," according to UP.
But if ever he went to UP, he will pay more than the tuition fee now in PUP who is almost 12.00 per liter.
When he was able to take care of his Soccorridors (STS), he hopes for a free tuition fee, he was disappointed when he / she was disappointed when he / she was disappointed when he / she was disappointed when he / she was likely to pay 600 pesos per hour or 9 o'clock.
Jovon UP tried to enter UP and even tried a scholarship for the letter of President Benigno Aquino III to show her in front of a scholarship, he has not sent his scholarship for three times.
"I already learned how to go back to UP Diliman, that's why I tried to school to PUP," says Chanel Panganiban even if she forced him to have a scholarship for UP.
"Commissioners Al-Illegal Drugs Act," Higher Education, 186. 1 billion pesos, 186 per unit, 186 million pesos, "Isnain, Secretary General of National Union of Students, the Philippines.
If you think about it, 600 million pesos of units for students who get 15 million units (almost P4,500 - up to P4,000 pesos per day or almost $11, 670-12, 780 kilometers per month in Manila, according to the data of National Walis, according to the data of National Walis.
They are also spending on a month of P11, 856 for the house to be done, while P1,458 every month is being spent for other expenses in school even if the tuition, according to the bird Foundation, an institution research.
If you think about it, on 2011, 2012, one of every five students or almost 604.44, who are able to have been paid 100,000 pesos and down every year, according to the data of Vice President for tuition or almost two to seven students, 000 SR.
It means, "that's why it's really not affordable for the strategy of the Filipino people to be made by the Filipino people," says Arguera Canila, the World Health Organization (CSC).
As a matter of course, his son of UP cannot be able to study even if he is a public institution.
An ill-mannered family.
That's why, even the recovered score of UP CAT, a high mark on the lower post, it is also not a chance to enter UP.
It is only one example happening between the thousands of students who did not go to UP.
Even if there is a high number of applicants and those who are able to study, almost 1 / 3 every year, it is almost 1 / 3 every year, when the data of the Office of the University Regulations (January 11 was not confirmed, which passed the university while it is up to 3 hours that they confirmed.
An example, Angelita Dela Cruz, 18, has also been passed in UP LB in the course, BS Civil Service last 2009. Six passed the UP from his lower post but only the two went to UP, he said.
When he allegedly sent a letter from the Office of Adosto, he got on the written P1,000.
It was fortunate that Angelita was lucky to get a lot of chemicals in his ability to pay the tuition fee.
"You can consider the giving of UP CAIDs anymore before you might think that you think of you, thank you and the state of Fight IT.
In August, the thousands of students are going to travel again to get UP CAIDs for some who want to be tested, there are some who want the ability to be tested, and there will be a certain steps in order to rise from poverty.
But during the time when the ability to pay an individual is the primary root of his chance to study in the university of the country, it is not impossible that there will be a lot of things connected to other schools that will be received, even if his capital is not good.
