
The NPA-NPA increased again this 2012.

Eduardo Labrador.
PKM-Southern Tagalog.
December 21, 2012.

Mendiola - a twin report to the world today, December 21, the Basilica Minore of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), that the New People's Army (NPA) will be consumed during the end of the year 2012 in South Quezon and Bondoc Jr.

It can be recalled that General Eduardo Año said last June that the entire province of Quezon has announced before the end of the year of Quezon before the end of the year and said that it has been a long time ago and it is said that this government is in a long time.

But according to the statement that they distributed to a national rally in Mendiola of the national Katipunan ng Magbufarm (PKM), the opposite is happening in the fields that are being attacked by the Oplan Galugad of AFP. "

According to Eduardo Labrador, spokesperson of PKM, members of the National Democratic Front in Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST), "this is more than a year in the field of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (CPP) to be loved and supporting the NPA."

"It was said that the masses did not complete the armed revolution; like the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Philippine US-Aquino III, the Oplan Galugad conducted by Benigno Simeon Aquino III failed to join the Filipino farmers," added Labrador.

Along with the recent rally, those who arrive in the footbridge of Morayta, which is an executive leader in the footbridge of Morayta, said that the three faces of the communists, Marx, Lent and Mao.

According to the group, NDF-ST program is confident about the poorest programs of the reform in the land for more than the increase of group of NPA especially from the ranks of the farmers.

"While the these are piled up between those who have heard the type and the Filipino people, and the development of development of the filipino masses, the more citizens in the rightfulness of the Batasang Pambansa, and fair solution to poverty," the content of their statement.

Protesters also appealed to continue to strengthen the Filipino people and hope to strengthen the current chapter of basic commodities for a new chapter with major havoc.
