Filipino, on the continue to be free.

Is there really no end to extorting the projects in my beloved Philippines?
We are asking this because of the fire that was allegedly being thrown by some high officials of the government of Czech Republic and leader of the company, which was supposed to be a colony of wagons for the Metro Rail Transit.
Every administration which was initially reported there is a possibility of extorting and last the $30 million extortion about the MRT.
Vitangcol and de Vera.
It is the center of the said investigation after extorting the MRT General Manager Al Vitangcol III and his own "ambassador to the cabinet, Wilson de Vera, member of the Liberal Party of PNoy.
Of course, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas also jokes about the attempt to be charged when he was even the Department of Transportation and Communications Secretary.
Currently sweeping of Transportation and Joseph Ramon Abaya also criticized Roxas because, even if he is the one ordered for the investigation, he sits on the case.
RL-R and TSETC.
Czech Republic of the Philippines Joseph Q. chtar and Ichambers (Commission on Human Rights (Commission on Audit) will increase their fingers against Vitangcol, De Vera and Abaya.
Temporal tar and justice are said to be asked by De Vera, followers of Vitangcol, justice costs $30,000 pesos to submit the contract on the new 48 wagons of the MRT.
That means that, Bro, Moro and Moro brothers and christians who will just give the government for it, which is why the Ichs Group will give $30,000 pesos.
Norman Vincent Peale quickly opened after justice will report to him and let it be sent to the authorities.
Roxas has left the problem and it passed on Abaya who allegedly ordered an appropriate investigation.
However, it might be impatient for the slow investigation of the National Bureau of Investigation, which is why it has its brains and it has reached the public's knowledge.
The Chamber wants to investigate the mandate and is being endorsed by the group of Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares and Navotas Representative Edcel Lagman.
Longer in the procession.
Because of this revelation, Bro, 09051090451 and the suffering of many people can be clearly seen.
In the heat of the traffic, the projects which are allocated for the election in 2016 are getting bigger than the procession of the churches which are passengers of MRT.
The MRT is not enough for the wagons, and it can't just lead the 500,000-600,000 passengers this day, aside from Sunday.
Here, this bad taste of corruption is very clear.
Now, if the investigation of the NBI is over and they are just looking at the legal aspect, where is the report?
Question: A high official of the PNoy government is fired, and the reason why it did not reach the Palace is to express what happened but this is the only official who will be allowed to be sacrificed?
$330,000 (NBM-ZTE.
In the past administrations, the NBTE is going to call $330 million pesos.
This is a source of the downfall of the Marcos regime, and it continues to rise in the establishment that became an anomaly, not only on the contract of the foreigners but also in robbery in the country's funds.
Now, the Philippines is in poverty because the government of Aquino is conquered by the corruption here until he lost control of the public service.
As said by the most majority of people, even if it is said that the anti-corruption campaign of PNoy is, the majority are not feeling anything.
3,000Pad of Afuang.
In the middle of the decade of 90, the Pad of Atejano appeared that he tried to send almost 500,000 hectares of Manila Bay.
From Manila to Cavite, the length and full of P5,000 is attempted to be filed and connected to the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos.
More than P3 billion is said by Manong Ernie Maceda to have the hold of all corrupt from Malacañang until the Congress and some officials in Metro Manila and Cavite.
But the approval of this is not finished, but it will worsen because this year is the construction of the independent power producers and the electricity that made the electricity in the Philippines.
Now, almost everyone is struggling because of the expensive electricity and only the businesses here are too much wealth, including the government who are pleased with having a big tax and benefit from the expensive electricity.
$33billion pesos.
Prior to all the mentioned orders of the project involved in the Bataan Nuclear Power Plant.
The $600 million of actors who have known to be $2.3 billion because the government is trying to pay for it for a few years.
It also started after extorting $17-30 million and have a hold of the construction of the project in the company burns.
The entire town experienced this because the government paid for a huge year in debt.
The funds were being taken back then by the funds that should have been used for education, health, housing and many others.
According to you, Bro?
