Lime in the New World Academy, UPP-shirt, The Netherlands for the national implementation of the country in the middle of the country on the end of the US and those who will be able to attend.

Reporting, Jose Maria Sison.
Hmmmp, Liberal Party of the Philippines.
November 15, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (the National Democratic Front is the resolution of the US's trial to federalism.
My fellow actors and my neighbors.

A good afternoon, thank you very much, Maria Hacadversary, "Basil, or Acting elf, which can be exported in the state of welcome and assigned to the New World Academy for the division of the program.

My work now is the trial of the country to talk about the national competition and to those who will go to the Philippines because it is related to the title of arts and democracy for the national freedom and democracy in the Philippines.

I will raise these kinds of political issues, economists, and even the national process of art of art and local government, and the direct discussion of the country, as a direct discussion of the country, as a corresponding discussion of the country, as a corresponding discussion in the Philippines.

I will also give my view on how the arts and duck are needed and being implemented by the US and those who are going to attend to the masses and the advancement of the masses and the advancement of the masses and the advancement of the criminals in the annual process.

So that it will not push through the theme of the country, I want to face the animals and the public to give justice to the public service and the process of giving justice to the national hearing of the country, and the process of art of the country, as a mayor of arts against the abuse and abuse.

One among the Batasang Pambansa in the Philippines.

The Filipino people can be exceptional for the very first country in the entire Asia that were launched and was able to win the Sydney Olympics in 1898.

The ratification of the 1896 Revolution of 1896 Revolution was feasted in and so, there will be a high-ranked leader of the US which is based on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is based on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is based on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that is based on the Intertropical Convergence Zone that can be used in the Kuala Lumpur SEAG.

The US launched a barbells as well for the republic of the Philippines to speed up the total of 1.5 million population in the 7 million population in the process of Hungitan which made the entire community in 1899 to 1902 and the entire community which caused the incessant use of shouting.

The US will be swayed by the US the filipino people to fund their own destruction and the defeat of the mining companies, construction of several adjacent products, and will be moved by the local products in the opening of the mining companies, which can be stepped on by the low products from the previous everywhere.

He was founded on a system of education and culture that can be considered in the US, but this time, he was forced to spread our education and culture to serve as professionals and human rights to serve those who are patriotic and human rights to serve those who are going to serve as pro-Filipino and businesses.

Included in the civic works that came out from the thick, economists, and the Lord Almighty, which is part of a large percentage of the population are the middle of a 1 percent and 8 percent of the Saligang Batas, the workers and farmers, which reached 15 to 75 percent.

Since the early time of the 25th century, the line of the workers is going to prosper in the ranks of the workers of the island of the Philippines (PCCP), to the highest idea of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PPEP), the undercard fight of the Liberal Party of the citizens in a national revolution.

After leaving this on 1930, the Pad of colorums will be held in the US.

It was allowed to act on illegal under the anti-Tropas of Pritil, 1937.

It is figured out that this is the HBayan Patroller of the Japanese on 1942 after the attack of the Japanese in the Philippines was disregarded by the opportunities, which can be carried away from the right age of PPEP (1948), which are being taken by the Pambansang Kamao (1948) and the right age Order (1948).

Last 1946, the US was given to the Philippines to be for defense of the Philippines, which is why the US administration has not directly hit the US but through the interest of big politicians who want to rule and control the system of economists, politics, culture and security in the Philippines.

The US made the Philippines as an example of democracy (the truth is the trash can be taken by the Liberal Party and Liberal Party which can be elected by the Liberal Party and Liberal Party which can be elected by the martial law, and this was done through the information gathered by the law in 1972.

While the barbells and political crisis are getting worse, the local crisis of the filipino masses was quick in the last share of 1960s, which was criticized by the pro-dugo-lualto organization last 1996.

They clarified that the traits of the Filipino workers as the Pambansang Kamao will bleed, and the equivalent trait of the senior citizens, the workers, farmers and the main leaders of the country, farmers, and one of a new country is focused on the main chapter in a vacant revolution.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines increased to the integrity of the guidance of Marlboro St., 1968, 1968 after he started the form of the National Democratic Front last March 29, 1968.

Salik is taking advantage of the removal of the burial of the PKP, BHB and NDF) but since then, those who alternately visited are spreading and taking advantage of the citizens for the benefit of the local US and local opportunist type of big politicians and the Lord Nazarene.

The new implementation of a new country is continued to fight for the national freedom, democracy, economy of society, progress through public service and the national growth of the citizens by Filipino countries in the entire country and the legal movement of the masses to the country.

II is the crimes that comes around in the US and their neighboring provinces.

With the objective of the citizens to focus on the end of the US and those who are going to serve, we should be aware of the martial law of crimes that they should take care of.

Should be held liable in the end of the US, if the new US is mentioned, we are referring to the deral state of the US and other agencies, the corporation and banks who are placed in order to do the discretion and corruption.

1.

2, the direct effect of colorums will go to the Philippines from 1902 to 1946, aside from the continuous abuse of the Japanese from 1942 to 1945, the citizens of colorums will pay the importance of the discretion and improvement of the US and colorums in the price hike.

3.

4.

5.

6.
