Love and forgiveness at Kuya Rom August 31, 2016.
Her father had a big admiration for her father, because she is smart and has a lot of things as a barangay captain, she is doing whatever she wants, the people and a lot of fans are following him and he got up with her husband.
Her admiration was gone when it was replaced with anger that lasted for many years.
Her parents reconciled again, that is why he tried to understand his father that the day is near his wedding but how can she forgive a father who is a liar or how she can forgive a father liar? This is the last part of my advice to him.
Dear Verano.
To improve your understanding, based on the research of expert people, here are some things that are possible part of the personality and personality of your father.
He has a high level of admiration and giving importance to self (equivalent to self-tempered), a serious search of admiration by others (to-law), and can easily get hurt even about the smallest comments about the smallest comments.
Because of the extreme anger and appreciation of himself and he thinks that he can do many things, he ran in the election and became a barangay captain.
Because he is looking for the admiration of others, he entered the field of politics, where he can be famous and admired by many people.
Because he does not feel any feeling about the feelings of others and doing everything he wants, that he / she cheated on your mother and became a womanizer.
Because she is easily hurt even about the smallest comments, she cannot bear and separated with your mother.
But the time comes with clear mind and regret, that is why he returned to your mother.
But your mother got sick and passed away, that is why your parents are alone on this day.
This is because of love, your mother forgave your father for his sins.
Love and forgiveness has a power to clean and erase the sin.
Everything is guilty, but love and forgiveness is a way of God to clean and erase the sin.
According to him, it is a good thing that you should be kind and understanding among each other and forgive each other and forgive each other as an apology of God for you because of Iglesia ni Cristo (Efeso 4: 32).
You will be sent to each other and it will be given to you if you have grudge against us because God also forgave you.
And most of all, take a bath, because this will cause real unity, "(Coling 3: 12-14).
It is said that the wedding is a narrowing of this chest and it is a pages in the book of your life so that the start of the new chapter will be good if you turn your love and forgiveness.
Forgive your father to have a part of your marriage if the time will come that you will understand the life of the couple, love and forgiveness.
