
Philippines - the disease of Ebola virus has changed.

Like the three countries being attacked by the Ebola virus in West Africa, there is a big possibility that the said fierce and deadly disease is big.
Said countries are composed of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
As early as now, many are afraid that it is far from the three countries because it has been possessed by an illness by three dead and 200 people are being monitored by the government who might be infected with it.
In three countries, the patient quickly reached 2,000, and up to 1,200 died in the past few months.
The United Nations is saying that what is happening with the Ebola virus is wrong and he did not think that the situation of being attacked by the countries is wrong.
There are more than 4,000 OFWs.
In case the government continues the declaration of more than 4,000 Filipino workers from the three countries being attacked by Ebola and if it will remain no control over the safety of the many OFWs here, there is a big possibility that the illness in the Philippines will remain.
There is no report on an OFW who is infected with illness, even P115 members of the Philippine Contingent of the United Nations Peacadic Force who are station in Liberia.
That's why our government is still thinking if the Contingent is even hotter than an OFW.
But if someone is infected and died, it is certain that the government will quickly think and decide like what he did in Libya when there was a debt of OFW and rape there.
The government immediately declared a alert level 4 and conducted a forcefully evacuation.
Always slow.
Now the economy of the three countries went down.
The number of parts or branches of their government is still paralyzed or paralyzed.
And the help of other countries in these countries will also fall.
Land in the economy.
Included in those who are taking the downfall of the economy is the rise of tourism and trade in other countries.
There have been many countries allowed the landing of their airplane to anchor the ships.
Even the trips of trucks are coming out and coming from the neighboring countries are closed or completely closed, therefore, tourism will be closed, and it is normal when it comes and out of the people and business.
Even the inner movement of the citizens and businesses are still limited.
The quarantine on the places and people with Ebola and many trips are prohibited.
Where will the country have happened like this?
Government!
There are many paralyzed agency of the government for these countries because there are many officials and personnel of the government for a vacation or from the places of Ebola.
They closed the school.
Only it is noticeable that it is noticeable that the military, police, Green and other sources of action for the national emergency.
The citizens cannot be expected to act and help because of fear that they are infected and killed.
The corpses of the dead were left where they left and there are more people who die from other diseases because many hospitals have closed the lack of doctors, nurses and other professionals for health.
How will the government fall down in this situation?
Help.
More than a million people lost their livelihood because of the illness of three countries.
Their respective government are weakening especially since there is no cure against illness and threw him away from work in the government.
That is why, the United Nations and almost all countries are making ways to extend their help to food, water, medicine and other high needs of the victims.
But there have been a lot of countries saved from airplanes, ships and money to enter the said countries, the quick solution to be brought to help is already at risk.
And the problem in transportation is a big problem now.
How to save the disease, hunger and normal lives of the victims?
Doctor Lira!
Ordinary doctors have lost confidence as a nurse, a nurse and other brooks.
That's why they are being driven out and are already going home to their respective countries.
They want to live more than who will die without time and do not have a fight.
Even the medicolitos were working in their hospitals, immediately let go of fear that they are infected and killed.
Only those with 700 doctors, nurse and others are still in the custody of the Philippine National Waziristan, those who are fighting against the illness, along with the local medicolegging.
When it comes to the Philippines.
What is happening in the said countries, it might also happen to the Philippines if we have committed Ebola.
That is why, the government should have been ready yet before it comes home to OFWs, including the Philippine Contingent.
If not, all of our lives will be maintained.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an estimation of Pad or text message to 092163333-1090451.
