Tuesday, January 7, 2014.

Visit Lola Rosa, the remaining son of the hero Teodoro Asedano.

Visit Mark Anthony dela Rosa, the remaining child of the hero Teodoro Bacani.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

That day is historical, January 5, 2014, day of Sunday, because it has reached up to the first time the youngest child of the hero Teodoro Asedillo - Mommy Rose or Mrs. Rosa P.

Asedillo, Medveded.

We were able to go there because of the invitation of Ate Gigi, one of the members of the Liberal Party of Masa (PLM) in Laguna, that she showed it to his acquaintance with Ate Asayillo, she was asked for her acquaintances, and she showed Mommy Rose.

Ate Gigi, first talked to the 20th anniversary of the Liberal Party of Pang-Masa), and she wanted to know who was the author of Ka Tenny and FD) in Calamba, Laguna to send 20 kilos of challenge, Ka Jojo), and we talked to Ka Jojo Binay regarding she goes to the old Asedillo.

The date is set on January 5, 2014, that's why I am ready for anything that can be given to the old man, so I became ready for an x "x-CBN" where I was able to put an x "x-M-PAPP) and the Kathleen and the Karangalan Village at the Congress of Pagudpud.

On January 4, I started to travel to Calamba, Laguna, but I arrived there that there was no one in the office of Bugnay, Cavite, and her birthday was given to them, and what happened to them.

I have been placed under them.

On the morning of January 5, we arrived at one another when we arrived at a van and we went to a van, we went to a leader of the workers, and we were met by Ate Gigi, in a place, because he was also met by Ate Gigi, in a place, because he was the guidance towards councilor Emma Asedillo.

All the all who went there are Ka Jojo, who is a leader of the group, Ka Eli, Alex, Ate Jackie and one of his relatives, Nick, who is the driver of a union, Doods, who is the driver of the van, and I should be nine.

Around him, in the morning, when we arrived at Barangay Lo'clock in the town of Kalayaan, Laguna, and there was a nine-year-old barangay councilor in Manila on January 1987 when I asked me to write the biography of the farmers in Manila on January 1987 when I was asked to write the biological life of Councilor Emma, who asked me to respond.

What we talked to is a fish called fish paste, with eggplant.

We were full of taste in a delicious taste.

After cooking lunch, we went to Ka Jun, who is a neighbor of Bishop Asedillo, the name of Teodoro Asedillo, the name of Teodoro Asedillo, the name of her husband, Julia Asayillo, and the names of their grandchild Myra Medveded.

After that, we rode a van and went to the house of Mommy Rose.

The acceptance of Mommy Rose is hot, she can see the old age but she is still strong and healthy because we walked towards the house of her child for a not far.

He was happy to talk to his family, especially about his father, she did not know how she was not known aside from the stories of his mother, she was not able to know how she disappeared because of the movie "Asedillo, who was used by Fernando Poe Jr.

A simple snack has been filed, some softdrinks and a few bites, we are talking with Mommy Rose and her companions for a long time with her children, daughter-in-law and grandchild.

Before he went home, Mommy Rose showed a bundle of those writing a letter because there was a letter there in the letter of Asedano before we leave it in that place, and even a few documents, but also rich in the history of fighting for the rights of the poor.

I feel, I am not just a simple judge at that day, but my faith in the personality and the solution launched by the hero Teodoro Asedillo was worse.

It was around the fifth afternoon when we left there, and we went to a colleague of Ate Gigi, and we went to a farm when we went home to a farm when we went home to the office of BMP) in Calamba.

That experience is historical, and we cannot forget it.
