
The dream of the residents of Barangay 85th, Sta.

My attention was taken from "Midnight Cabinet" which was written by Bernie "Jef" Villaros, who is a councilor councilor in Brgy. 85th, Santa Ana, Manila.
Here:
The topic of "epal" is really complicated, especially in a barangay because for a limited money which is the reason for the majority to make it hard to reach it!
There are also times that the goal of the leaders to serve is a missing amount because of the lack of support and idea from the barangay captain, instead of the implementation of projects, they prioritize politicking.
Because of this, I believe that our personal dreams will not remain as a dream if every councilor is helping those leading the advancement of service!
In the passing of the constitution and ordinance as the primary responsibility of the barangay, I believe that many programs will be held.
There is also not an obstacle in the financial status of the barangay to fulfill the "desires, if every leader is going to cooperate with the leaders of conducting a legitimate" epal. "
Education: The help of the students and incentives today with high grades are helpful to students and parents to persevere more for the good future.
Peace: The additional incentives and equipment will be more important to double the watchmen of fulfilling their duties.
Health: If the NGO connected by Napoles and his kinds of activities, the government's fund, which is at the end, will keep it right, and legal personalities "the LGU who will provide the Council to the leadership of Barangay Barangay!
Cleanliness, the current program in fixing the garbage is going to be better if every councilor is ready to cooperate with the ideas that will be imposed on the ducks of an ordinance.
For the youth: Every councilor, if they are going to cooperate with the leaders of the task of sports, the youth will be able to get away from drugs!
Senior citizen: At the age of 90-year-old, before my mother passed away, I learned a lot on how to be given by Senior Cousins will be able to give happiness even to small things that would be given to them to let them think of them.
Because they are the ones who gave us the youth.
