Vote.

The truth is, an old story has been revealed in the Social Weather Stations this April where the faith of the Catholic Church got worse, like it was said on television when lunch, Eat Bulaga.
According to Mahathy, one of every 11 catholics left and left, the catholics rarely go to church compared to those who are observing the religion of the country.
But the result in the result is to be famous as if there is a little bit of relief for the moon, Oscar V. Cruz, the goal of Mahogany which can be served as the Catholic Church and the government of Noynoy Aquino is on his back.
It is not unknown to many that there was a fight between the church and the Aquino government because of the former Reproductive Health Office this election, some are asking for the defense of the church against the candidates favor the law.
And it will be said that in the name "Team Philippines, the government of Aquino stopped the implementation of the RH Law - it is noticeable that during the election it is noticeable in the election time and who are the ones seated in the Supreme Court?
But Cruz is hard to agree with what he said that the Aquino government wants to have legal marriage, "the RH bill to be legal because of drug pushers in the industry of medicine, especially, and institutions.
And not for the advocacy of the Aquino administration, it is contrary to its mission on the RH bill when he just let the public make noise in favor for business, and this is quiet for the marriage for those who have to pass.
Whatever it is, the government of the Aquino administration shows that the church can be served as weak, it is not surprising that colorums are feasting by the overused questions like "there are a Filipino vote?"
A running priest, Robert Reyes, warned those who say that the church gets worse, that is what's happening to them to investigate the movement of the Aquino administration or to really a pro-Aquino.
Does there really be a vote of Catholic? Maybe there is nothing, in the way that the candidate is going to vote, but for sure there will be an effect in voting for the public and the catholic's condemnation or defamation of the church for the candidate.
Whatever the answer is, it seems that the purpose of the Aquino government is a long term for the Catholic Church, not only the election of the force of society, one church is one of the potential to be a strong critics.
The Aquino government is paranoid because there are a lot of poor rules to be implemented after the election, along with the constitutional solution to fight the church, the latter is already weak.
But if the church's church will side with the poor, it will be strong and the Aquino government will weaken; and the Aquino government does not have a different way but to push their against the poor policies.
