
"That is not the defense of the military.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
March 19, 2014.

The "Agreement on Enhanced Defense Cooperation (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement) said that they are rushed to the country, in the last week of April, in the last week of the Philippines and the US, this is the last for more than one century for the Filipino administration for more than one century.
Everyday, in the news that took a nap, being stabbed in our consciousness: There is a threat from the colonization of the Philippines Sea (South China Sea), in spite of this, the US is here and this will serve as a candidate in the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea).
It is easy to believe - if we are in history, based on the comments on social media and socks media, it can be said that many believe in the corner of the Middle East, it can be said that many believe in the corner of the Middle East, the oil in Iraq, Lyle, etc.
In the southern East Asia, in our part of the world, the war in Vietnam cannot mention any war in Vietnam.

It can be recalled that in the Gulf on television series Inclubs, the incident became the cause of the bloody war of America in Vietnam which killed the lives of the three civilians in the entire southern East Asia.
This incident happened in the Gulf of television series, which is the body of the sea of North Vietnam and China, and not far from the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea, which was made by the Philippine National Security Agency (South China Sea, which was made by the Philippine National Security Agency (1964.
The bloody implementation of the bloody Vietnam are which was held in the US Congress after the fake incident, in the southern East Asia, based on its agreement to the countries in the region, the Southeast Asian Games that was signed in Manila, Philippines last 1954.
The purpose of this is the purpose of the said policy for the defense of "tanim-bala" or stop the construction of the influence of Iglesia ni Cristo in the southern East Asia, based on the theory of the US Economic Cooperation Agreement), it will increase in the neighboring countries).
"Defending in the region, the words that was used by Johnson was used before, to give reason to the attack of the Aquino administration, but it is clear that there will be a policy between the military administration in Asia, but it is clear that there will be a policy in the US's forehead, but it is clear that there will be a policy in the US government in Asia, but it is clear that there is a direct rival in the US in Asia, but it is clear that there is a direct rival in the US in Asia, but it is clear that there will be a direct rival in the US for the market and traditional materials).

It is not the defense of the Philippines with the purpose of the US to the "Enhanced Defense Cooperation," or even in the previous agreement that there will be involved in the war against China, this means that the Philippines will be involved in the bloody conflict between the two who will join the bloody conflict between two people.
Many experts have said that the case of the Philippines is strong in the international court to declare the Philippines' territory from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Philippines, which is no longer needed to allow the US to recover in the disputed territory of the Philippines in order to win in Spratings, etc.
Whoever is condemning the case of China while the military forces of the US in the country shows the lack of innocent in history or may be a hypocrite if the true good of the Philippines is not really thinking.
