
I am afraid of Senator Drilon who is very confused.

In relation to the billions from the pork barrel that Janet Lim-Napoles and his accomplices are implementing the Ombudsman regarding the criminals and administrator of the bird, to know how to answer the culprits.
The Senate is also conducting an investigation to check what laws should be given to or change so that this kind of racketeering from the country's funds will not be repeated.
In the said issue, the Senate and the Ombudsman may not stop, decide or meddle with each other.
In short, any step of the Ombudsman will not affect the work of the Senate because the senators know that their duties should be).
It is also nonsense if the Senate's reason is that they cannot do anything because it will affect the actions of the Ombudsman because the followers of Ombudsman Conchita Carpio Morales knows what they should do!
So it is clear, it is clear that Senate President Franklin Drilon's reason is that the Senate will not allow Janet Napoles to be called by the Senate because it will affect the investigation done by the Ombudsman!
Is there a few issues being investigated by the Senate even if there is still a investigation on the Ombudsman regarding this?
Can you remember the couple General Ligot?
In fact, there are even issues that were discussed by the Senate and invite the involved even if there is currently a case in court and / Supreme Court!
Can you remember the investigation done by the Senate with Maj. General Carlos Garcia?
Lovi Poe is doubting the real reason of Senator Drilon as to why he does not want Napoles to be sauteed in the Senate.
It is possible that pork is possibly afraid, I mean, Drilon made sure that Napoles can file a report that Napoles will declare that Drilon will be released one by one.
We don't know if Napoles would allow the threat of his law that if he is too much, she might be forced to sing his client!
We know if the answer of Napoles is different compared to Drilon's explanation about the scattered photos of Drilon and Napoles!
Who knows if it is confirmed by Napoles, Senator Franklin Drilon, who is really a name of someone who can be named for a expensive "Atong" who is a gift of a pork barrel scam!
What is the name in the height of "ballpen" which costs 7,000 dollars that Napoles gave to the senator?
There is a loved air conditioner, which seems to be the pigs, duh!
It's because Napoles will be called for so we can find out!
