
The additional insult of the US will be considered to be placed under the US for Pemberton to the AFP - PKP.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 23, 2014.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is the government budget of the US for the double abuse "should be refused to surrender the custody of the soldiers of the US which is the primary suspect for the brutal murder last October 11 from Jennifer Laude in Olongapo City.

Pemberton was the staff of USS Pele that cannot anchor in Subic Bay a few weeks ago, he was pointed out by the witnesses who was with the body of Laude, who was brutally murdered by the body of Laude, who was brutally murdered by his bruises and bruises.

From October 12, the US government is in the custody of the US government and military in the Visiting Forces Agreement which is giving the US for appropriate rights.

"A severe insult to the Philippines is the continuing custody of the US to Pemberton," said PKP, yesterday the ambassador of the US that will remain in the US for the whole process of trial and appeal.

"What will be refused to transfer the custody of the primary suspect is the ability of the ability of the prosecution to conduct a corresponding case for the trial," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said it was compared to those found in the place where the crime happened."

"The government budget for the US and Aquino will make a big as well as the VFA of the US-RP) similar to the agreement of the American soldiers who raped the 12-year-old girl who raped the 12-year-old girl in Okinawa in 1995.

"Yes, that is why the US promised cooperation, however the truth included in the truth is that because it is not in the Philippines, the right to take the custody of the suspect, Pemberton was very weak at the case of Laude," said the KP.

"The more insult to Pemberton was the transfer of Pemberton, who is in the custody of the US for a police station in the station of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), that even the chief of Staff of AFP), that even if the chief of staff of the AFP will not even resign without permission from the authorities of the US," said the KP.

It was dismissed by the KP that the US is saying that the cooperation of Pemberton was being said, not in the embassy of the US, but also in the embassy of the Philippines, that in the truth, even the investigators of the police, who were deprived of the right to protect the suspect and finally clean the said process. "

"The decision of the US against Pemberton to the embassy of the US is to avoid the strong protest when the soldier of the US, Lance Corporal Daniel Smith who was charged with the authorities of the Philippines, even in the custody of the Philippines, is currently under the custody of the US in 2005.

"The legal reality is that Pemberton is continuously detained inside an exclusive territory of the US government which is still severe, the territory is inside the armed forces of the Philippines to ensure the security of the armed forces that prepared and respect the military and sincerity in the military and local government officials."

"That's why, it's not only the transfer of the fact that the VFA and sovereignty of the Philippines is being abused even if the government budget for the US will be included in the violation of the US for the national freedom and motion of the Philippines," added the PKP. "

The KP has one style for the Filipino people with the criticisms against Aquino in his coop of the VFA when it is said that the filing of crimes with the soldiers of the US will not stop.

"Aquino was deceived by the people and can lead their attention to the truth because of the VFA (and in EDCA), thousands of soldiers of the US were able to reach the Philippines and non-stop burns.
