
Death penalty will be returned to Vcorrupt!

For the whole country for change and prosperity, it should be prepared to stop the misuse of and theft from the public funds.
In the next year, we have a national budget that costs 2.268 pounds.
And from this, the local government will reduce the 341.5 million Internal Revenue, Corporation.
The local government also have their own budget from barangays in cities and provinces, aside from the municipal hall of the city and provinces, aside from the continuous attack of the government such as AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao and Metro Manila Development Authority.
PDAF and DAP.
Included in those who need to control and stop the flow of anywhere and on who are the billion pesos of the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program (this two will be a source of suffering after stealing and theft.
It has been a year-year-old PDAF when the government paid more than P24 billion in the past three years, including 15 billion pesos in this year.
PDAF (PA).
The government is saying that PDAF or pork barrel will be said on the next year but it appears that it is not moved because it still has another form.
Just like the vice song, it is only different if you have been able to make it, from an ordinary native of steel, it will use it with an ordinary iron fist to prevent a rust that will not captain of the rust.
It is said that there is no rust or robbery of PDAF to the agencies of the government or local government, not just like the past that many have been possessed here in the non-government organization.
But who has a saying not corrupt and thieves are in the agency of the government and local officials?
The rottenness of the agency is clearly seen on the involvement of these to the scam being investigated by the Senate, even if the officials who are connected to it will not choose anything.
During the election, it is usually said that the damaged government will often pass, especially if they lose or be driven out of the position.
They are alive in DAP.
The government in the use of DAP, can we expect that this is being used for the questionable actions like giving a reward to those who are in power.
"Though it does not have to repeat it again, it cannot be avoided that the orders of DAP to 20 senators who attended former Chief Justice Renato Corona may not be determined if, 188 senators who will be impeached, 188 congressmen, who were used to be impeached, but the reward was used for them.
Question for DAP PDAF!
In the opinion of many, bribes from PDAF and DAP were enough for the lawmakers who took away from Corona from his post as to why there is no direct interest in the government that they gave or accept it?
Why are the three senators wait for the P10 billion pesos Janet Lim-Napoles scam, while the government in those who are involved in the bribery in PDAF and DAP have nothing to do with the impeachment?
None of the credibility.
If we are going to the barangays, Bro, citizens have no more concern for those who receive PDAF and DAP, but also for the lawmakers he gave to the lawmakers.
If there will be an end of the election in these hours, all those who are involved here from the Senate and House will come out until the palace.
It is just like that the entire government is in the same place, and the majority of the citizens will shoulder it as well as well as well as well as well as well as those coming out in relation to the anomalies, the citizens are receiving.
A way of reading.
To avoid the misuse of stealing and stealing from the public funds, all of these will be put in the called law in budget or to be exported.
Nothing should be brought about this law, everyone will take advantage of this so it is clear to see where these should be used.
Include this also with the income from the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation, Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office, Malhmm, and others said to go straight to Malacanang and not go through Congress in order to take care of it.
There is no one.
At the time that there are theft and foolishness, we should be charged with the case and the government officials who are involved here from the barangay councilor will be suspended until those in Congress, the Supreme Court and the palace.
There is no friend, classmates, relatives, Kabarilan, and whatever K should we let pass.
Those who are taking advantage in the country's funds should be cut off in the treasury of the country and they are getting married, and then they will be imprisoned.
Bring back the death penalty.
To fully stop the crime in the town of misuse and stealing, the death penalty should be restored.
Along with this, removing the value of money from the people and its accomplices are overflowing from the 50 million pesos in even 500,000 pesos only.
Or what according to you, Bro?
