A calamity can be done by Binay?

Those who want to become president of the country are decided to overthrow Vice President Jejomar Binay.
This is clear from the actions of Binay's political opponents in politics, especially Senator Alan Cayetano and Antonio Trillanes.
In the legislative chamber, Cong. Egay Erice is not able to stop who is obviously from the attack of Mar Roxas that everybody knows also wants to be the president of the country.
If at first, the Senate was being investigated by the Senate when the Senate has sagging and it went down to the said location of the Binay in Tagaytay and Rosario, Batangas.
This is also a unique style of the lawmakers who are member of the Blue Ribbon which included Senator Koko Pimentel, Cayetano and Trillanes because it is obvious that everyone is accusing what they are doing.
Even those who introduced themselves as Antonio Tiu, who is said to be a victim of said Binay, has also been victims of the company of Cayetano and this is what the people should look at because the Senate is used in dirty politicking.
Aside from the statement of Binay in the said area, the Makati Science High School was also followed by the Makati Science High School of former Vice Mayor Ernesto Mercado who is also a loved one.
It is clear that the investigation of Pimentel's committee is clear and this is scary because it seems that the examination will not be implemented, as long as it will be given to the people.
If we can remember this, Cayetano became the lawyer of former senator Manuel Villar when he was questioned in the Senate because of its use of PDAF on the roads near his office and it is clear that the position of the senator then who is the wife of Mayor Lani and Taguig is now in the position of the Binay.
Name of the Senate is at stake when the senators, Cayetano and Pimentel, are at stake, that's why the whole country should take action because the institution that is the former respect of the citizens of ALNAs Windyhill, Alvin Feliciano.
