
Violence and reforms are reforms at ARL.

Congratulations!

One violence was recorded last June 27, 2012 when armed riding-in-tandem were ambushed and killed by an armed riding-in-tandem.
San Rafael "Raffy" Taliño Mendoza was ambushed while he was riding a motorcycle driver after almost all afternoon meeting with those who are pushing the reforms under the leadership of OIC and RNC Regional Training and Gaming Corporation.
Three gunshot wounds of a .45 caliber.
In the end, "he surfaced as development worker which is good to fulfill the tasks about the improvement of the financial economy of the poor residents in different local government units.
The Social Work, sometimes, is disliked by some on the hardness, because these are twisted on the principle that they are fighting for.
The presumption of the majority of these are from the hands of Ka Raffy which is the reason for the taking of his life is political because of the active advancement of reforms between ARNC that caused a different kind of wrong system.
For me, it should not limit the investigation on what is the motive of the murder of Ka Raffy.
This should be looked into with a long political queen of Ka Raffy and what has been the effect of his former colleagues.
Even if the result of the investigation is clear, it is clear that no one can break-up as a part of the reform we are pushing here at ARMM.
Because of what you have seen in the form of different the conservation in the reforms, we will not forget our self to find justice for your death just like giving justice to the death of the people like you who is murdered, Ka Raffy!
To be for this.
On the other command conference, the COMELEC and LGUs were conducting the five provinces of ARMM in preparing the preparation of the police and military as a response to the needs of security for more than 15,000 Registration centers.
Your servant thanked the office of Atty. Tetuan Jr., election of Barangay Affairs Department, (EgD) in the quick time to set aside the clings of Registration Authority Center.
