
The Supreme Court of Uruguay said on the 25th anniversary of the strong when he is strong.

International Department.
The committee.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 13, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is going to make the best greeting to the administration and the whole group of Liberal Party (PHB), of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and other constricted forces of our country.

We want to listen to your heartfelt greeting to you by fulfilling the urge to use Marayes, Lenarming, Maire, as for giving guidance to the Republican candidate and the citizens of Uruguay.
It can be seen in the poster of your 120th anniversary of the flag of the flag of your Batasang Pambansa, it is true that the sacrifice and service of our insurgency and service of our own revolution.

We are co-workers in the struggle like you, we are trying to fight the baptism of the indigenous people and the local government of the earth and the local government of the filipino people and a fellow citizen of the filipino people.

We are greeting you to militant groups, students, students and other human rights violations against the government and corruption, which is why we are fighting against the policies of the citizens and destroy their livelihood, health and production of farmers, workers and national viruses.

Just like what you know, the Philippines has been damaged by the typhoon Yolanda, thousands have died, millions of those who lost their homes, because of calamities being given, water, medicine and other things that are giving food in the world).

Similar to Uruguay said, the Filipino people will fight back to the Filipino people to allow the Marcos regime and the corresponding end of the US. Like you, we have launched the struggle for the people and the revolution.

Partido Demokratiko Pilipino Revenue, newspaper del Uruguay said!
Long live the pro and the citizens of Uruguay!
Bring them to the end of the US and local opportunist wardens!
Long live the revolutionary movement of the citizens of Uruguay and the Filipino people.
