Pain in the members of the KMP), true reform in the land.

Macky Macasaverted!
March 19, 2015.

It has been a long time for the real reforms to be implemented, but until now, the Lord of the Lord of the earth will still be controlled by the Black Nazarene.
The AOIL-list condemned the abuse of one hundred security guard in the legislative chamber to one of their members after the protest of the group against said policy for reform the land.
"The bones in the nose of Gary Constantino was made to be an operation," said a text message to the Filipino Weeker representative Fernando HRO that's plan to file a case against the security guard who punched Constantino was made.
Kilusang Magbuyen was led by the Philippines (KMP), AOIL, Amihan and co-Tropical Convergence Zone (MILF), protest movement in the session hall of the Legislative Chamber, to request for garbage from the implementation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program by passing through the House Bill 4296 (WBC) extension).
According to AOIL, President Aquino had an agreement and the treacherous ways of HB 4296 that will be passed to by the authorities in the list of DAR that was not seen in the list of DAR and did not stop the anniversary before the Heritage Village last June 30, 2014.
"Like what is also like that in the list of Hacienda Luisita, cleaning the list of huge land of the Lord Almighty, before the boils of the Lord Almighty," says Antonio Flores, general secretary of Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP).
The group also said, it will be held up by HB 4296 the suffering of the farmers and continuing in control of politics, economy and bronchitis, taking advantage of the big Lord Nazarene.
"He will strengthen the kind of Cojuangco-Aquino in controlling the land and hacienda in the whole country," said Flores.
KMP) also denied the accusation of the group Akbayan as said that their protest against the Lord of the Lord, "they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who made the Lord Almighty such as Aquino III," Flores said.
He also added that any attempt to raise the downfall of Aquino is to speed up the downfall of Aquino "right, like the spreading that is too late, Dialogue," Aquino called "right, Aquino, and Aquino, to be fired," Aquino added.
They also said that they will do everything to stop the suspension of the First P in the legislative chamber, even in the Supreme Court, if needed.
"It is clear that there is no basis for the implementation of the law because the law has been implemented last 2014," said HE.
Instead of supporting the First Division, through its implementation, the call of the members of the KMP) to just pass the House Bill 252 or Genuine Committee (GAB).
