PhilHealth, funeral parlor and grandmothers.

One of the things we need to give attention to our senior citizens or 60 years and up.
"Should they help them leave their rights to the law that is senior citizens like the PhilHealth and funeral parlor.
Of course, it will also be there to the pension that has become weak and is very difficult to walk by them.
1M "Doren.
It was reported that there is a million senior citizen who has not been registered to the Office of Senior senior citizens.
At first, it is not surprising but we suddenly remembered the senior citizens who do not want to join their families in their respective barangays because they will avoid many contribution.
That's why we are convinced that the report might be true.
And if they are not registered, it means that they will not get any benefits like what the law sets?
PhilHealth.
According to PhilHealth Spokesman Dr. Israel Francis Pargas, all senior citizens who are involved in the hospital or buying their medicines have the right to 20-ranking stories of the story.
If a senior citizen is not registered and was hospitalized in the hospital, they will be able to attend to the hospital to be able to have any benefits.
The only wish of PhilHealth, it is better that we reach the age of senior citizen, let us go to the barangay or in the municipal hall in the city hall to get registered so that it will not be registered to take advantage of their benefits.
This means, Bro, even if senior citizens are not members of the organization, as long as he is registered to the Office of Senior Cousins in the local government, Matik, which will be received by the benefits of PhilHealth.
We salute this warning of PhilHealth.
How in the funeral home?
According to one of our co-worker, Lea Bira, an unlicensed gun or owner of a funeral home, it is also within 20 percent of the story that the Lord who took the senior citizen.
An example will be an example of fifty pesos a total service, including the coffin, an amount of 10,000 pesos.
Just show that senior citizen has been taken by the Lord and forcibly give him 20 percent in fare.
The victims.
In the story of our senior citizens, many of them have not considered the member of their organization because of the number of bills.
For example, if the contribution of the members of the members every time there is getting sick, it will be heavy even if each give is 50 pesos.
With the number of those who get sick as senior, there are no other things done by the strong knee but they are going to gather contribution.
It is said that it is better if the Lord does not meddle with anyone and even if the contribution is the only one giving and the Lord will take care of it.
If senior citizen is a member of the city hall or in the city hall, these will be more focused on their contribution.
There are many who get sick and die everyday.
The monthly payment for each one of them is getting shorter which is why others backed out.
And in the barangays who have no pension like the farmers and fishermen, the contribution is even worse.
P2,000.
According to him, the additional pension increase is approved by the members of the Social Security System and this is a big thing to our old age.
If what is happening to senior citizens like what we said that they are running out of contribution for their co-workers and die, the additional P2,000 pension will be a big thing for them.
To see how much is the situation of a senior citizen who is only up to P3,000 every month, many of them are destroying illegal drugs which costs 50 pesos everyday, including the stories of it.
"Is it that the pain in the heart, high blood pressure and diabetes have diabetes.
They drink medicine everyday, well, about P1,500 from a month.
The additional P2,000 will be raised if their fare will be included in going to the pharmacy.
So, if the contribution to the sick and dead from them, they are all having a hard time.
However, thank you for those who made laws for our senior citizens, live all of them.
