Relatives of illegal immigrants, glaring at what they did not go home.

In a dark corner of the bed, Mister Rdees, 57 years old, has been sitting on the dark corners of the nearby TV Patrol and the length of vehicles passing by, and clearly the compound of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).
While Mister Rdees, looking, it is not far to go to the department, that is why he would be seen here, as if someone is looking for something.
And there are some who are waiting for the second time they encountered this, in the DFA, they are still waiting for an acceptable response to the said agency, last April 28 and 29.
She is saddened by her son Jennifer, in the primary destination of the Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) - Saudi Arabia when he had a child, but if he has a child, he / she has no wife, he will be imprisoned and will have a difficult time.
But this is not the only problem of Mang Rdees with his son Casacer in a hospital, but he wanted to transfer to a new job as the medical secretary, he suddenly disappeared and was not found in the embassy of the Philippines' passports, the working visa were passed by Jennifer.

"I am also nervous for my child," Mister Rames said last week, "said Mister Rames, said that she really needs to go home when Jennifer said that she really needs to go home.
There was a story that even though it was not yet confirmed, that the policy of the government of Saudi is not yet confirmed, that if it was true, he was left alone in the custody of the government, because he was really left in the custody of the government, because he was not able to go home to the Philippines.
That's why there's just a small sacrifice for Mister Rdees to sleep in front of the DFA in front of the DFA in front of the DFA in front of the DFA.
Mister Rdees will not only be alone at that night, like him, their relatives who are in Saudi are going to be in danger because they are also in danger of their relatives who are in Saudi and they have not yet went down to the Filipinos who are stranded in Saudi.
It is a crisis!
It is included in the length of this night Garry Martinez, chairman of Migrante International. Fact, and if you think about it, the relatives who went with the party-list elections are busy, especially during the last week of election.
But Abalo is allegedly not able to bring himself as a part of its bottom. "Humanitarian crisis happening now in Saudi," he explained that he related the situation in Saudi: The crabulary which started last March 28, and due to lack of fear of Filipinos because of the cringe at peace.

"There is a martial law that they did in the hospitals, schools, houses, houses, where they were able to push them, even if it is dangerous, that it is dangerous, that this is dangerous, and illegal to continue being hunted by the government.
Speculation is the target of illegal immigrants, why is it not far away from the ranks of local workers and youth in Saudi, but when they go home to Saudi, there are many youth who are able to study in Saudi, but when they go home to Saudi, he said that the Rom Family of Saudi has already felt a huge amount. "
Two years have passed since it exploded, but the so-called "Arab Spring" is still being felt in Saudi Arabia because they are the ones who are going to be the first to be easily encouraged by the government against the government of Pantukan.
Migrante has an avid institutions for human rights to human rights in Saudi.
The problem is, Charlie says, "the officials of the DFA) seemed to have an straight path."
Severe problem.

The action of the embassy of the embassy, the Philippine Consulate and the DFA, according to Garry Domingo, seems to wait for a See "which will lead to the worsening traffic problem in Saudi, this is a proof that there is still no Implementing Rules and Regulations (INC) in relation to the three-month extension.
But Migrante insisted that if the Filipino government will really have the political will, he will no longer wait for an IRR of the Filipinos in danger to go home to the country, which is why he could not be able to go home to the country, which is why they could not be able to go home even if they are being abused by them.
For Garry Domingo, if the Aquino government will only have the political will, he will immediately file a case against the government of Saudi Arabia to tell the ambassador of Saudi Arabia here in the Philippines and say that it is not doing this, because it is done by the government of other countries, an example of India and Indonesia.
During a conversation between DFA in DFA, after the camp of President Aquino was released by President Aquino on the issue the answer of the officials of the DFA, he's taking care of the President.
Wouldn't be able to make a mistake by Drum Radio, he answered, "good" the love of her (Aquino), she will report them to the whole world, this issue, he is quiet. "
Repression to fellow Filipinos.
Last April, we encountered more or less than 100 establishments in a lot near the Philippine Consulate in Jeddah, that it is threatened that it will be released by a Filipino government in Jeddah, and the Filipinos there will be active in giving up the help and other course for those who remain in order to be set up.
Meanwhile, in Riyadh, illegal immigrants that they increase in the compound of the embassy of the Philippines, they want to speak a conversation with Amanymore. EpiPen.

They stayed there, and had the camp of an old IOS in the embassy "we will not leave," said the Filipinos, and they will stay there, they will go home to the Philippines so that they will go back to the Philippines.
They sold the electricity, Garry Domingo said that even just a few days have passed, even the entry of food and doctors were also blocked, according to Migrante International Middle East, many have been getting sick there, but they still don't want to leave.
Even the Filipinos who want to go to the embassy will be strict when they put in control of our fellow countrymen there, "Garry Domingo said that many Filipinos will vote for it, but what is serious, it allegedly spread to their trap due to the human rights to vote).
Included in those who did not let in the embassy are the son of Mang Rdees, "he wanted to cooperate with them, but he did not let him go," said Mister Rames.
It is allegedly surprising, stated by Garry Domingo "if in the movie, the protagonist is doing everything to be hit in the embassy of his country, because he is going to be hit by the Philippine Embassy in Riyadh), reversed." Inside the embassy, that is where he is being cut off.
"It was a wrong message that they sent to the host of the Philippines (the countries who were host of the OFW)," Garry Domingo said that it is okay with the government's rights to protect the policy of the government in order to protect the policy of the government in order to protect the policy of the government.
As of now, Mister Rdees are hoping that their actions in Riyadh, Jeddah and their camora is going to push through with the government to do everything for those in danger that stranded Filipinos in Saudi.
Jennifer and his camp allegedly knows the camp of Jeddah and Occupy from Riyadh was made by Mang Rdees, and they had an inspiration to continue the fight.
