
We are negative.

Don Benigno Aquino III boasted about her visit to Germany.
He set the good thing he has done to the country and the people, that's why he knows that there are many times when she gets sick of arrogance.
The German criminals do not have a chance for the Filipinos who are there as a resident or worker (OFW), the listening to those who are listening to their flattery.
No matter how much the country is going to progress, when you take office, or maybe you really want to show to your trip in Europe and America, your unique culture, the family and followers.
As a result, he already made the crossroad from former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo when he is buried with the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona which is said to be the big sin of Corona from his wealth and properties in Severe Actor, Lireo.
Noynoy, think about it right and tell the truth even if the case of SCCJ Corona will be seen in the impeachment Court, almost all of those who are paid, allies or allies will not want to give their SALN, until now!
Niel Tupas, the sock of the wind, promised to the media that anytime can be taken from him, but when the troop that he called now is a clumsy, he does not want it?
And now, with your understanding with, PNP Chesa Alan Purisima, he does not want to give his SALN, especially now that his bosses who are criticizing her mansion in San Leonardo, Nueva Ecija?
Boy Abunda is very popular with his critics because they have criticism and criticisms on his daily breakfast, lunch, dinner and a Midnight Cabinet!
To be honest, Mister Aquino, it is still not enough for you to blame our dancers, "what you did to those who were killed, mortal enemies, mortal enemies that you did.
If you will be killed by the people that you did not neglect them, "those affected by the typhoon and earthquake, if you were killed by businessmen, if you are going to kill people from PDAF, DAP, and Malhmm?
Who now should be blamed and become a quarrel? "Are we saying that what you say is negative or the corruption that you have said?
