
Looking at the far away of C.

(Priscilla Pamintuan confirmed June 15, 2012.

Original to cut off in the footage of Alberto Bumolo Ernesto "Che" Guevaded, in Havana, Cuba, based on March 5, 1960, this was the basis of the coercion in the poster of Felixberto Aguila last 1967, which was spread in the whole world.

This is what the image being used in the history of photography: The portrait of Ernesto "Che" Guevedo, wearing a cauldron, wrapped with determination, was covered with determination, he will be treated far.

The version to be out, red, black and white, it can be seen for the millions of t-shirt to the whole world, even shouting, being seen in a wall in different cities, became the flag under the wall.

The image of Christ said that it is just at the back of Christ's image to the cross that was suspected to be used by the military units in 1968, which was suspected to be used by the military units in 1968, which was suspected to be taken out by the military units in 1968, which was suspected to be taken out by the military units in 1968.

In the Philippines, the image of Che.

Last December 1971, before Marcos was sent to the country of the military, Romulo Sapitula, as a martyr.

And Che is Cuba-Tropas that, the Hollywood actress (Walter Salles, the The Legal Management Office last 2004, and Che will help to strengthen the interest of the public for the murdered germs.

How the image of Che is going to spread through the youth of the America and Europe, it is also the same way for the Philippines to sell the image of Che has a reason why he is still powerful in the memory of Che.

Here in Pilshould take, the image has become more meaning, similar to the activists' image, admit it or not, there will be an increase of the civilians happening in the country, admit it or not, there will be an increase in the armed corruption happening in the country.

There might be a quarrel with the difference between Maestries like the NPA and the tactic of Che will be dependent on the advancement of the rebellion, rebellion, and leadership of Cantos, and leadership of Celectoral party, and leadership of Chappelle, "to start the revolutionary situation.

It was seen in the experiences of Che is the weakness of this heart, however, if he was able to step down, this is those who have doubts just to be married.

There is truth in the Philippines what Tiongson tells about the power of the image of Che.
