
The number of those who were arrested by one of the Philippine Amusement and NDFP members have a great sabotage of the peace talks.

Alan Peter Cayetano to take revenge.
September twenty 1, 2013.

The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and others are involved.
There are still other local and national issues that cannot be launched.
Peace is thorough in pushing hard work for a person.
True, long-lasting peace through the gag.
They are opposing the agreement, of the Saligang Batas and economists like this.
The constitutional process is political, and it is serious to end the fight.

It is contrary to this, the government budget of the Republic of the Philippines (GPhilippine) -.
Particularly, on the side of the current Marcos regime, they ran amok.
Confiscated and serious neglect (to a point.
The agreement the agreement that they are going to fool since then.
It is the process of the peace talks by the NDFP-United Nations.

This happens even in cases of agreement that are very popular.
Continuing and progress of peace talks, like.
Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights is a Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights.
It depends on humanitarian Law (CAAP) and the Joint Agreement on Higher Education.
Guimbal, JAG), should be sure of the CAAP) for respect.
Protection (human rights) from both sides of the current administration.
Similar civilians in the country should be certain with JAG that's why.
The peace talks and the opposing sides of the both sides.
They are protecting from the fact, the arrest, detension.
The prosecution and other these kinds of action that will violate the case.
Rights or something can block their effective participation at work.
Use the work of the peace talks.

But the military are not stopping, the criminals and forces are stopping.
The length of the United Nations is raised in spite of the arrest, in arrest, will be exported.
These kinds of criminals and violation of human rights, legal and legal.
There are other rights of the Philippine Amusement and NDFP and others.
The force of Bagatsing is protected by JAG G.

The worst is the highest position of the NDFP members.
These treacherous ways of the forces of Gudelosao's forces are Ma.
Magoc, a Philippine Amusement and NDFP member who was declared member.
Far South Mindanao.

Magdalena, 52 years old, married and a "grandmother" in his five grandchildren.

In spite of being protected by JawG, the Armed Forces released out.
Of the Philippines (AFP) of P58,000 pesos per reward for him.
Arrest.
On the use of his work as the Pambansang Kamao.
The NDFP members, socialize and sympathize with the local government in the local government.
The community in the barangays in Far South Mindanao is in relation to the issue.
Land, production, and other ingredients in economists and political issues.
He came to the 100th Brigade (1002ND) of the 20th Infantry Division.
By the Philippine Army (Special Action Force) in Barangay Zone 3, Digos, Davao del Sur.
And he was arrested last 4: 00 in the morning on July 28.

When the whole community immediately found out the situation, they went out.
It is in the community to protect him and prevent 10 kilometers in 2nd Bde Oro.
Maggy confirmed her document to the information of JAG G.
10: 2nd Bde Lima and insisted that he is giving protection to the arrest.
Only confiscated by 100 pesos in 2nd Avenue are his documents for JAG G).
What he insisted is protection from the arrest and he was arrested.
People escape from the community surrounding him.
He is 1040Bde Lima because they have doubts that something bad can be done to him.
Magoc has asked the community and those from the community if they have bombs.
He was arrested for arrest him but no one can say anything.
The forces of 1040Bde Guzman.

It was said that he was arrested, when the Philippine National Police arrived.
Police (PNP) in Davao del Sur on that day to get him,.
This time, there was a pickpocket that resulted to arrest (according to the people.
This is made by a "robbery," defamation of properties "and" double.
Homicide, and he was brought to their barangay station in Digos.
There, he reached August 4 in Metro Manila and was imprisoned.
A woman was taken to Camp Bagong Diwa in Taguig City.

After the arrest of him, the reward of the AFP to his arrest has already reached P550 million for his arrest.
