Their agreement was what happened.
What he is doing is fast.
April 19 pesos is the only one thousand pesos for two days that they don't see each other for two days so that the patients will happen with each other, that is why the patients are there, where there is there or what is there.
Nothing.
That her birthday is not open together with her few days in the government because it is in Davao that you want to say.
He is saying that one of the people will make a law, as well as his milk, as well as his milk, and to the hospital in front of those who answered the congressmen.
On the day, I was about to finish drinking there, maybe because they are not going to play the law, it is not true that I will not go against the bill when you call the law in Batangas that it will not end up to the law, they say that it's not right for me to go back to the law, they say that you will not go back to the law, "they said that I will not go back to the law.
Clearly a clear.
In the next moment, we can see that we can see each other in the next moment, so I am here.
What are they targeting you?
"The bank that I released from these kinds of impeachment, that you don't know, ah, you are talking to him.
Let us!
I really want to hear.
It was cut off in a school.
According to Lacson, he said that he / she said that he / she said on the pallet to an official of the government, the only thing that was able to be swayed by the government is worse, he should have signed a leader.
He is the integrity, and then an official.
All.
So as long before you decide on Thursday.
That the government can live on a bank account, fur; this is for the officials of the government, who are for new people at work, no one will trust those who cannot be able to get the patrons; but they are seven o'clock in the government one night.
"We should be aware; we don't have a problem in the investigation, but you have no problem in the investigation, that's why he only wants to fulfill what is being said to me, he said that all officials of the government are low-four-four.
