
Fight against the chaos.

By Rolando B.
January 23, 2012.

Rebalde of Brad of War, My Mother's World War is owned by Teresita Gatid, Maceda (Manila: Anvil Publishing back in 2011.
Writing is a study, especially if the person who is writing is coming from the hem of history, and a senior woman who wrote the past; and a senior citizen, wife, wife, wife, and mother, who were orphaned by her own mother.
The two stories are going to report, like once again of the complaints that they state in the kitchen to find the space of the lives of the families who have already been placed in danger, and skill at home, and skill at home, to look at the trauma and happiness of the past, and look for the space in the present.
A prayer is the revival of the two generations of women to the family, who are also in favor of their families in the past and it is clear that his mother, in life and the time of his parents, and with a special scene in the kitchen in Baguio, or in Maputi, 3.
Maceda proposed to write to his mother after having a stroke so that the story would not disappear, and just like a lot of women, it would be better if the memory of her mother is severe, and it would be better if the memory of others, especially to the stories of others, especially to the loved ones, especially to the loved ones?
When Flora Aguilar has passed away, Maceda admitted to writing the memory, the injection of the suggestion of Maceda to make sure that everything is going to be a suggestion of the recommendation of Maceda as a sign that the history of the movement of the movement and sweat.
We say that it is a country who has a thin memory, which is always given justice because the history of the country is always guilty, but after two decades, it is proven guilty and forgave by the vice president, but after two decades, the impeachment of Chief Justice of Supreme Court cannot be executed.
In a long history, after the bloody death of the millions of Filipinos from the Philippine-American War, the US will still have a good destination for work and a good day to the bloody experience of the World War II and Japanese karaoke, and a few thousands of women who were able to work together from their wife in Japan.
The heavy burden that is becoming wise, wise, wise, wise, becoming ill-tempered, the trauma in the history of our history, is being swept up by those who have passed away from our history, to capture the history of living and safety of the forces with actual power.
This is the strength of snacks, Brad of War, which is an ordinary life during the time of the war and for the last few years, especially in the attempt to write this kind of story in the life of Lola Salvacion, one thing that has a power to state the details of millions, in commemoration of Guna.
War.
It was a hold-up again, to be able to take a bath at the front of the club.
The past and present is one of the most feasts in the bed which is currently under the liver in bed, while the past is in the current moment, while the past is with her mother, from her room or in the kitchen, that a few moments of loneliness during his death.
This is the power of pen: What is serious is what is being done in a creative which is being done in a creative way; and on the part of the history, that is why all of the history that we need to remember, that is why there is a heavy and not want to remember, instead of the attempt to remember, instead of the attempt to understand each other, but also to the attempt to understand each other.
In fact, like the trip of the siblings in Basti, for the last time, he got a glimpse at the memory of their mother, and it is expected to be part of a prosperous memory in the history of the war, sovereignty, women and one family.
There is a public that will be approved by memory because the public itself is part of the memories of the country, which is expected to be an inspiration to many lives and speculations, especially in the ranks of educated, especially in the ranks of educated, especially in the ranks of educated, the opportunity to leave and not even any concern in terms of history.
According to Delone de Beata, "krrrik," krrrik, which was being swept up by the x-bust operation, the Eiffel Tower, the Humalig), and while he was alive, it seems that it seems like a mixture of sand one by one who was going to sleep and passed on-million pesos.
In the end, the life of one is the life of one's life, which is why a person is experiencing the image of all of our immune system.
