Agham at Hala Bira!
By Dennis Garcia July 29, 2016 We of the new President, we can see the citizens who keep up and suffer from the offices of the government.
That's why one of the first things that President Rody Duterte is taking care of is the presence of a small number of telephone - in the administration of his office, wherein the people who are receiving any useless service to any agency of the government will report.
If you are lined up and noticed, there is a Nueva Vizcaya that if you make it pass through 8888, reports that if you can wait for it, while the government is finishing the chatter of each other or the length of 85th of 88, reports.
If the documents are just as long as they just bought other documents, they will be sent to 8888, complaints.
The number of 8888 is your weapon to achieve more beautiful service from these styles.
Use you!
Dip the former President Rody Duterte invited the former President of the country in Malacañang Palace for the gathering of the National Security Council (NSC).
It can be clearly seen in the video of VM Leyva when he entered the room, with former President Benigno Aquino III and former President Fidel V. Ramos.

He avoided to hands with and pay attention to former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo when PNoy is still wearing his favorite pork barrel, perhaps the message is: Unity, all of you!
While they are looking for the next time, PNoy was the one driving his brother Kris.
She often accompanied with the two children of Kris, Bimby and Bimby.
Is the gossip?
This was made by the strength and sweat of the Chinese workers and the Pambansang Kamao in Zambales.
Do you have an explanation for this, former Zambales Governor Ebdane?
Last ask.
Then President Duterte announced that the numbers of 991 for any emergency in the entire Philippines was announced by Globe Telecom after they will take additional P5 for every call that 911 has been launched.
It is said that this is to avoid the call of fraud, so if you get married in an emergency and you do not have a load - it is up to your life?
Is it just money money?
