
The AFP-PNP troops, using the inhumane that is against the human rights and the international airport.

GraceOka.
Santos Binalera Command, NPA-Albay.
May 2, 2012.

The AFP-PNP was kidnapped by the AFP-PNP-Jay-jay, 26 years old, married and child, a construction worker, resident of Taisan, Legazpi City last April 30, while it was on vacation in his work in Laguna, while it was on vacation in his work in Laguna, while it was on vacation in his work in Laguna, while he was driving and kidnapped by armed elements of the AFP-PNP, who was wearing helmet in the head.

It was eleven o'clock in the evening on the same day, Jay-Jay was able to get away when he was able to turn out in PNP Legazpi.

While he was in the hands of the INTEL operatives of the AFP-PNP, Jay-Jay had a physical abuse inflicted upon his bruises on the face and body of the violence that happened in the hands of the CPP-INTEL.

Jay-Jay is a civilian and a non-dancee that he was kidnapped by the INTEL) to encourage the whereabouts of his sibling, who is a member of the BHB) in the past, and their other relatives also experienced being taken from the military.

There is no other motive and capacity to get rid and the troops of the AFP-PNP were tortured, because of the extreme depression and failure that they will be given to the siblings of the AFP-PNP in using the strongest tactics of kidnapping of their relatives.

After Jay-jay is in-control of the PNP-Legazpi, he said that what he obtained from the PNP-Legazpi, what they received, "what they received, said that they are proud of their crime and is not afraid of any law that they violated.

The kidnapping and property of the contestants in Filipino soldiers are prohibited in the international Constitution, as a form of real AFP-PNP as a liar who is pretending to be declared winner of peace "and" declared champion with human rights. "

The strict campaign of domination and onslaught of the worst violation of human rights is stated in Oplan Galugad, such as Oplan Galugad conducted, in the Oplan Galugad conducted in Oplan Galugad last, in the Oplan Galugad conducted in Oplan Galugad, which is also stated in the Oplan Galugad conducted in the Oplan LS.

The dirty tactics of AFP-PNP can't do anything, and this scenario is being considered as a law and it is possible that there is no law and rights of the people and are ready to make any good order in order to achieve their questionable military due to the destruction of the people.
