400 families in 2 community in UP are impending.

Khanh Ann C. Paus.
More than 400 families in the two community inside UP Diliman (UPP) campus is the pending demolition in the history of UP who is scheduled to start on March next year.
There will be a housing project for 236 employees of the Ubers which is currently standing by the community in Village C, which is beside the College of Fine Arts, and Bira 1 to 3, along C. P. Garcia Avenue, at the back of the garden of Doña Aurora.
The bidding will start this week for a private contractor who will bring the said housing project to complete four-four floors, according to Vice Chaykit, Community Precint-Flores.
The Commission on Higher Education and P198 million funds for the said project are expected to be finished in 2014.
Although the residents of the two communities are supported by the two community project for the employees of UP, they are against the impending demolition because there will be no assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be an assurance that there will be a chance for them.
On the 22nd of October of October, the administration of the UPD and the administration of the UPP) did not let go of a meeting with the residents of the housing project at Village, C and Block 3 after they were going to do a parking lot due to the ground that was on Block 1 and 2, Zheng Rongfeng.
In a dialogue last November 26, the CDO continues at the table of three kph) and Village of the homeowners Association (VCHA) regarding the proposed housing project.
The first suggestion of the residents that in other location is that they will not lose their homes and livelihood because they do not have the ability to buy or buy a new house, and they are studying in Barangay San Vicente and Krus na Ligas and the majority of their children.
The temporary evacuation of the families in Village C and Block 3, going to Block 1 and 2, is to give way on the first part of the project.
There is a big possibility that the administration and residents will get along well on the third suggestions of the CXL.
However, the land that UP might allocate these for the relocation, which is said to be used by the administration to use a vacant lot of UP should be used in a parking lot of dormitories, and sources of new coercion.
Meanwhile, it is still being studied if the residents of Village C and C. P. Garcia is renting a vacant lot in the middle of the Pook, Sultan Kudarat and Pook, but only the current owner of the houses of the two affected community might be the source of relocation.
It is said that the relocation should be sure that the relocation will still be made in the campus, according to the UPD and Social Security Council (Enhanced Defense Committee Heide "
