I will tell it earlier.
It just lasted two times.
Yes woman.
"If that is what I am, I will be Marcos there, Tita Siu me.
Testify!
What they did not say is that he / she wasn't able to say anything.
!
It's as if you ran fast.
We will buy what we are going to buy, we are difficult to walk, but I went here and I brought it to the bamboo structure because it is far away.
Maybe yes, no problem will be brought to by my parents.
Hey, it's hard to ride.
What really was that, when you were able to drive, you told me that you have told the truth that we are the only chance that there is a person with a difference on September 29-six children.
Paulo is very pitiful; we are thinking that it's okay, I am okay, but you know that we are still alive because you know that we are not alone; we know that we are all sorts of people who are empty.
The former boss, I am fed up.
So?
I do not know that I am the only story in front of us; he / she cannot just go out.
It was a while ago when we arrived at the Hacosta in Santa Mesa when there was no high-ranking official in which of course, of course in the kitchen.
What are the food?
Pedro takes care of it.
There are two kinds of quarrel and money.
Cavite, you so have a lot of friends when you see you were told to go to television every day you do not know what is standing here in the Philippines that you have seen?
It is really true that we have blood in the First Family, together with my daughter-in-law, who is with her first year-in-law, all of all, all sorts of inmates, and acting, and acting, and acting.
In the morning of you, you immediately went with Ali, I would just be able to pretend that I am going to be stupid; so I can make a lot.
It's Bburial.
We should first let us first do it, Marayes, Marty because of the one which is one of the one who will be the one of the other people, there are free Zurbano family.
"I am now here in her pictures but I saw that it's not enough for me to be seen by the door of June and I have not yet done anything that is really being given to us from showbiz and I have not been doing anything that is not being given to us from showbiz that's why I did not have any mistake in giving me the husband of Molo which is the same for him to pay for him.
My infertility was apart from her.
She is stern to him with a house helper.
"We are anxious; we really need a scene, because you really do not really have a scene, you really do not really know, that you do not really know, that you do not really know, that you do not really know, that you do not really know, that you do not really know, that you do not have all sorts of things to buy.
You are watching.
What day he will give in giving your studies.
There are the most important thing that Jay-Jay was the most years old, from March two years of March two years, because I am not able to be humble because I am not able to forget me, Tito Paul who really wants me to be humble, "I am really sure that he / she didn't forget what he / she said," I really didn't forget, "we did not forget," we did not forget, "we did not forget," we did not forget, "we did not forget.
He / she grew up; he / she takes care of me; and to think.
Your voice is the movie I am with Tita Imelda we are the antagonist, and her daddy is still with her for a long time.
You story.
You are just the original call of Doctor Willie T. I should forget my birthday because I have seen him at home.
Isn't it that way?
You should say yes.
That's okay.
We are going to eat.
"That's as if I am in the same age, he / she's still like that," right? "
Yes, I will not forget that's just the First Division.
What is the poor?
It was erased.
But sometimes, for the people and then on Thursday, I found out that on Monday, I have already seen the number of those who had a text message to me, not even outside the scene that he really saw the wife of the world and the entire country, that's why he fell too much.
I just look at one another, so they say it's true for twelve times with his family, as well as his friends, that's why it's sad that my idol is gone, but of course, it will really be solved.
