
Frankly: Visa was the root of the anger of Duterte in the United States.
By Ellen Toribio, October 24, 2016.
Many are wondering what is really the reason why President Rodrigo Duterte's anger towards the Americans until he wants to separate from the Philippines and the United States.
Of course, many complained, that there are many Filipinos whose ambition in life should be the US citizen.
In one of his speech in China, where he visited three days, he told him how the officials of the immigration law in America when he was traveling in Brazil with the group of congressman of the House of Representatives in the year 1998 to 2001.
He said, it is not like the Chinese who are pleading and they are only asking for small things, the strength of the Americans.
He said, they are going back to his fellow congressman in Brazil.

In Los Angeles airport (going to South America, the road is the US), and he is already a US), and he has been asking for Customs Commissioner who has asked the immigration law for his own passports.
He brought news of Kerala and he could not be useful anymore because it was left in Brazil.
She narrated in her story: "Black Guy, black, with a white cloth, black, with a black bikini, she was avoiding to avoid the ATM card that she was carrying in the National Bureau of Entry SEC.
She was brought to a room and asked him all sorts of things.
"Thank you, I know," I'm "I" I "I" I am a congressman of my place, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, "thank you," thank you, "thank you," thank you, "my own home."

She said that she was the last to go to America. "Though she was passing by a long time I was going to America."
If this is the reason that he is annoyed at the United States, it is not true that the US Embassy of visa was not true after the incident related to the American Michael Terraces Meeting, a certain prosecutor who was assigned to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
Last April 16, 2002, the bomb exploded in the room of Megan who was brought to the hospital but he suddenly disappeared and went back to the United States because he became angry because he was disrespected as a mayor.
It's because Duterte is said to have a house with his companion Honeylet go with America, that's why they always go there for the next trip, which is why they have not given a visa.
It turns out that this is not true to the rumors.
