
Hopefully, it's just a lot of Nonnatus Rojas who is a decent government.

The former National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) Director Atty. Nonnatus Rojas did not make it easy to refuse the personal request of the President to not resign from his position.
What Rojas did is just showing that he has principle and resolve to yourself and not just like the people around the President, who will take care of their positions.
When Rojas refused to return to his position, it seems like he was betrayed by the followers of the President, especially those who are in position, especially those in front of the president who is still numb.
What will be done by the president is shameful, what is one of your positions and you cannot leave your office?
Ah, that is indeed, because they are earning millions, that's why they are really taking advantage of the party of the President.
Why don't you imitate the horical "of the President Rojas who has principle and resolve?
Is it difficult to do that, or you really do not want to do it?
You should be ashamed of course, all our country has been in our country, just resign.
How many are like Atty. Nonnatus Rojas who is the yellow government of President Aquino, or maybe this is just alone?
Get to know the collector of MPD and Manila City.
Just like what lily's wish is for us to be recognized as some representatives of the Manila Police District (MPD) and Manila City Hall, even though they have not yet complete, expect that we will be able to deny all of them.
It is said that Mayor Erap was said to have been thrown away by Mayor Erap and they did not have the policemen like SPO 2 Pakpak. Fresnedi, Andoy, Jamil, and even the oldest who were said to be the child of Vice Mayor Isko Moreno, who is said to be a child of Vice Mayor Isko Moreno.
Even the siblings of the MPD identified as Supt. Villamor Airbase High School, chief of Police District Intelligence Division and Superintendent Jackson Cusipag, the chief of Moriones Police Station 2 of MPD, was also said to be the one to protect them.
This is the names of some collector of PS-1 PO3 Ariel Aguilar; PS-2 Police Community Precinct 1; Manila City Hall alias Ravas, Boy Wong and Zaldy Galvez, the children of Major AJ Riovy co and PS-5 Tala.
Lily's column is open for your complaints, suggestions and comments, just text 0916-5555536 or 0908-72336 or 0908-72336 or 0908-72336 or 0908-72336.
