China should think about it.

It is almost no use for the lack of ships that will come at the same time by Subic Bay International Conro, Port (SHumalig), which was used to have a billion pesos worth of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) in order to build.
This is one of the reasons why the hundreds of million pesos will rise from the financial loss of the SBMA but since it was not less than P4 billion pesos, if it will decrease.
This is the truth: In the arrival of the ships and other vehicles conducted by the Americans this past week, the businesses are living on the disputed SBMA, and for two consecutive weeks.
As a matter of fact, even businesses in Olongapo, Zam-bales, Bataan, Metro Manila and even in Baguio, particularly the economic Planning and Suppliers, particularly of the needs of the ships, and here, there are benefit in the SBMA.
In Alsisto and pier of Subic Film Festival, it cannot anchor the "Dugo-tempered" PFrank Cambot who is beside it, English Usahay, not in SHungitan which is why it is not poisonous ship.
It is the "Dugo-tempered" like the UFrank CDO, which is the life of its needs for the ocean because this is the one carrying all of its needs so that he does not need to go back to his position and continue to finish his work or mission.
Aside from the business for Filipinos, there is a bigger message of the presence of "Dugo-tempered" in this part of the West Philippine Sea where the Philippines' territory is under the territory of the Philippines, such as Panatag Shoal), Spratings and others.
This is the truth: It is not only one thing which is taking care of the ship where it means, aside from the Usahay, it means that aside from the Usahay, there is something that can be around, in different corners and parts of the West Philippine Sea.
That's why even if America has no direct declaration to help in case it rains between the Philippines and China, it is possible to read the subjugators of the local military of America in the Philippines, especially in Subic, in the Philippines.
This is a big thing to insist on the sovereignty and defense of the country and can be considered twice by the subjugators of China, something that we can choose to be a source of joy, and it is true!
