
They are in the Christmas and TARAHA-NO in the corruption in corruption.

The forces of the government and force of the New People's Army declared a ceasefire.
A month is the ceasefire declared by the government since December 19, 2014 that will end on January 19, 2015.
Christmas and visit of Pope Francis is the basis.
The NPA also declared the NPA in every day of Christmas, New Year and visit of Papa Kiko.
The ceasefire were also okay with us.
Somehow, we do not have a problem in the wake and burial of this day.
It's because it's painful to have the wake up and be buried in the days that I hope you are talking about a happy life.
They are also in ceasefire with us.
We would also say that we are going to conduct a ceasefire with us.
But if you think about it, there is no reason for the ceasefire.
It's because we are avoiding fights and we will just decrease our patience for those they appear.
We want to have friends instead of having enemies.
If there are some who are not able to make an agreement, it is an issue of abuse of reasons.
We stop arguing if I do not have the reason and we are respecting what is right.
"Those are in personal level.
But even in critical issues, sometimes the ceasefire were better for the next agreement.
Who does not want to deal with them.
Don't fight solution today.
Watch.
However, is there a need to declare the said ceasefire even during Christmas, New Year and Pope Francis is coming in the issue of corruption or order in the government?
If the government talks, everyone should monitor everything.
Because you will be careful, then, you will be sleepy at the eyes of corrupt or those who do not do anything but the citizens are having a hard time.
De Oro!
Do you know one of the things that should be guarded, "the increase in fare on the train of Light Rail Transit and Metro Rail Transit and Metro Rail Transit-3.
The child of tofu, make sure that there would be a consultation to passengers but only consolation for all.
The belief of others, the increase in fare is just low, if there is a need.
But if you look at it, those who are seated, these are grown up, and its weight will be felt if majority of the poor will feel more.
The prohibition in the horse.
Here are the provisions that will be implemented on January 4, 2015.
In the MRT 3, fares will increase in a trip from 15 to P28 or P56 for its lower part.
It will increase from 15-20 pesos in the LRT-1 coming from Monumento to Baclaran to P29-30 or at 48 pesos for the lower part.
The fare increase in LRT-2 which is headed to Recto, Santolan from 15 to 24-25 or from 50 pesos in its height.
Workers and students.
If the passengers riding the MRT 3 and LRT 1 and 2, children of tofu, many of the majority are workers and students.
Passengers have 1.5 million everyday.
Think, the two State of the Nation Address has passed and President Noynoy has no word about the increase in salary of the workers and he also does not have a word about the high protest against the agency from work.
There are no or poor people who are lacking in income, and they still have a big house for fare.
So, if the students asked for an award from their parents as additional fare, the LRT-MRT 3 will be doubly careful with the LRT-MRT 3.
From the parents up to the parents, the effect of the trophy is right.
Christmas is now and in the next New Year, and when Papa Kiko is still approaching, do you need to go well with the impending wages that should be bought without additional wages?
Twins.
While the children of abusive officials of the country are doing the citizens, similar to the discount in the train, they continue to celebrate.
Can we imagine that there is a twin budget for the 2015.
The congressmen, senators and from Malacanang are not contented with their income from the original budget.
They were chased by a 24-billion budget for the victims of Yolanda?
Hey, it is not equivalent to the confirmation of the Supreme Court, PDAF, ah, ah.
So, who will believe all the P24B is for those who are Yolanda?
Because the projects like the housing and infrastructures are grown up and that's where the officials of our country desire.
Corrupt politicians have created a way on how to make money and in the name of calamity.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
