
Lessons in Balintang Channel 4 is lazy and planned to be SONAs in combat operations.

It is very painful that many have died in the encounter between the bandits and military or police who are always heard in consecutive incidents.

One of the things that a force is doing so that they became addicted to their rivals, they have documented incidents.

What are these kinds of phenomenon, according to the books of the Infantry Battalion (which is on the internet), this is the attack of a cellphone or a temporary restraining order.

If the government troops were first fired at the patrol while riding or walking, it can be considered fugitives.

This is one of the military operations where there are many people who have died especially if the element of the operation and violence of the action is achieved.

Aside from the attempt to step down, he will also be with the command of an improvised explosive devices in order to make sure that there is a enemy.

In the ranks of the military, it is prohibited to drop by clad more than tiles, but among these bandits, non-stop using it, which is why the bandits do not follow the rule of law and international laws of Armed Forces.

Just a few weeks have passed, the three soldiers of the 2nd Infantry Battalion in Camalig, Albay due to the improvised explosive device while they passed on patrol.

Against crimes.

As said by my Ranger, Inc. is the same part of Scout Ranger and High School, Tyo, Payusoc, the rule of signal number 1, wouldn't have succeeded! "What is difficult for the rule but it seems that it is right.

The question again, how can't be prevented anymore, it is difficult to answer, right?

They are insinuating, there are training for soldiers, how are these kinds of crimes, and how are these kinds of crimes if we have connections with my church!

I went to the length of time that I was working in Basilan, Sulu, and in Maguindanao, there were many reasons why we were not aware of us, that's why we didn't get tired, because we were surprised when we were following our SOP.

Because of this, there's a good way for Stella's first way to violate my time in the field, part of our time in the field, part of our SOP (Standard Lunch Program) to pray for personal and as a group, before we leave it going to an operation.

I have not yet forgotten the line of our courageous police officer in 12th Scout Ranger, which is Lt Ronald Chappelle, every time the prayer of the troops of Psalm 91.

"Lord, please do not allow these incidents that we should send first to evil enemies to send the angels just to give guidance and protection."

"Is our prayers?

"God, in the US," First Class Ginger Conejero, First Class Glen.

A fervent prayer is one of those who are going to avoid leukemia or of course, you are brave and confident if you know that you are the only Lord who always read, "God."

Aside from praying, there are also a soldier who use the 'dancers or may have such a corresponding protection from this, it seems that it is working and there's also a type, until the effect is.

Because the Lord said, in God, it is in God's mercy, the soldiers should also make the right action so that they will not be harmed in crimes.

If the soldiers want to live in the field, they should just remember the regulations which are stated in the members of the Infantry Batallion, especially Scout Ranger between Scout Ranger towards Police Community Precinct operations.

If it is better to study it well, also the best ones in combat operations, so many are prohibited!

The story has not allowed a plan in an operation to anyone, we are calling him OPolice Officer or operation on the security.

It is also not possible to say no matter who even your husband and child or friends are the destination of the patrol, do not go crazy on GF and saying goodbye to the other barangay since later 10: 00 at night, that's why I didn't have a text message. "

If the military vehicle is riding a military vehicle going to the line of departure (LD), there should be a plan in going to pass, and do not travel and walk in the area which may lead to sleep and walk the place which might be alert and be alert and should be alert.

If walking, avoid danger areas or its terrain and uncertainty, or uncertain of the position if there will be an encounter in the danger of its terrain and river, roads, which can be visited by people like they will be guarded.

With the Rules of movement, always be vigilant and analyze the roads before it shows a sign if there is a sign that there is a person, be extra alert, just think that he has an enemy than a friend.

It is said that it is prohibited to pass through the middle of the road (street and 4) because it can be placed in boils by an individual or an alternative dam.

It is also prohibited to pass through a point, because the enemy can have a spy or bruises as well as the patrol and the patrol is up to an entrapment in the direction where to go. OPLAN, there are so many forbidden if you want to live, right?

It is said that it is prohibited to make noise and bothers when walking in the forest, a reserved reward when it comes to Luneta while walking on Luneta.

It is also prohibited to wear a deep clothes which can easily be seen in disgusting stove in the middle of the plastic bags and not let him be held at camouflage uniform, he was identified to be owned by camouflage uniform, which was why he was able to lead the camouflage uniform of the Toyota Innova at this year 2001.

At night, it is prohibited to smoke and prohibited from the flashlight, if someone wants to commit suicide, it can smoke and the bullets of the opponent will quickly die compared to cancer.

The security guard in the farm is always being observed that is why there is a guard in the gts and short carts, always put into oblivion on Postanes and Lisson Posts.

Oh no, it is very long for the list of illegal Tsong, it is really lazy and is tiring, but do you really want to feel tired?

Wait, when we take a face in actual combat, you will be the first to rule and not leave anyone!

As they say as SOP, 'Suppress of the legislative chamber, based on the fire. OPLAN will really be sent out of the Quiti Kill to be taken out of the co-workers.

Be careful if you need to use a fire that can be used for a fire which can be put into a fire and does not make a fire and without a cold or a coconut or stone during the fight and you will not leave you anymore?

Do all means to bring home all companions who are left wounded or killed by a grave sin.

It is hard to follow the many orders.

If you want to live, the decision if this will be followed or not is in your hands.
