
Duterte will be forgiven the highest award to Father Joe Burgos.

Luis Jalandoni, member.
NDFP National Executive is Alhabsy Misaya.
6 November 2013.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines will sympathize with the family of Father Jose P. Dizon, to his relatives, companions and colleagues and many of his friends, we can advise the workers and to all those who are going to save for freedom and justice.

In forty years as a priest of the public, only the piration of those who are oppressed in their fight against those who are oppressed in selling and improvement of different organizations and alliance in the advancement of the masses for the national and civic works.
Even back in 1970, he already led the healthy movement of the church.

A mayor of his success is the construction of the Special Assistance Center (C) in 1995) that's why one of the workers in the Cavite Economic Cooperation (LINP), Kuala Lumpor Development Authority (LINP) and the International Criminal Court (LRP) and the International Criminal Program (LRP) and the International Criminal Program (LRP).

Father Joe Burgos and clergy follow the holiest parts of the priests and nuns in the civic works of church in 1998, he became the founder of the Solidum Philippines and the movement of religious groups.

When Oriental Mindoro was scheduled to be placed under the violent protest under the controversial military as Jovito Palparan, 10% of the military who were assigned by the military as well and more than 30 activists were killed and more than 30 activists were rescued by the military due to the process of the military and was saved by the military.

Last November 2005, one year after the massacre of Hacienda Luisita, father, Father Joe Burgos and his group insisted to enter the church of the National Bureau of St. Michael the Archangel which is going to enter the church.

Father is famous for a lot of waste of masses and to be known as a priest of the map of the street, one of the latest involved is being implemented, one direction of the latest election, and spokesperson of New People's Movement (Change, change.

Last 13, 2013, in spite of the illness, he led the colony of Abaca of pork Movement, who has been warning to President Aquino to launch the citizens of the campaign civil treatment, according to him, the issue came out from the depths of the system! "

On his 120th anniversary of the priest, on 15-2013, they lived together with Luis Antonio Cardinal Tagle and the Bishop of Imus, he lost consciousness and brought him to the church by the poor, he is firm for the workers and those who are oppressed by the people and taking advantage.

In his not running, brave, creative, creative, creative, and improvement of the people for many years, father left an apology to the citizens with no inspiration to the citizens of non-stop fighting for the national and freedom, for the national and civic works.
