
Grip on the law and does not steal a knife.

The Maguindanao and Lanao del Sur were shocked because of the incidents that involved the Philippine Army-AFP where the pickpocket was beheaded by their opponents, BIFF in Maguindanao and syndicate in Marawi City, Lanao del Sur.
In the last record, ten soldiers died while there were two civilians who died including a 10-year-old girl in Marawi City.
More than 10,000 evacuees were listed in schools that have been temporarily freed by those who evacuated the four towns of Maguindanao.
In Marawi City, members of the 103rd Brigade, 6ID Philippine Army were stricter in the checkpoint that they built in the city.
But wait and why is there a kind of situation like this, according to the intelligence that we have received, the chaos in Maguindanao is the urge of three influential people who want to get a score because of the events brought about by reform in the region.
It is also added to the possible assets of the plan in the coming 2013 and this is said to be the cause of the two mentioned incidents.
Dull politicians want that it is believed that the fight of the BIFF and the clan of Ampatuan will be over so he is washing their hands.
In Marawi City, the peace of some sectors is deafening and was not able to condemn the rebel group of soldiers in the house of Mayor Fongwan "after he was strong that resulted from the murder of a young girl who was hit by a bullet inside their house.
In the two incidents, one should have been said to be done by the people in order to achieve the solution to what's happening and this will be immediate obedience to the assigned leaders of the law.
We have weaknesses but the effective cure against the abuse of their rights.
The legal victims can ask for the legal help of the said turmoil in Maguindanao because it is easy for the law to take advantage of the chaos and the victims in Marawi City will take the hands of the law.
The court's office is open to present the dates.
This point is to avoid the usual style that has been brought to the court but the news that has been brought to the court but the news that a family had weapons to ask for justice against their enemies.
When it can be considered that the handling of the knife is widespread, the weapons done here at ARMM came from there?
