TV Patrol, April 20, 2012.

It's good.

Chapter!

A joke, true Filipinos are assigned and fulfilling their promises to each of our countrymen for an additional inspiration, meaningful rules, and most of all, the one who can be seen and put our glory better.

My service: I will do the best thing I know - for the most effective way to give my ability; and can make the desire to maintain this until last.

In this travel, we rode a tight competition because you have been waiting for a long time that you have been waiting for a long time that you have long been waiting for your sanctuary that will serve the right path to achieve the right path.

He / she just went down and position himself.

With the discussion or theme, it is different for someone to know and have an additional knowledge about this, some can be washed away from the conversation that can be measured.

Management of good leaders.

The leaders who succeed are those who succeed and understand the hearts of those who are allies of their group, here is the key which is being taken by the trust that is intentionally being pushed through.

If each one of us will admit it is the best that is near us, one that is causing the importance of our plans, all of our plans, will be the one who gives attention to the media, and will create more handsome points, that is why we want to find it when we stop to look for it.

It is a good deal with the negotiation of a good and very popular person who expressed how others are going to understand, and it is best to understand what you want, you should be able to get what you want.

This is his suggestions if others want to understand you and get along well.

1, strive to understand your person you are talking to, so that you can understand you.

2, be clear; in your mind, your intentions, and about what really your goal is.

3.

4, be annoying and patient, don't expect "to win, in the first front of your first duty, you will be able to think of what you are talking to.

5.

6 to show your loyalty and Sineneng in your sentences.

Keep your vitality and joke in your dealings with you.

A lot of education will be the source of gratitude that if you borrow the right words in the right moments, there are a lot of positive things about this results.

One of the most good results are your trust that if you bring anything to a person who is insinuating, you will be honest and can help in your needs and that this way is proven that you have proven that you have been proven and happy with successful agents in selling and business.

Forget whatever you want to know and pay attention to what your person you're talking to, but what I want to hear is what I want to hear if I am in his condition?

It may cause a difference and change the day of a person - or even his whole life is telling the right words in the right time, which comes from the heart.

Just like old age: Similar to the diamond which is on top of gold that offered a word that turned out from the right time.

The poorest and brought to life are the failure and success of most of us, when they failed, and if they have succeeded.

Forget your hard work and always be tempted to ask myself; how can I forget myself from those who helped me and those who helped me and those who helped me and those who helped me?

The success in life is only included in what you are doing for others.

Do not be greedy if you are going to be ill-tempered and you will go to their own hands, because you do not want to give it, and if you do not want to give it, you will use prosperity, the result, you will use prosperity, because whatever you give, it will be more white vinegar.

My father said, "we are living with what we are receiving, and we can make it back to my life that I have been seeing, just after 100 years already disappeared, and no one can say that it has been written in my life.

In traveling, some follow the order in reaching out where the small and easy trucks are needed to give way to the huge and slow ships, this is a good basis and a good trait that needs to be followed when it comes to relationship with people.

Forget your life is a competition, that there is a competition, that you need to make it hard to use his opponents or male to a business that you need to help, and how can I fulfill it?
The solution is to take a clear plan to take the path, according to your desire, you will help you, to achieve the same success and strong principle of the Japanese and the Jews as successful in your business.

Take a risk, look for your destiny, do not be afraid to make mistakes.

It is better to have a wrong fare increase instead of non-discipline, especially in life, the stones that are at stake, are at stake, are at stake.

The knife that was grossed out is carrying two and praises while you can't make it hard if you are not used to anyone who is in a corner and a lot.

One of the people I admire, is to be the first to eat.

He / she really has a very strong feeling and he / she was made a sound of a lot of people and I was one of them, who is my favorite.

They are unlucky thinking if there is a great mind that's being attacked by ideas.

Those who are common thinking are being attacked by the events.

.

Those who are narrow-minded people are all gossip, movies, actors, and these are not surprising, if all the sentiments of those who are dried in their lifetime.

A warning: If you have closed these people, quick to avoid, run fast, do not look back, and go away, move away from them without getting infected.

Avoid people who are forcing and belittled your ambition, the small and narrow-minded people are always doing this, but those who are narrow-minded people like them will become great than them.

Let us remember, it is not a very big loss in life that death is the biggest loss because our will have died while we are alive.

Why is it because of the excessive spending of time in movies and television.

I noticed that I did not get anything from it and slowly, I just realized that I am getting old, I started writing to me, and when I wake up, I started to understand him, even if I was to school, I would have no knowledge.

Until there was someone who noticed and greet me, my daughter Rheena is also reading my followers or children.

Thank you very much, Reateries, and you have done the writers, while you are there, I will support to our countrymen.

Consciousness is the big difference between the intelligent and whatever its limitation on intelligent people who usually burn eyebrows and want to be learn.

There are those who make sure that they become an expert in this, and they are intentionally going to do this profession.

There is truth, Ang horseshoe, and laziness are siblings, according to me, "it is not only for siblings, twins like Siamese Twin!"

And this is the truth: If you really want to make any thing, you will find a check for you to do it; if not, can do many reasons for this to be avoided.

Jesse Gueving City of Balanga, Bataan and our articles like this in the past administrations that have already been used to increase and there is a question on whatever the reaction or question is there will be an invitation in a transaction or theme.
