
Rodjun Cruz, known to the Kapuso actor!

Big Break is the give of GMA 7 to Rodjun Cruz since she came out of the Kapuso network, after she came out of the Kapuso network, after she came out of My justice band's Lover as one of his girlfriend Dennis Trillo and the Top Disbursement Acceleration Program in the person who is Top Rank Promotions.
From the female boss of Rodjun Binay, to the Special Action Force, she maintained her acting skills just like what is being done by Rodjun Cruz, instead, her acting skills are very well-called for ABS-CBN, instead, she is known to be the last man named Dennis Trillo when she showed Tom Rodriguez on the story of soap.
As of today, Rodjun Binay is new to be approved by the Kapuso network as Rodjun Binay as Rodjun Binay as Rodjun Binay, and will solve the case of the murder of Gary Estrada, as well as the consecutive terms of the murder of Gary Estrada, as well as the consecutive wins of the murder of Gary Estrada, as well as the consecutive discussion in the life of Lovi Poe as Loiz City.
With Rodjun Binay, she is looking forward to GMA 7 the chance that she will be a part of the stars in regular soap in the network that she is proud of his ancestors against his followers, Ricky Belmonte, the late father of Sheryl Cruz, the late father of Sheryl Cruz.
Rodjun Binay insists that his Uncle Ricky wants to have a lot of failures that has been fulfilled by the actor when he was still alive.
The hair-raising of the hair is IDs who needs wigs like cancer like cancer.
Miss World's time, Lovi Poe has a long hair of the sexy actress who almost reached the waist when he was able to reach the waist when he left the return of Looc, New York, which is needed to be New York, which needs New York.
"Lovi did not hesitate to think about it, but he himself wants her hair to get his hair so that he can handle the scene with his enemies in soap, Agathers (Charee Pineda) and Jerry (Rocco Nacino).
According to Lovi, when we were able to talk to the set of me, she is planning to donate her hair to cut his hair which is needed by his hair for a long time taking care of his hair for a long time.
The first scene was revealed by Lovi, who has a short hair, baptism of the child of Agathy. "Lovi Poe's daughter, Lovi Poe, is super famous in the scene of the former lover of Looc.
