"Stupid and horny" in the surroundings of PNoy.

Postanes and his mind.
On October 11, 2014.
In opinion.

If Pres. Noynoy Aquino will not send the "stupid ring and the ones surrounding him, it is certain that his six-year-year-law will not end up in 2016.
In the consecutive failures of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and other branches of the government, the popularity of PNoy was quick.
If the Aquino administration fails to overthrow the popularity of Vice President Jejomar Binay, he will win for President if it will be fought against Interior Secretary Mar Roxas for them to fight it even in our province of Capiz.
Do you know, my friends and siblings, why did I have told the fool and the people around the president?, why do they not know that the millions of money that are being spent by the President of PNoy and his government are from illegal gambling, especially in illegal gambling?
The most famous gambling Lord of Central Luzon is the source of the millions given to protesters or arrive against the government, they are also giving millions to the lawmakers who are enemies of the Aquino administration.
And they are also the ones who give a lot of money on the people of the media to criticized PNoy and the members of his cabinet, I know that jueteng Lord is given P100,000 every week to discredit the PNP and other branches of the government.
The gambling Lord is one of the most great "followers of former President Gloria Arroyo.
One of the source of budget is to destroy the Aquino administration of the crooked "king" which is also a pro-alai. "
For your knowledge, my friends, those who have earned millions everyday, not only in Luzon, if not only in Luzon, if not in the entire Visayas and Mindanao.
Do you know that the owner of a jai-alai'll have been used to it, it is possible that it is true because of the "kingdom; of Enrile in Cagayan playing-alai o'clock in the evening.
It is possible that there is also truth on what the king of alai player, who spent the millions that was thrown by Jack Enrile when he ran for a senator, he lost.
Now it is also proven that he is preparing for all the needs of the imprisoned Senator Juan Ponce Enrile and his chief of staff, Gigi Reyes.
Let's monitor!

If the surrounding of the President are not stupid, why are they allowed to stay in the hands of the "followers" of Gloria Arroyo to stay in the hands of the Small Town Lottery, (STL) of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO)?
The people who are going to run the PCSO, 20 to 30 percent of those who are going to go to the STL, 70 percent of 80 percent, are going to jueteng.
So you know, my friends and siblings, who are really stupid, and when it is very unlucky for PNoy, he will be the one who will replace GMA in prison, in case she ends up his term in 2016.
Wait for it!
