
The government for rice and hunger.

The government is very clear, especially the National Food Authority, of management of rice which is in danger.
An example of this is the 19,292 of rice in the warehouse of NFA in Bangar, La Union.
The said rice was read when the ship that was hit by the ship that caused it after it crashed in Lingayen, La Union that was supposed to be hit and brought to the NFA warehouse last December 2013.
19,292.
For the family members of five people or married couples who have three children, one month is eating a product.
If the people of the government had thought of a sensible, it would be taken away from hunger inside a month from 19,292 families using a low rice since it was still orderly.
But they just let rice rot until it should be thrown away.
Because of the crossroad, the citizens of Bangar, the citizens of Bangar, also have a lot of complaints now that it is a strong stomach because it is being cowards.
Do you think about this incident, Bro?
It's a waste to waste the rice especially if you think that millions of Filipinos are suffering and lack of food and living in hunger.
Did not get paid.
We understand the NFA that said that it does not have paid attention because it did not reach a good or good fortune.
That is really the contract.
We also understand why there is a need to organize the papers of all these so that the NFA should not be held accountable if there will be a problem between NFA, the suspect who is from Vietnam and the company of the ship.
But is everything only there?
Is there nothing more to do the NFA in the same situation to fix the situation of rice and can be used by the people?
NFA should not say that the government does not spend anything for it, so that they would just be neglected.
It is a trend.
There is no end in throwing food, even in the middle of the calamity.
It can be recalled that there were trucks of trucks that were thrown by the government in a dump area for those who were devastated by Yolanda.
The Department of Social Welfare and Development Authority, the food was read or flooded, including the sack of rice during Yolanda and there is a storm surge.
It is the child of tofu, they know what happened, is why they did not prioritize them to share to the victims of calamity?
Rice, for example, even if it can be read in the rain or flood, it is easier to wash and wash it.
But they did not mind that they would rot even in the height of hunger from millions of people screaming and crying in asking for food.
Rice in BOC.
The Bureau of Customs is also full of rice.
"Is it that the date that they put in the country of" Pogi "
No matter where there are those who are trying to stop the BOC on rice, but they have not been given rice because they serve as evidence on the cases that they are on the clings of the BOC against those who are believed to be a ler.
Again, let us laugh at the movement of BOC.
But isn't it a way for the agency to bring the bundle of rice that he is holding at the dining table, while the fight against the constitution and court is happening?
The evidence will be proven to be imposed on the record of court.
This is what is being done to the drugs that the part of these are being destroyed after they are record in court.
During the height of hunger from the four million victims of Yolanda, everyone knows that there are those who are trying to stop the BOC but no one tried to put them in order to share to the victims.
What is the right thing to do?
Maybe the authorities are always talking about this situation.
They should study well what they will do every time there is a need for food of the citizens like the days of calamity.
As early as now there are typhoons and extreme rainy season, therefore, the authorities are still determining the scattered rice as relief goods for the victims of calamity?
Admit it or not by the government, millions are hungry everyday, there is a calamity or nothing, who needs rice.
What will be done in the stored rice in BOC, NFA and DSWD in relation to the hunger of many citizens?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
