You, David.

A movie, Production.
December 05, 2014.

Ka David is one of those who first built a branch of the Liberal Party (ALL) in their barangay during the first anniversary of the decades of 1980 to fact, the knock of those involved in her is the level of his personal task.

According to him: "When the calamity has not yet been done, somehow there is a pillow from corn and rice, with banana, coconut milk, coconut husk, the poverty poverty in the streets, especially that the government budget will become worse, especially that the government budget will become worse.
The leaders of the masses are pushing for a dialogue with the local government agencies and the terrorism that they always answer to us is that the DSWD has given the rice and NFA that they cannot eat.

Those who are close to the farmers are those with the organization, we are coordinating with the people with the armed forces to find a meeting with the farmers in order to use the materials that can be used in order to use, which is why almost all of the members of those who cannot be used for the masses. "

In relation to the particular role of the SPL, according to Ka David, "we always call a meeting with the problems of the farmers, the problem with food and houses, that is why the guidance of your companions is always there.

In the question of what is the situation of a year after they have committed a year, it is still a lot of people who are suffering from hunger, but we have not given assistance from the rain, we have not given assistance from the rains, and even if we were able to give assistance from the rain, it is not better for them to build their homes in the rains, and they were able to give help to their homes.

The companion asked what they are planning now and the face of Ka David became brighter.

"Our plan is to continue to set aside from the farmers in order to continue their campaign to rise from the help of armed forces, our campaign against planting banana, and we have started the long-term crops that is caused by Yolanda.
