Answer on the case on top of the rice field.

Do we want to lose the pork barrel scam, if the government is serious here, all our rice field should not be given to each other but also widen the rice field.
This is in order for us to have what the corrupt "human rights are saying, which is why we do not need to increase rice that are riding the rice delicler, accomplice of corrupt politicians.
Irrigation in 30,000 pesos.
Yesterday, we said that there are 3 million hectares of the rice field in the Philippines, but about 1.7M only have irrigation.
There are only few irrigation and irrigation and irrigation from the 500,000 hectares of this situation, what can we rely on having enough harvest?
Because, it is about 100 million Filipinos who are taking advantage of our small production of rice and we are increasing in number years of 2M.
What's worse, in the reports of the National Irrigation Administration, it seems that the government is not the priority of the government to make enough irrigation in all the rice field.
Experience in Thailand.
It was about 20 years when the Thailand brought the rice to our University of the Philippines Los Baños-International Rice and other types of rice which started to dry by Sir Ferdie Marcos.
Because of the sure income and improvement of the farmers in Thailand, this country has become aware of the lower part of their rice field.
From 7 million hectares of 10 years have passed, it has been placed around 11 million hectares.
Experience in Vietnam.
There are only four hectares of rice field where they will experience Vietnam in 1975, because of the difficulty in life from the bloody and long war, all of the farmers are together with the production of rice and they have succeeded.
It became more hardworking that the farmers in flying can be given incentives or any individual work but it is not like the reward of the Palace to the congressmen and senators on the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona, okay!
While in a long time, they let the rice paddies be put in order until it reached more than 7million hectares.
EXing and baking.
As a result of their success in farm, Thailand became the highest number of rice for rice and diets here in Vietnam to follow the countries China and India.
The production of rice is hoping for the biggest income from the government of Thailand and Vietnam through the taxes and many of the population in these countries are living in flying because they have a life to farm.
Government.
The government of Thailand and Vietnam are protected and their help is overflowing with their farmers.
From widening of farm until planting good rice cakes, covetous, expenses of production, modern farm, road and selling of their countries.
Because of their excessive production of rice, their food is cheap, and it is said that many Filipinos are hungry, many are hungry, the majority are hungry and poor because of the amount of rice and rice field.
Experience in the Philippines.
The child of tofu, what is happening in the Philippines I love is the opposite of the Philippines.
Last 1970, it is about 12 million hectares of the rice field, scattered around 7,100 island.
Now, around 3 million hectares of only the remaining rice field is already small, and the rice field is very small, has a small-year-old field.
In the countries Thailand and Vietnam, almost 100 percent of water and only those in the mountainous place are depending on the rain and typhoons for irrigation.
Rice field.
Very, or clearly seen, Bro, is the reason for the exhaustion of our rice field.
With the diligence and speed of the Department of Agrarian Reform and Department of Natural Resources force who will issue a permit for the version of the rice field towards the residential, what will happen?
I am being able to challenge the businessmen the rice field in exchange for big amount and if the Land conservation will be questioned, farmers loses its corrupt system in court.
Failed stories.
Because of the lack of support by the government for them, the farmers who sell their rice field to be conservation in the subdivision, in the terrorism and nearby cities.
Who will be the long farmer in the problem of excessive lack of irrigation and the generator that will challenge the expensive oil and hopes of irrigation, okay?
There are its subsidy for fertilizer but they think that it is also spreading like what happened to P720 million dizziness.
SUGGER did everything.
If the treatment of the government to our farmers will only be good, including improvement of the rice field, it is certain that there will be no violation of rice.
This is clearer than the rays of the sun!
