
Not enough.

Last Monday, one of the reasons why some police assigned to the Manila Police District-District Special Action Force has to be placed under a check in a check in a check in a check.
PO 3 Jerry Sirnicula, Senior Police Officer 3 Ricky de Guzman, SPO 1 Raul de Guzman, PO 2 Raul de Guzman, PO 2 Raul de Guzman, and PO 1 Raul de Guzman, died due to being a collector of illegal activities like gambling, prostitution and Kotong in the money of changer in Manila.
The Supreme Court and Philippine National Police called the National Police Commission and Philippine National Police to investigate the said police Manila because the two agencies have no action, the said police just laughed at those who were in the newspaper.
According to the payment from someone who keeps sucking up, she just laughed at him because of her club that I was already Miss Universe when she reached 1.5 million pesos in Paco, which was allegedly worth 1.5 million pesos in the said column, in simpler terms, the said police are lacking in exchange.
He did not put his Honda Cutud, Honda Civic with other houses in Malate, Solis, Tondo, according to the information that the Napolcom and PNP are with them to know where the Napolcom and the PNP should know where she would be joined by the Napolcom and PNP to know where they are taking their money.
Anyway, they can possibly accept that they're just dreaming of what they did to the people that they have written on, the group of Inquiry found out that they are children of General Gutierrez, and they cannot remove them from them.
Many believe that General Gutierrez does not know what this group is doing.
Dee-Dee is needed to wear a helmet because she will have a lot of lumps in spite of having lumps.
There are also four decades that's why they always dragged the name of district director of MPD director Chief Superintendent Alex Gutierrez, in the new club anymore, and it was said that there was a big amount of money coming from their chief and instead, their own pocket already came to their own pocket.
For the knowledge of the Napolcom and PNP, it came from the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (PCG), and when he went to MPD, his vehicle was just Toyota Wigo while inside the four years he would suddenly get rich?
Do not say that he hit lotto so the heavens will get mad and hit a liar.
