Bandila by Paolo B. it is time for the international press to Tokyo Film Festival!
By Dondon Servando, October 19, 2016.
Paolo Ballesteros continues to return, with Director Jun Lana and Director Perci Intalan, to Tokyo International Film Festival.
"Paolo asked permission for a long time to have gone to.
It is related to Paolo to the international press for his fame that he is experiencing now because of the length of his fame that might not push through because of course I feel that he has just returned to Eat Bulaga, then she will leave.
"It is good that she was allowed to go because there were so many international press who are waiting for him.
"On October 25 to October 28.
So, Paolo is really wearing a red caress?
"That's what I asked for him, he said, he / she said that he / she was talking with what he will do to him but, it's a good kisser" that's why she was known by the International press ng mga Bayani, for a hidden talent, okay! "
Why is there a doctor to interview Paolo?
"It's because it's because if you are in the middle of you, during the time of Uge (Eugene Domingo), there was just an interview by Uge (Eugene Domingo), there was just an interview.

"We, it will be out for a long time on how to fix the crossroad."
But, is the international press who is famous on social media when it comes to the X-Tropas that Paolo will be the protagonist of the movie die Bethlehem, "
"He said yes." When we throw the "press aykit, where we chose who was the actor, it was where he was able to know how she was known.
"
"So, it also spread" the press ayes at the international press, that's why they are really interested in the interview of Paolo.
"And then, PAO is talking about me, that when she is about to receive an email account, he said that she has an interest on him, so many really want to take interest on him, that's why I don't really want to interview him to Tokyo."
It looks like Direk Jun and Yuande are on the film of Betamax of Paolo in different international film festival, okay?
"We only wrote one minute, but we are going to limit it first, but we are waiting for the Metro Manila Film Festival, and hopefully we are waiting for the Metro Manila Film Festival, and hopefully we can go to the Metro Manila Film Festival.
"But hopefully we go to the MMFF, we are just waiting for what is the result, but because there are many who want to join, it seems that it is more difficult to enter the MMFF, instead of the Tokyo Film Festival, okay!
"There are many who want to enter and there are so many beautiful, okay!
"There is also a need for big actors in the MMFF, it is not possible that we are all indie films because of course, we might lose in cinemas, okay!
"So, that's why it is Enteng Kabisote that Vic Sotto should join there, Richard Yap, Jean Garcia, there are Mighty AiAi delas Alas, and many others, Uge and Angelica Panganiban, just meddling with Dingdong and Angelica Panganiban," just narrated by Director Chito.
