The former US-Aquino failed to push the patriotic and highest interest of the people!

Guide de Guia.
Anti-Southern Tagalog.
July 9, 2013.

The administration of the US-Aquino administration is useless to solve the crisis which is caused by a tight and close economy.

In spite of the unfair policies of the regime about the economic growth of the economy, this is only one of the increasing number of basic goods for the National Capital Region (NCR) that is why the price increase of big companies at the National Capital Region (NCR) will not be hidden, as a proof of the continuous increase in the basic commodities in the National Capital Region (NCR).

It is the money that the citizens are going to increase from the incessant increase of bills that will be implemented on July, which is expected to increase the price hike for 10 to 20 meters of kutsina, 48 pesos, instead of stopping the citizens, who are supported by the big company of the big companies of the water.

The Philippine US-Aquino tried to prayers to the citizens by prioritizing the data and effects of the economy, which is also the reason for the data of education to serve as a solution to the programs of the economy, which is also being used by the political system to serve as well as a well-lasting ability to serve as well as a well-lasting ability to serve as a well for foreign contacts.

There is also a burden for the high tuition fee in the agricultural sector in fact that it is possible that the data of the Marcos regime is proud and it is possible that this is the purpose of the administration of the country, which is estimated to be given protection from the citizens of the country, which is estimated to be given protection from the citizens of the country, which is the condition of the economy of the country, which is estimated to be given protection from the citizens of the country, which is the condition of the country's Lapian ng Masang Pilipino (Commission on Human Rights.

It is clearly seen that there will be a realistic change under the regime of the country, but it can't be said that the economic growth of the country will not be hidden, but instead, this is a foundation of the economic growth of the country, and instead, this is a foundation of the economic growth of the country, which is why it has become a foundation of the agricultural sector in the country, which is why it has become a foundation of the agricultural sector in the country, which is why it has become a foundation of the agricultural sector in the country, that is why it has become a foundation of the agricultural sector in the country.

Only the Honor Code will be finished in the roads of the people of the country, this is only giving a concrete basis that will solve the economic problem of the country and the worsening economic problem of the country will be solved because it is only appropriate to success in the Saligang Batas and the worsening crisis of the country.

The national revolution is fulfilling the release of the whole country from the nails left by the filipino masses, which is the source of the majority of the filipino masses, which is the source of their power by the filipino masses, and the filipino masses, including the filipino masses, and the Filipino farmers are trapped in the primary equipment of the country.
