I am not only here while Bonifacio is still not in Bonifacio, so here in Tagaytay seven in you, it is very good and there is no problem brought about by the covetousness.
No matter what kind of fruits is bald people who are rich in vitamins, who are rich in vitamins, Elite, to be able to be seen under the rocks they can fight against you.
You are right that we are very angry; as well as the debt of your debt, then I want to be a lot of products, that's why when it's a big product, it's a lot of product that we have known to live here in the morning so that we would be able to know that you are a little bit more; we still know that we are very well-minded; we are still beautiful, right?
We are with us, Vangie, are they going to save.
It is not no matter what we do not make a face, okay or what we use in the school that we are using or will stay overnight with alcohol.
You are doing this, i'll just be flat.
Will this be done after of course?
As they were able to get first, then outside the house.
We are here after one month here in our place, we are going to talk about him after we are talking to each other after we're talking to each other and not leave the bacteria.
We are with each other for a few minutes.
We are the bacteria that we will put in.
Whatever that is, what will happen.
What will he really do with other people?
In a fist fight, I can't understand each other; he applied at your mouth, I thought it's okay to know one year.
How much is your head?
This is what the one wants.
Ah, it is really said that an example is an example, a doctor is doing something in sentences that he can't see the Las Piñas Uncle Mon, Vangie, which they are doing to.
Being made of talking.
You are young.
Let's go.
Barangay Sape.
He will sit on the act after sugar, yes, and then, then I do not want to be the meeting of the heart and then, then, I do not want to get a meeting with me, whatever you do, that is how much you do that is like that.
Me.
I am sorry that we do not have a viand on what he will put on, and he said, you will put the sugar, one four Indonesians, one four men.
Here?
Here I am just here there is really a part of sugar, what for a year, why did you know that she is the only one in the same age, we are just looking at me while we will visit me while we will visit me while we will visit our huge plate; we are going to visit our huge plate; we are going to visit our huge plate number.
He said, that he / she cut off the barbells; he / she was able to go to school, where.
Whatever it is that she is sweet when we go to the market, this is just here in his position.
Let us wait for it.
