The payment: Mercedes, I should apologize to Mother lily!
Boss, it is bad for the MMFF seems to have a bad feeling, "like the children, -- Vic Sotto By Jojo Binay's Cabinet last November 26, 2016.
Mother lily.
Mercedes Cabuslay of Mercedes Cabotahe, if she will ask for an apology to Regal Entertainment Television, Valerie Weigmann was asked to go directly to her Facebook post because he was sent to the sudden outbursts of emotions.
It is clear that what he heard was the reason why there was no basis and there was no basis, a harassment and insult of a woman who is almost a parent and a big contribution to the local movie industry.
Mercedes in Scud of mano Po 7: Calaguas said that he did not hear the statement of Mother lily's statement about the lack of films for children to the Metro Manila Film Festival 2016 when she personally said the big concern for the audience of film producers and one institution in the industry of Filipino movies.
Most of all, Chedeng will know that mano Po 7: Campoy will not be a child for a child, which is why the The Super.
We were included in the intensive end end of Mother lily when we read the Facebook act of Mercedes, who showed lack of respect for the elderly at her.
"Dwarf's accusation is heavy," you should just say that you are after your movies, and then you will pay good to the people who are working in you, "because if she was talking, it seems that she has a big similarity to her by Mother lily.
If VP lily really is not a good movie, there are no director and actors who will agree to make movies in the movie companies.
If Mother lily was not a good person, he was not thankful by Drum Executive Director Chito Anson Rodrigo Duterte due to the continuing help and giving donations for the said organization without any exchange.
Mercedes is not in the birthday of Mother lily's birthday last August 21, that's why he has not witnessed the extreme happiness of P5,000 because he did not expect the P1 million donation of Regal matriarch for the movie Workers Welfare Foundation, Incorporated (Mowelfund).

Since I became an actor, did she have experienced giving even a little help for adoption?
Was he able to attend the fund-raising defense of the MOWELFUND in one of the members of the Metro Manila Film Festival?
Did he see the pitiful condition of the small workers in the local movie industry who helped Mowelfund in asking for the help given by Mother lily?
And if in the belief of Mercedes, Mother Ignacia was able to go ahead because of what she said that the children would not be able to go back to the MMFF 2016 with the movies of the child, Vic Sotto did not go directly to the MMFF 2016.
In Scud of Enteng Kabisote 10 and The Abangers being ignored last Thursday, Vic said her thoughts about the involvement of his movie in the MMFF 2016.
The declaration of Vic is very clear that he is saddened for the children because he did not respect the national committee of the MMFF to taste their taste.
"If I have bad feelings, this is not for me but for the children.
"With all all of our colleagues in the movie, for the First Family, for the First-time, FPJ, and Dolphy, not losing children, as long as they talk about the Metro Manila Film Festival.
"I believe, I believe in the word of respect, I consider the taste of every person to make a taste, I respects the taste of the committee committee.
"That is why, for me, I am confident that their taste is like this, their taste is like this, but when Christmas comes, we have a taste like that.
"We all know that when Christmas comes, the whole family is waiting for it," the movies you can watch, especially on Christmas day, they have their own money, from their godfather, godmother.
"What's painful for me, is that they did not respect the taste of the viewers of the Filipino movie," the statement of Vic who is not different from the sentiments of Mother lily.
