ABS-puzzle of President Rody is out.
By Fortun, August 15, 2016 after President Rodrigo Duterte gave a public service to Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno, there is a new President and this is about the female official of the government that he plans to destroy in front of the public.
Duterte did not name the said "Midnight government official" but he said he was with those who are criticizing her before and this includes the condolences (non-government) and human rights.
"But thank you, i-A Special Action Force Police Officer one national official official," said that it will remain a puzzle to the media, "Duterte gave birth to the media, which is not less than two high-ranking officials in exchange of the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) to receive a million peso from some of the known drug lords in New Bilibid Prison (NBP).
"It was really reached the DOJ - as long as the name was given to DOJ - but we were able to reach up with the case of the investigation, that's why they saw all the stars there," Aguirre explained what is happening there, "Aguirre explained to a press conference last July 29.
Although Aguirre said that the said officials were from the previous administration of President Noynoy Aquino, he did not mention his names even the positions of the officials of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and NBP involved in the drug lords.
The only purpose of the medical exam to the statement of Aguirre is that the former director identified as retired Director General Rain or Cruz, who is responsible for many cases in Bilibid which resulted to the contraband like guns, cellphone, money and other prohibited things in NBP.
Aguirre is also investigating the construction of the P10-day suspension of the prisoners with 50 pesos worth of 50 pesos every month that goes to the pockets of corrupt officials of NBP and DOJ.
A religious group is also investigating the investigation of Secretary Aguirre because of her involvement in prostitution because of bringing women inside the NBP, who pretend to be members of the religious group, but they were selling petroleum products including the drug lords.
For a restless mind, it is possible that the former government official official of President Rody has something to do with the DOJ during the Aquino administration.
