Why is it that like that in Davao, because they have different centers, those who go out to buy where they will buy.
What I want is that, but we have a lot.
Even at night.
So what?
This will happen to our people that they have not gone down there, they have a meeting with President Manny Pacquiao and then, you have a time to go with, that's why when you go there, you will be given a lot of rice; we will be able to give other rice to each other, and whatever it is, they will be able to finish each other.
It is even though we are very pitiful; we are five or when I go to breach, it is prohibited for them to leave a different story of the various stories of those who will believe that there are people who believe that it's because we have been used to each other.
Even if the amount of your family is worse, one is filled with different kind, but we are full of food.
It is hard to believe this is the key to Chief Director P-up the time when the United States will be sure even if it is not Philippines.
We still don't know all of them to join the C-T yes.
They are companions.
In the tandem with do that, a lot of people are being used and it is not prohibited to use a peso that will not go to our fellow countrymen who are not allowed to go to our fellowmen, which is why it's not an actor that's why it's too much heat that's why it's too much heat.
Yes, we are anxious; we might be sure because we are sure that our guns are not easy, we can easily believe that we have an official of a Sibol, Tantos; and one of the Philippines, which started an example of a gun that they have received.
By Lorenza in the counter, that is why they say that, they say that he / she tells that, he / she said that he / she can say that he / she came to the same age, Benson, eight years old.
Our problem is continuously being done, Luz my five, which is why that's the reason why our Philippines is very proud of the police, which is why there is a new child.
Just to go to an ill-ill and stopped as if yes, there's been a long time problem, that's why there's been a long time problem.
What I have been used to have been used here in April, yes, I asked why it is the initiative to have oil; that's why we wills tart again.
To them.
Taking advantage of it.
Eaten.
There were so many tapes of items used by May-May.
There is always arguing.
