
Massacre, the privatization of human rights to human rights of the AFP-PNP-Kidnapping Group continues to CAA in Laguna.

Magdalena.
Nilo Command, NPA-Laguna.
February 18, 2012.

The Nilo judgment yesterday of the New People's Army (NPA) and all the revolutionary force of Laguna were the massacre, violence and widespread violation of human rights of the Marcos US-AOIL 2 in the start of the year 2012 in the province.

February 16, it was two o'clock in the morning when Jessie Perez, 35 years old and Christian Roredo, 18 years old, was severely wounded in the forest of Brgy. Attaché and 59th Infantry Battalion, 18 years old, while they were hit by an animal in the forest of Brgy. Attaché and 59th Infantry Battalion, 18 years old, while they were hit by an animal in the forest of Brgy. Attaché and the 45th Infantry Batallion of the family, when they were mercilessly shot by the soldiers.

The next day, February 17, 2012, Edwin Robles was kidnapped and missing until now, from Brgy. Whole, town of Magdalena, said military which are part of the Special Action Force (NPA) who pretended to be the New People's Army (NPA) who pretended to be the New People's Army (NPA) who pretended to be the New People's Army (NPA).

Meanwhile, in Lubi, on February 14, the elements of 1st Infantry Battalion of 202nd Infantry Brigade of 202nd Infantry Brigade of Barangay Babe, Majiha in a barangay watchman) and Romeo Junior (Ombudsman ie), was beaten-up.

Lieutenant Sevidal, Lieutenant Samsuraji, and M / Insp. Rouel Mena, and M / 1st Infantry Battalion who were accused of being killed by an unidentified drug addict while they were accused by the Civilian Volunteers Organization (Caano), for the clouds and not war. "

This is the tradition and Pamana of Task Force Bangkal, Palparan.

It has been more than a span of one decades that the tradition has been gone for more than a decade of the tradition and it has been released by the syndicate and properties of the farmers and the citizens in Magdalena, Leste and II, which is spreading violence, youth, lives and properties of the poor people.

The list of violation of violation and capture of the legal leader of the legal group will continue to capture the legal leaders of the legal organization, they are fighting for their human rights, against poverty and taunting of human rights, and taunting of the Lord Nazarene.

For a long time, the release of the warrant of arrest (WOA) that is based on the actions of arrest, the civilians and leaders who were suspected to have connections with the NPA to be agents of the military is the common events in the province.

It is the favorite of the military to capture the checkpoint such as January and October 2010, that up to now they are still imprisoned for two civilians from Magdalena, January 30, 2011 and the capture of two civilians in Magdalena, Laguna last February 7, 2012, as proof of their ability.

This is a proof of the failure of the Oplan Galugad conducted by Arroyo and the Oplan Galugad of the Marcos regime.

The former US-Arroyo failed to be declared dead in Laguna for the first share of the year 2010 and it is still difficult to give back to the country's suspension, investment and progress of the NPA, and improvement is the guarantee of peace and prosperity for the Marcos regime.

He was disappointed by the owners of the units of Botchok and citizens, of good fight and defending the two defense action of the year 2010 to Linaw, and Mefenamic Actor in May and December 2010.

The AFP-PNP-PIO of the Philippine US-MICT said the good offer to defend a case against January 11, 2011 in the town of LMB in Magdalena, Shell and Security System (Izzy Canillo) that the local agents of the enemies in Sabah, Laguna have been punished.

It is the most important for the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Oplan Galugad conducted in the provinces of the province of 2010 and 2011 by the NPA, the primary organization of the people to use the campaign of the AFP-PNP-CAA, the success of the citizens of the AFP-PNP-CAA and the success of the citizens of the Philippine-PNP-CAA and the success of the citizens of the Philippine-PNP-CAA, the success of the citizens of the Philippine-PNP-3618.

They will wait for the revolutionary movement of the masses to the countryside, the poor people, fishermen, fishermen, and other citizens, the new advancement of the citizens in the province, a proof that the new advancement of the citizens in the city of HB) and the heated advancement of the citizens in the city of HB) and the heated fighting of the citizens in the country.

It will continue to let him down the Botchok (RESPAULRTEL) and violence Pamana of the Marcos dictatorship which is more than the US 'Cemetery.

In the outline of the Oplan Galugad conducted, the widespread operation of military, massacre and other towns of Laguna are continuously held at the mountain of Laguna and other towns of Laguna, and in the start of the kidnapping, robbery, drugs, which resulted in the operation of military, robbery, drugs, which resulted in the operations conducted by the Maute, robbery, drugs, which resulted in the operations conducted by the military.


While the spokesperson of the armed forces of the Philippine US-Asukal will continue to be declared in Laguna on a band, wide and similar to the dog of the AFP-PNP-CAA, the real face of the AFP-PNP-CAA, for peace and progress.

There will be a lot of blood and violence of the military and violence of each Marcos who promised prosperity and peace to the citizens to remember all the victims of the massacre, stealing, human rights and the human rights that the citizens of the Baninay, of whom we are nuns and the entire province.

It will continue to connect to the armed fight and pushing the revolutionary solution to the masses, and the citizens who continue to celebrate the constricted flow of the masses in the entire 2011 and in the year 2012, the revolutionary movement and victory is registered to the revolutionary movement in the province.

With the results of violence, poverty, severe corruption, lack of true reform in the land, lack of work and livelihood, and it is part of the Kapisanan ng mga Bayan and towns in the province of Laguna and the entire country, in the leadership of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (Marty Go of the supreme court.

The objective of Nilo Command (the new armed forces of the former armed group of blood of the Philippine US-Arroyo and the current Marcos regime.

The new armed groups and involved in the massacre, killing, stealing and violation of human rights in the province will be held accountable.

The new armed forces of 1st Infantry Battalion, 59TH IB, and their CAFGU and members of this, 1st Special Forces Agreement, 202nd Infantry Brigade, the forces of Division Recon Coy (Dumpsite) of 2nd Infantry Division.

Let us fail in the Oplan Galugad, PRO-PPETabag-INA, PARA-INTECAAP) and Highways (RTECAAP).

The military operation (Cutud) and Special Action Force (Izzy Canillo) should fight and be able to fight!

The armed forces are going to push forward, RESUbay AOIL and double the unity and improvement of the masses for the sake of the masses for the sake of the masses.
The peace decision regarding the success of DIGMaker is going to be a part of the success of DIGMG town for AHTRAOIL, Zyann Ambrosio and with strengthening of the National Democratic Front and the National Democratic Front in the province.
