
I am a vampire.

The National Bureau of Investigation and Justice Secretary Leila de Lima should also investigate the other NGO connected by some lawmakers about the country's money.
Part of these are the CI or Kalsada, Assistance Fund), the 11-11-governmental organization fund of some lawmakers which included DILG Secretary Mar Roxas and former Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile.
Some of the lawmakers who put their pork barrel in CI were Caloocan City Mayor Oscar Malapitan presented, the former representative of 1st district of the city, former Makati-Navotas Representative Alvin Sandali, former Quezon City representative Bingbong Crisologo and former representative of 2nd district of Caloocan City Mitos).
In our information, the CI was being removed by a politician in Caloocan City using his pet dog, Cenon.
It is clear in the Commission on COA, up to Police Officer 3: 6 million was placed under the funds of the said lawmakers of the CI and it was discovered by the said agency that also used some parts of the said money in the wrong ways such as the implementation of the operation.
The law is very clear in the law.
Nunez was only able to borrow money from the topic of putting on the operation of putting on the operation and to be taken care of CI.
COA also found out that the yellow pork barrel of the lawmakers have not yet been broken by the lawmakers which are on the total amount of Php8.8 million and this is being divided with Enrile (P7 million); Hagorn (P7 million); Leonida (P17 million) and Crisologo (P57 million) and Crisologo (P57 million) and Crisologo (P58 million).
The COA also revealed that they discovered that there are people who cannot receive a blessing from the CI using the lawmakers' money.
Aside from the boasts that was formed, 47 barangay captain of Caloocan did not know about an NGO) and its heavy problem is most of those who were given their projects using the pork barrel of Roxas, Enrile, Malapitan, Asistio, Sandali, Crisologo and resident of Caloocan.
"There are just a few of those who are faring on the COA, therefore, the DOJ should act on it because Napoles is only able to take action that Napoles is the only one of the opposition of the country.
De Lima!
