
Christians, Bangsamoro - we are free!

In the past column, we discussed the most short way our history as citizens of the Philippines, only the reason is that they are saying that they are the real leaders of our siblings in Mindanao.
Every time the government and their tribe are against each other, some of the muslims in Mindanao will insist on the history of the country, they are the only ones who have not surrendered to the war against colonies and American, including the Japanese.
That is what they insisted that we respect it but in the time of the colonialism, there are some who are blue waters of the Sultan of the foreign colonizers.
There are many incidents and events in the country that have not written anything right, according to the true history, aside from the free trade - the Philippines is in the center of international economy.
The colonies of the fishermen in China, Mexico, Britain, and Spain are in the Philippines that they get their personnel, not as a slave, but also from the trip to the sea.
We are the center of the healthy trade of the world, because our country is here in our country the true wealth of IOS in the land and water, especially when we are trying to sell burns from the land and water, especially when we are trying to sell a quality from the quality of blood that is covered in the world.
Again, the Philippines is before the colonies and Arab who took advantage of us as christians on 1500 and Muslims during 1300 and Muslims during 1300.
There is still no cardinal, bishop and Humalig) or an Imam was included in the region of Malaya or Asia today which is composed of the kingdom of Sultanate of the whole country.
Sultan in Mindanao, Rajah Buayan and Datu Salibo and cities in Luzon!
Using the dresses, boat, which are being carried away by our ancestors, those from Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao were seen by fellow residents of Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao.
Our goal is to stop this short history to stop some sectors of the country who say that they are not Filipino.
Let's not lead to our Muslim brothers in what we are wrong about what we are wrong in our history, that it is wrong! "It is written in the book of our history, we are the bloodshed in the region of Malaya Extension before the Arab and Spaniards arrived.
