
A criminal case was arrested and filed by a criminal case against Andres Rosal, the Poverty.

Information Bureau.
Liberal Party of the Philippines.
March 28, 2014.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) was impressed by the Aquino administration and the armed forces of the arrest of Andrea de Guzman, and in filing a criminal case against them, Andrea was accused of the legal AFP that he is a member of the PKP in the southern part of the KP.

Andrea, was arrested for eight months pregnant while preparing for the oldest child of the former spokesperson of the PKP, Ka Roger "Rosal, who passed away in 2011 by an armed encounter in Quezon on early morning of 2011.

"The arrest of Andrea is really clear to arrest his beloved father, Ka Roger, who was despised by the military because of the effective body of the AFP, which was never caught in spite of the incessant abuse of the AFP.

"It seems that is a cruel joke that was charged by the AFP (Andrea of kidnapping, while he himself was a victim of kidnapping of Mount Luzon Command, 25 years old when Andrea was grabbed by the soldiers who raised him in Ragay, Camarines Sur."

"Andrea, Andrea, was released by the hospital after the protest of Ka Roger and the grandmother of PO2 Roger and the grandmother of Andrea, did not be punished with the abuses done by the AFP against the citizens."

The PKP has approved the Marcos regime and the AFP in filing multiple charges against the leaders and members of the Philippines, that is indication for the Supreme Court of the Republic of the Philippines, that is indication for the Supreme Court of the republic of the Philippines, that is indication for the Supreme Court of the republic of the Philippines, that is indication for the Supreme Court of the republic of the Philippines, that is indication for a violation of human rights which is a violation of human rights. "

"Stated by the Aquino administration, just like the Marcos dictatorship, the criminals who take advantage of the political prisoners, because they are trying to take advantage of the criminals like killing, illegal caution and fighting against the murder, illegal caution, and now, kidnapping, said the KP.

The PKP is calling on the national community that promote the human rights to examine this kind of criminal cases, to file a case against people with alias Bombay and others who are accusing them with such as an expert in the documents of the criminal cases.
