None.
Hoping for.
The things that have been started in the truth continue.
Two months have already ended up again on what is normal in the rain that the authorities have a lot of license for the authorities because the President is still having a license.
It is having a hard time later and orderly election in the next election.
The President said that he became a lucky president because those who are hit by the people he went there are showing up or that of free service under the water.
You said.
According to them, who will challenge the challenge and not a few moments with the strength of the Philippines, make sure that the president will make sure that this next year, the president made a picture of the Philippines with Janine Bernardo i-ing and let us really have a cold-nosed?
We are at work tomorrow.
The former bag that continues yes, that we do not have difficulty in order to lower our country a long distance.
Why is it that later?
We will help.
She is always left in order not to send money to me.
Face the problem you can use, milk, and then you will think that you might be sure that there will be no clean in choosing our fellow countrymen.
At the work of your work, the people will lower their current condition so it is too far for him to continue the arrival of one hundred and right way so that what happened between the president's projects is complete, and what happened to those who have gone to all of you, should I agree to you?
The motor was continued to gather; that's why the program is walking, while the program is walking.
Philippines, just a few of us next.
Forty-seven thousand five hundred five hundred pesos were destroyed by two thousand.
Are it like that?
Four-four-four-four-four-four-four sons.
Four applicants have been kidnapped.
!
Weak.
Six-workers in the future.
You will help up and go down, maybe, as long as you are adopted, so that it will not give back to the rest of the rest of us later on and given you.
Fulfill what you are doing.
The president did not let him look at it.
You need to Commander of his leadership to the Filipino owner from February.
Of course, this is to answer the call of that, that is why there are a lot of high officials who are lined up.
It's only here that the last 1970s yes to our Filipino, the president will pass by, the president will pass as a Chinese in October.
