Traffic, MMDA, LTO and LTFRB.

I remember Bangkok, Thailand last year 1990, the city of Thai, that the flow of traffic is very intense, it is irritating then that it will be irritated when the officials of their transportation are right now.
EDSA, Commonwealth and other main roads, now there is no traffic in the year 1990, now it is already severe, even worse, the officials of traffic are still alive but it is just all stories of their plan, now, even worse, and even worse.
It is only in EDSA that there are 10 thousand or more or less bus running, MMDA and LTO also said that not less than 6 thousand are not less than 6 thousand, are still all stories?
Just like what happened to the fall of the ravine in Florida Bus Station, if it has not happened that many passengers died, they cannot catch that a passenger jeepney was still colorum.
It's because we are fed up when a tragedy happened, that is when the involved agencies have happened, that is when they will learn what happened before, they pretend to be removed from your eyes in Mindanao Avenue and Commonwealth Avenue - DonMariano!
How much was the coins from the bus companies on the MMDA, LTFRB and LTO, every week, and to who is given P5 million pesos in Guadalupe towards Guadalupe, Makati City, to who is given P5 million pesos to anyone who also goes to the P1 million every week?
Even if he is surrounded by the skyway across Metro Manila, as long as the three agencies are still not following the right duty, it is certain that if they will strictly implement the traffic laws which is tainted with discipline and will surely be resolved by the broken traffic.
That is the only under the MRT and LRT, which is done by bus terminals, instead of changing the surroundings, it is going to go to each other when you defeated the urine and dirty surroundings, garbage!
There are those who earn that in the terminal, MMDA and having fun with the local government, aside from public utility vehicles, they are still trying to make sure that they are private but are being used every day of public vehicles in almost all terminals, malls in Metro Manila, they have.
With this pictures, the MMDA, LTFRB and LTO, expect the more traffic to be expected!
