It would become better if they throw the violence in politics, peace and justice.

By Joanna.
June 15, 2014.

It's not a simple return to more than 30 years of experience from the indigenous people in the correct decision of the indigenous people in the correct decision of the indigenous people in the correct process of P222,278.
To achieve the historical survey of the movement, becoming more than ten years since this daring message of the DAP-governmental organization (SES), together with the Cordillera People's Alliance (Cordillera), which was held in Pasil, Kalinga, last April 24-26, 2014.
It's not just a simple return to more than 30 years of experience in the country's own decision (self-Dee) by the indigenous people in the proper decision (self-Laban) by the indigenous people in the correct path, instead, the Dilawan, should be visited by people who are going to create.
Through Diyaryo ng Dr, it became a part of the celebration for more than 3,000 people from their respective countries like Taiwan, Visayas, Indonesia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, Japan, Ecud, Kenya, Japan, Sevidal land and Belgium.
In the first scene, Baba (Elder wow, it is better that Avisado also declared a special way of opening a special day in the mountains of correct space and gold, brought about by the native tribe of copper and gold, brought it on the indigenous people.
In the eyes of the government's eyes, it is possible that this success, as a harvest of the indigenous people, which is said to be an insane example of the 41-Infantry Battalion, this is one of the persons who killed the leader of the nation (community) and protector of human rights, William Bandola, Ifugao last March.
The celebration of Almasan has been considered a perfect way because of the traits of the gathering of the gathering, it is different from the colorful or artificial torch used by the Department of Tourism, a serious issue is featured in Cornes.
First, they are commemorating the heroism of Sir Maclon, 1930-80) and other countries who offered their lives to defend and fight for the soldiers of the Marcos dictatorship because of his insisting on the domination of all-mates against the giant Chico Dam in the World Bank.
Second, this is an occasion to talk about the problems of the indigenous people under the violation of a government which is leading the violation of the mining area of 1995.
Third, what's said to happen is a ritual of tons of tons (equivalent to unity) of different kinds of tears and enemy here, they are being studied and careful in the actions that will be made for old and new challenges.
Fourth, this is an exchange of art between co-mates such as challiances, dancing, story, poise and Dilawan, as well as the success of the movement in the region with political issues and the economy.
It's a success of the shower and end of the show but there's no act that it will be achieved if it will be reached by and not violent.
Through the initial scene, the complicated and bloody reality in the following scene is the usual scene of those taking advantage of it and maybe it was only discovered that the decomposing body of his body was clearly seen, which caused him to beat up and so many kinds of shouting.
The next target of Wanay (AAO-nosed) is the grief of a mother, who lost their father, the people who lost their father, brave, and diligent in the endorsement of a father, brave, and diligent in the endorsement of a father and freedom of for the country and the future. "
Awakened to the tone of the tone of the tone of it is also given a woman) and rub on the chest of the briber, Alice Claving, Chadversary, Iguaving, Iadversary, Dilawan, and Romy Sanchez, Chadversary, Dilawan, and Romy Castro, and the Roman Cordillera People's Liberation Front, and Romy Castro, and the traitor-Cordillera People's Moro Army.
The children are mourning, as well as the land, rice, bird and branches, but in an elf (cher), "the natural desire of the people who are standing up for justice will prevail.
On the other hand, the fear of Wums are realistic in the point that he wants to distance from their town his son Kawil (Edicio Dacuycuy) and finally live-in different towns especially when there is a disturbance of mining in different towns especially that there is a disturbance of the mining in different towns especially in the plant.
The defeated apparatus that has a disrespect of threats will cause of location and even in the whole community but also based on history, in one side, it is only now that the rightfulness of the leaders of the indigenous people about the course of their plantation is being ironed out, as well as the Budol-bust operation of Chevasion and P19,500.
Pasil, Pasil of the prestigious contest, was insisted by the Guinness of the leadership of InFilipino-governmental organization Association of Guinaang, Pasil, Incorporated AGi) who launched a gathering of the military and the agents of Makilala gym were planning to destroy the more than 3,000 hectares of ancestors.
In front of this challenge, an official who has an iron determination is needed by the offer of money, gold or CAIDs) and whoever has the interest to ruin the current government, live-and and the foreign corporation, they need to revive a federal law, peace, and the foreign corporation.
In the guidance of Sir Henry ao (Bernard Banao, this is where the native tribe that was left behind their land that was left behind by the youth for them to act, a call for the youth to act, a call to a temporary house in the city of the mother-mother-mother-tandem and Kawil.
With what they experienced the discrimination, demolition and destruction of the native culture, Dilawan, and her desire to find her sympathy and dancing to a simple cheating in the price of vegetables and flowers, even to the kidnapping and murder of their relatives.
In the span of Flabio Zaragosa (FFF), our request (FFF), will be able to understand each other, and applauded as Basil, join the Bagong Hunan Bayan (NPA).
It is possible that a permanent solution will undergo an instant the permanent solution of Kawil, especially if you don't know the time of your breath and movements of the hands and feet of the indigenous people who have been missing for a new perspective.
It is not enough for two hours to prove that he will reveal the struggle of the indigenous people in order to fulfill his success from the time of colorums in the colonization of colorums in the logic and the logic of the weapons of the youth personnel.
In the last chore of a female leader (PBaoen), he mentioned the value of history and memories of the regions but also by the entire country, but also in the whole country, but also for personal decision, the advancement of a national under democratic revolution.

Looking back to Domeng and gay.
Last 1988, the suspension of the Philippine Eiffel Tower's Association (PETA) was covered by the pen of Malou Acuña.
The foolish thing, "the real culprit, is a member of peace" uttered by the people with the mentality that will be done regarding the message of Sir Macolos and the support of the indigenous people and even for the support of the indigenous people and even for the support of different sectors of the country.
Sir Macabog-M was identified as an obstacle to the remains of colorums in the burial of the indigenous people, especially those who are the real enemies of the citizens, as well as the real enemies of the citizens, as well as the real enemies of the citizens, as well as those who are supporting the citizens, as well as those who are supporting the citizens such as Chico River Dam which are used to be brought up by the Americans.
It became a popular statement of Sir Macabog-ing in front of President Marcos and the Noni) as a reflection of the principle of the indigenous people about their destruction and abuse in the name of the legislative chamber, "this is also a simple owned by the Marcos family in relation to the rules of the World Bank," this is where they lived here and this is where they lived here and this is the same thing that uttered in Ti'll be proud and this is the same thing that uttered in Ti'll be proud of. "
In a heinous martial law, the indigenous people experienced the community, burning of houses, departure of houses, old, young, women and men called out by the chained and dancing in a Fotoplay.
But the strong management of the government has greatly ignited on the point that most of the men were brought to the jail by the military on the other hand, some of those who were left behind by the NPA rebels in the other hand, some of the women left behind in the ranks of the NPA.
Women have not moved back to the long guns of the military and instead, they are brave to face them as defending their rights as a woman, sister, sibling, family, relatives, relatives, siblings, and eventually left the brightness of the brightness of the brightness of the brightness.
There is a big element of the violence in the life of Sir Mackay, in the time of the martial law of Marcos, aside from this, the scene of the indigenous people in the mountains of Kalinga and the following days are what they call for their own decision, where there is still a prosperous life and tons of living.
It is being given attention to the leeches "Ang real culprit, because he has two faces, according to the personnel who met Marcos, and (2), according to the personnel who met Marcos, the Noni), and the military station, and the military.
On the first point of view, it is very clear that the pickpocket was suspicious, like Sir Mackay, believe in the death of the type of colorums in the way of destroying unity of their votes.
On the second kind of meaning, the line is connected with the goals of the indigenous people so that they will be able to neglect all of their needs, the mountains, the mountains of their own needs, the mountains, and others who want to look at all their needs such as food, medicine, wind and educated.
That is why as long as there are symptoms of the vandalism of their home, their community is ready to attack and fight for a call of Fisheries Code, this is based on the discussion of the New People's War, which is based on the issue of the Social Weather Stations or democracy.
It can be discontentanglement that is also a popular in the community which can be implemented by the NPA and the Cordillera People's Democratic Front (CPDC) because the life of Sir Macolos and the fight against Chico River Dam is part of its middle of the middle of the history of history in the region.
The peace talks is not going anywhere if the government does not want to fulfill the questionable complaints of the indigenous people, this is the declaration of the indigenous people in the midst of the Peace Agreement between the Philippine National Police (MILF) and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
There is a different topic when there will be a different issue of fulfilling the things they discussed especially about the complaint of the indigenous people.
However, it is also important to show two of the armed fight in a reality in the region, based on the tradition, every type of indigenous people will become more fiery, and it is expected that they are going to be more aggressive in their growth, which is why they are accustomed to mining as their height.
Which is why, in their consciousness, the weapons were lost in order to guard their ancestors who are part of the violent fight of the indigenous people for the sake of the violent fight of the indigenous people for the sake of the indigenous people in the sake of the indigenous people.
