
The viewer would also be wise.

By Rolando Nana, June 24, 2012.

Weak, or not included in the success of the initial decision, is the response to Karangalan Village, Rattle, and Roll hall which became successful in the prevalence of Shake, Rattle, and Roll hall which might be the happiness he can see in fear.

In fact, it has tons of Asian Games that are weak at the tradition and those who are noisy with their ancestors, even though they were gay because of the famous gay woman (Dolphy and Roderick Paulate), who is a gay actor, Production, situation, Production.

But in the Karangalan, my ora, this is not a statement except for the comments on the issue of patriotism, and a powerful woman, and a powerful woman, and a powerful woman, and a powerful woman, with its own voice, and a great voice, and a good voice in the filipino culture.

On the other hand, the attempt to identify the owner of the indie film (non-budol Gang (indie film Production team has not yet achieved by the first day that they did not understand what was being spent on and made the movie based on the initial taste of a popular taste.

There is no longer change in a popular taste, it remains in spite of the business of the media and production of "Ipit Gang" but it remained well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as his fate.

The film purpose is related to the readiness of return to the root of the primary members of the family in South Korea.

The father will want to be married to the son of his friend, just like the discussion of the past, one of his children even is Khane my ora and agreed to be married to their couples.

According to them, the first lover of their father will be tested, and for the time of the movie, there was a fight between the ghosts in the first glance, mixture of Enteng Kabisote and only Ina Reformina, the mastermind of the story where the flow of the story has changed.

A happy girl is here in a historical story of possibility that there is a possibility that it is Christmas and generous to the viewers, but not during the time of school, the money will be counted due to the severity of expenses.

Even if it is still here, everyone who has been used as an estimate of the mark of the mark of the implementation of a popular movie, the National Production.

And this is the power of the masses, based on their capacity to go out, that not all of them will be supported by them, that not all their bodies will be supported, especially if all of their bodies can still be allowed to check in the cahoots with a successful fight, and may still not succeed.

The lesson here is simple, it is needed to think that it creates and sell an effective media that the viewer would be wise.
