The heroism of Armas.

In the television first, Adeliciously heard that her older brother, Armas, "at first, did not believe because she was always reported dead, Ka Armas," she said.
Three years have passed when ArAlbarillo said, the general secretary is going to decide before the New People's Army (NPA) during the time of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, and was charged with criminal cases in the region.

Not long in the decision of Armas, instead of stopping in the movement, hide, or even the open target of the murder such as his parents, they will join the NPA, Armas, and will not be harvested again.
Until June 30.
"The body of older brother was cut off, then his hand was cut off, his head broken and the murder of him was not humane," said Adelusion.
Adelbert was killed when he was killed in the brutal method of his parents, Examination and Manolo Albarillo, in his face at San Teodoro, Mindoro. Kotong, who was said to be the soldiers under their home in San Teodoro, Mindoro.
According to Adelightfulness, the search for justice for his parents is one of the things that pushed Arquero because of an alleged encounter which served the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) as a sign of "end of the NPA in Quezon, he died and 10 more rebels.
The eldest of Arinoli, is now ten years old, with his orphaned three children.
It is a good leader.
On the two nights of awards for Arinoli, on July 5 and 6 in UP Parish of the Holy Sachit ice, it is clear that his death is not only a loss of his family, but also with a wide movement.
The movement is led to giving tribute to the so-called "hero of the citizens," hundreds of poor cities, farmers, members and leaders of the different cities that were killed in the same encounter which was also killed in the same encounter.
An ordinary workers in the factory of the bag and more alias Artuz was killed when the soldiers killed his parents, farmers, similar to the other victims of terrorism that would be driven by Palparan in the island of Mindoro, Arinoli, and seven more of his siblings, are forced to be a gay.
They were able to catch these kinds of human rights that is why Arayyy became aware of it.
According to Bayan Muna Rep. Rodel Ramacula, the godfather of Armas, "when Arlus said the duty to find justice for the murder of his parents, he found out that it was not far from the incident, but part of the long time and huge violence of the state against the citizens."
In 2004, Aroroy, Southern Tagalog, Arlus said, and became the general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) in 2005.
As a leader of the Bayan, most of the poor people who are oppressed by many of the poor and who are accused of this are the needy of Sitio Seaside, Calamba, Laguna, a community who is facing the demolition.

Nanay Pacu said, a resident of Sitio Dumalian, Armas, who taught them anymore and fought back then, when we were having a problem, we did not go back to the barangay, we did not go back because of what he pointed at him. "
Aris known as one of the only leader of the masses, who is good with words, militants, and diligent.
According to Doris Bigornia, former general secretary of Karylle-ST, "he will still do the mass leader that will still do anything, or take pictures at NAPC yesterday, he does not choose any job."
"You can't see him with exhaustion, and as if not for rest," according to Auto, sweat, Rafael Mariano, who was included in the non-ranking people of the farmers.
Very happy.
Arinoli, is serious in work, but he is a happy individuals, "he always gave birth to his companions through the stories," according to Cuba.
Arinoli, is also good in dealing with the members of the took place when a few of them had a friend, similar to Bombo Radyo GMA-7, she often called and reported to the radio, "Orly Marketing who called the Katipunan of the farmers of the southern end.
When I was orphaned, he became the second mother of Orly, who again, former general secretary of Karylle, but again the soldiers who got killed in 2003 in Mindoro.
Later on, the role of Arayyy became active in the movement and wants to oust Arroyo from his position at this time, he mingled with a close anti-Arroyo similar to the former vice-President Koko Pimentel, actor Pen Medina, and others.
Cuisa further clarified that Armas is easy to get along, even if you can be put in the social media if needed, you can also put him in a difficult situation. "
The only thing she was not able to get along with Armas, is the forces that he believed to be part of the poor and who is oppressed by her employer.
It was not long before, even a civilian was put in Order (Batal of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Arinoli, who was accused and filed by a government of the alleged criminal charges for a criminal case and murder case (afterwards, the said cases were also dismissed.
In 2008, the agents of the Intelligence Service of the AFP talked to Arquero and offered an information in exchange of a huge amount of money which was firmly denied by Armas.
"They should just do what they want to do to me, like what they did to my parents, I will never stop in searching for justice for my family and the whole country," said Armas, before he will eventually lose weight.
In the company of the farmers.
With the recognition given to Armas, the video was released by a video that showed Aras well as one of the rebels, that's why he talks with the farmers, they helped them with their problem on earth.
A farmer was able to help the mountains of Quezon who also spoke with an award. "He did not choose any person just to go near him, but I felt that I lost his feet and hands," according to the farmer.
Adelbert said, her older brother is very happy for his choice.

Areven showed that it is true that the Pharisees, "or the most skillful individuals of his generation are fast to protest, if the truth will not happen, if there is no justice in the government, if the truth will not be solved if there will be a clear perspective of their destination."
This is also what Renato Reyes said, general secretary of Bayan. "They thought that if they were killed by the Honor Code, they said that if they were killed, it's not true that they won't understand the law of the flowers," he said, for sure they will be successful with the transformation they started, "he added.
Even if mourning, the family Albarillo is ready to accept the death of her sister the second father considered as their second father, "we are proud of what he chose to do, because we know he is right," Adelbert said.
The eldest of Arayyy admitted, the 10-year-old Horn was accepted, a wood which is holding a fist, which is a symbol of the heroism of his father - the only one who loved the loneliness, just like a lot of loved and left by Armas.
