
Number 2170 Infanta Street Formosa do not have an estimate number 44; interview: The safety of the worker, always be neglected.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda May 15, 2015.

The remains of the victim of a fire in the factory of Kentex here in Valenzuela City were picture of the death of the 72 people, who were allegedly working in the said factory in Valenzuela City last Wednesday, May 13, and many of them were killed by a large number of workers in the area of their work.

Now, it is being pointed out that there is a serious implementation of the Aquino administration for the safety and health of the workers, of course, the Filipino Worker (Ibum) will continue to raise his immediate fact for the safety and health of the Filipinos.

Wow, you launched an immediate fact that he received immediate fact in the factory of Kentex?, Inc. yesterday, what is the situation there, the factory and the workers there?

Philippines Nadia de Leon (Ihhh) - it is the two bases for us to say that Occupational safety, which we have talked to have a fact that we have talked to a fact that we have talked to a fact that we have talked to each other and taking a photo there inside the building.

In the testimony, the workers really said that there was no fire incident, especially in the Second floor for the 72-year remains of the deceased, 69, the majority of the dead workers, the majority of the dead workers are the ones who were not able to exit the Second floor due to a large amount of steel pipes.

The workers said, and the people surrounding the factory yesterday that we were able to talk to, they still saw shouting "the workers in the Second floor, but it cannot be opened, they cannot go out from the window because there is no effect.

"It is also what was said by a relative that was talked to (Interior Secretary Mar Roxas, because we were able to go there to Talk 'Mar with the family, why the workers' questions were screaming, because the workers, because they were very ill, were very ill.

That's why it was seen from the testimony that the workers do not really have a fire.

In front of you, is there truth with that kind of testimony?

Someone asked us to get a picture of the windows, second, someone bravely went to us to enter even a bit dangerous to take the Second floor because he saw there was no fire exit.

What is the thing that can be said that there is no fire exit, it seems that there are people who go out and have no other way out of the factory?

In our investigation, there are two sides that go out, and one of the workers, and one of those who want to go out from the building, "that's what you want to go out from the building," that's the only way that you can go out from the building, "that's the only way.

The safety of safety in the Philippines and of course, the safety of safety in the Philippines and of course the safety that they violated this case, based on your studies?

There is what we are implementing right now, "the safety of the Philippines, we have Occupational Health Office (5)," of Fire Protection Program (5), "

One more thing, we found out in fact that there was a new copy of the improvised explosive chemical when it was hit by the fire), and that was the formal cause of the fire), "the SPARK), and that is where the fire started, and then the fire started.

What they call there is a chemical, which is being used to rubber band) so that it is just being used by rubber trees so that even if it's too slippery, we also saw that it would be a huge amount of fire that will cause a fire.

And the third, based on the testimony of the victims, no fire has been a fire in them, which is needed to have been a Standard Lunch Program, which is needed to change and to be a higher evacuation center of the building, Acres, should be more often, if not a regular workers, because there are no regular workers, because there are many jobs that are also done here in Kentex.

If it will be a responsibility, based on what you are saying, it is clear that there is something that will be the editions of this type, is it clear that they have a responsibility for their safety as well, "the government official in this case?

It is a big liability here by Dequia of Labor Law (DOLE), especially since they admitted that Labor Sec. Rosalinda Baldoms, which shows the height of their sales from Kentex, and it turns out that it is the top of their stingray, which is the system of their stingray in the factory.

Why would it be that it will be easy to escape and take revenge?

Because this is due to the new department order of the DOLE that they are leading to, "the Department of Number 131-13) when they released this in 2013, they said, they did not say it to the downfall (accident) of the workers in the Eton,"

But what they are doing now, is that it can still be able to sneak through these companies, there is a joint-bust operation, "that's why the workers," representative and LLalai, "those who are being monitored by the former Labor Law Compliance," those who are being monitored by the former Labor Law Compliance, "those who are being monitored by the former Labor Law Compliance."

In our view, it is easy to get through it, it is easy to go through, we know that the DOLE should always say that it is not possible that the DOLE will go down, it is possible that the DOLE will go out, it is easy to hide, or so he is ready to be exported.

One more thing, DOLE always says, that the reason why they are doing it is for us to think that it is impossible that those who are going to go to the table will go to the table which is impossible, that those who are going to go to the table will still need to depend on the Omnibus Election Code for us.

What is pushing the editions that should not be allowed to go to jail?

Of course, the first that is to be frugal (for expenses, and additional income).

Second, it is very easy to pass through that kind of violation because the Labor laws that we are going to be frugal and not to take care of the workers, what is the P1,000 to make the safety of the workers?

What do we know here in Kentex as company?

"Kentex, his product is Having, the script of the rip-off of (a famous illustrator) Havarse, but we know that the local market in the city is still big, but we know that there are many type of workers inside.

There are those who are regular workers and those that they say are 20 years old, and there are 10 years of working and there are more than 100-years old, including more than 100 - including more than 100 percent, including more than 100 percent, including more than 100 percent, especially in the length of public service, it depends on the length of service in work.

One more thing we discovered, there are more summer jobs that are youth in Kentex this May, before the fire happened, we were not able to get their names.

Beata "was the owner of the deceased" with his son Tristan.

There was a story that when she was about to go out, he / she went back to Tristan (Second floor to get the money., but we did not know that. "

According to Kentex, Ansay, there are companies that are 30 members, so these regular, are all casual or agency workers, or those who are saying they are saying.

What is the greatest call of Ialite and other Labor groups in relation to the tragedy in Kentex?

In our opinion, his oldest child, Bethlehem, "what we know, three families have the owner, but we are just known as Ang.

It's because Balentz is saying that the Labor laws are being told by the victims of social activities that he does not want to speak there is about 20,000 pesos.

Second, there is still a case in Congress which is located at the House Bill 4635 or few "Shield of Gabriela Women's Liberal, which the contents of the scope of safety, health centers, especially the Montenero, which will be proven guilty.

Of course, the strict implementation of these people is, and not through joint exercise which is called by DOLE.
