They have a request!: PNP Custodial Center.
By Arnold Clavio July 17, 2016 was in the latest record of the Philippine National Police (PNP), about more than 300 were killed in the entire country in relation to the severe campaign of Duterte Administration against illegal drugs.
Except for the number of those who did not report to the media.
The government of President Rodrigo Duterte denied the murder of the suspects in the operation of drugs, the President said, the President said, if he fought, kill, "according to a government official.
But, according to some relatives of the killed pushers in drugs, they did not fight! "
Some of the information gathered are the killing of a riding-in-tandem in some suspected pushers who surrendered to respond to the call of the government.
At present, the management of the PNP left the giving protection to some of the information gathered by the PNP.
They are in barangay officials who are being given protection to those rushing to run or have proven that he will reveal information on or who are the source of shabu.
So expect the increase of number of killed or killed those involved in the sale of shabu and other illegal drugs, because of lack of protection.
The barangay does not have the ability to give protection to those taking advantage or using shabu, they have only one destination, dead or life!

But because of 100-worthy support from PDigong and PNP Chief Sr.

Supt. Bato dela Rosa to the personnel of the PNP against drugs, it seems that he is going to gather from those involved in the sale of illegal drugs.
Even if they know something or extremely affected in the business of drug lord the anti-drug campaign of the current government, there is still a negative effect on the culture of murder of the present.
The investigation called by the Senate in this issue is timely, not to dismiss the current campaign but to ensure that the policy of the current government is clear.
It is just right that the government has a program for those who were orphaned by more than 300 people involved in illegal drugs who were killed by the police or vigilantes are considered as the citizens of this country and it is just right that the government will give protection to those who were orphaned.
For now, many are happy in the campaign of the Duterte government, residents of different barangays who have become victims of drug pushers but still have to consider their human rights. "
It is possible that some of those who are killed are members of the syndicate or included in the opposing syndicate of drugs.
Lord, you will take care of it!
