Drug pushers, Antipolo BFP and Pantawid Pasada card.

Let us give our readers a chance to release their knowledge, complaints, stand, complaint, suggestions and others.
It is a bad attitude in the hospital.
Good day, Mr. Benny said that the bad attitude and treatment of the patients here in Doctor Jose P. Rizal Memorial Hospital is not appropriate for their behavior and treatment of their attitude.
Plant trees.
The Department of Environment and Natural Resources of Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental are good for the fields of DENR but also the price of DENR but also from Visayas and Luzon.
Antipolo Fire-Station.
Sir, here in the Antipolo Fire Station, there are only a few firefighters who were on duty, because their funds are selling fire piston which is why their funds in the Bureau of Fire Protection was celebrating and their funds are being thrown by them.
Father.
Good luck, sir! I just want to request for my father Dennis delos Reyes, whom I want to know, I want to know him / her, I want me to get to know me! I am the only one I can see it! I am, thank you! God bless.
Politicians are useless!
I help me as a neighbor who has a child with an illness, and we went to them on the first week of January 1 of San Jose, Bulacan.
Plate number of kidnapping.
The plate number of vehicles which taking the child are nosy, even the young lady van, green-XMM) and white van - VXT 351.
Police outposts.
We should have put our police outposts here in the line, Binangonan, Rizal.
To have a experience, MMDA.
Good at night, we are asking the Metro Manila Development Authority to gather operations again here in Bgy. San Jose, Calanoga and 131.
The Pantawid Pasada card in Masbate.
Just give the Pantawid Pasada card of Masbate City or you want to forget us in the election because it is not just for you but for our tricycle drivers.
Politics in Capiz.
The order of Mar Roxas: The disturbance of the Opposition by all sorts of deaths is the reason why if you are enemies in Capiz Provincial Hospital because if you are enemies in politics, they will get attention to Governor Tabag-Clearance or they will get attention to Governor Tabag-Clearance or they will be able to give attention to the poor and children who are new in the flood.
Drug pushers.
Sir Benny, good at night here in Cainta, Rizal, which seems to be being caught by the police as a big time that is pushing shabu, even if the police had money from him, it seems that the police who has money from him will not be taken to show their cellphone number.
Straight path and social media.
If the Aquino government is really thorough in the straight path that will cheat on me, he should listen to the voice of our small citizens to give their complaint through the media!
