Jed Madela, drinking in her Instagram account (after so arrogant, is Kathy.

Postanes and his mind.
On November 12, 2014.
In showbiz.

Is it a number of times when Jed Madela did it for several times, of his being ademia.
Flaris, August, Ben had an issue about his concert in abroad because he did not like the poster of his concert, which is why he did not like him in front of his ATM card, which is why he did not let him take on his cellphone "that is why he was left behind by his IG.
And because of the criticisms gathered by Kathy, he was not able to stop, immediately asked for an apology to the interview that he should not be given a grand reception of the interview that he should not be given a show in Cagayan de Oro City with JC, who had a show up in Cagayan de Oro City with JC, which became a show up in Cagayan de Oro City.
Here is the post of the singer we will vote for the people in Production of ASAP.
"Noguides.
Wow, it's bad that it turns out that those who have helped her eyes are the ones who helped her co-worker because it is true that Madela did not have an explanation about his complaint, which is why she didn't have the desire to discredit a fellow citizen and it is true that it is true that there is no interest in his complaint, which is why she didn't have an interest, which is why "Daang Matuwid" was true. "
Hahaha, hahaha, hahaha, which will give him a grand reception or what he is saying "Marilyn Estores," the Cebu Pacific, "that is why there is Maroons and his partner.
He is not like the famous number of useless emotions, it should have been known for a useless emotions, and then they would not be able to look into a gathering of their business, that is why when they came back, they would not be able to look straight at his co-worker; and then he would not be able to look into a welcome to his fellowmen, that is why they would not be able to find a lot of show-up, and there will be a lot of show up to him by Top Rank Promotions.
Because it's because you will stop being a fan of a race.
Peter Ledesma,
