Danger "does not mind the foolishness.

It seems that it is just nothing for the youth who were riding a cellphone and jewelry that occurred in their crossing the wide street such as Commonwealth Avenue and Quezon Avenue in Quezon City and EDSA.
In the past few days, my two eyes witnessed how they quickly ran for the so-called Korean highway in Commonwealth Avenue, one teenager, filled with jewelry to one passenger of a jeep.
One teenager does not care about any disaster that will happen to him in running, but what's important is that he can just be able to cross the other despite the jewelry that grabbed the passengers.
What is surprising is why the police just allowed the teenager riding a mobile car and did not even fight him.
Anzon, that's why, the police did not know what the teenager did on the other road but he was hoping that they were just accosted by them in crossing a zigzag direction in the highway.
The other night, lily's column was also witnessed in the Philcoa in Commonwealth Avenue, after one teenager was caught by a woman riding a passenger jeepney and after that, a teenage boy suddenly thought that he would not be hit by a lot of vehicles and he could possibly catch a lot of vehicles.
He / she also saw the police who is strolling with the Philcoa but they did not even fight the teenager.
My question is: The police have something to do with the harassment of these youth?
Now that the celebration of the Black Nazarene will arrive in Quiapo, it will surely be at peace along Commonwealth because the snatchers, who are going abroad in Quiapo, will be at peace.
It is figured out that the celebration of Quiapo is going to be discussed, hopefully there are our fellow countrymen who have grown up to the Black Nazarene, we should avoid wearing jewelries in the body, bring too much money and most of all, to take care of our cellphone.
Let us remember that we are going to be in the crowded place and we do not need to wear jewelry, bring money and to buy a cellphone.
Most of all, we should not bring children because we know how many people are in Quiapo when there is a lot of people in Quiapo, but if it cannot be avoided, it can be avoided that there is a name of the child, "when they lost it, it will be easy to get along.
From lily's Calvento Files, a happy celebration for the Holy Week and for all those from Quiapo, Manila.
