Number HLX-1255; Hacienda Luisita, scenario of fear.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
November 14, 2014.

Jesus Laza was bloody after the shooting of the police and military after he was ambushed by the Filipino workers of the hacienda, November 16, 2004, Grabs and "in the name of Tubo.
According to the editor-in-law, this article came out in print issues of Filipino Weeker last November 24-30 in the 2004 issue, or more than a week after the tragic massacre in Hacienda Luisita, which is considered as the spokesperson of the Marcos family, November 16, 2004.
3: 12: 00 in the afternoon, the 25th of November was started by water from the fire piston of the Philippine National Police and 69th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army and the ranks of the Spanish-workers and Filipino farm in Hacienda Luisita.
From Ginger Condera and Tarlac office, the fire originated from the fire which according to the protesters, the foul and mixed with iron fist, but like the previous attempted dispersal (last November 6 and 8), the protesters were not shaken.
Two miners and personnel of the soldiers and police were buried in position inside a fence in the factory where it was also started when they were able to ask their barbells as a member of the United Nationalist Alliance (ULU) and Central Azerera, Tarlac Labor Union (Catalado) in Golder sister.
Only Bato!
The protesters stepped back to each of their downfall.
Some of the protesters, according to him, are ready to be ready after the past violent dispersal order for them to live-and big stones that will serve as their weapons if in case they will use the violence of habeas corpus.
According to the stories of the protesters, some of their colleagues were showered with rocks because of the large rocks thrown in front of Golder sister, a lot of people were hit, including a resident of ABS-CBN, who was hit on the face and needs to be transferred to the hospital.
It was said that it was long time when we tried to break the bark in front of Golder sister, he destroyed the left part of the fence, and upon arriving at the curved part of the fence, and upon arriving at the curved part of the fence, he could not go forward with the intense competition of the protesters.
According to the witnesses, some of the protesters came back to the damaged fence after the Disbursement Acceleration Program was last spotted using a rock and was able to recover, they were happy to attacked the ranks of policemen who are hiding in huge number.
Upon arriving at 3: 51 in the afternoon, the protesters seem to have been going to defend their barbells as well as what happened last November 8, the protesters were successful back to the police.
But after this, the intense fear of the protesters happened.
The massacre in Hacienda Luisita, who went out of Pigcawayan, November 24-30, 2004, Dimatulak, Allan Nam, was cut off.
Alberate the bullets.
"I saw the orchard in a tree, behind the gasoline station, the synagogue," by Garcia, when the shooting started, he was seated in the middle of the ranks of the protesters, but instead of thinking that Garcia was hiding from his companions who did not back down.
One of those seen by Garcia is down when the shooting started, Jesus Laza, from Brgy.
Garcia also said, while he is helping Laza, he also saw a gunshot on the neck, Jaime Pasambong, whom he asked to go to his neck because it can't come closer because it rained a bullet between them.
Garcia saw one of the protesters that they were living with, Jose Pascual, 34, of Mozambique and came out of a tricycle to go to Saint Martin de Porres Hospital inside the hacienda.
Garcia and Pascual said that they did not have a gun at the two consecutive gunshots from the alleged allegations of the police and the editing of the hacienda.
Meanwhile, some protesters were inside the fence when the gunfire started, and according to some witnesses, they saw the wounded were hit in the leg, and he was allegedly seen by some soldiers and dragged her in the chest apart from his right leg.
Jessie Valdez, 30, member of the UWU and from Barangay Balite, said that he was hit by a bullet in his right thigh after he was hit by a bullet on the right thigh by the victim's body with bruises on both sides, like Flores stated.
In the middle of the shooting.
Meanwhile based on the witnesses, in the middle of the shooting, Juancho Sanchez, 20, of Brgy. Balite, 20, of Barangay Balite, who is the son of a pastor, Sanchez, who is the son of a pastor, Sanchez, was only able to use water for the protesters who are washing their eyes due to the integrity.
Also included in those who have no fight were hit by the shooting and died in different hospitals, Jun David, and Caballero Jr.
All those who survived the shooting were able to run to nearby barangays, like Texas and Balete Drive, most of those who were caught by the soldiers and imprisoned at 111 which were caught by the soldiers, supporters in the protest, and the protesters were thrown away after the massacre.
Galang also said, it is not enough for the 116th people on the night the victim was beaten, arrested and imprisoned at Camp Macabeo and Camp Aquino, Northern Luzon Command Headquarters in Tarlac City.
Meanwhile, in the petition of the funeral parlor that was brought to the remains of David, Laza, Sanchez, office manager of the Arctic's Memorial Memorial Necropole Ecumenica, that the relatives of the other victims, who have witnessed the autopsy and fixing the funeral home, also said.
They were killed!
A lot of witnesses confirmed the death of an unknown father-in-law of a laborers (to the first year-old farm by other laborers, who were living in a shack near the area of protest because of the smoke of the said laborers because of the smoke of a coconut plantation.
According to the witnesses, they saw the father of the soldier rushed to the anger after his son was found dead by his daughter, Pinarthritis.
Unfortunately, the dead bodies of the deceased laborers were not found yet in the fact that the soldiers were found inside a fence in a fence in the body of the two who died (not confirm) until now, it was not yet found by the local contractor who was showered by the laborers from Negros.
Until the last report, up to 10 to 16 protesters were missing for their relatives, including those who were missing from the wounded soldiers who were wounded from the wounded members of the soldiers who were not known to be dead or alive.
If this is true, the corpses might burn the bodies so that the number of known dead bodies will not be increased.
