My ally or spy?

Last Monday, those from Manila City Hall are busy not only because of the eve of "Independence Day of Manila, wherein Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada is busy but because on the day of releasing the warrant of arrest of Senator Jinggoy Estrada, the son of the mayor.
They are busy on how to give support to the Estrada family that in the past and at that time, they are all mourning because in the situation of the senator, it can be seen that Mayor Estrada is always supporting Mayor Estrada to the Manila Hotel so that it would be seen in the Manila Hotel that will be held in the Manila Hotel.
Wow, from Greenhills until Camp Crame and Manila Hotel was seen with Mayor Erap, Serna io.
Serna io said that they have been able to do a lot and work hard for the city, it is true that there are many transactions passing through the hands of the said lawyer because he has a lot of cases in the hands of the said lawyer because he has a lot of cases in the hands of the department and offices.
It is up to be the chairman of Finance Committee and the video Awards held today, which is why even the collection of sidewalks in Divisoria, Avenida to Quiapo is what he wants as his ally.
But wait, where would he last in 2010?
In the 2013 local elections, it appears like Serna Lupa in the campaign of Erap?
It seems that he is carrying the Liberal Party where the candidate is former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, in simpler terms, he is just accompanied by Mayor Erap in peace but during the campaign where Mayor Erap is also from Malacañang, it is also good for Mayor Erap to destroy the people.
It is because it can be seen that the name of the mayor is growing because of the changes he is doing for the progress and improvement of his jurisdiction.
Of course, the allies of PNoy do not want to recover from Estrada because they have a threat in the coming 2016.
We are not the one to tell if Mayor Erap's enemy, Attorney Serna io.
Just the advice of Mayor Erap that the people you don't often see in your office are not like those who are pretending to be support to you all the time, the true intentions and those who love you.
The people you are with in poverty and not in popularity.
Some vendors of Divisoria wants Mayor Erap to be a extortion of them by a Jimmy Soriano who is assigned to Manila Police District but a 15-30 pesos.
It was said that it was said that it was the afternoon if Soriano is going to extort.
