A reward will be after by Janet and dynamite in Lucena.

Janet Lim-Napoles is still shaking while giving up to the president of our country.
And who would not get nervous, well, ten million pesos will be given to someone who can point on his whereabouts!
That's why Madam Auring was really doing something, while there is something coming from the lion's den, Hala, ehek, ehek!
While his friend appealed to us by his friend at Camp Crame, he is going to step down which seems that he was playing with his "angel when he was playing with his" angel, he.
Napoles knows that the P10 million reward can be bought by the soul of the one he is taking.
Umm, it is possible that it is just like a nuisance, but my belief is it is possible that Napoles can just go out of the sound of P15.M which is more than the sound of 113 million pesos, instead it goes to the alphabet right now!
Napoles probably thought that it will give him to 113 million pesos if it will personally surrender, and it is possible that there will be a source of reasoning that the money he stole from the country's funds will give up.
Because we believe that the greedy is greedy!
If examined, in the statement of the lower post, Benhur Luy, the reason why Janet and imprisoned was laid down and imprisoned because he learned that he (Luy) will build the tension between JLiwag.
That's why all the problems of Napoles are coming out is because of the lack of money coming out of the money, and even the surrender of her!

The military admitted in the Senate hearing in relation to the "bombing, which there are places in the country that the explosives will be bought.
This is worrisome but it's true!
An example is the dynamite in a type of explosives where it will be bought if you know TROs) based in Lucena, Quezon.
The dynamite, crook, is to be complete, is needed by the "amoto," or a type of covetousness) in mango.
It is very careful "the fried" fried rice and when they put it on the bottle, it is then that when the dynamite he / she was holding "epal" or fur, the Montenero, especially if many of them cannot sell a person if he does not have a plantation of mango or appropriate permission.
But even if there is a sack a sack, you will be selling the sale of Tantangan as long as there is a high price!
In addition to this, you will also buy at Tell of Pad or soup!
The mixture of racket is done in the next issue!
