Marikina City and 2nd Lieutenant. River.

Majority thought there are plague to the river of the river, it is obvious that the plague of this in Ondoy and the southwest monsoon is obvious because it is also good that there is also a good thing which is also being known as the flood-nosed?
They are distress, this is a wrong perception because some of the places in Metro Manila are often flooded and there is a flood in Marikina when the river overflowed.
But it is also good "that is also good because we are now in Marikina are considered as the flood" in different places in the Philippines, and even in other countries.
Acres, I first heard from Engineer Rommel Felipe, chief of our City Transportation and Development Office (CCDO) to let us go to school because we want to learn how we go to school and how we can go to the Disaster.
Evarse, of Gloria Buenaventura (City Environment Management Office chief) and Julie Borromeo (Center for Examination director), together with the National Bureau of Miriam College was the construction of the very first river Institute of Miriam College that will be held in Marikina Convention Center this coming November.
Mayor Del de Guzman approved this and released Executive Order to speed up the formation of it.
Its timing is right because there are many places in other countries that are not flooded before are now submerged in water in Portugal, America, Australia, and others who do not know what to do in this situation so they are looking for a need to learn from other countries that are used to such problems.
Because of this, they were amazed in Marikina because the evacuation center and the emergency Shelter Assistance will be orderly, including the rehab.
Marikina.
Now, many want to go here to study the best leader of Marikina City that is why it is good to be a River Institute of Marikina and the Miriam College.
This is only one of the things that are going to learn from the River Science and if you want to expose the case to be exposed to the whole world, it is better for you to go to 2nd IRS-2014 which will be held in Marikina. Sebunga, thank you!
