
Support the struggle of the Filipino people against the deceit of the Marcos regime.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 17, 2012.

The leader of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) is convinced that the lower part of the MILF and government agencies that is signed on Monday by the representatives of the MILF and government budget that is needed to face and fight by the filipino citizens to face and fight the Aquinos.

The MILF and Philippine National Security System Agreement should be a result of the strong effort of MILF and the Filipino Moro who stole their goal for the national decision of acknowledging the political decision for the government's goal and the impending dangers for the goals of the Filipino people.

Included in the critical issue where the armed forces of the MILF) should be made into action, so that it will not be used by the armed forces of the MILF, so that it will not be used by the armed forces of the MILF, so that they will not be used by the Bangsamoro Basic Law that the Bangsamoro will steal in the jurisdiction of the Philippine National Police.

In addition to this, the agreement is that the "martial law Enforcement" or implementation of the law is going to be transferred to a very clear provisions that will be transferred by the armed forces of the MILF, of the Bangsamoro Islamic Armed Forces (HRO), which is the agreement in signing the final agreement.

The issue about the armed forces of the Bangsamoro will prevail in the territory of Bangsamoro will be determined under the authorities of the Bangsamoro Basic Law should be sure with the authorities of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the territory of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the territory of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in the territory of the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

This is also the issue of prioritizing the implementation of the 45th Infantry Battalion based on the actions of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (SC) through the orders of the transition Commission (SC) through the mandate which will be given by the Philippine National Police, and probably will be the cause of the price hike in the Philippines.

In the interview recently, the leader of the National Football Federation of Gonda said that the Saligang Batas of the Supreme Court should be according to the constitution of the Philippines' constitution that may lead to the constitution of Philippine government, if the government's ability should be found out by the laws of the government of the government.

The share of wealth is another popular issue, especially the details when the only agreement in the agreement is to have a clear implementation of Bangsamoro Basic Law in development and use of their natural resources within the jurisdiction of Bangsamoro will have no clear corruption inside the jurisdiction of Bangsamoro.

Expect that the Marcos regime will take advantage of this and big companies to maintain the rape in the livelihood of Bangsamoro will be implemented by foreign companies, and the agencies that are being implemented by foreign companies in the mining and oil, which are supposed to be implemented by foreign companies in the mining and oil.

The lower part of the MILF and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front is going to make noise and danger to the next stages of the negotiation, the benefit of the filipino citizens in the issue of freedom, covetousness and decisions of self-control.

As one of the most avid sentiments of the rights of the Filipino people for the national decisions of the Philippines (PKP) and the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) and the Partido Demokratiko ng Masang Pilipino who will continue to hold the approval of the citizens of the MILF and United Kingdom, who will continue to hold the victory of the MILF and United Kingdom, to hold the success that they have given to the armed fight.
