Not annoying, cannot be forced.

In the content of the controversial news today, Congressman Mariano, Hardco, expressed their complaint about the alleged investigation of the Senate in the said clear contract while the suspicious projects can be protected.
But we will not discuss the issue, "now, the Senate is not able to answer for the complaints of Cong.
But, Cong. Hardco is not only in controversy because he is the representative of the COMELEC, who is one of the issues regarding the Partylist (Comelec), I believe that the name of Hardco in many of us is familiar with many of us, because he is always in news now.
But who is congressman Hardco, I am in front of his record that I think is more important.
If you will take a peek at the background of Cong. Hardco in the website of the Congress in spite of the implementation of the Committee, Congressman Haramco, one word which was made to identify a person who is good in the issue of economy and business.
In this time, Ted Failon knows that in the middle of any issue, it is still important for people and the voters to know how they can help and be guided by a lawmaker.
If we make a part of the research, we will know that in spite of the controversy involving a lawmaker, we will see any information about what kind of person he is really and what he can do to the country.
There is another thing about Congressman Hardco who will call attention.
Not only those who are annoying or not convinced because of the issue of the Partylist system, it looks like the representative of the Partylist itself is in chaos where congressman is the representative.
But, like a person who has confidence in your own skills, he does not have anything to do, she is exiled again.
If he can't go against it, look for other ways to serve the country.
Last week, Congressman Hardco of Cerge will file charges to become the representative of a district in Aklan because there are rumors that Hardco, because he is a legitimate businessman.
He is one of the rich in Congress and he has the ability to personally take responsibility for the said expenses in a campaign which is why he is ready to take care of the country's treasury and instead, he is going to run as congressman in Aklan where many of his countrymen are going to run as congressman in Aklan where many of his countrymen are able to run to his ability and believe in the progress he can do.
