FOI is nothing; Congress, should not do anything.

No opposed to the senators on the proposal for the Islamic Freedom Fighters or freedom of the information of the citizens about the transactions of the government in different parts of the government in different parts of the government in different parts of the government in the middle of the year, they have a version of the FOI.
Nevertheless, no one is sure when the legislative chamber will make sure that he will get it from the 21 proposals of the Legislative Chamber, it seems that the leaders of the legislative chamber are doing it in the end of their term, their version will be passed. "
There is no interest in the palace.
In the midst of the enjoyment of the citizens to the senators being open to witness the citizens in their actions as officials of the government, it appears that the Palace has no direct interest to push the FOI.
The Palace also said that the approval of the President to immediate action or urgent "is the implementation of the FOI, and what is surprising is, the congressmen are focusing their movement in the action of the Palace.
The congressmen do not take action until the Palace did not act on their favorite principle that they are not accustomed to Malacañang and instead, they should rule the equal Congress and Palace?
It is difficult to answer.
The congressmen said, it is very hard to fix the FOI, especially since they are observing the contents of its contents which are all sorts of version which should be accompanied by a 21 version which should be placed in the same proposed FOI.
But if you think about it, 20 years have been discussed in Congress about the FOI and it is surprising now that the version has passed through and it is said that the Senate has done it.
These congressmen say that they are not interested about it, and why are the speculation of the citizens.
It is easier to cook.
The complaint of our UZumballoween, there are congressmen who are easily divorced compared to senators even though we do not say that those in the Senate are not easy to feed.
Maybe, it is more difficult to release money from those who want to show money to the senators because the money that they need to bribery is bigger and this was seen in the impeachment of former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
For the impeachment, the senators' worth of 100 million pesos and 70 million pesos will be given to the senators as a reward for the suspension of their magistrate for the impeachment court, except, Bro, PDAF, which costs P5 million every year.
The congressmen have heard 'P10 million pesos each other, aside from the quick giving of them about 70 million PDAF every year, but there is no corruption in them.
There are those who are from the case.
There have already been the congressmen who proposed laws on what we can remember, but there are followers because they bought their version.
There are a lot of people who want to attract the congressmen who are prohibited to meddle with the citizens and journalists but most are to cover their lies.
"It's just that, which is the only thing that they do not want to know who is being done by the leaders of the Legislative Chamber, they are just making salt as their SALN and they are just saying who, for example, the rich and famous congressmen.
The congressmen do not want to see the people and journalists see what they see in the eyes of their wealth that may not have their SALN.
Study in the Senate.
Not only because the Senate has finished the proposal, it is okay to have a lot of parts of the FOI, it is okay to meddle with the citizens and media that are still conditions before you get a copy of the SALN and transaction of the senators.
"Is it that aside from the information that will be sensitive about the national security, the senators have added that they should also send a secret to the people.
Whatever they are doing, we think that the citizens should also be given to them.
No.
The FOI is now facing charges but whether the FOI is still there.
Even if the Senate has already been released, a problem has become a big loss in the legislative chamber, the two needs to have a huge proposal to solve the problems before the proposed law is approved.
That's why it is possible that the FOI is still losing its meaning especially that Malacanang himself shows the lack of interest to push the FOI, even the president who instigate when he was still campaigning for the FOI.
Malacanang is still confident against the passing of the FOI, so many need to keep the government for the same time and the Malacanang has the same way for saying that they are doing what the citizens are expecting about the information they want.
Like giving out the rottenness of their enemies in politics.
