This is the statement of the 120th year anniversary of the Liberal Party of the Philippines.

Maria Rodizabal.
Pagtalunan in Bicol Region.
March 13, 2014.

Liberal Party, Bagong Hala Bayan and the National Democratic Front of the international organization and the national analibis were held at the 45th anniversary of the Liberal Party of the Philippines-Marayes (PKP-MG).

The national implementation of the country continues to rule the country under the leadership of the Liberal Party of the Philippines and the Liberal Party has become strong and growing up in the right path that can be held accountable and needed to be held in the right path and return to the right path and return to the right path and again.
The result of the midst of the peak of the peak of the peak of the year 1985 in the entire country and in the region of 1987 Constitution, the growth of the force and the additional roads going to the agricultural sector was widespread because it is time for the improvement of the growth of ripe grain that would end up with major havoc.

The entirety of the whole country is full of giving up to the total advancement of the Philippine government, so that there would be a few hundred thousand pesos in the advancement of Filipino masses to reach a few hundred thousand pesos in the advancement of Filipino people and the price of the Liberal Party and the increase of group of Liberal Party and the increase of group of Liberal of the filipino masses.

The bandit group of courageous military troop continues to fight against the Bagong Hagdan in the more than ten islands being attacked and supported by the thousands of members of the Heroes' Cemetery, Sorsogon, last May 2013, it will be time to give attention to the people who have committed against the country in Irosin, Sorsogon, last May 2013, it is time to pay attention to the people who have faults with the citizens.

The red warriors are aware of the tight relationship of the government, the solution and pushing of the armed revolution by the armed revolution.

Even though it caused the damage to some provinces and some of the leading leaders in the Oplan Galugad conducted in the region, it can be said that the campaign of the NPA will continue to destroy the islands of Masbate and Camarines Sur.

He is harassed by the movement of the masses in the region and the US-RP), pork barrel, pork barrel, pork barrel, and other anti-Filipino policy and the programs of the United States, anti-Gleyo, and other anti-Filipino policies, and spreading the huge group of Liberal Party in the white region.

The increase in the advancement of 45 years of the Batasang Pambansa Complex is a confirmation that we will achieve the success of the immediate responsibility and the call of the national management on the year 2014 and for the next year of the national management on the year 2014 and for the next years of declaration of Filipino people when they have their own determination and strong energy.

The success in the right leadership of the PKP, MLM is sure to be achieved by the economic growth of the country and the advancement of millions of citizens in the entire country and the strengthening of the armed forces of the United States and the strengthening of the armed forces of the United States and the strengthening of the leaders of the United States with the advancement of the United States with the advancement of the United States.

Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines-Marcel of Maire of the 45th anniversary!

Long live the Saligang Batas of the country!
