Like a new gun, go to the map.

The text message was offered by one member of the Civilian VolArmed Forces Geometry when they want to extend their affection to the government.
Here are some part of the message that placed it in order to publish. "Ma'am, a good day, we will ask for help from you and to the Armed Forces of the Philippines to fix our things such as guns, bullets and other things in our duty."
The texter was asked to be replaced with their guns, and carbine, because they were only wearing only two of their guns because of the lack of bullets.
"What if as a number of people, our guns will be broken? We will surely take a corpse to our family."
It looks like they have a reason for your servant to get attention from your public service, as they even said that they are the front row in secluded places in order to maintain peace and peace in the area where they are.
They are the ones who give information to the soldiers who have helped them from fulfilling the duty, the government, especially the Aquino administration, especially the Aquino administration, especially the Aquino administration, especially the Aquino administration, especially the Aquino administration.
May they be replaced with a small gun and threw a bullet so that their lives will not be put in a bliging.
They say that what they are doing is not the only care of the lives of the people but even the surroundings are being taken care of and being monitored, like the forest and at the sea.
There is a big part of their SALN, the texter was a big part because they were not able to pay their illegal number and they will also be the best of the reports against the destroying of coral-efree in the ocean.
Well, it looks like these styles now have a reason to fix their things in fulfilling their duties as well as the government that will be used by the rebels instead that the government will use peace and order in the country.
Hey, the government will wake up especially those in Malacanang who really left the AFP and Philippine National Police of rebels and criminals in modern equipment.
Can there be nothing to do with the Palace but first put the improvement of their money in business, bank and house, as if they are just in the brain which are just in the brains of the contents of their pocket?
