More than the lash of number of Number 3, Philippine and economy of calamity.

Almost 10,000 are feared to have died from the torments of one of the strongest typhoon that passed through the Philippines and even the entire world, according to the officials of the country, according to the data of Malacañang, which is almost 10 million Filipinos who have been affected by Yolanda in different parts of the Philippines, which is almost ten million population in the Philippines.
It was full of sadness and grief has been seen by the tragedy that happened to our countrymen especially in the Middle East, and even in the Middle East, and even in spite of grieve, the future, and rescue operations were served as a big Brigada Eskwela.
Like many, if not all Filipinos, that Christmas will pass as the time passes by different calamities in our country and the tragedy they bring to many families especially to our poor fellowmen in far places, flood, landslides, other natural disasters, and even local trouble.
According to a study by the Asian Development Bank, more or less 500 dollars are missing in the economy of the Philippines every year because of calamities and this tragedy was the biggest in the entire southern East Asia and second in the entire Asia.
That is why many say that we are already used to it, we will easily get up again, and even just a few hours after the typhoon Yolanda came out, it is better for the country to be close to the country which is being monitored by the "tanim-bala"
Maybe the intention of the person who wrote the opposition is good to fix the strength of the Filipinos and to enumerate it.
From the tragedy, but if it means that what is being spent by our fellow countrymen is that we are going to be connected to every year of death of our countrymen and the destruction of properties, I am not acceptable to receive this kind of praises. "
If after all of these, it is just a business that is just a business, and if nothing happens, I damage being a Filipino, and to just call it, "the onslaught of the strong typhoon?
It is true that we are not controlled by the calamity, but how it will not be a big tragedy, it is a different discussion, so in these times the disaster has happened to our countrymen, a government government, and one system of giving importance to the country of powerful countries like the United States, and one system to give importance to the life of the people.
Isn't it that according to the data of the government from 2006 until 2012, not less than 40 percent of those who are living in Masbate, Leyte, Samar, and Bohol are the poor living in the lower than $2 every day, it is clear that the effect of every disaster has been heard by poverty and taking advantage of the type.
Even if the government has made a warning on the incoming typhoon, what can our poor countrymen need to prepare for every day to present to the table and do not know where they can store for the time of disaster?
In many times, your ability to spend or have a lot of money is set by your ability to be ready for situations like this, are the government really expected that the citizens can be ready to protect themselves?
Especially if the President will not help, and he will lose interest in meeting with the situation and plans of helping, the government government knows that there is no clear plan and programs to be enlightened with the effect of calamities.
In these times when Malacañang is going to use the tragedy in order to maintain its control over the huge pork barrel, they are forced to stop the projects in preparation for the calamities of barangays which costs Php 486 million.
How much is the high number of people from the government because of theft from the funds of the country, that is also the missing opportunity to stop the ability to stop calamities.
This government is not only negligent, how can they explain it now that a scientist, Kim Aspe, Gamit Jr, which is part of the project for the release of the government, you have done the responsibility of the government, that's why you have done the responsibility of the government.
It is also not justice that while the leaders of rich countries like the United States and Britain in global warming which cause more severe and more typhoons, flooding, and drought, continue to be defeated by poor countries like the Philippines.
It is not true that the citizens of the poor countries can be abused by the citizens of the poor countries due to the wage increase of the workers, because of the integrity of the workers, they take advantage of the natural resources that cause more than the poor people of the world.
So we should not be thankful for the help and help received from the rich countries, this is still not enough because it is not enough from the strong wealth, life, and the future, that is why we should be thankful that their number one criminal is, that is why these are the number one criminals that reached the tragedy.
Any person or technology cannot stop the arrival of calamities such as typhoon and earthquake, but this will not become a tragedy and it will lead to the death of thousands of thousands in front of the continuous poverty of the citizens.
It is based on humanitarian issues that can resolve the effect of calamities and calamities in a world which affects justice - full of justice and increase of value of profit from the lives of the people.
Protest against a pro-year world!
