
Hopefully there was no Zumballoween.

There are two events that maybe PNoy should think thoroughly about the Philippine National Police Chief Director General Alan Purisima, by Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas and our lawmakers: This is the different result of the attack of Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in Zamboanga City and in Lamitan City, Basilan.
In Zamboanga City, the armed members of the MNLF have almost no hard time to spread violence and the citizens have no ability to defend themselves, especially now that they have no ability to defend themselves, especially now that they have no ability to defend themselves, to defend themselves and loved ones.
In Lamitan, MNLF also attempted to enter the said city to spread violence.
But they were greatly shocked when they were met by armed citizens who are ready to defend their own properties and loved ones.
Cowered and jumped from the MNLF.
In Zamboanga City, the citizens were not able to do anything but to leave their hard-earned properties and some of them were killed by those who were killed and others were tortured, because of the intense firefight between the MNLF and the government security forces.
If the citizens of Zamboanga City are ready, like those from Lamitan City, maybe it will not lead to this kind of blood pressure in the said city, and just like the courageous people in the said city, and just like the courageous people and the government, we are ready to defend our rights and weapons for our own protection.
Criminals who do not do anything but profit from our fellow countrymen who are quiet and peaceful, they are becoming brave because they know that they do not have the ability to stand up and fight, but because of the restriction of the government to spread violence which is also caused by the Republic Act 10591 or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act.
RegDevelopment Assistance Fund) is the more things that encourages the criminals because they know that our fellow countrymen who violate laws have no fights.
I do not know if our leaders are really insensitive that is why until now they cannot accept that the power of the government is not enough for us to be protected.
