
Philosophy is adapting by PNoy, brain HE.

He is about to leave the throne of Don Benigno Aquino 3rd, his attitude that he will still be with him.
Since he was a child until he became a president of the country, that will be selfish and no one believes but himself.
A good state of trust in yourself is good if this is open to accepting wrong and failure to correct, but instead of following it, it will be better for you to follow it, but instead of making an insult.
When G. Aquino became aware of this, he is his allies of the political, Akbayan Partylist Rep. Walden Bello, not only the original leader of Akbayan as the zealous leader of the dictatorship from the time of the dictatorship when the group of militants have not been divided.
PNoy told Bello to stop his leadership that is related to his leadership and laziness of his officials and laziness of his officials and laziness of his officials and corruption, but if he is an ally in politics, it will be jailed!
Noynoy answered to Bello, "you should be president!"
As well as the fate of Vice President Jejomar Binay recently, "you left the cabinet if you do not like my rules and do not look at the problem but give a solution!"
What Aquino said was right, the solution to each problem is what should be done, but no matter who among his cabinet is listening to his cabinet, he did not follow his / her employer's explanation, and contrary to the solution was made by the adboss in Malacañang.
Noynoy attacked the media recently who did not do anything but criticized him and bathe him with criticism everyday, lunch until dinner.
Mister President, first, if the media is not in position now, you are not in position now, the duty of the mass media to know the true information for the people, the mass media is teaching and have been clear on issues for the welfare of the people and not just a few.
If you have an ally in the media who are blind to the truth because of the size of your "pay" to lie down and cover up to your personal vices, so many of the ranks of the mass media are loyal to the country!
I hope you should learn from yourself, what is wrong is wrong and you will not finish all wrong.
