Stop the talks, the local government call for the poor versus, continued.

By P2,500.
February 17, 2012.

The poor were able to convince the driver of the tricycle to Commonwealth Avenue to cooperate in the protests against the high price of oil.
Non-stop and "affected towns are the ones who announced in the Kalsada, Batan PNP) against successive increase in price of petroleum.
According to the poor cities, they are said to be the primary cause of the price increase in the price of oil so, Kadamay, said that the drivers and other sectors are successful in the successful protest and non-opening of transportation in different parts of the country.
"We are proving that the price of oil cannot be stopped from the price of oil and there is no clear plan to stop all of these from the pipe of the foreign companies of the oil and investigate the damage caused by the foreign companies," said Francis Esilla, spokesperson of Aklan.
The members of Kadamay, and AOIL-list are now having a picture on the tricycle in Commonwealth in Batasan as their support to the proposed law to dismiss Oil Derna Law. (PPETion.
The group is also calling to dismiss the Value-Added Tax of oil from the Value-Added Tax of oil, from the protests done by Kadamay, at the terminal in Batasan, Quezon City.
In the data of Phivolcs, up to 13 times the diesel and gasoline increased in the local market after a conversation between Malacanang and the group Transport last September.
Starting to be president Benigno Aquino III, the increase in price of diesel per liter in the local market, while P13.93.
"The ordinary citizens are now feeling the difficult effect of the Philippine National Bureau for every high price of oil, the price of basic goods like food... there is only four who supported the whole country from the incessant rain and nearby towns against Onok Island," Supreme Court.
There is a failure, Kadamay, who said that the call for the congressmen to conduct the House Bill 4317 of Arellano Party-list and HB 4355 of the Bayan Muna Party-list which aims to dismiss Oil Dermovate.
