In Palawan, we reached up to five hundred pesos in.
You will lower down a tree, but I am being monitored that I thought you will become brave.
Why is it difficult for me to look down; we are very pitiful.
So if I have a job, he / she has a job; he / she is very pitiful, second on the ducks so that you would be poor.
Beware of every move of five roads.
A little mistake to be harmed in this job.
Because of the dream that caused this kind of living, a new amount was waiting for the farmers to be waiting for like that.
Excuse me and this is the first time it can be brought to ten times.
The reason for their being sold are the pests to destroy the trees.
It has been two years since he / she did not pay attention to singing and the pest in our area, that's why he / she has become smooth right now that's why he / she grew up by the speaker, then I finished her on the shoulder.
The tree climbed up as if in the past, he / she was only able to send a piece of life right now, but he was only able to buy all the things that we were asking about, "we were asking about the same water.
For those who are hardheaded, they have no idea about their complaint, they are very small-mannered; Miguel stinky, which is very low for the Sucat of Sucat, in the past of the good things there is a good thing for office so that it will not be.
Okay.
You can see that.
By the end there is a end that I let go there are no more dried-up; we can see each other, right, right?
It's a pig that i'll go to, i'll go to someone who will approach to see, he is only a kind of tree.
Foreign businessmen are calling their text messages to destroy the trees.
It cannot be seen that these pests can't be noticed, that's why we use a Cross in those who have been cut off from them.
This is where they are holding on something under the salary and drinks the leaves of the leaves, there is no one giving food on the tree that is why the tree is very lonely when there is already a tree, that's why his pregnancy is already numbered.
According to six civilians, the Chinese national spread quickly.
His number is like a half kilo of a cauldron; Gulanggani;
Yes, even if they push through it, they only have four point that they are four years old that's why he has not been able to say that he has not been brought here to the Philippines, but we could not say that he has been seen by a person from Batangas because we have already seen him by a plant in the map where they are pests.
I am having a lot of income from Sunday.
Before four years, I am only one thousand for a thousand, is there really one thousand for a few thousand, that's why I have no idea, my daughter-in-law, whose child, whose child, is only three years old, and a coconut plantation is the lowest.
Lie down.
I feel that after the number of those who will just buy me, you are past.
Okay.
Four!
Two.
Six.
They are just one liter, and what happened, is it seems that it looks deep inside or a piece of pieces; we almost have two thousand pesos; we almost have a thousand, who are only a thousand, who are only up to Block a thousand, and very big; and now, the size.
