Daniel Padilla, Vice, Marian and Anne C.!

Postanes and his mind.
On May 14, 2015.
In showbiz.

Pete Amanda Amores, Junior.

Hahaha, it seems that the true idol of the masses in the person of the young actor, Daniel Padilla. Inc. is just a one line with his eyebrows, a regular color which is true to be crazy to his fans who is true to be crazy on his score of muscular body.
In the occasion it is just the occasion that Vicky Bello in Traiman that there are several days ago, there are even more people who want to sell clothes when Papa D has left on top.
Oh yes, Anne Currimao, (WHO), (WHO) and Vice Ganda and Vice Ganda and Vice Ganda but it was really different from the people when Papa D was really different from the crib.
You are true, it looks like he is the one-in-part of the superstar, Miss Nora Aunor, because the reaction of the people is open when he sits on top.
In the burial, the movie with Kathryn Bernardo "Crelief), Bebeng," to be under 400 million, "Miss Gabby Concepcion," Are IGAHala, of the movie champion with a hidden talent for a woman.
Like this, star Cinema has a native of porridge, but because it is not that big as the gift of Daniel and Kathryn, as well as Vice Ganda, her support was really big to TF.
It is said that we can see the remake of promises to "Yo, with the video of some militant groups with Jericho Rosales and Christine Hermosa, and now Daniel and Kathryn.

Agham at AH, it turns out the Bishops again!
Hahaha, Anjo or charter change, ah, aids.
We, for a long time, he / she was too late for his / her daughter-Her, and the network 94-Khobar, Ted Failon said that he / she was really young, or Hardancers, and is just going to be removed from the radio station that he / she is going to work, or is the only thing that she is going to work for the radio station that he works.
Yungga!
I'll be a player, "I said," the radio show-for-for a one liter, which can be considered by Chadversary, ah, which is being endorsed by a horical Her.
Apparently, it will really be said to be, or not!
Hahaha, hmmmp!
Yungga!
The x-year-time Abe has been predominant in the Tuwid na Daan, until he was late for a text message on a text message that went through a text message and was able to go home since he / she went out of the Her cohorts) which was taken out of the town of show.
What does it have to do in the radio show-dic-old grandmother "her, hahaha!
The network thank you to host a show, Fight IT.
Hahaha!
Anyway, because there is still no one's type of ID) and as well as the management of the management, which is just being used by the radio show-Hala which is only being used by the radio show-Hala which is just being used by the Pretty Boy Promotions to become an ally, Pretty Boy Abunda.
Good thing.
They say it's a good thing, or Harcoughs, hmmmp!
Just imagine that they were late when they were late when they arrived at the show that they will come to a show that they will only come to show pets that will just go ahead, or hahaha!
Yoyo, Yulu, Yoyo, hahaha!
The famous attitude of a radio host is an effective attitude of a radio host, which is apt.
Yugoslavia!
Ichs, Her is the concern of the Pambansang Kamao in the Her Circle of Pro-Friends to take care of pets.
Yungga!
Who will be the one liter, which can be made up by one liter, who will persevere to listen, her!
Anyway, I know that if they know that the will be seen as Richard Pinlac's case, the will be the will be the will be the will be the will be made to be taken by by Prianka Aguas (WHO).
Poor grandmother, where are you going to the right now, Lerio Bompat, hahaha!
Just plant on you and you will just become an aura.

"Epal!"
