
There is a 40-year sentence for the consultant of NDFP members who was Eduardo Sarmiento, owned by the PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 13, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA) will lead to the Philippine 40-year-year-year-year-year-year-law.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) held the Marcos regime and the Regional Tanim-law of Muntinlupa in the city of Muntinlupa in the improvement of the anti-year jail in the Libingan ng mga Bayani (NDFP) placed under the peace talk of weapons and explosives.

Cabahug was serving as the consultant of NDFP) in Eastern Visayas which is being done by doubt and consultation that is related to the peace talks in Metro Manila when he was caught by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) last February 24, 2009.

"It is a clear violation of the approval of the consultant of NDFP) for the peace talks with Joint Task Agreement (NGO), harassment and interrogation of any side, harassment and interrogation of any part which is believed to create a" barking, harassment and interrogation of those who are believed to be staff of the other side.

"The growing patience of Sarmiento is also a violation of the Comprehensive Final Agreement (WBC) for Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) that prohibits the state and facilities in the Libingan ng mga Bayani (NDFP) is considered as an ordinary crime similar to illegal drugs, murder, robbery and arson.

"As a result of this incident, it seems that the formal peace talks between the NDFP and Golovkin because it shows the severe danger that was waiting for the lives of the consultant of NDFP members who were waiting for the existing agreement," said the KP.

"It is insisted by the KP that the conviction and skill at the consultant of NDFP members, Eduardo Sales, who is calling the sentiments of the human rights here in the Philippines, to protect the lives of all the consultant has been paying in order to defend their wishes for their release."

"Even under the laws of Glamang, illegal, illegal arrest and being locked in the custody of the military without any deliberation, the said pieces of evidence was planted with him by the military operatives that were held at him."

"The imposed 40-year sentence against Sarmiento is considered to be cruel and not ordinary punishment for a arrested and imprisoned due to the reason for politics," said PKP, 150 to them were arrested last three years.
