
A puppy, a puppy of the Americans.

It is a propaganda, propaganda, often the activists, then and now - a puppy of the Americans, to identify who led and leaders of the country will change and will be lost, only a dream will be lost?
The last happened in Olongapo City recently, the killing of Jeffrey "Jennifer" Laude of a US Marines who was identified as Private First Class Joseph Scott Pemberton will increase his level in some sectors of "Jennifer" towards the militants, lawmakers of the Senate and private lawyers of those who are involved.
The opportunity took the chance that Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago will go back to study or dismiss the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) the call of the militants that the EDCA (Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement between the Philippines and America will pass.
Of course, there are countries sectors and lawyers who are "protector of the" Ipit Gang "and the leaders of our government, they are just taking the head of the case, but as well, they are being treated as a solution for this.
Question, can the Philippines find the American soldier who killed Jennifer?
It is not sure that it is certain that there is an original agreement of the RP-in the US Manding Defense (TT) that is not the same as a Filipino soldier who made a sin, imprisonment, but if they still remember Daniel Smith, who has raped before?
In the military joint forces, the Americans are benefiting from the Filipino.
While it's protruding from our leaders, America will remain in the abuse of America but we are not angry with the American citizens but to their leader who does not think anything but let us stay in rules and that you will borrow.
Our senators are also a puppy of the Americans, most of the truth, all of them are "secret" American citizen, who has properties and houses there and they have money to deposit in bank.
In the hands of President Benigno Aquino III, EDCA is made sure that those are worthless like VFA since then, they do not need that because we have a bullet.
As to why the Congress passed, it is not surprising because they need to introduce themselves to America for other hours, escape and live there to be safe from their sins to the country and the people.
Forever, it's protruding from the Americans, IPPERTECAYETANO!
