They have faults!

Last Thursday (November 13) was started by the blue ribbon committee of the said Iloilo Convention Center (ICC).
It seems that we do not know any events but it is full of investigation on the narrow projects of the government.
It is right to conduct a Senate case but there should be a rules for the end of the investigation.
Because the truth is, it is not happy to be happy, instead that the people will get rid of the higher positions they would like.
It's because instead of working with the senators for the welfare of the meddling of the people, what he did was the Senate hearing.
Because live in the television series, the poor members of the Senate blue ribbon committee are always taking care of the poor members of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee.
What is saddening, they were throwing a foul and opened the disconcerns of those watching TV and listening to radio.
We agree with the suggestions of PNoy to the members of the blue ribbon committee to rush the on-arrival of Vice President Jejomar Binay.
Instead of being rude on "investigation, they will be cut off and the evidences exposed on the fight against VP Binay will not go to waste.
This is according to PNoy, to end the declaration of the vice-President and so that the senators will face their other jobs.
There are many problems in the Philippines, first of this is the poverty that the senators and officials of the country should prevail.
But because of the passion in what happened, the poor are Mister Juan and Aling Maria, nothing to eat, getting sick and just waiting for death.
In the Philippines, there are a lot of corrupt leaders who, and if there is a good leader of the government, maybe it is just 1: 00.
Start the barangay, going to town, city, province, to the agencies of the government, those corrupt are everywhere.
It is unlucky that Binay and Drilon are unlucky, because of the number of corrupt leaders currently serving, they are on top of the accusation of corruption.
Langbay, you,.
Dumagat-t-t-INTED by Bong Salas.
