The province of Surigao del Sur, which was declared to be more than 100 pesos, was declared dead.

March 10, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, March 10 (Pia) - a high-ranking officials of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police of Caraga Region last Tuesday and Surigao del Sur have been declared as one of those who are running for the development of the province.
According to Governor Johnny Pimentel, Surigao del Sur, the long awaited declaration of the Surge will be implemented now, for six-years, the province and the efforts of the local government to suppress insurgency and improvement of the rebel groups.

Vice Governor Manuel Alico Senior also stated that his positive acceptance of the said declaration and said that it will be more progressive and the places covered by the province will remain peaceful because of the cooperation of different sectors in the community.
In the statement of Major General Oscar Lomibao, general of the 45th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army, he insisted that there is a positive change in positive perspective of the Surge in the city, this is starting from the good coordination of the sectors.
Meanwhile, according to Limay, General Rey Leonardo Guerrero, commander of Eastern Mindanao Command, the declaration of the province of Surigao del Sur for being a proof of being beaten-for-development is a proof of the continuous decrease in the case of insurgency and violence in the province.
Guerrero also added to their COPD or Oplan Galugad Program and one of the most prominent sector or basis for the statement of the said declaration together with the various sectors who are helping to spread the implementation of the purpose of the government especially in peace and order.
According also to Police Chief Superintendent Rolando Felix, regional director of PNP Caraga, their Oplan Lambat Sibat differently is only one of their real interest and peace of the country's order, because of the programs like this, according to him the recorded report of criminality in the said province.
Meanwhile, the local government of Surigao del Sur also gave birth, cash and Cooperative (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (Janghai, Pia-Caraga).
