
End the tongue.

By Filipino Weeker.
March 4, 2012.

While Malacanang is open to the removal of the former magistrate, he is silent about the condition of the country to make us clean.
Everyday this last month, on television, radio, newspapers and the internet, the attention of the gunman's attention to the impeachment trial of the Barangay magistrates of the country, Renato Corona may not have much interest, because the impeachment of Corona is far from them.
What the impeachment trial said is historical, the impeachment trial is historical, but there is a different historical event that we feel, the price of oil is historical, for almost two decades, those who have no work, starving, are submerged in desperate situations.
In spite of the Palace, it is obvious that the war will only fight for the impeachment.
It is clear that Corona will not avoid President Aquino when he push the decision for the distribution of the land to the Filipino farm of Hacienda Luisita, but, of course, Aquino will control the higher court, and even if Aquino was able to control the higher court, and the initial decision in Hacienda Luisita, which was inappropriated against the family of the President.
In the decision against Aquino and his clan, Corona will not allow the masses to face the sectors such as the Filipino field of Hacienda Luisita, this is only temporary, and there is no need for answer to the corrupt, magistrate, or, especially to Arroyo.
But because the fight between Aquino and Corona is just low for the impeachment, it is sure that the profit of our lives here is limited, the characteristics of taking advantage of the majority of the kind of people of Aquino and Corona, and the foreigners.
It can be seen, for example, in the nonstop price of oil, the increasing number of oil companies on how much we pay the oil companies on how much we pay the oil companies on how much is the government in controlling the too much price or disturbance on the petroleum products.
In front of every week, it is time for the citizens to be united in order for Aquino to control the price of oil if in the process, he needs to do it, but for now, the palace is still not moved to the issue of oil.
The Palace is now busy for the hunt for Corona. Meanwhile, it is still different with reconciliation with the government of the United States for the higher the influential military in Asia-Pacific, that the US will use it to the country China, which is getting stronger in different countries in Asia.
It is clear for the interest of the US government to be the influential military in the Philippines, now that the US needs a lot of places in Asia, it is important that the Aquino administration needs to save the market in Asia, and it is important for the Aquino administration to save the US in Asia-Pacific.
There is a need to connect the rising number of military by the US for every day of our country's suffering, which is only connected to the public's growth, and privatization of the country's security, which is the threat to the security of the country which is brought by the army of the US.
It is clear that Aquino only decided to make his opposition to the corruption.
The Malacanang is silent while we make sure that even if there will be learn from the masses in history, this is a limit to the masses, and there is time that we will be united majority of the people, and end the taking of commerce.
