
It is famous in Masbate and General Assignment Section.

"Are you from Masbate?
In history, the more than 40-year-old fame in Masbate in the time of Espinosa was stopped when Tony Velasquez stopped in position.
But this kind of Rod Navarro has continued to have breakfast, "in my beloved province.
Right, make sure, because the fame in Masbate is famous in the left killings, did not end in the time of Kho.
Rather it will worsen!
And this is the capital of the deceased 3rd district Representative Ansaruddin Adiong, Dayan "Seachon Tanto, who needs to take the Masbate from the brain-gunpowder.
This will have succeeded "by Edgar de Lara. Hala, ehek, ehek!
In fact, it is now in 2nd, now that sexy Lanting is now in 2nd Avenue as Governor of Masbate.
The thing is, it turns out that it reached almost P110 million pesos from his PDAF.
Because of this, he is the very first woman in the Philippines with a plunder case!
The Masbate is famous again!
King-mother, squinting, a female person.
They will be jailed and will just be imprisoned!
Entice the President.
Aside from those who are proud of that, the people are not feeling anything from Sec. Mar Roxas since he sat in the Department of Interior and Local Government and Local Government.
That's why if SILG Mar Roxas wants to face Binay for the presidency in 2016, he can be proud that he will be proud to be a member of DILG, this is no one else but to fight illegal gambling!
Because there is no DILG Secretary who made it!
What is painful, is that aside from being illegal, often the gambling would also become the root of the severe crimes.
Just like the killing of a journalist in C1-pan City, Oriental Mindoro, Police Officer 3 Vergel Panganiban.
After he attacked the illegal gambling in the said province, they gave their lives!
Alarming are those divulged by the said journalist before he was killed who was allegedly involved in illegal gambling that is said to be connected to illegal gambling.
That is why some of the relatives of the victim have doubts that if the police does not have a blessing on the death of Charlie or, they know that the root of this is illegal gambling in Mindoro which is allegedly involved by Serame!
Sec. Roxas, sir, if you want to solve the killing of the said ID, remove them first!
Noguna!
