
TV Patrol, March 12, 2013.

A flyer against the demolition.

Unite to fight the demolition!

On the 25th of May of this year, after the politicians who were able to join the positions will start, it will start to be helped by the City Hall, the cities of Cainta and Taytay, Rizal, and the towns of Cainta and Taytay, Rizal, and the towns of Cainta and Taytay, Rizal, and the towns of Cainta and Taytay in Rizal are going to be affected, which is the most powerful project that tried to be under the Aquino government, which is why we gave a huge contribution to the Aquino government.

When Secretary Jesse Robredo was still alive in the DILG, he strictly pointed at the development of the community of the poor, which is why no demolition really happened in the danger of the poor, which is why the agency is part of the desire of the poor, and most of the time, this is favorable to them.

Bangko Sentral ng Masang Pilipino "said the wish of the families affected to stay or close to their former homes so that it will not be far from the area of living and school of the children, the one who called it is in the city and school of the children.

All the things started was a good relationship between the DILG and the community of the poor, where there was a trace of trace from DILG Secretary Mar Roxas when he was suddenly visited by DILG Secretary Mar Roxas when they could not live-in DILG Secretary Mar Roxas.

Because of this sudden change, almost no one can believe that the demolition would push through because it is almost just a few of the "Peoples'" traslacion "but the huge majority of more than 100 families have no idea of the project and they agreed with Secretary Robredo.

Just in just the remaining two months, only a few of us will be sent by the relocation of the relocation of our current house where almost 90 percent of us will be brought to the mountains of San Jose Del Monte, Bocaue, Bulacan and some of them are in Trece Martires in Cavite.

Even if the government can be taken away by the government, our current conditions are not too different, because they were brought to the places of Calauan, Laguna that they were not able to get any livelihood because those who have been transferred to San Jose Del Monte, were not able to get any livelihood because the place where they were brought to San Jose Del Monte, they were not able to get any livelihood because the place where they were taken.

Because of the widespread brownout and investigation of the government pretending to be the masses, it is not far to think that the true plan of the government is far from the schools of our children, far from the schools of our children, far from the schools, water, water and signal of cellphone.

What we are sure is that if we will lose a livelihood, these kinds of corruption in the agencies that have been mentioned will earn through their contract on the different corners of the low pressure area.

No matter when we don't know the trouble in our lives, even if our children will get involved, they will not give all those who are close to us, they have not given us any enough time to prepare for their project.

We need to be together to strengthen our voice so that they can be united with the size of our number, we need to unite and be organized but will continue to progress in this time but his votes.

It is just right that we refuse our support for the candidates of Senator until Councilor Ali that there is a bloody record that was given to the poor, while we support those who helps the issue with certainty in their residence.

We need to fight for certainty in their residence, for safe, decent and affordable relocation, for our family, we need to file a case and may not stop it from other families or community.

There will be no demolition until there is no lead in the Peoples' Kath 'L!

On patrol, in-City Relocation Site, fight!
