I am bashed in the price of Two children that are very hard for a lot.
It is water to fill me with anger at us in Dubai in Dubai.
Yes, you can remember that the problem in Dubai is the problem in Dubai how much is the price of the events that happened to those who have been the highest here in number.
Here.
No matter how kind of employers, many in Divisoria, 66 years old, so I really are not being neglected.
Because I am not ugly by personal or five pesos.
It's just such a point, that's why there are those who look at stake, who will try to pass by time now, who will wait for time to look down; and fur.
So you will not be left behind.
Us!
In here in Marikina, you still have a ugly bat because that's why there's a record that you need to record for those who are still not showing that you are still fat from a few pre-March.
"They are still young; they are very good in their area, that's why she's able to get her work with him when he said them.
He / she was the one carrying the money.
According to him, he / she was able to go to school; he / she was not an eight one hundred years old, isn't it as an eight hundred pesos per kilo that was done by two eight hundred pesos per kilo when their six-eight people were going to catch up to two years.
The price is like a high price now, but I do not know how many men are consumed.
Like that.
I have been able to know that we have known each other; we are not too different; not too different are the ones who have five years and are still low.
But what?
You are applying.
Maybe they are going to travel because they are going to travel for four o'clock.
Let us last go to your place.
Do you know that the change in the near will be seen.
"Since Monday on Monday, Tuesday, I know that the price of our price will go out because yes, I am having a problem because of that, from the cousin of Roel.
We were able to go to school; we have a meeting when we arrived in order to put it in America a bit busy.
It will take advantage of it.
My child, that is where they entered.
What is really not easy to say is that, but it's just a few days that I am not the price that's okay with the record that we have to go to, so we should go to the fruits; we will go to the same time so that the people who use us are not the ones who use us.
All of us here have a problem again, and the price of petroleum will not be amputated.
Yes.
They said that other applicants received the house to automatically lower themselves.
He / she was wearing.
It was three o'clock.
You will just laugh at around four o'clock in the four o'clock.
That is when Two people are pitiful.
Well.
You are really like this because it is really bad for the Philippines because it is bad for the color blue and then maybe there is no big calamity but it is prohibited.
Very short; as long as the government is earning a lot, that is why the government is earning a huge amount, so I really can't have a big loss with two companions there are Two people who have been with each other in the middle of the rice.
In their country, they are very proud; we can really get the size of it.
It's a lawyer who will automatically defend what you have said to the people because what he / she is having a lot of clothes, which is the one drinking alcohol, is that the man we saw was from his duty, which was the only man we saw in his duty.
It was eight o'clock in the afternoon.
Because my five-years will be followed.
I thought that in the City of Caloocan, he / she thought that, of course, and of course, he was jealous of just what is difficult.
What the president can say is an amazing.
You have to go out and go out, is it strong that your voice came out not just a vacation and then.
Situation, I am really pitiful because I am still confident in Congressional Avenue because I do not have a problem.
They are.
Full-tempered; we can give me an inspiration because you will give me an inspiration to give me an inspiration.
The crown will make this crown; as well as a receipt; maybe Rose Garcia has a receipt, that we will go back to it, last February.
I was only able to leave there because she was scolded by the one he loves, the price are very expensive; and his older brother, whose brother, is under the price of his position.
Isn't it so different; we still have a very much love; it's because it's as if I have not yet received anything, it's as if you have not yet received anything, because you are not yet able to renew the people, who are still not all of us, who are still alive or getting pity for other number.
For that, it is like that in front of me.
To the province.
There is no problem there maybe in these kinds of situation in Manila, there is too much to be in red.
Four Indonesians, four men, both of the former owner have five children, and they can still see each other here and our government, but we are so happy about what we are not our government, but we are okay to face each other later.
The very weak feelings for me is that they are going to benefit from it, and then I will benefit from you while I am here in you and you will be happy but the worst is big.
The former senator is ugly and thank you very much to sleep in your province.
Are you in-off because no one else is here in the house but it is not yet the price of his brother who is tall so that he will go down to the products he will return to before the right yes.
For six pesos, it was not said.
He / she said that he / she said that he / she didn't have four years.
Maybe it's just my family, all people who have a car, are not rich, ordinary days that you are living in there for an ordinary day, they are not going to go to the price of petroleum the price of petroleum will be met.
The oil companies are the many who will benefit from what the government is saying, I can't do anything if the government is saying that I am going to avoid the truth that I am going to play long and I make mistakes later.
Maybe after the Philippines right now, that is why I will sacrifice the prices but what is not good for the government to sacrifice, but why is it not good for the government to sacrifice.
We do not like the former President to remove it, and then what happened to the gasoline station, I could not understand why I was not able to understand why I did not want to listen to me later on a lot of things especially in politics, I just want to listen to me later.
"We are anxious; but why don't you hear that we do not hear from the government that we don't want us to see a resolution that we don't want, that is easy for the time and not to have money to buy later.
