Take a case because of the election.

Just a few more days to be filed against the candidacy of politicians in the coming election, this is the truth in YouTube 1 - 5, 2012.
This is the result of "Tuwid na Daan" in the election for the name of those who filed him their candidacy for a long time, from the councilor of town, vice mayor, mayor, provincial board member, vice governor, governor, congressman, congressman until the senator.
It seems that the air breeze is low, like Christmas, which is trying to sell it early for the sake of businessmen who want to earn more than a kilo of money.
A sign of entering the time of politics is those who will file a case against the case of politics, "cases that do not understand if there is a basis or not in politics.
And why is it that in the long time before the election, when the election is getting closer, then the cases of the candidacy is getting closer, and this is the fact that this kind of style is going to be filed in case if they will be filed by their candidacy.
This is what we see in the case of plunder, which was allegedly filed by a lawyer Rey Bagatsing's case against Zambales Governor Emmylou "Jun" Ebora, Jr.
It is not common politicians Ebora is not common because his experience is wide in many areas not only in the local but especially in national or national.
The former chief of the Philippine National Police, Defense Secretary, Public Works Secretary, Public Works and others, and the Philippine Military Academy, Kabanos, has a sharp mind and skills that is why according to the scheduled two years of service, there is no direct effect on the first two years of service.
This is a reason why there is a need to discredit the eyes of the country, Ebora is needed to criticize the politicians who are desperate to win in the coming election.
This is the truth: Zambales are not blind or stupid to believe and be brought by a simple defamation and we believe in the set time and the truth will come out who is telling the truth, this is the truth!
