Not anymore, she borrows it.

Mary Joy Viado.

In the almost three hours of traveling from Manila, I did not expect that it is easy to find a bus going to Olongapo City.
As if a roller coercion is going to enter the mountains of the mountain which is going to the mountains of the mountain which is going to the mountain and the road going to iron in the road, so it is dusty when it is rainy season, and muddy when rainy season.
We went down in the plaza where a basketball court and the Mababang Paaralan ng mga Bayani were together, one of the Aetas who were devastated by the explosion of Mount Pinatubo.
Life!
More than two decades of the indigenous people were irritated after the Pinatubo last 1991.
Twenty kilometers a kilometer distance from San Marcelino, the place where the indigenous people came from, "this is the nearest place where we chose, which is why we chose this," said Nanay Estola.
An estimation of 300 people were transferred to Mount Athos because up to 1,250 people who are currently living in the area, including their call to the Filipinos living in the city.
For example, as long as it is possible, they are not eating canned goods and cheap rice, they say, if there will be selling fresh fish, they will immediately stop their canned goods for the fresh food.
They rarely mingle with them and, due to the abuse being experienced in the town, Nanay Ester was able to finish college that's why she was not receiving a job because her breasts are destroying each other.
Even their leader, Tlie Romaldo, seemed like an expert of the meeting in the barangay because there was only one native who was not able to study.
"What we are unaware of discrimination among them and not anymore, we still have to fight for our rights and they continue to hold our culture and the identity."
Pieces of land.
In our walking, Nanay Estanyo was looking back to their past, he watched the successive deaths of his tribe-tribe due to various diseases in a jammed evacuation center.
Even though they did not want the transfer, the natives are still thankful that they survived the disaster.
We also visited Munday, eldest among the indigenous people from San Marcelino.
Munday is busy with planting eggplant, people and some of the medicines given to the mountain and some of the medicines given to the mountain and even making a souvenir for them to sell it in Subic to sell it from the tourists in the area.
Four of the ten children of Munday is the one who died when the volcano exploded when the volcano exploded and his wife died after they were forced to evacuate in San Rafael, nearby town of Iriberri.
Just a few years have passed, Munday needs to sell the part of his land to give dote to the wedding of his son, just like the ritual, which was still held by the indigenous people, or food that they give as a new wedding.
Even though it is used to a high land in the forest, Munday has chosen to live in a small amount given by Pinatubo. To those affected by the explosion of the volcano.
But there are also times when he wanted to continue the former life in the mountains, like other indigenous people who are just forced to fit their new life.
Ligation.
The indigenous people are important, not only because in their culture of our past, but because they are part of our current society, usually, the antique things are usually mixed in history.
It is a miracle for the indigenous people to be moved out of their homes but they do not have to complain due to poverty and severe needs as an equivalent to their identities for their identities of their lives.
It is known in infrastructure and livelihood sector of the government, this is the reason why it is always in secluded places where the indigenous people are trying to hide because they have no ability to go with the progress.
Despite the promise of President Aquino and the Pinatubo Commission, the indigenous people are still worried that they will lose their homes, especially when some foreign companies are going to buy their land.
In addition to this, the Coal Power Plant (CFPP) is set to release a concrete solution to the high level of electricity in the private company in Olongapo.
But despite an alternative ways to get its energy, this will cause the financial status and health of the indigenous people.
At first glance, the indigenous people are like a peaceful and simple life, but they are also victims of corrupt programs in the government, that you can rise from the level of living of the Filipinos.
The indigenous people are still lacking in a permanent residence and livelihood offered to them by the government, a knot with the making of "tiktiks" and temporarily appointed by poverty.
The day is already submerged when we leave the area, carrying the lessons that are not only in the city, especially in the mountains of the native Filipinos, violence, building Abaya, and exploitation of the widespread damages from any disaster.
