The use of 2013 election is just the start of the 2013 election.

It is already known in the entire AOIL that the voters have already known from July 8-19, 2012 for 2013 election.
Fragrance of various problems are caused by the local government units but also all the stakeholders including the private individuals who are observing the events.
On the part of the Comelec, their preparation is already started when they started to reveal the scheduled training in the five provinces of Basilan, Tawi-Tawi, Sulu, Maguindanao and Lanao del Sur including Lanao del Sur members of those working groups and staff of the Comelec.
On the other hand, as said by one of the Comelec, the use of those who will be placed in the evacuation centers but the local election officer, will still be held accountable for their respective places.
OPLAN, but wait for a long time, and it looks like there is a chance to be hit by Customs-in Charisine, according to an informant in COMELEC.
In the five provinces of ARNC, every elected commissioner was able to hold it in the province, aside from their chairman, Commissioner Sixto Brillantes, according to the information that they have to put it to Lanao del Sur and Basilan, the disagreement of the families of Hataman and Akbar will always be put in danger because just recently, both sides of the peace cowards.
A concrete example, the letter sent by Basilan Glamang, Jum Akbar will be sent to the office of Chairman Sixto Brillantes to focus on the municipal hall and cities of Basilan to avoid the chaos and confusion of those who will take advantage.
Everyone thought, the disagreement of Hataman and Akbar will be finished in Basilan.
It is just hoping that in order to fix the proper state and logic, so that the time will not be wasted, it is tired and money of the government to give a solution to the upcoming elections connected to ARMM.
Stop the insult of some individuals and groups just to send them to fellow people who know that every excuse that they know is a limit.
