Stories like that.

By Tomas, Santos - March 7, 2015.

This is a proof that the online community will be popular with the continuing search of the modern writers to coordinate with readers and will reveal their knowledge.
Last 2011, Wattest as "Hottest held in the media custody" in Canadian Inc. is a company that are widespread in a popular website, because of the continuous decrease and improvement of those who are writing and reading it.
"Later on, the fame of Wattest to the Spanish readers that caused the declaration of the authors of the author here like" Diangco, "Mamondiong," wangwang's "
However, just like all things that are becoming popular with the majority, those who are not safe from the kind of course of critics are not safe from the kind of course, not only to the Filipinos but also in other parts of reading and writing this.
According to Jun Cruz Reyes, famous writers and critics of the ducks, they need to analyze the source of the Wattest before it takes care of other critics.
"The Wattest of the children, who is the child?
Through the witness of the writers, Wattest, it is easier to identify the reason why critics are saying that the stories are spreading about it.
"There is still a child, what is really like being giddy, love Split if it is the problem of Wattest," the problem just acting cute, "on a point, at a point, in a place, in a place," said Reyes.
In addition to this, it is needed to understand that all young children are aware of the use of the products of technology and all kinds of experience are the writers, Wattest.
"What is the effect of the machine to her (young writers) sensibility when he is in front of him, that is why he's in front of him, that's why he's in front of the country," he said, the Philippines has a lot of problems, but not just love. "
Low kinds of meat.
On the issue of having an expert of the stories of Wattest number of new kinds of duck meat, Reyes explained that it is a big part of the source of critics against the Wattitudes and use of language in the stories that was published here.
According to him, this is the reason why the youth are reading the actions of Bob Ong and Eyebank Foundation because they are writing the things the children know.
However, Reyes admitted that as long as the actions of Ong and Atalia in the stories of Ong and Atalia in the stories of Wattest because even if the language is common, the depth of the issues is different, which affects their stories.
Reyes also mentioned that there are two kinds of ducks which are high and low or Pop Cola.
Even though many are saying that the stories are not considered to be considered as Dattest to the reason that its quality is low for them, Reyes insisted that this can be considered as the form of the modern equipment.
"If you will look at that, as well as the target audience favorite gifts, that's why I am weak at that moment, the children who are weak," he said, are increasing in people.
Continue to change.
On the other hand, Roberto Amtuagan, chairman of the department of the Filipino in the university, also said that there is also a good cause of the wrong effects of the youth to write and read the stories of Wattest.
"This is a good sign that the price of the Filipinos are increasing," he said.
Through the continuing lead together with children, on the quick movement of technology using the computer and the internet, they are already fed up in the quick action.
"The gadgets were not only vices or other people, it is beneficial to bring the Access Road," said Ambulong.
As hope, according to this change, Reyes also mentioned that there is a big chance that the quality of story has a huge change.
"Those who are writing there are children and the reading, child, ten years old, not a child," those who are writing there, "what is reading," he said.
He also added that it is a copy of the experience of the people the ducks which is why it has changed while the experience of the writers have been increasing.
