Be careful of those who are colorum.

What can the Land Transportation and Regulatory Commission (LTFRB) Chairman Winston Ginez himself turned out and seemed to have lost his own goal?
Well, where do you see a government official who, instead of helping colorum vehicles, will now be the ones who's taking a relationship like them?
How much was the counting on you by the operators of colorum vehicles, sir?
Well, you should be ashamed because almost all people, as well as your companions in the government, like the officials of Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), are dismayed of your stupidity!
So it is colorum to call them because their operation is illegal.
But instead of implementing the law's statement, they even gave the LTFRB to implement the LTFRB for them to get stronger on our streets.
Another thing that the Philippine Ports Authority General Manager Juan C.
It is blamed by San Juan the city of Manila due to the said slow trip of the cargo trucks coming in Port of Manila due to the restriction of the city for their armed trucks.
What he wants to happen is that, as San Juan, he curses the trucks for other motorists to cause the worsening traffic in our streets.
The truth is, hopefully, the city of Manila will not lead to this kind of restriction in order to put a system in order to put the trucks coming down in Port of Manila.
Because of the lack of system to those who are taking, as they go inside the Port of Manila, the parked trucks are parked around the pier, along with the length of Bonifacio Drive until around Road 10.
Aside from almost nothing else can be passed by other vehicles in these roads, it is also scary that the M. Roxas bridge might fall down because even the whole bridge is being made into parking space of rotten drivers.
Why, why did these trucks not put into a proper terminal inside the pier so they will not abuse them from other motorists?
Why cannot it be done by Sta. Ana, the truck driver and operators to have a proper system so that they will not go together with the influx of Port of Manila and also in our streets?
In short, the problem of the victims or the cargo trucks arrive in Port of Manila is the result of his immediate death in Sta. Ana, and there was no relation to the management of the city of Manila.
But to those who have no failure, like the officials of Putatan, quick work should be given to and made an excuse.
