I did not say something like a shack here.
I'm sure, we have not already sold those kinds of things that you have been paying for each other, so that he can't go home.
Yes, how do you fight about their five-year call, I know that I have been a judge in the Oban that you didn't know, that they suffered a love.
Might be?
That is it or what?
I am also joking, isn't it that I am going to call a call?
Yes, yes, but I passed by how weak.
Yes, you are here now.
"In the comfort room, you may lead a call one liter, then yes, yes, why isn't it right?
Ha ha ha ha ha ha. "
After.
When you look for TV for the back.
Okay, thank you, double-tempered; and fuck; isn't it right?
I was there to be clear so that we can look clear; we are right; we have right yes to you.
Yes, when you are about to know how I know how to have a money, yes, i'll be able to say that I am the one who's going to be the one who is call as a call like you.
Then, if you have something, do you really have nothing to let it be cut off, it is not even if there is no income from Skype; that's why we have no income from Skype.
Yes, you are not stupid; we are still not yet included in those who are not here watching television; we are just like this like this, we should not do that we do not want that we do not want to be at the airport.
Because there is a call if you are still with Japan as well as well, "I said," I said, "I am very quiet there in the contract, but it's different, that's why I think that you are mad at that one month.
Stupid.
"We are anxious; we are not right here who are in a taxi, whose plane can be here, which is an airplane here, but it is a plan that you are going to move by.
Social life changed yes.
Yes, I do not have any idea; we are not stupid; I don't have any reaction.
Is it a concert ticket, maybe it's just like you, people, right?
Okay, no one to go to a distant place in a distant place.
What is about he is looking at the place, no one is watching.
Here you are going to sleep or what is a call for short-call for short; I can still go back to me, that is why I don't want to go back to me, that is why I just want to go back to me, right yes, I am just going to talk to me, right yes, I am just taking care of me, right yes, I am just taking care of us.
But you can be the protagonist yes, no one is fighting there while you are watching over different kinds of foolishness; so that I will go to that spirit. "
Yes, I still love me, even though, we still love, that we are going to go to school; we are also the ones who have seen each other so that you have seen how it comes to you so that you have seen the diaper now.
I'll be sure that I will not be able to take care of it even if you might be an ally of the First Family, that is why she wants to tell Jaymalin.
