
Blocked by SONAs.

It is also good for the excuse that the Bureau of Jail Management Council (BJMP) National Capital Region Director Senior Superintendent Romeo Vio related to the absence of his agency after being shot by a Tsinoy businessman who was imprisoned in Malabon City Jail Officer 3 Acuna was imprisoned in Malabon City Jail.
When she was killed in the hospital after being attacked by Nicole Tyo, who is facing a criminal case at Puyupoy, Beng, Jr., born in Santa Cruz, Marinduque, whose parents were both foreigners.
That's why the management of Vio quickly presented to having a jail for a transgender.
It's because Vio was put to the.
It should be recalled that the BJMP and Department of Interior and Local Government should take a peek at the negligence of the agency as to why the Malabon City Regional Trial Court will surely be looking for the Malabon City Regional Trial Court because this is not previously assigned.
Um!
It is said that Philippine National Police Chief Dir. Gen. Alan Purisima is also a different kind because he did not have a "epal." Even though he is the highest official in the police.
It is not just for 15 years when your servant and General Purisima have last seen each other for 15 years but they still have a strong memory, and I have met an intensive conversation with the general, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, of
The other boyfriend of Purisima, who was able to take care of the Quezon City Police District, the head got bigger since the general, but the mother of police officer, said that he stayed in his feet in the ground.
Um!
Is it true the news that Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada is saying that he is the MPD officer-in charge Senior Superintendent Rolando Nana, because the former can see that he work hard to fulfill his duty?
Even though he is not the one who wants the mayor at first, who became the replacement of the Region 10 director Chief Supt. Isagani Genabe, Junior, Mayor Estrada is gradually growing up in his kind, patient and softdrinks that was members of the Philippine Military Academy "85.
Well, hopefully the good relationship of Mayor Erap and OIC is going to continue because the administration of Nana has a good relationship with the police that's why it's as if his attitude is moving.
