
Our Lady of Guadalupe Viejo, for a US.

Do you remember that in the Bible, we are saying that even the father and relative will not reconcile? We are there now when it comes to the RH bill.
It is sad that even the families are divided into the RH bill when we just pray for both sides - let us not have an intention to stay at - because most of us believe that our views are right.
For me, how will it be a problem for a thing which has been appointed as a solution to our separation as a country?
Do you think?
If that is different, they should have been squandered for their own.
In our Catholic Church, he also mentioned the "Triambh of the Immaculate Heart." And there was a message from versus the Philippines, he will come from the Philippines from the Philippines.
Do you found out that because of the OFWs who are forced to go abroad because of the hardship here in our country - there are already many who earned the church and they will adopt the future.
We know, we Filipinos - our OFWs have become brave or being broken by our countrymen who have become brave or becoming emotional when they say that the local government, who did not go to church will look out of music and punching each of their church.
The visit was followed until it became more often and they finally went back to church and go back to mass.
Even the pet children of our domestic helper or domestic helpers are together with the patients by our motherland and carets, they know how to run over anyone and pray that even in the words of God, they became aware of it.
That is the beauty of God's law and it is natural that there is a saying that there is a saying that there is an saying that "all of God's Day."
It is a person who knows and planned a failure, that what is happening now in Japan, Europe, etcetera, that there are children Labor laws who will work for the welfare of senior citizens, that is why they want the Filipinos to work for them.
Have you seen the point?
To God, we should trust and have faith.
