
Drilon, Napoles and truth?

Senate President Franklin Drilon can no longer count and face the burial of the queen of pork barrel, Janet Lim-Napoles, as now, Drilon will try to try the Senate if Drilon will use his P65-year-old Monropha.
The statements of Whishaw in the lower part of the Philippines President Corazon ra Cam is astonishing.
When Jinggoy exposed his Senate hearing speech about the "Corona impeachment reward," almost all of the senators were stunned and stayed silent but due to an ongoing P200-400 million every senator, the good thing came from us, which looks like they are in a hurry to go to, like this.
"That's what they have accepted and used to their respective projects (PNP), or sure that the project that is given to them should be shown and tell what the project are used and where are you used the" Corona virus "that?
We went back to Drilon and Napoles, Miss Sandali, 2005 still being friends, not just as "social friend, Frank and Janet.
With the "jueteng hearing" before in the Senate, Frankie Ares will also be the Senate President, he knows the modus operandi of Ma'am Pilar and the illegal game.
What's more intense, Miss Cam said, that Drilon gave up Napoles about the elections which reached 100 million or more than 100.
The question of the country, is that Drilon gave all the amount given by Napoles to the Liberal Party or to Benigno Simeon Cojuangco Aquino III, this was last 2010, since 2013, Frank Drilon asked him to run again for his running LP.
Wow, it is very lucky for the followers of their party that is why I am not wondering why Poe wants to stay in the lessons of the Liberal, and left the UNA of Erap.
Is this still a part of Malacañang's promise before the Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona will be impeached, is this true, Jinggoy?
If it is true that Sandra Cam is true, it has been a lot of lies by Drilon? That because she does not know Napoles, and "he didn't know Napoles, and" Sony Pictures, he said, social media OPS.
"It turns out that Drilon and Napoles can take pictures on politics and grace?
