
It can be recalled that the wide and new tuition fee in PUP should be exported after the negative rules of the Marcos US-Aquino in education.

Tel.
The Pambansang Kamao was the Pambansang Kamao of the young lady.
July 1, 2014.
The scholar of the Bayan ng mga Artista sa Pelikulang Pilipino was released from anger after it was discovered that the proposal of the university to raise the tuition in 100 pesos per hour from P12 billion pesos.

This is an equivalent worth of PUP from the children of poor farmers and workers who are almost brave to study the education of their respective children, during the time when the price increase of price of goods just like food, while the salary is put in a short life.
In a letter released by the president of the university, he insists that the number of dialing (or all of the value of tuition in the following programs was the same.

Bakar al Program: 00, 000 every Holy Week.
Associate Program (P1, 500 per kilo.
3-year-old school dipProgram (P250 / unit) has not yet been included.

Also included in the implementation of the Board of Regentanglement - the highest number of tuition fee is the highest number of tuition in the following houses, San Juan City, San Pedro (Bulacan), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San Pedro (Laguna), San

At present, there are 4 square meters from the PUP where they collected money from P12 per hour.

It is said that the management of PUP would like to take the same tuition in all university which will be able to talk about some markets, but it will reach more than a few hours, but it will reach more than a higher tuition fee.

The lower ranks of the tuition fee is along with other bills such as NLEX's toll fee, and bundle of chemotherapy, which can be asked to ask help from students.

Aquino's treatment to the person who is the first type of education is giving reason to the rope of bills in the university.

The call for the protest inside the PUP and even in social networking has been heard, a few students expressed that they are ready to fight for a 12-year-old tuition in university.

It was immediately for defense for the management of PUP, and released a statement that the tuition fee is not yet increased, in fact, it will lower down to the said diment for P12 / unit.

But it is not enough to put off the anger of the students, the protests of the community will continue to make sure that they will not lose in the historical protest, but, especially for the wide ranks of the filipino youth who continue to fix the country's huge number of education.

The scholar of the Bayan of PUP prioritize the lessons of the movement of Partido Demokratiko ng mga Bayani, because they themselves were able to pay attention to the negligence of the government of the youth, but this did not become a hindrance to increase the protests until it is completely successful.

It is clear that because of the sharp application of the masses, the students were able to beat up the same call, and only one thousand of students who were taken off by the leaders, and they are prepared to have a sharp movement against the prevalence of students.

In going through the series of protest this day, the youth and religious scholar of the country will challenge the strict implementation of the masses and style of doing which can cause the masses.

The attack against the fight and fully those who make a step on the contribution of the movement of the youth and students in the ongoing investigation and attacks by Aquino to the youth and people, in their stay as a puppy of the country's infidelity to the youth and towns.
