
The death penalty.

There are "pul-politikos" who rode the issue of the violent murder of Cyrish Magalang, a judge who is going to serve the Santo Tomas, through the hopes to return the return of death penalty.
Even if it is clear on the rays of the sun, the death penalty is not able to do anything good but even if the poor do not have a shame but the "pul-politicians are using nothing at the time of Cyrish so they can talk about it.
It has been long been clear in the long debate in congress and barism that will prevent criminals to commit a crime but there is no assurance that they will be caught and ready to be caught.
Several times has been proven that many have been executed without fault because of evil things, their lives will not be restored.
The heinous crimes, especially those who are related to illegal and usually are symptoms of the disease of society, which can give a decent pay for the citizens or in the right condition for us to finish poverty, I'm sure that the incident of crimes in our country is a proof.
Aside from this, the national police should be vigilant with the criminals and the suppression of criminals who should be careful with the investigation to ensure the capture of those who are against the law.
The return of death penalty in the past administrations did not bear fruit but it only showed the weakness of the government to fulfill his duty.
He / she was wearing.
Some officials of the QC city of QC said that they are being thrown to them by some members of the media, according to the report that this group has received each other every Friday and forcefully ask from the officials.
It was said that the amen will return to this with some of their colleagues and said that Mayor Herbert Bira will also ask for help from other reporters for him to cover-in the city hall because "the group who is known to be held in the city hall," said the group who is now known in the city hall. "
I do not know what will be the answer of the reporters involved in this issue but this decision is open for their response.
