It is cooked food as a Filipino to us, to the town of speaker of Cotabato and will be sent to Mindanao so that there will be a continuous control of the continuous removed after the M-INTEL) and TD X-M / her father the Islamic Liberation Front.
In this opportunity, he said that the military was given to the M for a long time.
It's also a successful fight for four o'clock when she feels awkward.
It was a distance from the former Agency in Mindanao that was difficult in Mindanao, because according to the declines.
Who else would say that the actress is still all Saturday from three barangays in the town of reconciling with Cotabato, there are still a lot of residents who still haven't returned like that in their homes so earlier.
It turns out that the Filipinos are going down to the side of another operation so that it would be better for the witnesses to increase.
Because it reached up to ten days and continued to be affected by the Philippine Arvin last Saturday because this is where the members of those who are members of the board Islamic Liberation Front will finally be defeated.
That you will get out of Morong and simple of Pikit PNP in Cotabato.
And was robbed by good.
Yes, the teachers will beat the blessing.
An last one said operation was the remaining losses of Philippine Abby this day.
It seems that the thousands of residents of the three barangays in Pikit PNP are already safe from going home.
We want to look short like that, like that.
Very short; he / she was really left hanging; there was no one left alone during Friday.
At night, it was two o'clock in the afternoon that the barangay will arrive in Ammie.
They were able to catch the houses.
They will not lower down there, there is already a seven appearance on the same appearance and was supposedly not pushed by the D's M for his entry to it.
Maybe because of all, it is good to mix again one thing and taste more than 50 years that the soldiers have released.
There were two who went to the side of the owner.
I hope that it is part of its part of bathing in March.
The poor are not in the hospital.
It is difficult to see because this is a peso.
I will be accepted if you are courting Elizabeth, "with the fluster of video, a group of R new men met him in R.
The members of the division of the M Riyals.
It is believed here, Aklan one is the one being sold after Myles Mella.
And I am tired already and after that, it has become an element of the trip.
For sure, Arinoli, who has Cornes as well.
This is what is ongoing and one continues.
Very short; we are the ones who are members of the Emtype, who are at the back.
He said he is strong.
The Elsaying said that it is still fresh and it is okay to understand the three blessings.
Many residents are still not able to return.
For the other hand, fried rice might go forward again.
But it is said that the blessing is already asleep back now.
In our departure from the place, the part of our camera was part of us.
R V V, on the side of the wide river in the river.
In the other Pampanga, nobody will sympathize with each other.
Until he was not able to leave.
What is?
At the distance, he is still open to that age, which is set to come, high, high office and high office are the members of the barbells as well as those who will work together with their grievance.
In the good thing, he also spoke to Julius to speak a long time with the Philippines and then.
Even if we are in court, she is said to be in court.
And even if you are going to be active again tomorrow, it's because you have been on duty right now.
Yes, the enemy of PNoy.
F-B - I am the PL and M Riyals; we are stupid.
This is what is happening in Pikit and digging.
Covetous, dearse; will they go.
It is Senior Police Station, Port Area Philippines seemed to be the NL. "
Too much.
We are anxious; we, Ma'am Doods, are right, but to his mother in the middle of the box office so they were fighting after they were fighting after each other.
There are some who say that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was the one who called it all about all the other hand, and then she was able to use, it was all the time that he / she was able to use and let him go back to the cahoots.
Very small; as long as I go to school; so as long as I have an old age, he / she didn't want you to visit here in the summer season, which is why he / she didn't want you to visit here in the summer season, which is why he / she didn't want you to come here in the summer; that's why he / she didn't want you to visit here in summer, which is very difficult for you to go to the shoes.
But this is where we can see in the senate who is handsome when he is still lazy when in the same time that he is going to make sure that they are going to be very lonely; we can malign you.
We were able to point out; that's why there's a receipt who is called a receipt who is calling the people to fight.
He / she was able to go to school; but even if they are enemies, they are enemies.
We are anxious; and other people, who are approaching strangers.
That's why Jessica said, that he / she grew up; he / she came to the Information Agreement that came to us, different kinds of foolishness.
Aklan, Thursday, and it started to fight that in one price of the trip, we can say that, we can say that we are going to talk to those who are still in the importance of oil; so that we can see that we look like a survey, and even if we look like a survey, then he even fought to serve as a survey.
Filipinos Aroroy, those who are members of the Revenue, I can still see that, in the video, they were there at the way going to the Philippines, that's why there's a signal that we were standing in the same area, that's why we saw that there are members of others who need to ride in the other area, that's why it was midnight at midnight.
There are also those who are still there because there are times when there is no matter that there is no meaning in there, we have no idea that most of our countrymen are like that.
Are you going to be able to give it home to the people who have not yet gone home yet, and there are still some who are still happening there in Glan, and digging for the number of stars of Cotabato, Mindanao which are being monitored; not many of them.
I am gay; we are very pitiful; we are proud of that because of that.
Yes, you are the horse of a ticket and then he / she said that both of our fellowmen see each other sometimes, but there are still many of our fellow countrymen who were not able to go to school, but why many were not able to go home to show to the public that they can go to school, and then they can go to the public that they can enter.
In our mother at the time we talked to me earlier that we were able to talk to each other earlier, she is having a hard right to believe in what she said that it might be normal.
They chose to greet everyone whom he has returned to.
Our fellow countrymen who are living there like watching even if they are close to the contract when you ask what he has done but some of our countrymen do not like that.
Let him go for an ultrasound, Arvin Ado, of the World Boxing's do, of D X-M F).
He / she was able to look down; he / she was living at the same area where they are living in the same area, he / she came closer to something, also, at the other area, she said, along with the door, he / she said that there is a boils of the door and it is said that there is already a lot.
That the members of the B B I am I here in the time.
But for now, ah, it looks like no one is stay here, no one is always members of us.
There in the other area, but it was two o'clock in the same area, because it was two o'clock.
It's just the small things that daddy was able to see, that's why she saw the uniform that is already there.
In the GAA exercise that has been given to him, especially for children who are studying, these are the children who are studying.
That is also those who don't talk about chocolate and think that many of them are happening here.
Covetous, fur, no matter of that part of it.
Our country, thank you very much for you.
