COMELEC (US.

We are too proud of the Mamasapano massacre which killed the 44 PNP SAF (too long time ago from the senate who is playing with the legislative chamber, it is squirling of the human rights and blame the Department of Justice.
As they say, breakfast, lunch, lunch, dinner and a Midnight Cabinet will be finished, only the politicians know that they need this as a preparation for their ambition towards the election 2016.
Because of the issue of the Fallen 44, the attention of the people is missing for the more serious problems brought by the negligence of the administration of President Benigno Aquino III.
We are corrupt and we are not going to happen to the call of Resign Noynoy and Resign of all the first, the movement that are pushing for it will not go to tears.
Until they are not moving to their own conflict - politics and scheduled to be successful - nothing will happen to them!
So, we can't do anything but PNoy will not resign even if he will finish his term. "
We are pushing the US to focus on his programs that are wrong and against the interest of the country and the people, there are a thin funds of the energy, the result, the results of electricity is needed?
His regime seems to be repeated again and this is the deception of DSWD for those who will be defeated by the DSWD which will be defeated by the people who will be defeated by the poor, who will be defeated by the poor, which are being raped, being raped!
After the price of petroleum will increase, it is certain that they will increase again with no complaints from the Department of energy that will happen to the Department of energy.
The MRT and LRT are initially reported for additional fare, the Philippine National Railways might be followed and more likely, the Bureau of Internal Revenue will probably add up charges.
This is the issues that should be given attention because it is more intense compared to the Fallen 44, there are many first victims of the police and military, is this resolved?
We are supporting the US as the approval of the politicians for every additional price that they have to do for the coming election because the businessmen do not do anything because they do not want to give donations during the election period, or not?
Poor businessmen are poor countries because of the vices of politicians!
