
A car bomb at present.

If the National Bureau of Investigation is true, the rebel groups of Mindanao will not only be blamed, not only the rebels from Mindanao and jogging in the Middle East should be guarded in relation to terrorism.
The soldiers, police, and others have different thoughts about what is happening in the government.
In relation to this, Bro, of the alleged death of the NBI, the involvement of the members of the "Guardian" of the attempted bombing at Ninoy Aquino International Airport 3.
Car bomb.
The NBI said, they watched the attempted explosion of the car bomb in NAIA 3 yesterday at dawn.
The four suspects were caught while they are being made a strong improvised explosive device inside a Toyota Hilux or parked in the parking area of the airport.
They also confiscated guns and paper where the suspects are going to express the bombing.
Many people and properties which are usually in a parking area because of 24 hours that they bring to the passengers of the airplane will almost be put in danger.
The problem with the West Philippine Revolution.
According to the NBI, the suspects are not contented with what the government is doing with the problems in the West Philippine Sea.
At present, the government is going to file charges against the United Nations against China in the territory of 200-Illegal Drugs Act.
It is a twin protest against the government of China every time a Chinese tourist arrives from the warship or police and other parts of the island that the Philippines is claiming.
Perhaps, the group wants to be washed away from what China is doing in the area, just like the destruction and construction of military based on every island, as well as what the government will do.
Funfare and TIDs.
This is when we suddenly remembered what was happening, it is said that the rain is wrong and the group is blamed or blamed by the group about the problem.
In other words, Bro, why are civilians who should die and lose their properties just so that the group would allow their complaint or want to undergo their complaint or want?
Is it because of its big effect, especially if it is considered the door of my beloved Philippines to NAIA?
Which is why the civilians will no longer die?
It is certain that there will be a conflict in the Philippines, Bro, if there is an explosion in the area.
It is the child of seven canned goods, it is possible that there will be martial law if the bombing is not controlled.
And it means a lot.
In exchange for trouble, extension, extension?
We are not doubting the action of the NBI about the car bomb.
But, in our history, the bombing is not an ordinary incident.
Especially if it has nothing to do with the rebels and from other groups.
Before the martial law came back then, the firefighters got nervous about what happened, that was why the firefighters were intentional to have a reason for the declaration of the law.
This is for those seated in position as a form of time, extension, on the Constitution in the Constitution to look at the Saligang Batas and legal all their actions.
Will this be repeated because of the opposition of the citizens in the age extension, Chui and order to cover the outrages of those in power which can be worse than nonsense in the past?
Um!
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an estimation of Pad or text message or text 0914-3333.
