PNoy, Mar made peace in gambling.

Before, the government's campaign is severe especially by the Department of Interior and Local Government and Philippine National Police against illegal number games, particularly jueteng, but after a few hours, the illegal number game games or gambling in different corners of the Philippines suddenly became cold.
The citizens are not stupid in order not to get the point why gambling that are said to have been plague to life not only by the youth but instead of buying food, are still allowed to buy gambling.
A high-ranking official of the Manila City Hall is being pointed as the bridge in the entry of jueteng in Central Luzon and some parts of Visayas Region after he was involved in relation to Mayor Joseph Estrada and he also has a strong transaction in Macau, China when he has a lot of transactions.
However, there are a lot of businessmen who want to come closer to Mayor Erap because of its height of charge, not in taxes, but on the condition that the group is asking for in order to fix the documents that those who give livelihood to Manila.
When the official found that he went to Macau, he left the hotel where he entered the hotel, which is why he had two luggage, causing him to cross jueteng in Region 3, 4 and Visayas Region?
What is said in Macau is that the money from the luggage is owned by officials in Malacañang who are against illegal numbers game, President Benigno Aquino III and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas II are all angry at gambling.
This means, for them is the content of the luggage that can possibly reach 100 million pesos.
It can be recalled that PNoy and Mr. market will make the money to pull the official of the city hall which is only true that he has to ask former President Erap?
Maybe Malacanang suddenly became emotional because Malacanang suddenly became silent on the issue of gambling, it is possible that the lower ranks of gambling are benefiting but they are benefiting from the weekly coming from toll fee.
