Hug him / her.

I have read the "WILWe-Nony Synod wherein I've been aware of this situation, I am worried that there are many parts or share of this situation, but when I found out that there were many parts or share with the representative of a colony of thinking about the death of crystal.
First, a lot of information had been lacking and giving information was what was pointed out that the reason was the lack of ability of his family to pay attention to them as well as the force of UP from his ID to pay them to his ID, so he could not enter his ID.
"Because it is only for a tuition," that is the first question of others that the root is the poverty of his family, and it can be said that it is not just an issue by a taxi driver, that is why it is not only a case for someone who is lacking in reading materials, and other problems with sore eyes, and other problems.
The activists were able to deny that they were able to deny that they have committed suicide, which is why they are avoiding to become greedy and not a system, according to him, it is clear that she has been talking to a good teacher, Propaganda of Andrea Martinez, which caused him to be famous, clear, that it has not been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said to have been said.
From the information to avoid information, a different speculation is gone from the wrong speculation as to why he was able to talk to school, but because he had a person talking to him, he needs to be recognized as a serious issue, but he needs to be recognized as well as the problem he is pointing at.
Second, he avoided writing on social activities, "if we are applying for an immediate action and a simple" solution, who will be able to understand what happened to us, "because activists will also understand what happened to the social issues.
The statement has been tainted with how the statements are being criticized and lack of concern for each other, but when it comes to activists, they are ready to give a simple construction and poverty which is being used by crystal meth, "as an example to try to give reason to their principles.
It is not enough for them to fight against this lesson, but what is important is the remind of the questionable intelligence, but all of these, serving the "traditional" structures of power, "do not insist on the details but view of the general goal of propaganda.
And what is the goals of Miss Tell angco is different, to separate and make the responsibility of the society who is strict in relation to the problems of social activities, "they are free from taking advantage of what happened and the challenge of action from the government going to ordinary people.
It can be easy to see well and know the problems of writing a lot in politics, and they will be treated as an insult to their loved ones, ah, "- for those who do not care about their loved ones, ah," - for them not to act, they return to their normal lives and lack of care in society.
There is no other happy person who will benefit from the country of Miss Tell angco but the government of the Aquino and those who have heard that he is aware or not, he is given weapons and anger against those who are against the government and system related to the issue of crystal meth.
But we cannot stop the increase of critical and anger in the government and the system, it can be easy to see that the incident happened to those who are pretending to be a concern, the concern for fellow citizens who are pretending to be a concern for the community, type, and country.
There are people who write letters to Miss Tell angco that we are going to stop for a progressive country for our country, "a prosperous town, which is caused by a prosperous society, a prosperous town, which is caused by crystal meth, is caused by a rotten and pro-few society that he / she is renting!
