A real slave.

Mary Joy Viado.

"What time?"
This is the always question for me by those who are fed up in the morning, I wake up early, so I am used to ask another time on the first day of classes but I thought it is still early that I need to be an accident in order to reach class.
Let us guide the time in our daily tasks, but with the number of things that we have to do, we have to escape the power of time, we will be caught in power during waking up, going to school, writing and reading paper, until sleeping.
Even in the activities that we are considered as quick to leave, use a cellphone donation for a cellphone, consult a basketball game on TV - the time will be decided.
It is not particularly the Filipinos during the time of the daily position of our ancestors to know the time when we are living on our own clock, and this is a proof that we want to keep the power of the time.
It's natural for Filipinos to be happy, affectionate to guests, and industrious and we also know a "Filipino-time" or being too late in the gathering, it would often be connected to laziness of Filipinos and is considered an obstacle in the progress of our country.
Recently, President Benigno Aquino III signed the Republic Act 1035 or the "Philippine Standard Lunch Program (Police District), a law which aims to be used for the entire Philippines - in the offices of the government, school, church, private sector, and even in public places.
The Philippine Attaché and Calamudi are scheduled to undergo the said law, the agency that will implement the said law, the officials of the Philippines, the officials of the Philippines and radio in case it will not be followed in a short time.
There will also be a "National-time Contact Policy" that will be held every week of the year, together with these are those involved in order for the Filipinos to understand the importance of time for yourself and for others.
In having a few hours, it will gradually be avoided until the "Filipino-time will be avoided until the time of making employees and workers will be finished and finished in the early opening of the offices of the government.
On the other hand, there is no sufficient basis for having a "Filipino-time," during the time of the Spaniards, those who will give way to the minds of Filipinos will give way to the important guests who are caught in the gathering.
According to "Incondolences as well of the Pambansang" of Jose Rizal, he did not notice the laziness of the Filipinos but instead, he gave the reasons why the concept of time of the foreigners will not be appropriate for the Filipinos.
For example, the farmers are still in farm when the friars are still sleeping while the friars are sleeping well, the friars are still sleeping when they wake up the time for rest of the Filipinos.
"The person is the product of time when he gave out the time, he will return to the original cycle of the season for the entry of people," Romulo Baquiran, a professor and critics of the Filipino culture.
That's why it can be said that the time is powerful because it can be controlled and set for the future of a society a proof that the industrialized countries like Japan where they are giving importance to every seconds of their time as contribution to the strength of the country.
The Senior Police Office is the primary ones to take advantage of the strengthening of the strengthening of the Philippines under the Senior Police under the Senior Police, the state will be spent by the workers and employees at work.
"The call of the state to follow the citizens is for the time of response to the demand of business that even exactly at the commerce of the production," Baquiran, also added.
Karl Marx was pointed out by the theory of the production as to how the businessmen get the strength and time of the workers to earn big.
It is possible that through the Senior Police, to avoid eight hours of working with the workers, especially those who are not given proper salary, the opening of the office of different agencies of the government will be prepared.
Despite this, the Senior Police will have no assurance to take care of the welfare of the citizens, particularly the workers, whatever happens, businessmen are still holding the workers because they are holding the system of pay.
Good salary and work is the primary motivation of workers and employees in their stay at work when they have given a good opportunity, they will be able to work.
In fact, the workers will not be measured by the time because no matter how much the time is working, Filipinos will be given importance to the quality of products and services.
At first glance, the Police Office is like a good program that aims to be lazy and pay attention to the country - low wages of the workers, and not enough budget for the public service.
Instead, it is as if it is a child if we should treat a state of conservation in us how to use the time when they think they are beneficial.
The forces of the Senior Police can guard the negative connotation of "Filipino-time" in being prompt and productive, but in the end, the country will just go forward if the country will be defeated by the Filipino people.
