
Until there is no formal mission, illegal acts of JAG G and other agreement will remain.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
May 4, 2013.

Until there is no formal declaration of the peace talks between the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the government budget of the Philippines (PKP), the decision that the former GRP) is owned by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), which is called by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), which is called by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), which is called by the Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP).

The PKP has identified the these kinds of agreement such as The Humalig) of 1992, the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) and the previous leaders of the Philippines to talk in spite of an agreement and be united in issues in critical importance to the Filipino people. "

"In the past few days, the government government fund has been declared in the peace talks that he will not return to the negotiation in order to face the PSO on a regular path of ceasefire, based on a declaration for democracy, and national sovereignty and national sovereignty."

"In spite of the numerous statements recently of GEGARAOCITY, the Puguiao said that the PKP has still waiting for a formal transfer of the formal peace talks," said the PKP.

"Teresita Sy was lying, a member of GEGARAOCITY, when he said that he has already sent one of the conversation about the ambassador of the Philippines when he said that the United Nations is not ready to return to a regular path," said the KP.

"If the Philippine government is not interested in the peace talks by the NDFP-Golovkin, it should be formal to send a communication that contains their decision to stop the peace talks by the NDFP-Glamang," said the PKP, "said that it is not enough to stop the peace talks that was imposed on the more than 20 years through the irresponsible statements of the took place."

"It should have been done by GEGARAOCITY, as an acquaintance and respect for the past government budget of the Philippines and the Royal Canadian government, who served as the third part of the Philippines, this was formally filed by one side on the other side which is not interested in the agreement."

"By a formal declaration, the two parties will clarify the two sides in relation to the state of the previous agreement, and if it should be fully implemented by the Supreme Court, it is particular that this is very important for the CAYETANO and JAG)."

"Aquino's haunting of Aquino should be blamed which led to the direct lies in their hard work to give straight and to the formal peace talks by the indigenous people in the resignation of the malicious statement that Duterte expressed their first condition for the formal peace talks."

According to the PKP, it is very clear that Alex Padilla is lying down, the Model Shop is lying on the revolutionary force to end the revolutionary force to end the so-so-so-called "epal" as an initial condition despite the formal peace talks. "

"Duterte has never asked the declaration of the Oplan Tokhang at the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Oplan LS," said PKP, "said PKP," said by the filipino people and those armed men who were done under the Oplan Galugad conducted under the Oplan LS. "

"What Duterte insisted is the release of all the Philippine Amusement and NDFP members in the peace talks which is not an issue of initial condition but, an issue on the obligation of GUnited States under JawG," said the KP.

"This is contrary to this, Galindez insisted that they will just continue the formal agreement if the revolutionary movement and surrender the armed fight with no ceasefire," said PKP, "said the critical agreement even if there is an insult."
