That is how we need to be complicated in talking before, Alex has a fight with Alex in the bottle.
The negotiation between the government and the M Riyals will be light with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, Tanim-budol gang, together.
Related to the mall except for one.
Together with this is the speed of Commission on Human Rights; which can be covetous; unciation; and covetousness of the Erry Ortega.
Not only the M KL but also other new companies in Mindanao.
Line from that is sad when Joseph has a resort in a resort.
Talked to.
Because he thought that peace is being done here in the luggage that I do not know what is the problem of the trouble in the nose, it turns out that on the second day of a business, it turns out that the fire went on the second day of their business, causing him to give way on reconciling with the government.
My chance is to agree with the story of the story that both sides have been able to go along with both sides who are able to go along with the Work and his partner to Marlon to shout and go back and forth.
It is said that this is a natural business in the government.
But it is good that somehow there will be two days of negotiation and good things such as the help here of separation.
You can see in our face.
There is a document.
Both who will sit in taking a bath are the ones who will take a bath in making the resolution to lengthen the resolution which can be held here, which is how he starts at the chin of the morning.
Those who are members of the money are the ones who were able to go to school; they borrowed one more thing to burn down the bones in front of them.
"In my opinion, it is also being talked about in the ocean of the title of the title that is just too much; we have scolded each other because he was scolded by December.
But both sides can be seen by both sides.
Four teenagers were eight six-six-six-six.
Two yes, bitter.
This is the year of the case.
Take care of your head.
That's why it's not just one thing, it will only be finished now here of a person.
For us.
Um!
What he promised to call me earlier in Batangas is a gift of a shack.
If it can be checked, it is a trend of burning building that was called by a motorcycle that was called here in the business Congress.
When you will look at it, do not be kicked out of it, like that, to support the peace talks.
He is often cold in the back.
Fuck, covetousness;
He got four Zero.
Jessica is hoping that the congressmen are expecting that from there in the Philippines, they go to the Philippines to witness you to witness the peace of peace in the middle of the peace.
So it is also coming here.
The provincial government official.
!
Two six children were also drunk.
Is it right that the pork barrel is right to pass the poorest child on the map about it.
Covetous, deport; M 14.
Four out of the ducks, whose legs are low; we know the red uniform of our countrymen.
My Muslim brothers it comes to a gun, isn't it right?
Out of the letter.
We are anxious; we are also thinking of the case, basketball, which is even just a few remaining Anes.
"That's why, that's why, we are at the same ball; we are saying that this is not what we've been saying, as long as it has not been said that this is not what happened to us, which is why when it comes to us, we have not been saying that it is not right for us to let us see, that is why when it comes to us, it is okay that there will be no one in the following days and that is okay with what happened next to us.
Jews or four there in the country 'contract last October.
I hope that after we have to go to attend mass, Jules should be a trend of other process of construction of discipline and seven in the Congress which caused the Congress in Congress, this caused the Congress in order to submit this to the visitors that will be filed.
In number of our siblings, it is probably because if they want it, it is not right now if an example is to succeed.
This is the most effective defense for Dick, R-M, and there will be only a person who dared to comment on those in the mall.
And then, they would have a conversation between your witness, who is a pot session here in what I am saying.
I will leave the statue of horer group 'worth of M-M-PAX-budol Gang like that.
Because of that, the mother and the couple are still in the same place.
Just like when you are happy with the door of the M we don't take care of our situation there, but, of course, we can't allow them to think that there are all those who say that there are all those who seem to be part of the politician, they are all part of being hit by a politician, and this is part of their five-ranking politicians.
You will be the problem of the military and our police and our police-in-law; we are not included here with the traffic Tito Joker and you are not included in the national motorcycle but he did not say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she didn't say that he / she was to be followed, Chairman i-follow-up at Mother yes.
For a long time, I thank you very much.
