No one did not blow out from America but eight people were recorded to die because there are seven who are most affected by the audience who were able to talk to where there were seven people who were able to talk to their love, which is why they will give free land to the residents in order to watch a four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-old man.
His / her cellphone in front of me, the authorities are the worst way to prevent the fight of a rest with us in the morning to explain what I called, I said to her why it was the morning last night.
For him, the distance is far.
My brother will write to this and our country will now be over to our country.
With them we are talking about and after them, I do not know what is true and we think they entered us.
Later, we will give your adviser to him many of you are going to fight against him.
You are calling, I have not heard that your illness is too much, that's why it's too important that it would really be two thousand three weeks.
Don't you want that there are diseases that are still sick, isn't it that those who are from the victims have a lot of things that they can holding.
Yes, that's why we look at each other; we would like to keep on sneezing and tease me.
When it comes.
He had something like that, right, let us see that the Zero and Two have been on the long time that we do not like our faces that we do not see in the closed face of our face.
You are going to go abroad in spite of Mark's gift to Joseph Estrada, should I remember that we should remember, because in other countries, I should be remembered, only after I mentioned that we have been mentioned to each other; we have mentioned that we are coming from.
That is why we are talking about it.
Let us go to the travel to take care.
They are the ones doing what Karen are doing so that they can only be able to taste our sim card that you have in the airport now.
Well.
We have fun to be paranoid and will fulfill it not new to tell us here in our country to prove that it does not happen.
So there are gossip that we can talk.
The pregnant are pregnant at the people Medical Foundation in thinking of positive thinking and care.
That's life.
Oh yes, there are cancer.
"That is why the students, because I am reading, I am going to read that's why I am going to turn around to the streets.
The pain in my throat or throat is not that, no longer have been cut off for the victims of the hair aside from what I cannot believe in me, but we cannot believe in me.
I think it's over here.
Then, our man is over and we are not yes right here in front of my birthday or my birthday.
By the neighbors of the water, we went here at the sea, my birthday and birthday at your father.
Just after that, it really is like you can really do something like me, I will always take care of you outside where I want to look like an actor who is called for example, I can no longer put those who have an illness after that.
It should be a former country that should have arrived in their house.
I do not know that five places have come true, I do not know.
If you are going to a year, I will be for a year.
