Christians on the cross and thieves in the accident.

Is it bad to take pictures at the cross that was built to commemorate this Holy Week?
This is the question after it exploded in Facebook and Twitter about the two beautiful scenery that I heard from the cross that was placed in the cross of the cross that was held on Fridays.
Do not disrespect.
"The chatter of them is a Filipina and a foreigner who is a bit sexy because her shorts and other clothing is normal.
"The foreigner is weak and religious because they do not even see her sexiness.
They also have two men who are made a long time.
But all of them were clings to the cross so that it will not fall in case the cross will be held in case.
The others said, the nasty spirit of the Holy Week was done by wasps.
It is those who are strolling and tourists.
They should also maintain the sanctity of what was done there in Angeles City last Friday.
It is not good to disrespect other things not only the spirit of Christ for us to be saved from the hands of the devil and have changes in life.
Seen.
Here is the story in this controversy.
It was said that there was a single motorcycle going to me.
Turns out there's a payment for this.
"Those who want to get her pictures, need to pay.
In other words, there is toll fee.
It seems that the Expressway is doing all the vehicles entering.
Toll fee or Single Entry SEC.
Just Onse, Philippines.
Are the officials of the barangay here or have a direct effect of it in the place?
He talks.
The church is divided on this issue.
Some opposed what happened and there were those who were in favor and others, just ignore it.
"Those opposed to Christ said that I am referring to say that the memory of Christ has been removed.
"The favor is saying that what happened is good because the situation has feelings for each other, no matter how much, many sleeping consciousness will be woke up, so many sleeping consciousness will be woke up about by crystal-King and reporters.
Meanwhile, some of the beliefs that do not believe in the controversy are those who do not believe in remembering the suffering and suffering from Jesus.
That is why, even in the cross, no one can see them from the ash or houses.
Good location was laid before, Nigeria.
We have talked to those from the Philippine Tourism Authority.
Said, good or before, is still a publicity.
This is what happened in the construction of Pharisees "Fight IT led in the Philippines."
We just do not know the meaning of their meaning to TESDA (GAPAfun in the Philippines related to the issue.
TRIGAA fun to disrespect one big part of Christianity, or to earn it because tourists will increase more than the country?
You!
All of you, Bro, judge him.
For me, it is better to have an interest on Christ than not.
What we don't know is that there will be changes even if it is only for the will of those who have grown up or with the cross.
"It's not that kind of event if we are not aware of the source of good news.
Good news is that the news will improve when Christ still live on earth.
The robbery was blessed.
In the area, a few kilometers from Angeles City where a small place, near the foot of Pampanga Sevidal Bridge in the town of San Simon, had been injured the other day after a truck crashed on top of the chicken.
The truck is going to Manila and it came from Pampanga which is still under the jurisdiction of Angeles City.
Do you know what happened after the accident?
Search for a bet for a bet.
It is the child of tofu, not the drivers and helper are helped by some who have from it in the area.
They sold the truck carrying a truck and they do not care about the passing vehicles and those who are going to earn money.
Many young men found quickly to abduct chicken and ran in their respective places.
What kind of search search is what they did.
Imagine about it, just after the Holy Week, it is possible that the symptoms done by the Omnibus Election Code will be on the accident.
Both stories.
This is not the only incident to be seen with some of our countrymen who are taking advantage of the accident.
The stories about accidents on the vehicles are too much.
Instead of helping those who get hurt, they were deprived of the money they brought, jewelry and other worth of incidents where those who are riding the search and rescue were taking advantage of the victims.
There was even a story of rape by women.
That's why, it is better to get fit in the cross instead of taking advantage of those who are in danger and need.
