PO 3 44; funds of the demolition, CCT or poor cities, have no success.

The Aquino administration will be blamed on the "epal." But if it will be examined carefully the proposed budget in 2014, it can be seen that this is being focused on for sure that they have a decent job and home.
Taking advantage of the funds for the CCT (Condleweight championship) is an indication that the government is not interested in solving the root of poverty, but they just want to be covered up.
It is still far relocation.
The budget is the biggest right for the highest position of the National Transformation Council (NHA), with the Phenom.49-billion pesos for the poor cities of Manila, what this means is to be exported to them by Relocation Site, without livelihood and services.
The government already announced that the poor people who live-out of eight hundred pesos or pipes arrived in Manila are said to be the "danger happening in Manila, which is said to be being asked by the government in Bulacan, Rizal or Laguna.
The alliance with Alyasang Makabayan (AKD), instead of them going to evict them, the government should fund the rehabilitation of their community, and construction of additional housing projects that are close to livelihood, but will not be seen in the budget of the government.
For example, the PhP360-million budget of the DILG is meant to be deport, or PhP18,000 people who are going to be evicted from different places, or from far relocation, or the medium built by the poor because of the height of the Honor Code.
In the budget of DILG, there are PhP700-M which is allocated for the construction of MRB - but it is noticeable that only a few are expected to benefit from this, estimated to be at 472 million worth of families, according to the data of the government.

According to Kalubihan, Damayang Lagi, Kadamay,, the government promised to release the construction of MRB, but by one, no local government unit was able to donate their land for the home of the poor city, which is why the government is given a connection with the government.
The poor are also expecting that they will not benefit from the Philippines-67-B which is allocated by the government for the Community Morissette Program (CMP), or lending money for the housing program, the CMP), their needs for daily food, work, education and health.
For the corrupt officials, corrupt officials?
"It is clear that only private and corrupt politicians will benefit from the government agencies who will benefit from the funds given by the citizens for the alleged housing program," said Estilles, spokesperson of Mount D.
For example, one of the biggest Islamic Liberation Front in Montalban, Rizal is the New San Jose Builders which is also owned by businessman Jerry Acuzar, brother-in-law of Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa, which was revealed by the newly-hectare lot in Palawan, which was revealed by the broken lower guard in Palawan.
The poor cities are also worried that DILG Secretary Mar Roxas will possibly use the funds of the agency in the campaign for the 2016 presidential elections which was proven by Roxas on the pork barrel scam when it was discovered by the Commission on Audit, which is questioned by the PhP5-M which was released by Roxas in Kalubihan, Incorporated.
Instead of CCT,?
It is also looking for corruption is the CCT or Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program, that the budget in 2014, at the Philippines, is at the Philipines and Development (DSWD), which is allocated to CCT, which is estimated up to 34.3 million families.
A higher position of the foreign institutions in the World Bank, the CCT, not only because of the widespread irregularities in the use of it, but because this is one of the distress "solution" in poverty.
"No matter how big is the budget that they will put in the CCT, it will be gone to waste because the poor are being driven out of their community and livelihood," according to NJ Guerrero, the chairman of the poor people who are all united or outside.
The group believes that the CCT, "if the Aquino administration continues to implement the illegal policy like the demolition.
It is said that it is better to put the budget in CCT for concrete services such as a lot Philippine Charity Sweepstakes in public hospitals, and more schools and free books for the children.
According to PAGASA, it is best to bring the tax of the people for the programs that will create jobs for the poor, and the construction of the national industry, and improvement of the international industry, and improvement of the reform in the land.
