Alfred, admitted in the video of Leila and Cologne.
Be careful with DRUG Lord! By GROs at RL. 19, 2016.
Cong. Alfred Vargas joked that I will be careful because I am talking to drug lord.
It's because the actor's actor was able to put it on her involvement on the issue spreading in the viral video of Senator Leila de Lima, where he was involved in his birthday party where he was still detained until now in New Bilibid Prison.
Senator De Lima answered that she was not identified by Colangco but Cong. Alfred Vargas, according to Alfred when we talked with yesterday, birthday party of De Lima when he was in the Department of Justice.
"It's because my mommy" is a friend, that's why I went to her, I went to her birthday at the Office of DOJ.
"" With sore eyes, like that, then my hair was gone, it seemed like the wind was carried by the wind so that was the footage of the representative of District 5 of Quezon City.
He was shocked when he woke up the other day, more than 50 texted her on his telephone and more than 20, most of them were from the media to interview him about the issue that was why he answered him immediately.
He / she was wearing.
Yesterday, an official called Alfred in relation to those involved in him on the issue.
A video of Senator Leila de Lima, and Her, birthday party, was released to a background that was filed by the Senator Migs Zubiri a Song for one of Her (Commission on Her "Ambo" Cologne.
And the background, 52, and Amin Colangco, 5th District-Quezon City Representative Alfred Vargas.
Vargas, she was scheduled to avoid the part of the Liberal Party-sister in the May 2016 elections, that she could avoid the Senator's birthday at the back of Senator De Lima.
She could avoid fighting and Senator Leila De Lima's birthday party, and the DOJ-Fadversary, "Atong Vargas.
Being carried away by Ren E.
"Fight IT is a simple case of Mahogany, causing the video to avoid it.
"
Alfred is just happy with his fans because they are angry why he was compared to Colangco, which is why they take care of it.
