Zailon and Two people, who were said to be in the end of February 11, only four years, and there were no other people in our house at Digos.
Yes, we helped them what are the things for the victims of what he thinks should be given attention by what we should know if they are approved by the government, not just like in English but he is strong with the most important person.
He got the most important day to our fellow countrymen who are our fellow countrymen, who are not going to go to school; I am also not doing anything that we do not have to go inside the pipe but I do not have nothing to go inside the pipe but it is not true that I do not have nothing to go to, which is why we do not have to go back to each other.
"We are anxious; as compared before to those who passed by you, we did not have a long time, before we saw that there were five thousand, we did not know how much of them, the process happened, that is why it is important that this is the third Dasmariñas of the impeachment, and then came from.
Wounds before a piece of snack became emotional because how big is the bruises in the game on cards that is why much and his media, I am surprised when I want to talk in English operation by those who are going to talk about it, which is what you are saying that it's a good example.
Two people were last able to move and I will have to pay what happened to four five people, but no one is watching over the electricity.
Maybe that might get what he is with.
I can hear the answer of a person who is eating even if he has a child.
March 28, an hour.
Look at the kitchen, six pesos.
Yes, if compared before, you do not have a job.
It is not good if you make noise in the house and then.
We will meet the siblings of us.
It turns out that he is the only one in the morning that is why he is at work.
Why do we really have a lot of our countrymen who are really compared before, in our country with our three children, that they do not want to talk, no change.
What the body needs is needed.
Maybe that is just near me.
If you don't have work, do you not have a good job?
I cannot do it.
He will leave and laughed.
Later they are supporters in Saudi Arabia; she said that what I want is no matter what he said, that is why I said it's only my price, that's why I still answered that I do not care for it first.
In my studies, when you have money from it, it is as if you're going to have money here.
For sure.
We are full; we should be the official of what I thought should not be able to decide.
What did he say?
Had sex.
He / she grew up; we have forgotten that I have forgotten because it's because I have forgotten.
Million, there is no work of a egg to avoid trouble.
They will be happy to see each other, who are very big, big thing in Juan.
Luna surrounding.
I don't have work.
Because we are talking about it.
"In the first time that you have no money to buy me, then I have forgotten that you are going to have money for me, it's as if you are going to find out that you are them to help me because my five-eight hundred pesos was a huge amount of income.
It is not too bad that it is closed.
Choose men to work on duty.
Support her.
But in public government, it is very easy for the motor.
It has been given a long time for me to do my voice.
Yes, they are over the roof part of the Filipinos, the attitude of the Filipinos, he said, the welfare of the Filipinos, perhaps, the welfare of those who are interested to eat in ah, maybe the other who are going to build, you will not be able to help each other when there is no.
