Back to normal, traffic and Kotong is back to normal.

All the streets are everywhere in every corner of the country.

The towns or places where there will be light traffic and disciplined cops, traffic enforcer and no corrupt officials of the government will be tested.

Life will be normal.

But in places where the skin is taking advantage of the flow of traffic, Kotong and corruption, children of tofu, your life will return.

They are fixing.

In Metro Manila, there is no end in fixing the roads.

Even if it was emotional in the local government, the senators and senators are emotional when the senators and senators take care of what the governor said, mayor, councilor and chairman.

These are roaming around, along with, there is a continuation of this, when there is a delayed roads, fixing the canals and others, the three lane, the three lane, is becoming just one, "others, are totally complete.

There was too much traffic "there.

But here, the lives of the government officials and contractor of these are in order.

There is no end.

If you will ask more about fixing this, the country is not really beautifying the country, city, town and barangay.

The officials prioritize to look at where they will earn without the end.

That is why, there is no longer in fixing the longest day for three years because this is the long time for local officials, including the congressmen and half of the senators.

Even if there are even more years they are fixing, they are fixing, fixing and totally complete.

"If these bastard criminals stop going to fix, they will stop their income and flattery.

Year of year, there is a budget.

These crooks are after the annual budget, this is also the reason why others are popular and different on the roads and in English language.

There are millions of years that can last for a year or a little infrastructure for them not to have a mental problem, for example, for 3-5 years, it is easy to do a fine or jumper that can't happen next to these policies.

But the officials of this should not care about this, their income is not an end to the annual budget, so while there is being destroyed, they will be destroyed to fix the end.

It should not have an end to the country's fund.

No garage.

The officials have a long-lasting project, which is why there's a short time for a short time, and a long time, for example, the project that needs to be finished within a few days, week or month to two years.

The way for 3-5 years and for a long time, or for a long time, or a long term.

But it is only in the paper that we are saying, because it is still based on the annual budget and when there will be election.

It is very rare for people to have a child, who, for the public service, if there is really a leader, a project for officials, the project for officials, no one else but on their term after their term.

"It is up to you in your life," said Mar Roxas.

Bangoy.

Because of enriching corruption in position by the corrupt politicians, it is usually slow down, especially the local government, after an election.

They say that, they need to use the funds for the person who was allocated so it looks like the government is crazy.

And the funds are usually put up in projects and this is where the officials should be removed from different ways.
Even in the fund of the salary, there are those who were able to hold-off and distress.

Money of PERA to traffic.

We are back to the problem of traffic because of infrastructure or anomalous towns of corrupt officials of the government.

There are a lot of problems which can create traffic to motorists who are running out of gasoline or diesel.

All of these, which is the cause of traffic, they are giving money away.

This is obvious in the record, especially in the local government, including Metro Manila Development Authority.

Pulling this with PERA.

If the vehicle has a sudden or low price of gasoline or diesel or Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs gas, there is a little by-standing judge or Tower.

The affected are the ones they will make in order not to hinder traffic but their legal corruption is becoming illegal under the widespread corruption that is happening in a widespread corruption that caused traffic to have a mental problem.

There is no free pull, everyone has payment.

There are also some who, like the driver, and if the driver complain, the child of seven canned goods will complain, there will be an additional amount to discredit.

The commission that is very expensive here, including the toll fee, is becoming a big contribution to the motorists.

It is scary, that the return to normal lives in the streets is weak.
