The investigation shows that they are hungry; they are complaining on the video of food from a man who is behind or a group in the morning, and the man is still having a hard time even if there is no life in front of the human rights; that's why there is no longer a violation of human rights.
It is raining because it is difficult for C to sign.
There.
We should not hear the details when I go out here next time.
That's why, in the same age, they are still clearly seen in videos which are still clearly seen in videos so that they thought of the old and new art of what they are going to see.
In Facebook, in the end, there was around one day when we saw each other in the end, we saw that we were lying in the grasses after the successful end.
They are close to enemies.
The people are going to get water.
A soldier was removed with a chance and a man is related to a man in another country for three months after the days of a gun.
Let it be.
We go down.
But he sees that he is looking at what is the man.
A gun.
How much is the life why she quickly removed your strong body when she came out.
Tel.
!
Believe.
The video has long been a video of several years or not, there is no problem happening in the incident that exploded.
Clings to four years.
It's because we quickly see here in the end of a use, that we used to make me know that they have nothing of them.
The size of the uniform he is carrying is big.
When it is hard to get away, it is a very clear violation of human rights that we can see here in Tagalog when they are watching T: V.
What is believed by the soldiers, you should know the soldiers who have long arrived Joshua.
It has not yet been found out that you have told him in the investigation that they should give last night to the police.
That is what they did not given to Monday.
Interested in this past year, the water is very big with the umbrella being recognized for human rights this November four but he signed a lot.
Along with PNoy, there are other places where do not know how to be frugal and to chat with human rights so that I do not believe that the change will really happen but not yet.
Use medicine here to the operators.
It is because they are not capable of giving details on the result of their initial investigation as well as the older owner of the oil and the older owner of the oil, that is why they do not want the investigation before they step down from his post.
That is also a big thing for the investigation to be clearly stated in his nose, whose nose is said to be very clear in the incident that's why it's just a little bit of communication between the government, which is why they saw that this is what they saw.
He was being shot, who was a member of the owner, or why is there a different bank like the Palace?
It appears that, brother in the investigation of Rizal that we have talked to is an official, it is possible that I will no longer count the news on the said operation against the one day of Commander of the heat being taken from that.
Now, there is still a text message on the investigation to know what's the cellphone unit here on the internet here who really did they get back to kill but to be able to kill.
The C-R said that even if he is a member of any member, this is a member of the past, but he has been watched for several times but he has been watched for several times a few times.
They did not call from drinking there, that's why they were able to look at each other, that's why only in C: 30, you will ask that the incident was safe from the paper where Jojo was burned.
It seems the soldiers are just let in Tondo know the strong evidence of the eight o'clock in the afternoon, because there are a lot of things that have been done by the authorities in order to find a license of license.
Just the anger of the victims of a person in what else is that we do not have a life to each other, because I know the part of the group will buy, isn't it right that there will be one of those who are going to go to each other even if they are enemies.
Ah, there is no enemy.
We have been used to each other; we have heard that you have heard that much.
Which is called between the people you are applying at and I am saying that he has been telling the number of those who are going to do this Saturday in the position that I used to do, even if there is an opportunity to catch up, it is an opportunity to be caught in exchange of operation.
The help from a school who should have been cut off in a school which is needed by the international airport is needed so that they do not have a lawyer, it should not be expected that it is not right for us to get a lawyer, which is why it's too big that this year-year-old person will not be done, that's why it's too big; that's why it's too much.
You said it was replaced by six eight eight million pesos.
Well, they immediately look for the answer of the answer to those who have seen a miracle being needed by the investigation.
That is why we are stupid; we are very thrifty; we are a thrifty person for you to commit suicide.
What kind of prayer is your strong promotion that you have watched here, that is okay.
So yes, any sibling will get pity for the investigation if they have something.
I am there.
All that lepers were made and proven guilty, he already had a relationship.
They say it turns out that no matter what unit they already know.
Corporation, it is really hard to enter the military who are clear on what they should answer to the investigation.
That is very clear so that the public will know that they will not be passed, asked for a lot.
