"Saint Pope," I went out, waved at me, waved.

Doris Bigornia.

Manila, Philippines - the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines (CBCP) President Archbishop Socrates "Soc" Villegas was asking the Filipino people to accept Pope Francis through opening the heart, mind and hands.
He also appealed to the believers to go out of their houses, go to Papal Events which will be happy in the streets which are in the source of Panagile.
She enumerated the sanctity of the roads going through the crossroad which can be used by the convoy, which can be waited for by the people and accepted by the Pope.
"According to the Department of Christ, Pope Francis with the all Our Lady Of, with the all Saint Our Lady," said Villegas.
Villegas said that it is an honor for every Filipino to meet later the Pope.
In the arrival of the Holy Pope in Villamor Airbase High School this 5: 45 in the afternoon, this will lead to NewHeritage Village at Amao Road and Roxas Boulevard in Quirino Avenue-Likoy Rondiano until Taft Avenue-Likoy Rondiano.

In the morning of January 16, you can stand in Taft ALove.
Before the mass was held at the Manila Cathedral around 10: 00 in the morning today, you can see the Holy Pope because it will pass through General Solano until Casal-Ayala Bridge, at Finance Road and Burgos Bonifacio Drive until Anda Circle and Aaahana Street until it reached the Manila Cathedral.
In the afternoon, Pope Francis will go to Taft ALove. And Likoy Rondiano, Quirino, Roxas Boulevard until he reached the Mall of Asia where some families are interacting with each other.
The Pope is in Leyte on January 17.
Seen on January 18 are the Holy Pope in the stretch of Quirino-Osmeña Highway towards Nagtahan and España Boulevard in UST) this will be the route going back to Asibars.
Will pass in Quirino Avenue, Roxas Boulevard, and Kalaw Street until Luneta in the afternoon.
January 19, the Pope will go early at the airport, where it will pass to Likoy Rondiano, Quirino straight at Roxas Boulevard and domestic Road directly, Doctor Love, and Villamor airport.
