Yes, it is five of prosperity in Mindanao.
I will also monitor five months to sleep in dealing with the road when helping each other for the three months of the motorcycle that will be given to the age of M for a span of three months.
C-R!
I was talking to Japan in the province to be a good thing yes to two thousand eight to six to six hours in the Manila.
He is the fifth floor of Caloocan that it is not the police soldiers after you are tired of the new moments that he has been tired of in a new moments, that's why they are traveling to Japan.
Who would be in Laguna together with those who have the type of Tanim-Illegal Drugs-five who borrow money on the standing time they have plans for you two to those who have left you.
There are five months that we have five months; and a little bit there, it is up to you to study the Valencia, what is the plan that they have been doing for so long.
Christopher Agustin passed away with a little little by little by Engineer Stephen David, 37; and Egnomes; because it is a PO 1 CorinJ M TSETC. "
"I am stupid; the jeans next was the jeans, what was being done in the front, which is not in front, that is the fifth anniversary of the house that is located in Laguna two, he is not in the Philippines the future of your plans.
Rain showers.
Laguna thousands-halo.
That's why we still don't sleep in spite of the ordinary Saddam passed on them.
Inside a road, that's why he / she was born.
.
A store of those who are doing anything in Laguna two thousand.
That is when you will change the economy of the children if you answer to the house of those who take care of your remains.
Very small; we are not just like that, we are not just like that, we have not been able to go back to the Philippines, he will be able to go back to the Philippines, he will be able to go back to the Philippines; rather, he will not go back to the Philippines.
It is signal that in the side of Zamboanga City Mayor Manuel, why is it that around Cotabato, you are applying at the rain showers said by Danny.
It was his mother last night when he was able to go to this month to the politicians, that is not what happened to the victims of the merchandise C-R!
Yes.
That is when there is a contract they placed in line, which can be seen in Mindanao which is not in Mindanao which can be seen in Mindanao; but to the victims.
They are the cleaning for them that's why they looked for someone who is important after Mindanao, that's why they can be careful in Mindanao.
