
A government of the foreigner is following: Maintain low wages.

By P2,500.
July 22, 2012.

Elmer "Bong"
"PNoy himself spoke in front of the workers whose salary is not in position despite the successive increase of goods and services of society, a pro-workers, pro-capitalists and for the Filipino President."
This was the praise given by Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), on the issue of the call for additional wages for the workers and the Philippines, the third who has a low salary, according to Mahathy on the 72 countries which was made by the International Criminal Court this year.
After the coins that the P30-peso increase in the Cpost of Livni after the current administration who passed and the current administration have become the spokesperson of basic commodities in the additional wage increase in the wage increase, additional wage increase.
While the income of the 40 most rich Filipino in the country is growing up from the $3.4 billion pesos in 2011, according to the report of Forbes - the Filipino workers just received a lot of coins.
There is no sound in income.
It is still far away from the salary that's being paid for 'age of workers who are only earning P446 in the National Capital Region.
"'Kath' age is lacking in order to live decent and responsibility of the government to raise the Lapian ng Pilipinas for raising the population of the workers in the Philippines," according to Sonny Africa, executive director of Ibon.
According to him, there are only 44 percent of the increase in 'salary increase from 2001 until 2011, while 62.4 percent increase in the price of the administration of Corazon Aquino (P82), Ramos (P16), Estrada (P22) and Arroyo (5) and Arroyo (P5).
Policy and system.
One of the primary benefits that the workers do with this kind of system is lower than the salary of the workers, instead of regular jobs, their benefits will not suffer, and he / she will return to it.
"It's the policy of PNoy to go against the dump site, through the Department of 18-A chief of 2012.
New where is happening is the implementation of Two-8Wage system (2TWs), which is more aggressive in the salary of the workers.
"This is being implemented now in Southern Tagalog and NCR where it can be implemented, which is why it can be implemented by the workers, it will be implemented on all especially in regions or factories that have no union," according to Liwag.
The 2TE is a system of pay that will pass through the two level of wage increase in the first, it will be put in the floor of the company and capitalists that should they increase in the floor of the company and capitalists have, they will increase their salary or not, according to the amount of the salary of the company and capitalists).
"This system will be a wills of the workers because they have a huge trait more than the salary of the workers to take advantage of the salary of the workers so that its goal is to take advantage of the cheap confidence of the country," according to Roger Solsona, general secretary.
This will not affect the regular workers, together with this system, which is why the management of Linaw, "that is not impossible in spite of the ferocity of Martial Law, we need to show that it is not impossible in spite of the ferocity of Martial Law.
Justice!
If it is about to be asked, the low salary of the workers is rooted on the lack of work and passion in foreign contacts, it can be considered that the government's wage increase in the ranks of the workers, according to them, should be considered.
"It is said that this government offered to the altar let our government pay attention to the government without taking advantage of the workers for the benefits of capitalist and foreigners.
While the government is tied and followed by the orders of the foreign institutions for him, the laborers are pushing the cancellation, the condition of the workers will remain pitiful.
"This kind of treatment to the workers does not have a different way but the opposition and fighting in history are the ones who are teaching us that it is not the time for the workers," said Liwag.
