Malicboy, May 08, 2012.

Not fulfilling the promise.

The urge to know is right than wrong; and practical.

Instead of obsequiousness and sure, instead of triumph; success is successful.

Failure, and ready to stand for these.

And continue to fulfill it.

More effective treatment to the success of 3 and strong is the resolve to fight the enemy, with the camp of your brain, this is the first to be exported and removed from our consciousness, what is found and to know your real personality.

And from this, everything will happen for your best and prosperity to achieve your victory.

To use the resolve of resolve, be careful with your character than your reputation, because your whole character is on top of you, while your reputation is the one who loves you for the high standard instead of what others are expecting from us.

Do not just believe any thing because you have heard it.

Do not just believe any thing because it turns out that many people disappeared.

Do not just believe any thing because it is sad to believe and what is happening in the books of religion.

Do not just believe any thing because it is from the authorities of your teachers and those who are able to depend on you.

Do not believe the tradition because it has been given by many first generation.

... there is a thorough investigation and it is just an analysis, if you complain about anything, it is natural for you to accept it and give importance to the good and benefits of each other, this is in the right path, because this is based on your strong resolve.

What is the meaning of resolve?

In my grass hand; you'll be able to fight and make the principle right and he can't be able to deal with your principles, service, or condition, a direct promise to guide the right amount of taking care and mix in all moments.

It is not surprising that there is a hidden talent, aside from the people who believe that they have hidden ability that will be considered more than the events, the guidance of each of our decisions is rooted on the improvement of our decisions, and let us remember it, anything, for sure, and never.

Please choose the meaningful thing.

If things come out and not suitable to our resolve, what we give are those who are working or helpful, and you will be able to do it to Panatag Shoal, and if we do not let us talk, it is easy to talk, the poor is to do.

According to the malicious act, the secret will not only cause the secret, but it will not pay attention to those who are going to be taken, rather, will pay attention to those who are able to complain, and ask yourself, "what is the good fares to focus on," and also add to these.

What am my real intention?

What will be the one who can help, to be right or love?

What will be their priority, is it important thing, than people?

What I do can help the general benefit?

So how can you get the sympathy of others, when I cannot blame my stand?

Is there a need to lie on my principles in all moments?

If there are questions, there are answers.

Things are becoming interested and lighthearted towards you if you keep on it, when you keep on the whole responsibility you have chosen to guide.

Stop your mind and if not, you will be charged by it, remember that you will be charged with grief and confusion, that is why there is no reason for you to succeed.

Strengthen your spirit and remain vitality and let high level of adapting to, an expert, and continue to serve others.

For me:
A joke is not a joke (one more thing, if you do not have knowledge about it, and I am crowding, but it is very careful not to write to my fellowmen, I will never have to write to me, I will never have to write to me.

Critics and critics are not able to avoid him, many are criticizing him and I do not want to serve, but until I continue to serve, I need to stand up, until I continue to serve, but until I continue to serve, I will increase my knowledge when I am writing this.

Our character or personality are tried to do what we tried to do, especially when we are thinking that no one can see us, especially if you are thinking that you can be mistaken with your principles and stand for it, they can fight for it that would be to his defiant.

Develop yourself while you get closer and result, you need to leave yourself because you are always nervous and want to know if you are always nervous and want to be sure if you will be helpful and felt.

I always say that, "I admire the person who will be the first to eat," said by my father, "if education does not appear, it is normal for you to make your senses, it is normal for you to avoid the events.

The need to see what you need to be found in your mind is the fear that nobody knows is one of the biggest obstacles that you will face in the struggle in life.

Don't imitate people who are more careful with their money, instead of their resolve.

To win in any field that you will enter, you have to learn how to destroy any hindrance in your mind if you have a resolve, you are free, and you can do everything.

Let us remember this point: The risk is the natural part of life.

If you are always seated, waiting, and dream; this is also your ambition.

Keep it clear what is important to you, and decide to take care of whatever happens.

Many know what they want, but there is no idea of who they want to be together.

If the events will only happen, if you do not have this, you will get rotten.

If you will not be fishing in yourself if you will not allow it.

If you will not move, others will look at what they want, not according to what you want.

If you are watering the following day, your success is always hanging.

Don't neglect your morality which avoid making goodness.

Evaluate the dignity of dignity; these are serve as free to guide the people you make.

- what is right is to know what is right, and this is not cowardice.

- if you know a person on how he treat them, you will be treated.

So that it will be certain that you will be sure that you will be able to support your highest principles in life, the continuous movement according to your belief of being charitable and model.

At first, we are full of our attitude, and after this, the attitude creates by our stand, and not, this is what we salute or not, this is what we introduce themselves to us.

Let this resolve be prevailed.

So do not make a mistake to imitate others; of clothing, attitude, and dream of one original and no matter or Single Entry SEC.

Do not believe that you are not complete if you do not have any person or you are feeling.

Don't let other people allow anyone to happen in your life.

Let us not agree, instead of moving and fight the violence, corruption, and poverty in your surroundings.

If you are going to wait and hope, you will be the next victim.

Not to accept the threats, negative, and the truth will be denied.

If you don't keep quiet, keep your awareness and you will have a big chance if you are enough with any meaningful thing to improve you.

Success or failed?

You will buy whatever kind of resolve you let.
The fares will be in you, whatever you choose here is right!

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
