She is a Filipina millionaire.

The carabao is very hard to call for people who are working, but in the case of Filipina Marites' Ramos, this is the way for him to be a successful millionaire.
In Hawaii from America, I met a Filipina who is considered as one of the most successful Filipino workers in America - for the most successful Filipino workers in America who grew up and studied as vice mayor or a farmer there.
Parents.
With the desire of them to give him a good life and work hard work and working hard work, so they have been aware of the hardship of life.
Also because of what he witnessed how hard his parents are tired of every cent, he was taking the tired of his hard work for the young age, he was found to have dreams and direction.
He is hardworking to study at school and when it comes to the house, he is helping his parents in the opening of their hands by the various stores that his father saved up, from extreme hard work.
"Fight of the Social Work and metapEmployment Opportunity or Single Entry Approach where she was staying in a home-tempered towards his parents, and when she was able to finish college, he immediately went to college, and when he finished college, he immediately went to a medical insurance.
But before long, he transferred to a job in a bank - wherein he was treated as the first Filipina who became a bank officer in Hawaii.
From being a simple bank officer, he became an administrative officer, and did not last for a long-older sister, where he learned a lot from the complexity of business.
Aside from working in the bank, he started digging out through the buying of land when he entered the world of real Estate.
In 1994, using the money that he received from the real Estate of his business, they decided to buy a lot of land in Las Vegas and build a shopping center here - the audience Patrollers.
Because of their natural skill in business and probably because of his experiences in life, it is gradually successful and a life in life is gradually successful.
It was year 2002, he was given an award to Filipino Business wow, of the year Award that serves as a proof of how much he reached his life.
Because of hard work, extreme hard work, which is accompanied by dreams and right direction to the life of the farmer's child, is slowly getting up.
And became a millionaire.
