Our Great relationship is so big that the change in our world is big, before, there are many days and months before you reach your far destination.

Now, you are just in other countries now and even in the field of communication, just a few moments, you have read what you've written.

A very beautiful thing in the world of the internet, everyone can do everything and increasing the level of our lives and increasing the level of our lives.

Like Facebook and Twitter, two of many community in the internet related to us are able to give information on the fast and new process of technology, we have more important issues in technology, we have more important things that we are proud of.

These things that have personal intentions from our feelings and will be cooked in our consciousness, we are not like former personal and humane.

Just because of what we face and do not have feelings, it seems like these things are being used to treat him even if the message that you sent is not the "computer," rather, a person who knows how to appreciate, be happy, sadness and hurt.

In modern and fast technology, we should also be quick to gamble.

Everyone is based on "epal" or in an instant, we need to get out whatever we want.

Many of us write a lot of things on the internet which did not even notice the result or care of the result or they could come upon it.

Although there are also many of them who will not be able to focus on this, if those criticizing, those who are criticizing, many have no bad intentions, a poisonous negative, and you cannot do anything in the field, that's why there's a bad purpose, that when there is a foul smell, they have a foul odor, which is why when it comes to waste.

It is more important to them the gossip, controversy, exchange of husband, killings, greed and corruption, except for peace, meaningful, and inhumane treatment.

In the newspapers, in radio, and in television, more attention will be focused on the negative things that damages, those who hang out, and nearby areas where they are trying to pass the country in a foul smell.

It would be their happiness to stay always and the community will fall short to break.

But we still continue to believe that there are still real Filipinos who are fond of loving and caring for our society, in spite of all the widespread changes for our country, because of the damage caused by the typhoon Ondoy and Sendong.

There are still many who are calm, widower and affectionate to us.

We need to have a voice in the truth that we are slowly disappearing because we need for guidance and regulations on ordinary and simple truth that we can use in dealing with each other.

It is the month of February, with 29 days.
This is the month of Pag-asa.

We are commemorating the great day of your hearts, this is the spirit of a great relationship that will drop by our fellowmen; the best and full of life and happiness.

Give this more attention to your home, at work, to people who come near the road, it is bad for traveling, and wherever you will go.

I am assured, that sometimes, I will only do this life, that is why, whatever good thing I can do, you can show it to your fellowmen, let us not avoid it anymore, because I will not avoid it again, because I will not just avoid me again.

Here is the seven ways to connect the right relationship.

1 - just ignore yourself as long as you have not learned to love yourself, you will not be able to love yourself, if you do not have respect to others, if you do not have respect for yourself, if you do not have respect for yourself, you would not have respect for you.

2 - if you are true Ka Ang calls this, your personality (Izzy Canillo) is your personality, it is comfortable to avoid all of your promises to prove and give importance to all your promises, that's why when it comes to each other, it is on process and reconciliation.

3 - be honest and can be trusted with your loyalty when there is no reward for each other, to always remember that it is only wrong to make your whole life, honor, and love of your family and family, it cannot be blessed by a mistake.

4 - Ikaw Lamang keeps reading good words that you are doing well, with whatever intention that we will let in our hearts, it seems that those who do not care of it would be peaceful, and what you choose from this is that it will also be your fate.

5 - sharp objects in front of the computer, if there is no video, you cannot see what you are talking to or write to him, your life, and I cannot believe that you will be able to bring back the mirror in all the events.

6 - be thankful for a smile on the lips to all times or any situation, we need to thank the two of the most important words, "we thank you, the key to success in any field where you move.

It is noticeable that the people in glow in poverty are noticeable and the failure in life are always rotten, not enough, and greedy.

That is why fate is always greedy for them.

7 - take the right path if what you are doing is right, if what you are doing is right, if what you're doing is right, what will happen is right, you will also reap it.

How will this be achieved?

What is it?

How will you know the right and wrong?

Because ever, you can't do everything for the reason that the truth is not perfect for you and any moment, and here, no one knows.

Ah, what should I feel if what I did was right and wrong?
Whether you are worried or not, what you have done is right, if you are happy and has the strength that is dependent on your feelings.

And if it is wrong, you are sad, your feelings are really hard, and your feeling is restless, that seems like there is a prosecutor in the house that you are applying for.
If you are able to make a mistake, cursed, cursed, and taking advantage; after doing these, you will feel exhaustion when you have been placed under your mind and want to be taken back to revenge.

This is something bad for you to take care of you.

If you are able to do good, you have helped me, and I have witnessed you and after this, you will benefit from the depths of your heart.

It turns out that this only happens,.

Ow.

Until it comes to again, and put up with it again.
