
Christmas party and smuggled goods to be given.

There are number of families who have built their Christmas Liberal Party.
There are some of the association.
We understand, Bro, what has been felt by the owners of the cell, which should have been happy to welcome the children of Jesus Christ.
They will surely look for their happiness through concern and to show love to their fellowmen who are in need.
You are really hungry, thirsty.
Even if we make the ability to make the lives of those who died, like the actions of Christ and his reindeers.
But we can need to give life to those who are about to die from the physical and other conditions.
It can be considered that those who experience hunger, thirsty, illness, no clothing, and seems to have no future after they were hit by typhoon Pablo.
The way feeding the starving, taking care of those who are hungry, taking care of those who got sick and wounded and giving hope to those who lost their families and orphaned.
Do not rush with sadness.
While the days go through, the reports of those who die are increasing.
The day before yesterday, they were only more than 600.
The news coming from him was missing since it once reached their number one more than 1,000 pesos, went down to 600 and yesterday, 800 pesos were increased.
This is due to the continuous search of the search and save for before, it will not go through different reasons.
Hundreds of ways won't be moved by the wound which reached to the bones of their bones until they reached the iron wound from the steel.
The winner of their Christmas party is also being used to help the alive victims to be forgotten by death and suffering calamity.
Question for others.
If others have the mind and decision making their Christmas Liberal Party for the sake of the victims of calamities, this is also a question for everyone if we follow them.
Even if our fellowmen are thinking and made the decision of our fellowmen on this issue, their freedom to make a proper mind and decision is fully implemented.
What is important is that they are not confusing the environment of too much sadness.
For those who are going to take care of or to make sure that their welcome to Christ for her birth, Wish is just about them to make all their hours of doing it.
The price of rice is started.
In spite of those who are helping all of those affected, they catch the victims several days or a week without eating.
The children, do not have a relationship with the group, and they are weakening.
They cannot run to anyone because everyone can get food from the surroundings, which was destroyed by typhoon, flood and landslide.
This is where we thought of the rice that was given by the Bureau of Customs.
Where is the road and thousands of rice?
Should they remain in the storage room and they are not able to move because they are part of the cases filed by the court because of the cases filed against him or other related cases?
If this is happening and the authorities are not thinking that it is possible to use these for the emergency, for the widespread hunger now in Mindanao and Visaya, that is why it's a big mistake?
Let us advise that those "will come out, bring them to the needy and given attention to them.
Let us allow the cases taken off and if the government will lose, this will only be paid for those who are real owners of them.
The mixture of bulging waistline.
If the rice will be distributed, which is being given by the government from those who have committed suicide inside or a ler who just call, we should also do it to those who are given to other food.
Delata, meat of other form, vegetables and other things that have been given to them should be studied thoroughly.
"If not for human rights to human rights, they should be brought to the victims of calamity.
They should have to feed those who are hungry to stop death and their illness due to this.
The number of those who died are increasing and getting sick because of landslide, flood and cold but due to lack of lack of lack of lack of income from their stomachs.
Let the cases be rolled over against the barbells.
If proven that the government is wrong, let those who lost business or products to be given justice.
"Can it be returned to them what was lost through the damage and others.
It will be said that not all actions of the government against the people are right and no longer be guarded.
Or what are the authorities right now?
