Residents in Tondo continue to fight.

Mary Joy Viado.
The confiscation of the residents in the stretch of Road 10 in Tondo, Manila, nine days after the extension was given by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) in order for them to leave and join their homes.
Road 10 is a part of the Road-ranked project of the government, said DPWH Regional Director Reynaldo Tagubilin, estimated to 2,300 residents were affected by the project.
Around 1,600 residents have voluntarily transferred to Relocation Site in San Pedro, Laguna and Bocaue, Bulacan in exchange for a thousand pesos, a sack of rice, and a few pieces of grocery items, and some pieces of the grocery he had to pay P200 in every month after two years.
The remaining residents also emphasized that in the 30 decades that they are living in Tondo, it is just right to give them the houses of the said Relocation Site.
"We will not allow us to leave us from a place where young until young until he got married, we already went home," said Amy Serafin Petalio, president of Gabriela in Barangay 39.
Full of qualifications.
There are 239 families who are qualified to receive free housing projects, according to the implementation of the Jesus of Local Government-agency Committee on the leadership of DPWH, Manila Department of Social Welfare and Urban Development Assistance Office, City Engineering Office and National Transformation Council, and National Transformation Council.
Meanwhile, most of the 639 residents were not included because they were not able to have bruises just like the Social Security System number, National Bureau of Investigation Clearance, and birthcertificate or marriage.
However, the residents criticized the said process that did not put under the ability of the residents who supported the expenses in taking the said documents.
"The residents here have no sufficient livelihood here who are all workers at the pier, so they did not have bruises all the documents," said Mary Anne Florendo, the President of the organization of neighbors on Road 10.
"It is a young lady."
Meanwhile, many of the first agreed to return to Tondo due to extreme poverty, and lack of electricity and water in their area, according to the group of neighbors on Road 10.
One is the widow and mother of the six who were brought in Bocaue, Bulacan who chose to go back to Road 10, "we were given a relocation for us to live-in school, hospital, and livelihood," he said.
Many of his neighbors are getting sick, while some of the youth already passed away due to the piled garbage and no clean water, said Boller.
"If we are going to die in the relocation, it will be better to stay here in Tondo, where we will die," said Candido.
