The AFP conducted the initial operation conducted by the AFP who supported the said agreement in the ceasefire.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 15, 2013.

1 - on January 10, it was revealed by the joint elements of the Special Forces of the AFP and local forces of CAFGU and local government force of the Bugnay, Barangay Kiangan, Aroroy, North Cotabato which is preparing for a meeting with local farmers in the area of BHB) to discuss the problem on land in the area.

2 - on January 9, the civilian was arrested and imprisoned by the elements of the 69th Infantry Battalion, civilians, Pablito Guihulngan, Barangay Mabog, Cateel that was just released by the military by the military who received relief goods from Bagong Hala Bayan.

3 - on January 2, the elements of 2nd Infantry Battalion in Barangay Sta. Cruz, Donsol, Sorsogon and launched an operation against the Bagong Hala Bayan and revolutionary the organization of the masses in the area.

4 - on January 1, the three members of 88th IB, Barangay Tabag, Baguio District, Davao City and operations in the area last January 3 were able to sell the force from other troops, forced to sell rice and other food in the area.

5 - the elements of Cagayan Valley Regional PNP was arrested last December 28 in Bagumbayan, Tuguegarao City, Rene Esmondo Abaca, who was also accused by the military which was said to be the strongest leader.

6.

7: The start of December, the elements of the 55th and 24th IB, are looking at the Old Bulos), New Israel and Biao, all in Makilala, North Cotabato and were put in position in the aspect of Gervacio and the 72 of the Bastes.

8 - the soldiers appointed three million pesos in every barangay between the guitar-ship of the ship, Lanticse, Riverside, and in Pandian, all of Police District, Davao City.

9 - it is ongoing that elements of 69th Infantry Battalion and 88th IB, are residents of Purok Isnain, Barangay Dukhovnaia, in Calinan, Davao City to force them to report the condition of the local units of BHB).

10 - it was arrested last December 25 of the elements of the 2nd Brigade and local forces of the police in Manunggal St., Negros Oriental, Onok Island, Negros Oriental, Onok Island, Negros Oriental, who is said to have a high leader of the revolutionary movement.

11.

12 are arrested by the elements of 78th IB, the five local farmers last December 21 in Mulanay, Quezon and they were accused of members of the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB).

13 - a few hours before December 16, in the start of the declaration of the ceasefire of the Marcos regime, the collections of the 31st Infantry Battalion of Barangay Hamog awon, Bulan, Sorsogon.

14 - the elements of the PNP Regional Trial Court (former Regional Training and RMG) in Barangay Mackay, San Pascual, Masbate last December 28 and 25), which was suspected to be active in the revolutionary movement, was suspected to be active at the revolutionary movement.

15 - the development of the Commission on Elections "of the AFP is continuously launched by the said improvement and operation of war on more or less than 40 barangays in Bicol.
