Addition to the return of pork barrel in the national budget.
By Raymond Fortun, September 2, 2016 if it is not for Senator Panfilo "Ping" Lacson, he will not allow the return of pork barrel in the proposed 2017 National Capital Regional Trial Court (NEP) that has a total amount of Martial Law.
In the estimation of Lacson, the pork barrel is set up to the members of the House of Representatives based on 80 million pesos allocated to each congressman that reached more than 250 kilometers per hour.
It is still not clear who or any office in Malacañang gave the signal to the congressmen to submit to the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) of the projects which has a total amount of 80 million pesos which is part of the funds held in 2017 by Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, why the pork barrel of the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte came back.
Lacson is known for his strong resolve against the pork barrel system and in fact he is always removed from General Appropriations Act (GAA) the 200 million pork barrel that was assigned to his office so that it will not be used by other senators.
That is why Lacson was chosen as the chairman of powerful Senate Committee on Finance when Senator Juan Ponce Enrile took the Senate President because of the integrity of the senator in finances and money of the country.
Also because of being a chairman of Senate Finance Committee, Lacson is skillful in the issue of budget that is why it is easy for him to see if there are pork barrel in budget, particularly the departments of the public Works, agriculture and health.
Lacson has not yet identified the names of the congressmen who are under the pork barrel in the 2017 national budget but what he is sure is that there is no 24 senators who dared to be cut off by their pork barrel which is declared to be illegal in the Supreme Court last 2013.
"Womb of the congressmen, who will be held in the NEP?
Lacson's position is right, which is an executive branch that has the power to approve of the national budget that will approve the legislative branch if the lawmakers are going to take advantage if they will also be the approval of the lawmakers.

"Though it is an encement of the World Health Organization of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive branch of the executive leader," Lacson added in the interview by the Senate reporters.
The big question is if the amendment of Lacson is approved by Lacson to cut off the P24 billion pesos of pork barrel, 2017 NEP and if the majority of the low ranks who are elected by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez will agree to their leader.
