The distribution of the land of Hacienda Luisita, opposed by the farmers.

Arra B.
The fight of the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, not yet finished, even if their rights are owned by the Supreme Court last 2012, their rights are owned by the Aquino administration to be approved by the Aquino administration.
It is desired now to implement the alliance between Filipino Bukid of the hacienda (SWS), the distribution of 4,003 individuals from 6,435-hectare of hacienda after it will be settled on July 18.
It was initially sold by Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated.
For the remaining parts of the hacienda, this will be divided by 6,212 farmers who will receive 0.66 hectares of lot, or just as big as half of the land where the Gt Toyota Hilux Medical Center in UP Diliman were built.
The Department of Agrarian Reform led the distribution of the land in pushing a lot of lot of lot Allowance (WBC) after this is approved by the farmers in Camp C to get the title of Land Onok Island which will serve as land title.
Because there is no assurance whether the land will go to each farmer, he would be neglected the "crispy stove," or the haunting of farmers from 2005, according to the PDRRMC.
In the conducted conducted in Barangay Baleta last July 18, example, 117 residents will remain in Barangay.
The farmers conducted a protest on August 15 to stop the ways of the distribution of land, but he did not do anything against the 200 military who are flying in the hacienda, media officer in the union of Filipino agriculture sector.
Aside from the criticism of C-C, the farmers strongly condemned the alleged exchange for them of Appointments, which is said to be given by the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (ALS), according to the indigenous people that they distributed to them within 30 years.
The Cojuangco the Hacienda Luisita have a hold-up in 1957 using the debt from Central Bank and government Service Commission on Elections) which will be provided by the hacienda after ten years.
"They only showed that the Land reform in the Philippines is really a nuisance to the Philippines, why is it not necessary to let the farmers make it because if you think about it, they are really the owner of the land," said Estrada.
