PNoy is 2nd Street, ZEve; priest of Ebola.

After President Benigno Aquino III announced the approval of the additional six-year in the Palace after his term in 2016, Mike Enriquez, Arnold Clavio and Ali Sotto of Lotion here in radio and ZBB yesterday.
Their question: Are you willing that President Benigno Aquino III or President Noynoy have a movie for President Benigno Aquino III or President Noynoy?
Son of crooks, we were surprised at the result: 00 to the respond or fer, 17 years old.
We suddenly remembered the voting in the Supreme Court about the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
We are both fought for by PNoy, along with his majority who are similar to the legislative chamber, Senate and Palace.
"Shouldn't he vote for the judge of the SC?
This is amidst the announcement of PNoy to judge the SC, including Chief Justice Ma. Lourdes Sereno.
Landslide in PCP!
For the online edition, we do not know who is the responsible (but they should also be the responsible for the extension of six-year term of PNoy in the palace as bosses of the people.
So, PNoy is willing to come here.
And he is also willing to be a doctor in the 1987 Constitution which says the elected president of the country will be prohibited to run in the same position after his term.
Of course, it is certain that it will surely damage the actions that are spreading in order to amend or change the current Constitution.
They are thinking the most easy way to cross the Constitution.
There is a contest for the Legislative Chamber and the Senate to be separated or be united in having the voting for the amendment to the television or a big change in the Constitution.
The People's initiative to start millions of signature will start from those who are said to be in favor of the Second, for online or the internet or internet.
The Constitutional Convention Center is still different when the delegates will be held here and will conduct changes in the Constitution.
Because he is fond of serving as or sure, for other things they want to do and for them having the majority in the Legislative Chamber and Senate, it is possible that it would be "Constantino was possible.
We are still very well.
Hehehe!
Gambling dens and gambling dens.
It seems that the face of the face is really a trend.
While the people of the palace is forcing, the indigenous people who are aware of the entire Congress is the Second, for PNoy, they directly neglect their voices from different sectors of society.
We have mentioned the Zig vote from the judge against the judges against the PDAF and DAP, and from DZBB Gandanghari, who is against the Second, of PNoy.
Of the corporals of the Social Weather Station, if PNoy's grades are also been hit by the question, are you contented with the management of PNoy in the country? "Or to be able to step down.
From the very high score of PNoy, it was 66 out of 100 pesos in June 2013, it went down to the west-56 last September 2013, and even went down on 51 last December 2013.
Last March 2014, the score of PNoy was still crashed on the 45 even though he gave the arrest of the corrupt and accused of the Senate.
And when June 2014 arrives, 29 people are only contented with PNoy.
What is that?
It is just TADECO that is all useless?
Even if it is higher than 100 families than 100 feet?
Hehehe!
