
There is a negotiation in giving to the military in the US, just buy it - PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
August 14, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Needious, to the US military Access Are Tristan, Masaya - CPP-NPA.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) said that there is a negotiation that is scheduled to be started today between the Marcos Aquino and the local government of the US in the local government of the US in the local government that has been approved and supported by the Aquino administration.

This is the reaction of the PKP, according to Aquino's spokesperson, it has not yet been an agreement "and the government government wants to make sure that there will be an increase in the ban of constitution to foreign forces.
"Aquino is going to et to make it as if not," said PKP, "under the Marcos regime, there was no permit that the military and the US can fly to the ocean of the Philippines and the entire Philippines has long been used as a big based on the military."

The government budget of the Philippines stated yesterday that the negotiation "of the government budget is scheduled to be started now by the Aquino administration of the US and according to the Philippines," Voltaire Gazmin, Defense Secretary and Alberto del Rosario, Foreign Affairs Secretary.

"The plan given to the military by the US to the local ports and construction of rights to build their own facilities, and the US government's strategy, which he plans to undergo in Asia where he plans to celebrate more than half of the force of him, which is in double the sea.

"Even the spokesperson of Aquino said that the negotiation will just focus on the details of choosing the US," said PKP, "said the US, the US is given an additional steps towards the formal order to restore the military based in the US."

"It is the giving of the military to the US to local facilities, it has long been agreed between the US and the government budget for the US and the Philippines, to make it look like there is a concern for the Marcos regime in defending the Philippines' territory."

"Because of the full force of the Aquino administration to the US, the current negotiation between the human rights and the military of the US is no doubt in taking the control of the US in the Philippines and the use of the US in Asia-Pacific," added the KP.

It has been a long time for the US in the Philippines for a long time, based on 2002, based on 2002, the US Pacific Command of the US Pacific Command (Western Mindanao Command (Western Mindanao Command (Western Mindanao Command in Zamboanga City.

It is said that the PKP has also maintained its proper decision that is against the sovereignty and improvement of the Philippines against the local government of the US in the local operations conducted in the Asia-Pacific, because the local anti-ranking military forces in the coast of terrorism will be used to use the abusive and understanding system. "

"The Filipino people should be strict to fight and end the sanctity of the US troops in the Philippines and to end the Visiting Forces Agreement and Aquino, in giving reason for the government troops of the US in the country."
