The flattery of PNoy and his followers.

Even if it rains, typhoon Mario was flooded, the whole of Metro Manila and some provinces of Don Bosco, the officials of Don Benigno Aquino 3rd division were flooded again!
It was too late when they entered the NDRRMC, the storm was almost over, and when they were caught, they brought a camera and called the media so they would show documents that she would show the arrival of their boss.
The typhoon Mario was almost all afternoon in the afternoon, while the victim was brought to their respective evacuation centers but the other rescue team was immediately rushed to their respective evacuation centers, as well as the neighboring fishermen who gave food, blanket and using the victims of Mario.
The storm is almost over, why is it that a shadow came from the DSWD of Dinky Soliman-Soliman, the netizens said that they might be asking for the foreign donation, "so that they will be replaced with a good donation?"
MMDA chairman is going to be fed and confused as the interview of the radio and television, it is obvious that it is not sleep or maybe there is still no more.
They tried to say that he already ordered the force to help the victims of the flood after the consulate of his people on the road.
Here is the DOTC, Jun Yasay, who is also missing, or might be with Don Noynoy in the trip, "I did not have meddled with him, even the train of MRT was cut off or entered by water!
While PNoy was strolling in Europe, he memorized the good economy that his administration has done.
She is secretly laughing at the businessmen in front of a businessman that is why he is thankful that he was not fed up by a egg in Belgium.
Can you remember that Aquino still sat in position, he cancelled all the projects of the pirates and started his teacher in Ateneo?
A Belgian Consortium was made to clean the cleaning and cleaning the Laguna Lake but Noynoy stopped without reason.
He is charged a Belgian Railway to the International Criminal Court of Justice that until now, it is still unclear when it happened, the government is going to give money if he lost the case.
Before the typhoon Mario went out, Malacañang issued a flattery, even if their boss is in another country, "on the hand, he is on a hand," according to the flood and calamity.
You are a child of Number.
Sure, flattery, and boastfulness, while the followers are part of their livelihood!
