
The queen of weakness is the Lord.

What I heard from that aside from the very short suspension has been the punishment by an official of the Lower House which has been interested in different kinds of administrative case, are still hardheaded to accept it?
I am familiar with the case this official of Public Works and Information Division (PRID) of the Lower House because since the end, there are already many people who complain about what laziness is one of the many employees of the government which led to the people's salary to be drooling.
This is the reason why during the time of former Speaker Prospero Nograles, he was transferred to an illusion for him to lose a reason for his frequent entry when almost all employees are preparing to go home.
It was because it was the height of the New Generation of the Lower House that is why because of the number of work, the administration is thinking about it, and this can no longer use and use it to be late when coming to the entry.
Well, instead of having a peaceful life, the queen of lazy husband (RB) this official has become worse and we have already found out that it is already in America that is why they still continue to receive salary and that he will be able to show up from the tax of the people.
When the term of Speaker Sonny Belmonte finished and replaced by Speaker Sonny Belmonte, he immediately looked for his official hardworking to return to PRID, and when he was returned to PRID, and when he returned, he was just going back to his old habits.
Because of this, it looks like some of his personnel are also filled with complaints and they themselves filed an administrative case against him where you can see that kind of official, aside from being lazy, is very strict?
But because it is not easy to take away from an employee or officials of the government, especially since he has a position, the said complaint has passed through a very long hearing.
What is surprising is why a simple suspension has been filed by an official who, after all, is being fired from the government for almost two years, the punishment should only be fired for almost two years.
Well, if it is just like that you are being servile, it's just like that when you are late to enter and are full of absence, and what is worse, the official does not want to accept his suspension order and he still wants to appeal to Speaker Belmonte.
I do not know what was the one feeding her official to Speaker Belmonte because he was doubting!
Well, if it is just like that, it is just as if you're just being servile to the people of the government so that even if they do not enter, the salary will still continue!
