Want to investigate the leader - 3.

We have a change in searching for the winning leader of this and how to be investigated by President Benigno Aquino III and his "followers" in China last year.
This is about the incessant jurisdiction of China to our countrymen who should be the sovereignty and territory of Spratons of Islands, and let us not include the issue of taking it back to Sabah.
Five o'clock in the island have not yet been conquered by China but they have already built their eateries, through the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), to complain in the International Criminal Court of Justice (ALJ).
I hope that Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago is one of the judge who is pointing out as a woman who is pointing out!
I remember, before China went wild, we do not have a problem, especially the sectors of fishermen from Northern Luzon until the Northern Mindanao, even the neighbors of the West Philippine Sea and South China Sea.
We are talking about the fishermen from Ilocos, La Union, Pangasinan, Zambales, Cavite and up to Quezon then they said, fishing is free even to the closest or classes in economic zone "of the Philippines.
If someone is sick with no medicine or lack of petroleum or food, they all see each other in the middle of the sea, "when there was a typhoon in the sea, they join each other so that they won't have an accident.
But all of these are the most affected are the fishermen, Filipinos, China, Vietnam and other countries.
The reason, when Baba 3 was brought home to the boat that he bought in America, he said, that he used the Philippine Navy immediately for the first mission, to do the illegal fishermen in the territory of the Philippines.
The first mission was Bajo de Masinloc in Zambales.
The Chinese fishermen complained to their government, there, China did not agree with what the children of PNoy did.
They ran away from the giant ships that were evacuated and attacked by Bajo de Masinloc.
Question to the lawmakers and leaders, why are you being blamed or being investigated, it should be questioned or investigated by Aquino and "back of the door" agents cadmium that he is not qualified for a romantic relationship.
Our island is scarce especially if you are still quiet because you are still quiet about your personality, don't you care of your pockets? "Do you not care of our country?
Country, wanted to investigate the leader of our country!
