"What is about?

Let's go back to Admiral's guests, a historical building left by the Americans when they closed their based on Subic.
There are many who offered Admiral's guests but all of them were declined because of one, the Marcos family, who was headed by former Olongapo Mayor Bong Gordon, "Bong Revilla, who was headed as members of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority Board of directors that will be seated as members of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority Board of directors.
They are so strong so up to now, five years after they destroy the "Admiral's guest who came from its place at the hotel and restaurant, they will not be disturbed even if they are repeating the politicians who are scheduled on their contract on the SBMA.
Last 2009, the Olongapo City Arts Development Assistance Fund), Olongapo City Arts and Culambo III, Inc. is one of the President, Veronica Gordon-Lorenzana, instead of doing it, the historical building went to the restaurant and hotel.
What's worse, is that if the offer of the others that they're renting Admiral's guests came, this was given to Lorenzana by the SBMA back to free - almost 5 percent of the SBMA back to their income.
2,000 pesos worth of development will be held by Lorenzana, who will be put in the project held last August 2010.
It has been a number of times of fulfilling the historical building, instead of criticizing the contract of the SBMA, instead of stopping or leaving the contract of the SBMA, it was also given last June 2012 to Lorenzana, additional 3,645 caliber gun, which was on the other building of the other building.
This is the truth: The Tappan Park is said to be a historical place as the former center of Olongapo when they were occupied by the Americans, I mean, that even if they have been occupied by the Americans, I mean, that they should not put it on business.
In the prime given by the SBMA to Lorenzana to fulfill the development in until November. 2012, he failed and gave him up to February 2013 that has been failed and was given up to November 2013 that was not yet taken away by Lorenzana.
Until when will Lorenzana force to be alone in the government and the people, let us see and wait for it.
