
The impeachment of Corona: "Should answer to Arroyo, a warning to Aquino.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
January 13, 2012.

The start of the trial to Chief Justice Renato Corona is approaching the hearing of this trial, he will surely catch up the public with many arguments, against arguments, accusations and against accusations.
In the expected heated argument between the camp of former President Gloria Arroyo and President Noynoy Aquino - two pieces of personal interest on the impeachment - the interest and benefits of the people can easily disappear.
According to him, the Filipino Worker (Neri Colmenares is certain that Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares, one of the members of the prosecution of the impeachment trial of Corona and included in the ratification of the Congress.
Filipino Weeker (Piat): Why is the leadership of Chief Justice Renato Corona is supporting the impeachment of Chief Justice Renato Corona?
Town Muna Representative Neri Colmenares (NC), our support for the impeachment of Corona is about the impeachment of Corona that he did not have any difference in supporting the impeachment against (former Ombudsman) Merceditas Gutierrez, and the Chief Justice for his actions to protect Arroyo.
This is a fight against Arroyo and in the corruption, this is one of the people's fight, and not only a fight between Aquino and Corona.
Meow, how big the impeachment case will be filed in the Senate?
NC: Mainaga, the decisions of Chief Justice in favor of Arroyo, we think, "Are, which is the one who will be used as" Hala "which is the one who will spend the payment for GMA," that's what we are taking, "that's what we will watch from GMA.
Wow, what is your response to the defense of Corona that's why the decision of the Supreme Court's decision was decided to be decided on by the judge).
NC: The issue here is being a Perelegant, it does not mean that if you can be charged because you cannot say that you cannot be charged because there are nine others who should be charged because there are still nine others who should be charged.
It can be recalled that even if the Personal Economic Cooperation of the Philippine Constitution, a Persist back of the Philippine Constitution, to send a Persist back to the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas, "
Another example, you received P10 million to give a TRO if you can't say that you will not be impeached, it is hard for you to be impeached, it is hard to prove that it is hard to prove that we go to the right case.
"That is what we are saying for the impeachment trial. Cologne, PPETell that's a resolution set aside for an exchange of justice for any case.
Meow, what is provided by the impeachment of Corona regarding the Supreme Court as an institution?
NC: 07 at nightfall, it was said that Fight IT's of the Chief Justice Sec.
"That's what they should look at.
It can be remembered, the Chief Justice, the all of the Pacademic officials, Are Benz, who is the one who will be replaced by the court for an impeachment case, which is why it is always the attack of the government for an impeachment case that is why it is being given to an apology to the government.

Reporting, Corona has already shattered the illusion that the Supreme Court has a regular institution?
NC: In a long time, the judicial system is low in the surveys, I am sure that the public is corrupt and they do not have an illusion that this is not an illusion that the citizens have no assurance that the citizens are given hope in order to hold accountable those in the judiciary.
Meow, it is said that the impeachment was made by President Aquino to control the Supreme Court what do you think about this?
Bayan Muna supported the impeachment as part of the burial of Arroyo when we do not want the Supreme Court to be exden with Aquino.
He was also able to step down from the former President, whatever is the motivation of Aquino, this impeachment case is about Arroyo, and another warning to President Aquino and to the new Chief Justice Sec.
Meow, there are letters which can be done to avoid having a "Aquino court?"
NC - it is true that the President is taking care of Chief Justice Secretary what the public can do is the participation in the process of the Congress to take action if the president's toll fee is being implemented by the president of the country, which is being taken care of Chief Justice and other judge.
Of course, in the end, the most meaningful reforms are reform the entire government, especially the executive leader, who will follow the interest of the local government, but it is just a long-term solution and it is not dependent on the impeachment of Chief Justice Sec. Thand Can an only daughter that will be focused on social Reforms, or economic growth in the Philippine Sea.
Only institution, reform Can ensure a pro-ranked court. But), the impeachment will of its Hacademic, almost the Chief Justice, it is possible that they will not be in that kind of corrupt decision.

Wow, isn't it that we are not sure that if Corona will be impeached, Arroyo will be able to answer, especially the higher case of electoral race which is the clings of the Aquino administration?
NC - Aquino should also believe in his slow action against Arroyo.
But it does not mean that because even if we ask Aquino to act on Aquino, we will no longer move to remove Arroyo in a way that will be given to Aquino to remove the fight for Aquino to remove the fight for Arroyo to remove the fight for Arroyo to disappear from his position.
Meow, the close allies of Aquino are headed to the steps so that Corona will be impeached, how can we maintain his initiative to protect him in the middle of this?
NC: The truth is, what is being implemented in the movement of the Liberal Party-Arroyo is true, compared to many congressmen of the Liberal Party which is a part of the majority of the Liberal Party on the same part of the majority of the majority of the majority of the primary forces of the majority of the legislative chamber.
In many cases that have been mentioned in the impeachment complaint against the emergency face, executive leader, calderogatory so we are familiar to the cases filed against Arroyo, that is why they need the majority of those who are progressive for the impeachment case.
They need the mass based on the progressive countries in order to support the impeachment, because it is not simply allowed by Arroyo and Corona.
