
Drilon, Et Al-Khobar; GROs), EBira, OL.

The people of the Social Security System has Senator Franklin Drilon who has made up of the law to have a lot of money worth of money worth of the said agency of the government under the private fund of the workers and management of these.
According to those who are from SSS, the law of Governor's Commission for government OPLAN) is the basis of the eight commissioners, they can handle more than 1 million every year every year.
Aside from this, one million peso is being made into a bra by each of their commissioners because it will cost P80,000.
Every meeting, they are receiving P40,000 pesos.
It was a wrong think.
At first, to our knowledge, GCG is giving power to the authorities in order to guard the abuse of funds of SSS and other government agencies and other government units, ConejCorporation or GST C.
It turns out that it is the law that this law is giving the officials of SSS, government agencies and other vices for those who have no influential official.
And also because of GCG, legal officials are legal to have legal officials, even if the lives of the innocent officials and employers have no care, they do not care.
For them, because they are allowed by Drilon's law, they will only challenge money for money from the workers and employers.
GCG.
Now, it is very clear to us that the members of GCG is not negligent just because they themselves were dismayed in order to receive millions of pesos as a bonus to the officials of GST C.
They are not negligent of giving too much reward to the officials even if the lives of 36 million workers in the country have passed, even the employers of these.
Because of this, it is not good to just separate the GCG so that the source of excessive enriching officials will also be solved?
I am quiet.
In the midst of the controversy on this issue, Bro, Drilon is just silent.
Why is it that he is not speaking, now, now that he is a trend now, what will possibly be done by the senator?
We should remember this, maybe it seems that Drilon made a reward to the senators who will be impeached from former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
"That is if it is true what the senators said before that they will have, according to Drilon, of 50 million to 100 million if they will be impeached.
And it really happened, the bribery has happened.
It's like an oil without oil.
What is happening with our laws?
Like they are like that.
The law in GCG is similar to Oil Dermovate.
The lawmakers in the legislative chamber are hoping that the citizens will be cheaper by petroleum will be cheap, which can be eaten by Oil avors Law.
It is the child of tofu, after this is a law and it is expected that the skin is filled up in the price in the price of gasoline, diesel, Liverpool, gas and other petroleum products.
Now, the oil companies in us are full of burden to us because they were given the law in the power to increase the price instead of selling it.
Now, do you suggest to just separate from Oil Dermovate.
Like Eve.
The Electric Power Plant or EgRA is similar to GCG and Oil Dermovate.
According to EgRA, if this happens, the electricity will curse.
It is the child of seven canned goods, the Philippines is the most expensive electricity in the whole world because of the Eve.
Ask a Japanese who is a former most expensive electricity.
You think, it is not only more than 1,000 pesos worth of pesos per kilowatt hour but as well as P10 million pesos, because it is said that the Supreme Court made the electricity to collect payment for the price of the citizens.
They have the strength to scare all wide and frequent blackout if they will not file charges.
Now, do you also want to just separate the Epperson?
They should be kicked out.
Maybe, all the lawmakers who are seated in doing said law should be identified.
After getting out of these, it is not bad for everyone to be together to show them our anger.
If possible, they will just wait for them.
Noguera.
What they did to us is not enough.
Call.
For those who have no conscience for lawmakers, is it possible that you review all laws that are all suffering for the country?
The reason for this law is pushing millions of people for the wide hunger.
And to review this, is it possible that all these and exchange of laws are favorable for the welfare of the people and not to the few families who have control of the huge companies in oil, electricity and GST C?
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
