
INTECAYETANO!

It is true that Bayani Fernando is the one who gets along with Marikina City but he cannot do it if there is no help from other elected officials of the city and the department head.
Even the ordinary employees are also able to raise the improvement of Marikina.
That is why as Public Information Office (PIO) of Marikina, I tried to pay attention to the contribution of each one who helped in the Marikina police.
I was given a chance for the high "anti-" epal" in this past years that it is caused by technology, the social media (Facebook, Twitter), and the speed of pictures taken by the ordinary citizens of the ordinary citizens in Facebook, Twitter), and the speed of pictures of the politicians.
According to the members of the PIO of the Association of Information Technology) in Metro Manila (AIMM), before it is the first time that it was only for the mayor, it was first called for by the pro-mindedness of their respective towns.
"That's because the routine goes."
But the mandate of PIO is to dismiss the entire LGU) except for the mayor, along with other officials.
"I am lucky because my mayor, Del R. de Guzman, is different because, you feel that the pulse of the people is different," you did not allow the anti-" epal. "
Marikina first believes that DILG Secretary Jesse Robredo needs to be proud about this.
I am lucky because this is part of what is happening in my Social Work program since I went back to PIO of Marikina last 2010 - which is not only for mayor is focused on the office of PIO and who will be recognized as the other officials of the local government.
That's why this past Christmas, we used the chief of hornets when it is Christmas to us, Trillanes, to give warning that there is something to do with their agency, so that it will not be a merry Christmas to a happy New Year with "merry Christmas in our" service, 24 "program."
It is time for the people to get to know the people who have grown up in our country too.
Let us not wait for them to retire before we want to give birth even just a small way.
