The KP has one proof on the anti-corruption in June.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
June 11, 2014.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) expressed their cooperation to those who are linked to illegal drugs which are scheduled to be imposed on the big number of people who wants to be held by Benigno Aquino III because of the widespread corruption under his regime.

The rally in June 12 is being implemented by Scrabpork barrel, and personalities who are calling the Priority Development Assistance Fund (DAP) and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP).

"It is really being supported by the KP, and all the revolutionary force will arrive in June 12 against the corrupt Aquino administration who will lead to the division of the filipino masses in front of the widespread poverty, lack of work and lack of land of the Filipino workers and farmers."

"The Filipino people's corruption in the administration of the Marcos regime seems to be the use of pork barrel for those who need to give and other crimes under the programs of the government officials and other crimes which are being caught under the syndicate of government and other crimes," said PKP.

"It is better for the Filipino people to prepare for the information that will be revealed in relation to the direct involvement of Aquino and other cases of pork barrel, which according to the policy he received from the queen of pork barrel, which according to the rules, is just receiving personal friendship to the president."

"It is only appropriate to join the corruption of the Marcos regime that will be added to June 12 that is the 116th Independence Day anniversary of the Philippines," said the Philippines' approval of the Philippine government and the campaign towards the heightened surrender of the Philippines with big foreign businessmen. "

"Strong is the resolve of the Filipino people to insist on the removal of the Marcos regime, and to the call of the construction of a pro-legislative chamber that has a good reputation and integrity, in the academic, in the academy," said the KP.
