
Long live the twelve of a martyr, Bayan1 and real Hangbo of the Filipino people!

Arayyy de Guia.
Spokesperson, Apolonio Mendoza?
July 10, 2012.

(Equivalent to the recognition of Areven Albarillo (Ka Jun Reyes), a member of the Armed Forces Battalion and San Andres), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces unit Pamukid in the town of San Francisco and San Andres), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces Agreement (Ka Jerry), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces Agreement (Ka Jerry), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces Agreement (Ka Jerry), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces Agreement (Ka Jerry), Putok-commander of the Armed Forces Agreement (Ka Jerry), Putatan, member of Bagong Silang.
They are the latest ones who were killed by the elements of the military under the unit of 797) and the 201st Brigade and the Philippine National Police (AFP-PNP-PIO) and other followers of the Philippine National Police (AFP-PNP-NPA) and the farmers and thieves in the South-Quezon-Bonay Festival.
They celebrated it well, because of the murder of Ka Jun, Ka Cristy, San Andres, San Andres, San Andres, San Andres, San Andres, San Narciso, and its questionable wealth, which is too angered as the AFP-PNP and by their employers in the landlords.

On the other hand, they were able to save for the rent of the land in the earth and corn farm where the 60-year-old expenses and or 50-50 expenses that were taken in favor of the farmers by not only 30 pesos / land in their scope, were successful.

2.

3.

4 has been confiscated by a lot of land for the description of the Lord of the Lord, because of this, the farmers are fully utilized by the farmers to fight for the increase in the price of copra and eradicate the increase of the price of copra and eradicate the price hike which will be brought to farmers in the streets.

6.

The unit of Bagong Hunan Bayan in the leadership of Ka Jun and Ka Cristy, handcuffed and destroyed by the syndicates of the carabao, thieves, and will be strengthened more because of the support of the farmers, farmers, and will get stronger because of the presence of the military unit after they lost the presence of the military unit of Bagong Hagdan in some parts of their community.

Which is why in the opposite, the filipino masses, Filipino workers, and the citizens of the southern part of Ka Jun, Ka Jerry, Putok-governmental organization (Ka Jerry), Putok-governmental organization (Ka Jerry), Putok-Tropas.

They can see Ka Jun and Ka Cristy, who are the actual victims of the community in their town, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, and your family, from the national freedom of the farmers, Ka Jerry, Ka Freddie, and life of the national freedom, democracy.

In not less than three years of past, the AFP-PNP launched their different units, especially the 2nd Infantry Division of the Philippine Army, the 201st Brigade and the 2nd Infantry Division of Ka Jun and Ka Cristy, they contributed a lot in the strengthening of the territory of Ka Jun and Ka Cristy, wherein they contributed a lot in strengthening the territory of Ka Jun and Ka Cristy Guinto.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines is saddened by the indigenous people in the province of Quezon that their death is too much the grief of the Filipino farmers, Filipino workers and the citizens of South Quezon-Bondoc Street and the province of Quezon which they directly hit.

In their death, the filipino masses, Filipino workers, workers and people in their fight for free to be free from the land and release of the Filipino farmers, Filipino workers and the citizens of South Quezon-Bondoc Jr.

The sadness of their disappearance will be replaced with anger and anger to those who have killed them and the bravery of their death will be strengthened even if it will be given justice that will give justice to the upcoming democracy and freedom to bring the real democracy and freedom to improve the life of 11.

You, Ka Cristy, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry) and you can hope you will succeed in your death during the 25th of June, in the day of your death, you have written to you that your name has been written to you, and they were given to the real heroes of the Filipino people!

You Jun, Ka Cristy, Ka Jerry, Ka Jerry, Ka Asukal, Ka Rio, Ka Monic, a real judge in town!

Long live the Bagong Hala Bayan!
Long live the Liberal Party of the Philippines!
Long live the Filipino people!
