
She was supposed to avoid the peace talks about Tiamzon.

The country.

April 7, 2014.
It is a big vandalism of the peace talks.
Benito was Tiamzon and Wilma Austria, both leaders of the Liberal Party.
The Philippines and the Philippine Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front.
The Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks.

They were arrested with five others in Auto, Cebu.
March 22, it seems that the regime has a reason that they will take longer.
They were arrested in the action made by the flood and planted.
Guns are the police and military who can save them.

In spite of the incident, the Aquino administration showed himself.
She does not care of being rude to the peace talks.
Monitoring, filing a criminal case and arrest.
The negotiator, Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is strictly enforced by both sides.
Joint Task Agreement (WBC) prohibited an immunity for someone else (JAG).

The arrest of those who attempted to arrest Benito was allegedly being sold.
Aquino and his classmates were allegedly made to run towards.
Peace was brought again by the administration of the Aquino administration.
They are narrow-minded which is for peace.
Peace will be achieved if the people will surrender or be arrested.
The slow force of the people who voted for the national will push through.
Freedom and democracy were equivalent to those who have nothing against myself.
It is existing to be opportunists and understanding to the people.
They are taking advantage of the bark and local government that each has received.

For NDFP, he will face the negotiation.
Or not, he continued the planned foundation of the real.
Just and long-lasting peace.
Shaken with a part of its power and national issues.
The Filipino people desires.

On the perspective of NDFP, when something happens.
Ligation of the people because they are not hungry in their stomachs.
They are receiving proper salary and they had various reactions.
Housing, education, good health and other services.
Social activities, the strong influence of peace will be applied.
Other hand, poverty, hunger and lack of justice.
Fat is now bland for spiritual activities and improvement of the people.

In a message from prison, he explained again.
The true meaning of peace.
It's just like what the regime seems about to be made out of and drumming.
Even in that, these are structures that will solve the people.
A heavy problem of the society there is a real foundation.
It is the content of any negotiation and peace talks.

This is the basis of the form of the The Hala Jovinal Baja, "
There will be a few who will undergo an outburst of machinery.
An agreement with human rights, the social activities and economists.
The implementation of politics and the constitutional process, before he went to the resolution.
Armed arguments and disposition towards the armed forces to be involved.
Brimming.

Since he was elected in front of 2010, it was already released by the regime.
Aquino is the The Hala Jovinal Baja, as a document.
It turns out that the reason why he wanted to be set aside from his desire to be set aside.
The needed changes in the society and to be given to the last part of the society.
He is asking for artificial peace.

As the bush, the deeper root of the masses is deep.
Being raped and oppressed, accompanied by Benito and Wilma Matas.
There is a sharp blade in what you should hear any agreement.
Aims to make a hole on the problems brought by speeding cars.
Filipino taxi drivers in the Philippines.
They contributed the peace talks.

Even at the table there is a negotiation, or outside it, they are participants of the human.
The historical process of form peace.
The prosecution process, that they are not only able to support them but to myself.
Which affects the true nation's real nation, or social interaction.
The national freedom and long-lasting peace.

Not the true peace talks like them.
Benito and Wilma Butig, Alan Celino Damian and others are detained.
The Liberal Party of Duterte should be imprisoned, and offered their right to protect the expensive filipino masses.

But the Aquino administration wants to allocate these.
It's the time and time of course to capture the leaders of the SEA Games.
When it is serious to discuss and solve the root.
Filipino people who are narrow-minded and wrong think of this, in spite of a way.
They can see the crossroad to the country and not.
There is still a need for the negotiation to let us go and be calm.

She could not avoid getting carried by the Aquino administration.
The peace talks will be destroyed because of its commerce and violations.
This is in the previous agreement that he has done in NDFP, the long term quarrel will be given to the Liberal Party which is protected by JAG G.

It is really difficult and the dangers they are going to talk to.
And it is shallow that my perspective in peace will be exported.
This is a way for the Marcos regime not to happen in the history.
His respect to the peace talks is his respect for them.
It is an agreement in NDFP, the The Hala Jovinal Baja, and JAG) and the release of the imprisoned Philippine Constabulary (NDFP) and release all the political prisoners who are jailed because of the actions of criminal cases.
