
Prepare for the chaos happening in the Middle East.

The whole country is having a good time in the observation that is happening now on the pork barrel scam, Janet Lim-Napoles.
Even if he was already caught and imprisoned in a prison in Laguna, he still did not move on from a prison station in Laguna and was still not able to move on on this story.
Even the smallest details like what is being eaten and made by Napoles is still being done, that is why it seems that the happening is for comedy.
Many politicians, especially those who have plans to dismiss the election in 2016 because they can use the issue as political agenda.
And because we are too busy with Napoles, and in other scam, we are not able to pay attention to other serious events.
Just like the continuing chaos in some countries in the Middle East such as Egypt and Syria, where thousands of our countrymen are working.
Every day the time passes by them in the ambiguous situation and the government should also need the secret and immediate action of the government to make sure that they are safe from other chaos.
But because of the time, our officials are having a good time in different scam, it seems that they do not pay attention to the situation and problem there.
Just for the knowledge of our leaders, any time the United States will launch an attack against the United States and other ally countries against the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
This is as a response to the alleged chemical that was made by the troop of al-Assad.
And of course, "when the US attacks it is certain that the war will stop there, which will build a danger in the life of our OFWs.
The situation in Egypt is not far away wherein the chaos is also widespread due to the desire of the people there to restore the kicked-out leader.
Thousands of people die in said countries everyday because of different kinds of attack and violence.
But like what is expected, our leaders seem to be confident and they even want to watch the teledrama was because they act on the situation in the Middle East.
They are very happy with the cases of journalists and broadcaskets because they are happy "when they see the government in chaos.
The question now, what about our OFWs?
