They are going crazy for Justin four o'clock in the coming Sunday.
You said.
He said.
Government in defending our family.
.
Thank you for a lot of people who are recognized by the heroism done by four similar to him then they went wild with antibiotic which use the situation to be helped.
With the heroism of the heroism of four four schools that were killed in front of the closet against you that he would go to face and taste that there is no budget that was left last Sunday when we saw each other in the month of remembering the heroes those who have been waiting for every month of having a Filipino.
Two worry about the coming Sunday to be eight to March.
I was caught by the Philippine National Orthopedic Hospital.
For them, they will agree to release a single woman after March two of them.
On the other hand, it was a different back to PNoy, what did the association be done by March 28-budol; and deport of the body for the heroes P-L HQ.
Why are they calling here?
It is the importance of your friend to accept the safety of the players.
It was only this Tuesday when we gave mercy on March.
There is no budget, like this he went wild to those who are talking in the situation as long as the call for the president's goal is to go after two thousand pesos in the celebration of the EDSA-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-nine-month-old man.
You were cut off.
That's why in her start of Enterprise Bank, he was given a fluster to glancing at each other.
Let us look at peace on Monday, we know while our black spirits are going to come true and our friends will be closed.
It would have been good if it comes to reading.
They will set an alternative solution.
Let us continue to avoid thinking that he does not want to have peace because they themselves will benefit the right.
They want the Filipinos to return to him again.
You don't trust the people in each other as president.
I will not be okay with the height of those who will make the right to pay, who will be the ones who will pay, right from crossing the line, which is important in Divisoria, which is important in Divisoria may be abused by ten pieces of inconvenience.
We are money from vacation, according to forget the officials of the group, who are calling for the news that they should support the news, and the appearance of a person going to the back of Batangas is that the government is calling their education again.
Be calm.
Yes, I continue to defend whoever is happening now.
It is not right for someone to eat the strength of the country's strength that the illegal illegal drugs are made of the law on March Friday to be the fourth day of many stories.
Number 1 million pesos!
But the man made sure that the liver can be blamed for the help of the government that was left for by the Philippine National Bureau because we are here to you because he is a job and Leila who is part of the National Commission on top of many movies.
According to the present.
For the new policy of the workers, the increase of workers will increase.
It is really a scholarship for two thousand pesos to ten pesos to ten thousand pesos and ten pesos for an elementary school.
For the High School which is her husband for a high school, but the whole thirty-six children of the doctor took the education of the school for us to be helped by a permanent live-in life for giving help.
In having their own house, they are going to fix the present, other relatives, whose own livelihood, are being helped to finish their own business with contact numbers that will wait for them to go under the training of 6 degrees east; that they will be helped by the department, can be helped by the department.
Will build your own business.
