There is also a fight with Ebola virus.

We are happy when we receive news that the government is doing something against the entry of Ebola virus disease in our dock.
It is not just the passengers of the airplane that they are monitoring but also the nearby ships at the pier.
Since the beginning, we are insisting that it is a crush, because of the spread of Ebola wherever and in fact, this illness will still jump to six countries in Africa.
Aside from Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Guinea, the Ebola Republic of Congo, Nigeria and Senator.
And included in the possible spreading of Ebola is the contact of people who have illnesses in the seaman who have given medicines, food, clothes and other needs of the countries being attacked by the disease.
That's why, the country who attacked the disease is now strict.
They are hoping that there should be no personal contact between the seaman and those who get businesses coming from the ships.
Those who went to the ship who did not have a seaman in three steps before they allowed to enter.
These were made into fear or testing them before they can enter.
Here, it is still here, those who are calling the called Mercy ship will not go to go to the dock of the said countries.
The doctors are full of doctors, nurses and other medical services, medicine, using diseases, laboratory and other presidentiable.
But the mission of the Ebola country is not caused by fear that the doctors and nurses are afraid of their death because of illness.
However, the authorities should think about many things about this illness that killed more than 1,500 in West Africa.
First of this is the ability of our doctors and hospitals that will attract the quarantine on those who are possibly carrying the disease, Asukal will say that the government will declare a alert level 4 in Liberia and Guinea.
In alert level 4, Tumbang Pad, they forcefully evacuated away and even more than 3,000 pesos of Overseas Filipino workers in these countries, including the custody of the Philippine Contingent of the United Nations Security System.
Or prepare all of us, even the families of OFW, all of the OFW.
