81,000 teachers are fired from the K + 12 million!

The government has no clear response, especially the mother of the Department of Education and Commission on Higher Education!
This is the clear thing that are confusing the teacher in college if the K + 12 program is approved by the Department of Education.
In this program, delusion, eat the K + 12 for the first two years of college.
The First Family College was set to disappear in 2016 with the preservation of the grade 11 of K + 12 and the Second World College because of grade 12.
The teachers of the First and New Year College will vanish or lose their job.
And do you know, whether a few will lose a job? King-mother, they will have a job?, King-mother, who has amounted to 1,000 pesos, according to CHED.
The teacher in Commission on Higher Education are writing a letter, but up to these days, this is still no clear program on how they will have any program, and it seems that they do not care about DepEd, even if they are involved in trouble here.
All of these teachers, who are these teachers, are all prominent.
They said, they can make them eat if they can get a course of course for the haunting of school and get the test for the teachers being placed in grade 11 and 12.
Only here, their hairs stood on top.
First, they need to study and spend again.
Second, while this is happening, their problem is the payment of their debt, for the payment of their debt that they have been paying for a lesson to their children and many more.
Third, the fact that the fact that they will coordinate with the thousands who have already finished the course of course for the K + 12 is going to celebrate, the teachers are too much more than the Philippines.
It should be recognized as an emergency right now and it should be started to solve it.
But there is no clear and if there is a unlikely response from the government.
But if this is just politics, there will be a solution to the government, especially if the teachers are in the opposition.
For sure as early as now they are trying to find a hole in order to file a case and be imprisoned just like what the vendors are doing to the three senators today.
That is how the government will make a solution if you are enemies.
But it is considered that ordinary people are going to be an ordinary person who will surely listen to the complaints that they will die from hunger and to be very difficult, it is up to them from their lives.
