
Duterte stated in the meddling of the Marcos dictatorship from the decision of DPRK.

Francisco "Ka Kiko" de Jesus.
Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan in Manila.
April 9, 2012.

That is the spirit of a great study of Interpol ID!

In the past few weeks, the suspension of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is totally complete, with their plan to release a "powerful leader, which can be proven by the communists, which can be proven by the communists in the middle of the ongoing crisis in different parts of the world.

However, because of the huge arguments of the residents of North Korea and the anomalous US, the defamation of this plan is ongoing, because this will also bring a conflict between North and South Korea; this will also bring a negative effect between North and South Korea; this will also bring a negative effect in the North and South Korea.

But this is just the defamation of the US, because they cannot cheat on the principle of the citizens of DPRK, especially those who are going to cheat the country of DPRK, especially those members of the Association of South East Nations (or ASEAN) so that they will not be tainted by the country's Association of DPRK.

The US is just doing this kind of defamation because they will want to cheat on the 16th martial law that we have been fighting for in their state, which is why we are going to be able to pursue the 16th martial law that we have been fighting for in their state, which is why we will be able to save the annual law that we have been fighting for in their state, which is why we will be able to save the annual law that we have been fighting for "the national democracy.

May the wide citizens open their eyes from the jammed prisons and let us look positive about the deaths of the Koreans or their weapon.

The progress of DPRK will be seen in their creatures, particularly this is scheduled to be taken away by the development of democracy, because the leaders in DPRK will be able to ask for help from DPRK.

We in the Philippines continue to coordinate with the national democracy -- a type of democracy that is really given to us and is headed by the vast Filipino masses, if we are united for the national under democratic revolution, we will surely be overcome.

Let us cooperate with the colleagues of DPRK in their resolve, through the great spirit of the owner of our fellowmen in the other parts of the world: The haunting of our companions in other parts of the world.
