SONA: Heaven and hell.

In the previous State of the Nation Address of President Noynoy Aquino, he insisted that the Philippines is going to progress.
And one of the reasons is the Supreme Court's Disbursement Acceleration Program.
There is also progress in giving ability to the citizens to live and be proud of the movies showing the youth to finish studies and training for their own, families, community and towns.
Question: Do this mean that the improvement of the government and the country is happening?
SWS survey.
On the day of PNoy's story about the progress of the Philippines and makes the movies of change in life of those who are hungry and poor, the Social Weather Station has issued a survey results in the said issue.
The SWS, 55 percent of the Filipino families composed of five people were struggling and 41 percent said that they are lacking in food.
Based on 100 million Filipinos now, around 55-million are suffering and about 41-million are hungry.
Here is the painful number of 500,000 people that are struggling and 15 percent are not added to those who are hungry while time passes under the government of PNoy from March to June 2014.
In the whole Philippines, there are Bro, but the suffering in Visayas and Mindanao is the most severe suffering in Visayas and Mindanao.
A bird.
The Ibon Foundation, who is in 67 percent or 67 million Filipinos are struggling, going to match or just a little difference in the survey results in the survey itself by the government through National Sambawan board.
Ibon with 67 percent of the citizens are saying that they are poor while they are saying that they are poor while 6-million are living on 100 pesos every day and 66 million people are living in the obvious peso per day.
Even though it was year 2013, this data of NSubong said that it does not have any changes in the year 2014 because the truth is, the government is giving up his studies to poverty on the 20-30 million or 25 million Filipinos but it appears that the huge number of the poor is going to get the record.
Instead, the condition of ordinary citizens or workers is even worse.
Crisis in exchange.
Even if 7 percent use for the government to determine the lack of work or 10 percent record of Ibon, the Philippines is the highest number of those who have no work in Asia.
If the 4.5 caskets are said to have no work and 7.3 million pesos in danger or lacking, the number of those who are suffering and hungry workers at 11.8M.
Here is the record of our neighboring countries in the Philippines about the age of Brunei (1.1 percent), Indonesia (5.10 percent), Vietnam (12.9 percent), Vietnam (3.8 percent), Vietnam (3.8 percent), India (3.8 percent), China (3.8 percent), China (3.8 percent).
This is what is painful at 38.7M for a Filipino, and more part of time is increasing in number 38.7 percent of those with work.
Included in the part who are going to go against each other, is that, as long as you have a job for five months but you will be removed after it and you will not go back to the company you came from.
Its twin is a low salary and lack of benefits from the Social Security System, PhilHealth and Pag-IBIG.
Who will not experience hardship and get hungry there?
There is a high price.
Ibon is strongly saying that the price or worth of products and services are really small, the income or salary of most millions of people, they are even submerged in poverty in price.
During PNoy's time, the increase in the price of rice-National Food Authority from P27 per kilo of 32 pesos per kilo.
It is also included in the cheating of cheating of the people of NFA and rice grains, or businessmen in the rice grains of rice cakes from NFA, they will change the sack of rice grains in NFA, a sack of planting rice cakes for P43 and above.
That is really hungry and suffering.
Water and electricity.
It cannot be denied the truth that the love of electricity and water has become severe.
It was the child of NJ, you talked about what was attempted to jump since the privatization of the electricity and water has prevailed, especially in Metro Manila and nearby provinces of Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna and Cavite.
In the experience of many, the former P700 every month of water has reached 113 million pesos to P2000 which is now the former 300-P500 month of electricity and up to now.
The former tons of electricity in the factory became P3M based on the experience of running away from the Philippines with a chocolate.
The price of water and electricity is also mixed in the residential companies that they will customer.
In Tondo, Manila, there was an elderly who borrow money from his window so that he can earn coins, but, the son of their electric posts, he was suddenly charged by the illegal drugs, which was suddenly charged by the controversial water.
All of us are really hungry and poverty.
Heaven and hell.
It would like it can be washed from the SONA that we are at the door of the sky, but can we go to hell?
I was just asking.
