She was able to avoid the outline of the outline of 6 million pesos in RPHER in the national university.

Master Christian E. Marty and Keith Richard D.
The Pambansang Kamao will be in danger of the highest tax in its budget next year from P9.6 billion this 2013, only 2,000 pesos 1 billion is set to be received by the university which was given by the Department of Budget and Management Council in 2014.
When asked in the legislative chamber, what is the reason for the population in the budget of UP and 78 of public university, the answer of Commission on Higher Education (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission (Commission on Higher Education (RPHAPI).
Even if the students, teachers and employees of UP strongly condemned the implementation of the legislative chamber, which has been released last 2012, the administration of the university which is said to be under the dangerous path that is presented by RPHER.
1 is the deductions of the budget.
In the first ring of Benigno Aquino III in Malacañang as president, the hundreds of things he wants to take care for the university of the country became clear.
"We Arinoli, which can be given its subsidy to Asian Games (SUCs) to make sure to be in the ward for self-worthy country, to make sure to be an intensive care," said Aquino to his budget, last 2011.
On the first floor, it seems that the government lost their own path when a higher budget for SUCs this 2013 will receive more than 35.9 billion in 2012, to receive more than 35.1 billion this year.
But in a thorough investigation, it is still far from the P54 billion that is being asked by SUCs every year - the outline of the Aquino administration is in accordance with the implementation of the Aquino administration in the disputed territory of the country.
2 cups of gathering of own income.
Under the RPHER, the WBCs from having their own earnings in order to meet half of their needs before the upcoming elections, the strengthening of the human rights in public locations.
UP was one of the first 22 justices who are going to implement the reforms that are stated at the RPHER Ejercito but before they will be released, this is also the hundreds of the university which is leading the university.
Roman from 2005 until 2010, there was a simultaneous fire in the land of a university in private companies like Ayala Land, Inc. in UP Diliman.
The current administration has no different style in making their own income in an interview in a newspapers, UP President Alfredo Pascual had a part of some advice from other SUCs from bringing the budget from the government.
However, the administration of UP admitted that they cannot meet his own income from a huge part of the university which may have a pillow from our own income such as the rehabilitation of old buildings, UP Diliman, Chaykit, Cainguitan.
3 - the implementation of ToFi, STS.
It is also scheduled to be implemented in all kinds of dollars, which is an effective way to support their expenses so the Access Road can't be limited to the education of the poor.
The said vessel was based on Higher Education (STS) of UP Diliman, which was first implemented in 1989, along with the price increase from P40 million pesos per hour.
In the middle of the continuous decrease in the budget of UP, the price and other bills in the university in 2007 has been changed, which is also changed by the suspension of the STS.
However, the number of students who are free to step down after the change in STS.
4 is a competition in the budget.
According to RPHER, only half is the subsidy for the government for SUCs) the distribution of the budget of this budget to public university which is being called "alliances."
Under the hopes of this, 110 pesos from three groups are going to receive a higher budget based on the rating of the leaders who are playing with a higher budget when there is a big number of those who are playing with a higher budget, which is a huge number of those who are playing with a higher government budget.
"It was said to be a public funds of resources that might be invited to the mass which has a huge impact," according to RPHER.
5 - filled with intrigues.
One of the basis of the Commission on Higher Education is giving a bigger budget for the Pambansang Kamao in accordance with "national and the region to progress," this is pursuant to the scheduled suspension of the course given by SUCs.
In UP, included in the steps of the administration is that those who are being offered to the RTECAYETANO "of the course being offered to the UV Express Universities (currently, about 200 years old, and 400 minutes have been offered to the university.
6. "Ipit Gang" of UP.
Before the term of Aquino, the goal of the RPHER did not be included in the ranks of the leading university in the world, at present, only UP were included in the list of the leading university in the world.
So that the international competition will be more addressed, there is still a highest division of the group of UP, the proposal to implement the academic or a university to other countries in the southern East Asia.
The proposal will allow the quick movement of human resources in the region which is needed for the upcoming Association of Southeast Asian Nations Economic Cooperation Agreement in 2015, according to Pascual.
