He received a scholarship, that is just a few of his mother who has been the first benefits of the people caught in Polen banc anymore.
Aside from this, it is also a few who gave the help to the families that are just the new spirit of Taguig with four-five decades ago.
I am the only one who can help the government for those who are orphaned.
The sixth member of P / U: PNoy will pass all his help if they do not want to give him any idea, to release the process, to release the process, he does not want to buy the process.
Yes, no one will offer forty-four members.
For the people who will support the country, the government will not be ill-tempered so that they will give a big help to those who are orphaned by the nose in the whole world.
What I will do is to laugh at what I am going to do.
We will only go to Park and bonding with the government is from Davao.
From giving a room to school, they can be able to buy but until sleeping with a job.
Why?
The older Bureau of the older P / she said that the benefits of the older Police Community Precinct 1 to the family officials, who were not used by the police, who were not used in the custody of the police, have not been used in the custody of the police who have not been used in the burial of the police for almost half a month.
What is going to do is that, as long as a year salary is based on the number of others who can be accepted by the relatives but Susan to go to P-U), it can be said that someone else will be able to give him to PNoy but it can be a bigger than a higher ranks.
I mean that our ranks is higher.
Security is the security.
Thinking but more.
It's because that's because he / she was lying down because he / she was brimming.
Even if we say you are the same.
It depends on your cellphone.
Aside from this, there is a session who has a scholarship, that is for my children who are going to receive that there are only your families who are going to be able to do with the public service to those who have been going to do for their families until five kilometers per hour and for those who can be given to their families.
.
You are going to know if there are cases.
T-shirt.
Angry.
It seems that we will talk about us.
Let us tell stress.
We don't want us to say.
Yes, it can also be all morning.
The nomination.
Why did they respond?
It's a few square meters in Lacson.
Zero.
He / she grew up; she said that there are some benefits that can help the families but I thought there was someone who was in what he was doing earlier, but I was able to help those who were in what he was doing earlier, but I was able to help with his relatives, Pauleen, four o'clock in the height.
It was an estimated 10 pesos for those who were wounded in a visa by former senator, he said that after ten minutes, it was also given to ten thousand pesos that was used to be owned by ten thousand pesos and was used to send ten thousand pesos as a resolution that was passed in the Legislative Chamber.
Jessica, aside from the public who will come from the Filipino, it is also open to the P / P / Director of the evade Special account of the Landbank for those who want to help for those who want to help for those who want to help.
In Pauleen, four to have a date for any amount of millions, he might be the one who will die in the Landbank account's account, he is already in Pampanga the wife of Instagram signal number one eight six months.
Two people whom we've been paying for an eight six-six sachets of their eight six months have been poisoned.
There are many.
