Kisses on the Bible.

Scene from politics.
It suddenly became a collision between the politicians from the announcement of President Noynoy Aquino to always remember any issue for his second term.
According to him, he will not wait for the term for extension, and instead, he will vote for whoever candidate will like in 2016.
But is this true?
It can't be said that PNoy is just the rent of his allies against him when he rode the Tuwid na Daan and there is no one from the Tuwid na Daan and there is no difference with Roxas and if ever Roxas will get mad at him?
It turns out!
Included in the back down, followed by PNoy's announcement, for example, those who are pushing a charter change for the continuation of PNoy as President until the end of the world.
They will just forget that chacha is needed and instead, they will just look for their candidates who will become true to the country and supported by the Tuwid na Daan.
Whoever they thought of is just for them.
PA).
But what is the whispering that they will support the legislative chamber for the Legislative Chamber for the legislative chamber to be centered on the change in economic provisions that is said to be centered on the 1987 Constitution.
Is it possible that they do not have any plans for the time, extension, and change in the appearance of the government from the Presidential towards the legislative chamber?
That is worse than a simple, extension, Bro.
It can be said that it can be until death if you maintain the position of the children of tofu there.
There are some who even need to do the Montenero's system to become the "king" the President.
Do you see?
The blessing of PNoy was kissed by Magno.
They might think that if the blessing of PNoy will be good or ugly, the blessing of PNoy to their candidate is bad or ugly.
Especially with the feeling of many, the blessing of PNoy felt the blessing of PNoy.
It can be recalled that after Christ was kissed by Christ, he was arrested by Christ, and then he was hanged by his own fellow countrymen Jews as the leadership of Hernaez, along with foreign Catholic Church under Ponong Pilot.
Will this happen in the election 2016?
