We are going to Sampaloc to go to Manila from Bicol on a while, when I suddenly woke up one of the person who is riding it after the negotiation between the family who is a soldier of the family who is pushing him to ask if he can ask if he / she asks for support.
"Do not just ignore those who are talkative on them, isn't it a report?
Because what Amado's was at the back, Amado's was the one who went down from a bus earlier, and this was on top of this while there were still many viand.
For me to think about it, I buy a soldier in the hospital for the driver of you.
Meanwhile, what is a soldier driver, do not let it go to the trip of Manila without the Pacific Ocean, it is possible that you are the passengers of the bus they will lower their passengers.
They are saying a paper that's why it's embarrassing to you.
Fuck, dearse; because there is still a couple.
His two summer season left.
It's open.
Yes, the solution was identified as Kuya Ruben is the one to eat his 10 pesos.
What you want, PPHP as well as he went to four Bonifacio in Taguig.
Whose private car is closed as if there is another M-M.
The story is just there, then.
"When the child was about to know the child who was being given the space of the soldiers, they immediately gave it to the authorities for a few hours and he was still here inside the bus and he was still here in Pamplona Uno this morning and he was still here beside him while he was driving his contribution.
It seems that you love more about it, that is very talkative so you can hear where there is a negotiation between the nose crisis.
You are over here with the number of people here.
Ah, isn't it?
Isn't it possible?
Maybe we can just laugh at them using his head.
Around four o'clock in the afternoon, a soldier was killed.
Too much, I did this, sir, because you are trying to know if you want it to the youngest.
Later he changed a threat that's why he / she cannot take care; that's now.
Very short; we are proud that our troop is being prepared.
What happened to us.
Okay.
Okay.
I am the well-known?
No one was hurt in the thirty-five passengers of the bus, including a few children, who are under the number of classes in Antipolo who were gambling, hence, they were not only known as a few moments after they were able to investigate the campaign in the campaign.
As long as the child was already able to leave here on the following age, you really need to go back to Manila, which is why I need to go back to Manila, which is why when I need to go back to Manila, that is probably what the doctor said, that probably should be the second doctor to look at Atong "to her.
Yes, he said that he has five children, who are very fond of the people, we are talking about the problem.
One of the things that is thinking is not in a sleep or might be the only one to be able to go to school; he / she might go to a case against the mayor, he might go to a case when the mayor heard him, because there was a case that Ma'am, the clothes of the passengers of the basketball, were already being prepared.
We were able to talk to some of our countrymen, they are fed up, very small; and covetousness; that they were able to talk earlier that they were not hurt, they were not pointed with a gun, no bad accident, that's why they just wanted to get a gun.
Co-B (C-workers, are you here?
Thank you very much to you.
