It is true to answer, do not end with Corona.

Although the appointed group is happy with the conviction of the authorities of Chief Justice Renato Corona from the violation of the Constitution and infidelity to the public, they believe that they still have a long journey if the issue will be answered. "
"This does not end with Corona.
The group also told the Aquino administration that excuse that the government should stop doing the reasons why the government should stop his own officials who are responsible for its failure to face the cause of its failure to face the problem of economy and national issues.
It is expected that the Aquino administration included the distress of Corona as a "epal." But outside the impeachment, the government is still not able to do anything on the issue of politics and economists like change, respect for human rights and justice.
"There is no right way for many of our countrymen who continue to experience poverty, abuse and lack of justice, even if Corona is sentenced to the United Nations Human Rights Council, why they continue to answer for violation of human rights in the country."
The Bayan also warned that the citizens should be on guard in the attempt of President Aquino and the Liberal Party to control the judiciary so that Aquino can use the new Supreme Court to turn the first decision to share in Hacienda Luisita.
The country's challenge to all officials of the government continues to open their record in the bank, local or foreigners to believe that Corona is not the only ones who use foreign contacts to hide their stolen wealth.
Meanwhile, Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR) was expected to return to the senate who was allegedly used by President Aquino to the entire power of the government for it to happen, from the launch of a widespread propaganda against the lead magistrate.
He is also calling out to immediate answer to former President Arroyo and his accomplices.
"The workers and the Filipino people should be on guard in the decision of the Supreme Court in Hacienda Luisita, to implement the decision of the Supreme Court in all of the nation should be implemented," added to the farmers.
It is noticeable that from the removal of Corona, President Aquino has no control of the Supreme Court. "Manganglement that it can be implemented by the Aquino government and anti-workers and anti-citizens."
The group is also calling those who are forcing and Filipino people to intensify the fight for the worsening poverty, lack of work, and poverty in the country.
The fight should also strengthen the fight for the increase of additional wage increase for workers in the private sector and 6,000 pesos in the salary of the employees of the government and the trash of the government and garbage.
"The conviction for Corona is that the changes in the life of Filipino workers who are experiencing hunger and poverty will not cause shouting, let us continue the fight for the society the freedom and what the people want," end up.
