
Dear Bira TIDRS in the MILF.

Thank you, hopefully, true peace will be achieved by the Filipino people.
Our country is not perfect because the citizens are all Filipinos, all of us, we understand that others are outside the Mindanao - your problem is that you can handle the weapons.
Poverty is the lack of education and lack of health program.
Like you, we, outside the Mindanao, also experience a problem that you are experiencing, since then.
From the mistreatment of us from a fellow Filipino.
Like you, some of our countrymen have not able to resist and carry weapons to fight the leaders of our government.
Like you, many of Mindanao die in poverty.
Let's just ask you to the force of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), is it really needed to build a different state within the state of the republic of the Philippines?
Your problems are the problems of the Filipino people, that means, all poverty in life that we are experiencing are made by the politicians, who are opportunists.
They are the enemy of the people, why do we jokes about our small children?
The problem is the total system of our state, that the politicians who have to take care of the businessmen who need to take care of our full economy.
They are the real enemy, not the innocent soldiers, policemen and ordinary citizens who are killed every time you fight!
Those who have to join are accomplices in-like-like politician.
We are going to fight for them to have a huge amount of money for the country, think that they are the ones who are capitalists have in the landlords.
We are fighting so that they will continue to be with the wealth of the country and they are the real criminals!
If you have seen any weapon, you have seen a hole in poverty, it should be focused on and pointed a gun to the opportunist politicians and businessmen.
They each show our society that they are the ones who built trouble and our society to control our wealth!
Examine the education that you will know, Dear Con MILF Et's, that the problem we pass, the businessmen and politicians have violated it.
Will you kill the innocent?
Haram is Haram, RTECAYETANO!
