Witnesses: Anzon?
Jimmy and Jimmy Cantos or July 19, 2016) in the time I know, the PBA has not yet taken the proposal of Alaska team owner Fred Wilfred Uytengsu, the amateur players who are planning to get the Samahang Basketball ng Pilipinas (SBP) for Gilas Pilipinas program.
Sungala plans to take the people like Koponang Tavena and Mac Belo and they are hoping to be a leader of Gilas leader for the country in the different championship in the coming year.
They will give a salary for them but while playing in Gilas if they continue to play as Ravena but they need to play in Gilas ng mga Bayani, they can allow the team to play in Gilas well, they can just play in the team which is drilling them.
While they are playing in Gilas, they will receive a allowance which will send money from the team which is contagious for them, aside from what they will accept in Gilas.
The said Gilas program is laid down because it is clear on the rays of the sun that will arrive in Asia and in other parts of the world, it is unlikely to play for the team the PBA games.
There is a new chapter on Human Trafficking Operation and the World Cup against it.
It is certain that PBA games compared to the New Generation will not be difficult to adjust, which is why the PBA games are unlikely to pass again.
There is a PBA governor who said that the proposal of Wiltshire is unlikely because if one athlete is already blurred and playing in Gilas, a big problem, and I will not be surprised if this is the sentiments of the majority of the PBA board exam.
In all the PBA teams, RNC or Alaska, the two of the team of MVP are clear and it is clear that the desire to help in Gilas well and ready to borrow the players even if it means their chance to win the PBA.

If other teams cannot do this, if they are not ready to sacrifice for the country, surely there will be a problem, that is why SBP has already decided.
But coach Ysrael, Rain or Greg are saying that if the plans of SBP will go back, we will go back to the cita Park if in the international basketball, all the PBA teams will go back to nothing.
