I did not pay attention to those opposing the lives of the room who have been drinking every All Soul's life should have been drinking on a way to school and the soldiers to show their bodies to show their bodies.
!
For more than a friend, I was able to transfer to the successful corner of the afternoon for you to go back to the window and down to the group of his child in Isabela that three of them left the whole body.
I did not respond to the victims.
Typhoon will curse again.
They do not have a strong strength.
He cannot see what he wants with me.
"It is said that their status is for the two years that is why I need to remain in the hospital for two years, I have already received him out of the hospital because he did not change, but it turns out that he has the highest award which is why you can see that there is the strength of the Philippines, which is why you can see that this is the strength of the Philippines.
Where is his heroism, it is clear that all of his colleagues are clear when they saw two twenty-five soldiers in our Filipino, it seems that the five soldiers were given an award.
Since then, after your former yes, there are a lot of things that, in the past five, there are water in his life, that's why others can still understand each other with the possibility.
Sleep in various different every month.
It seems that in exchange of their plan, just like the devastation of the Kagitingan reef of the soldiers, they took out how one of them had their own story when they had their own story when they saw each other with a gun at the top of the number.
It is expected that his own sibling is only his own sibling who made his duty well, that's okay as the government which is given to him.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she was distressed as well.
Yes, it was left.
A few years have passed, his sibling, who has not been paid for a long time, has not been paid for a long time.
The concern of what he was able to do is the former President, who was not Marcos after the Filipino soldiers fought in the afternoon for four years.
Just here in the past month, a soldier will show five in Print Plus.
By two twenty-nine-year-old companion in our hut with PNoy, she was able to leave his body but she said in her life.
She is like that to him.
Fun.
Because he is gone.
As time passes by, there are many lives of their lives.
In the operation, life is still alive in exchange for us to remember the heroism of Mama's heroism.
