
I am intriguing.

The response was the only forgiveness of the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines with Carlos Celdran in relation to what he did in the midst of the debate about the Reproductive Health Law because despite this, they continued the useless case against it.
Well, if he did not take advantage of power, I do not know what to file a case against Celdran to not know what this is, "the chance that the power of the church for Celdran is not taken advantage of him, the power of the strength and love for others.
Instead, they will go out as if in the time of the Philippines, the Philippines is still in the same time that their status in society may not be washed away and they assured the charge for Celdran.
The truth is, in my opinion, the bishops and the blind people who are from the consecutive incidents have been telling the country in the corruption of the Catholic Church in the time of the Spaniards against us.
It can be recalled that Celdran made a protest inside the Manila Cathedral last 25th of September 2010 while the name was written on Doctor Jose Rizal and put it on the poster of Rizal, which was written on the image of the church against our country.
Celdran is condemning the meddling of the Catholic Church in the government, especially his opposition to the Reproductive health bill, which is now law, but he did not say anything bad against the church.
Yes, it is right that there are many Nabas and did not agree with Celdran in his protest but it might not become a loss for the church but it might have been the weakness of Celdran because there are also many who do not favor his numb gimmick.
But the question of a former colleague, when did not be rude to those in front of the protests? "That's the one who's in care of the protest, that's why it's being criticized by those in power and noticed that Celdran is a case.
It is clear that it is not a defamation to the favorite Roman Catholic Church what Celdran made and it is not the defamation of the prince of the church to attack this with the incessant meddling of the state of the state.
"It is said that Celdran made a protest so it is clear that the decision of Manila Metropolitan Trial Court Judge Juan Berlin is clear that Celdran is guilty.
It is not surprising that he is being beaten up on the appeal against Celdran.
