To you!
Yes, you are eggplant that I'm not stupid; as long as our students are affected, because it is our students who are affected by our students in the end, we have a proposals that are about this in the past.
Yes, because you know, we are going to pass by us.
Wait for a long time now, what's being considered right now is that, for a two-year-old person, this is about the two of those who have classmates here in Legazpi, Bacolod City, who had a classmate here in Legazpi in Bacolod City where there were some who were still alive here in Legazpi City in Bacolod City, which is why we are making a case because there is a case.
It's as if I can stand on this with the call of Two like that, which is why he's like that now.
He / she grew up; he / she has been there for a long time, that he can go to school; he can be able to go to school; she can go ahead;
Ten years to go to different places like that, like those who are busy in Raon?
If it is possible that Den will give it to our office in our office.
For those who have an excuse that is Dauin Legazpi City, that is why it is here in us Chantal Office at the time I was called.
I do not know that, it can be said that we can see each other; we can't stand up; we are the only ones we are with Jose.
Third is the name.
March 28.
In line, he / she was full-tempered; I already have a number 1-six-six.
Patrolling, Gus Abelgas.
Ah, in the Landbank.
What is the name of your husband is Det or alright.
TV Patrol-six - Two dresses were visible.
Just like him, it's as if he / she has a classmate who is being able to catch them, but how can they be saved from school, which is why they will be able to save, that is why they are asking, that is why we are calling us to be in the center.
Ah, that's where they are carrying of course, our call is needed here.
Ah, take care of our possibility that there are some who are not wrong because there are a lot of people who have been mistaken for different kinds of accidents; we have a fund that's why we also call for us to continue to help us.
He is like that, after this.
Covetous, dearse; now that they are stupid; we are stupid.
Sister, they can go back anywhere but Bart.
"You have no idea, my husband is complicated, my studies are tight and I said there's no muscular body that we are challenging for a little eighty Contact Policy".
We were able to look down; the calendar, because the calendar were seen now by Two Wives.
Very small; we were able to look like that, who even had a lot, which is why, because of this, there are so many places that are scattered and low.
"It's okay yes to each other so that we will go back to other kinds of things in other issues that I know is that we are waiting for what we are asking for me right now, so we are enough to see that we are only waiting for our newspaper; we are enough for us to see that we need to see what we need.
But of course, it is not true that we are growing the beauty here is our government.
No matter what is our Congress who continues to support us?
If you can remember, let us remember that we have regular training for five thousand pesos.
It's okay no matter how much we are, Tety; Tindan, year-year-old man that put us in.
It's been a year-year-old maid.
Our way here is that first of all, let us look like we are calling the pregnant woman.
A new Two years, including the education that we take, "of course," of course, will follow the help of 'Kin-Tropas; we'll be the ones who will be able to pay attention to the' party.
In front, that's why they responded, that's why don't look at that, so that you can't look at that, so that you can go to school; he / she seems like that, that's why he / she goes to and in my own salary, all the proposals that we are supported by, all the proposals that we are supporting.
But of course, it's not right to look at first; rather than the gnomes, Cagayan in our country.
Because the law needs a law.
We just say to our colleagues in the Congress if there is a law supported by the sister and adora.
Second, let us look at the issue?
Because we are not stupid; we are not stupid; we said to us yes, "Flash Registration Authority, that is the only sector of our government, we need to look at the entirety of our government.
Yes, we are very pitiful; I, all of us, all of us, are all about to go to each other because there are still schools that we see, that is why there are still schools that you know, that is not just like that, that is not just like that.
What is being called at first is that they are at first; we are very kind; isn't it?
In space.
Keep our lot.
We are really lacking; we are very busy in Metro Manila.
Second.
You should know that some of our countrymen need.
What?
It is too late when we always say every time that we have an excuse that we can see each other; we'll be able to turn our backs to each other; we will really do something when it comes to school that is why we do not make those from our schools.
"Is it possible that Registration Authority us so that is a woman from January for what, we also have our schools to go.
Because, after graduating, we are graduating, those who will renew the continue to run for school.
One teacher in a book will sign that there are three people on Wednesday, that is why it's true that it's true that it's true that is Francis Serna Daan, who is loyal, but the bad thing is bad.
Maybe that kind of problem is that, it's just a few of those who are saying that this is what I am saying, what I am going to look straight; but, of course, we can see the big; that's why they can see the big, that they don't have a lot.
Even if they cook all sorts of children, the case that we have not seen are no idea; the case that they have seen is dirty; however, it's okay to see that we are okay, that is why it is okay for us to give us praying.
So that we can always see tocino, ham; we are also looking for the solution to the siblings, we are looking, we know the problem here in the eyes of the area similar to Metro Manila except when you lack space number.
Yes, Steve wrote to her.
For example here in Batasan.
There is someone near the school.
That too much case is okay, why not there.
Ah, isn't it?
"We are anxious; we will be able to know what we will know if we will know what we will know before the school that we will know is that we don't want to give a lesson; we will really not be able to give a lesson to each other before the school of our students.
That is what is happening here in the span of a peso for what you can do in the public schools, this is really a chance for each kind of students, there will be a chance that there will be a chance for each kind of students to have a lot of more.
Or very small; we were able to catch up, where we followed.
I'll be able to look down; he / she goes out to the one Two persons after I go out of the other two puppies so that I will just go back to that, that is why we know that it is too much that there is a lot of people that we will go to, which is why we don't want to make a solution.
Sister.
