
The Palace refused.

The people of the palace is shut on the reported proposal to give emergency powers (although it is not asking for President Benigno Aquino III to solve the crisis in electricity.
But, if it's bad for them, of course, President Noynoy said that he needs an emergency powers, but the truth is, there is an expert in the Palace, Manila Electric Company, other company of electricity and power rate in the country.
Meralco threatened the power for the next days because they were not able to get what they want in the height of electricity that should be implemented last December after the Supreme Court gets involved.
Oh no, that is an old news about the poor, it is not a problem, it is not a problem, it is not a problem, which is often being cut off by the electricity in order not to pay the appointed day of Meralco.
What is being affected is the big companies, there are already no space where there will be power and operation, their production and operation are affected, and when there is a increase in supply of electricity, their whole corporation is affected.
During the height of the campaign on the Presidential elections, it was presented by the group of former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada were presented by the possible ways to ease the lack of power supply in the country, even the other parts of the country.
However, the people did not listen to PNoy because they continue to go together with PNoy because of the death of his mother, former President Corazon Aquino, they did not think that President Aquino was not able to do anything in the good and higher position in Congress but all of us are affected.
Nothing was fulfilled on the promises of the President during his campaign where the corruption in the government is still there, and what hurts, all of his allies are benefiting from the resignation of Meralco and the Palace, who are benefiting?
It is not the poor people who have put them in position for President Noynoy Aquino and these poor are being blamed by PNoy because they only have a vote for the rich that gave him the funds in the election.
When will the people wake up?
