
What is important is the agenda of Rep and Arnel Ty?

This is what I heard from the other table in a restaurant in Tomas Morato.
According to the witnesses, recently, he criticized Meralco due to P7.3 billion worth of the division of the division of the division in the division of the company that will be placed in the company.
It is a big amount that should not be given attention and study where to go.
In my opinion, Congressman Ty decided to go ahead in this moment.
As a businessman, Ty knows that it is the responsibility of a company to give those who have grown up, why did Ty fool the Meralco?
Up to more than thousands of crooks, including some individuals, employees of different companies, the owners of small business - the division of the small business will be received.
They are the filipino masses, their hard work will be returned.
Starting 2008, almost P8 billion will be held at Meralco at Meralco, more than 100 pesos worth it comes back to them last 2012 and 2013, more than P10.2 billion worth at stake in order to raise their services.
The investor should see that this is the reason why the flow of electricity will continue in the houses, offices and commercial drivers because of the money given to him to meet the increasing number and needs of the customer.
Here is it that our government has a big problem in searching for a way to have the whole country in order to have the whole country with the supply of electricity, here the government does not neglect him because of what he is saying that he / she is telling to oppose.
Do he want to repeat the Luzon on the problems of the electricity in Mindanao?
Representative Edcel Lagman, instead of being a target of Meralco, you should just talk to Representative Mark Villar, to pass the "alternative routes in Congress to benefit from millions of Filipinos!
He will need your experiment on so that the value of electric posts and low pressure car in our country will be cut off.
It will be better for me to get better for the good of your good luck to take care of your senses and to be in that way, you can still remember what you have helped.
"Instead of thinking what they are thinking about," why did the LPGMA do this? "
