"Aquino should be fired on the SONA of the country.

Ronila Joshua Bautista.
On the very day of the State of the Nation Address (SONA), more or less than 18,000 people have failed to request for President Benigno Aquino III who are continuously implementing said policy in different sectors of the country.
The imposed group focused on the toll fee, Kilusang Mayo Uno and Gabriela who was launched "SONA of the Bayan" in Commonwealth Avenue is the wolves attacked by the poor and have no work in the Philippines.
Aquino allegedly neglected these issues now that this year, the policemen were terrified by the police, and they arrested the four of these kinds of protests on the protest of protests.
In the violence done by the police, it was proven that the administration's fear in the power of the people to expose the truth is, Renato Reyes Jr., general and secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN).
It was initially filed by three impeachment case against Aquino the town, Youth Act Noguera and Nationalist Peoples Coalition, a few weeks before the SONA's group who violated the Constitution when he implemented the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA).
The Supreme Court is declared by the Supreme Court because the executive leader allegedly ignored the power of the Congress and the national budget is currently being heard in the high court regarding the violation of EDCA in sovereignty and Saligang Batas of the country.
Even though the impeachment complaint being prepared for the Congress is already ready, it is still in the hands of the Filipinos but not only in its violation of the Constitution, even the implementation of the human "against people," said Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Carlos Zarate.
"The Supreme Court of the Nation has been in the state of the United States to be live in Poverty.
"There is no change.
In spite of criticisms on the SONA of the President, Aquino still continues to be proud of the economic growth of Social Weather Stations (GDP), which is the primary basis of the progressive economy of the country, and the increase of the progressive economy of the country, or the ability of a country to be able to pay for debt.
Last 2013, the increase of GDP of the Philippines has hit 7.2 percent, the country has been taken away from foreign institutions like Fullido, Mesdy's and a Standard Lunch Program.
"Because of course, in their research of our pambansang kamao, Pentals, and), there will be a lot of activities involving our country, and the benefits of its services," said Aquino in his SONA, "said Aquino in his SONA.
But many times the statements of the President firmly denied the statement of the President because only a few are benefiting from the economic growth under the Aquino administration.
Based on the initial record of the government, the number of poor in the country has not changed for the latest report of the National Severe Actor (NSalas), one of every four Filipinos are still poor like the Marcos regime.
Bayan Muna Party-list insisted that they will not allow the said data of the government to the true condition of poverty in the country because only the people who earn more low from P53 every day are being counted here.
According to the institution research of the bird Foundation, up to P1,034 days is needed by a family who has six members to live decent.
However, P466 are the only ones who will be paid for 'Kath' age as well as according to the Philippine Statistics Authority, 7.5 percent of the confidence of those who have no job.
Lack of action.
To feel the real economic growth, the government needs to address the issue of the biggest sector - the farmers, said Zarate.
The real reform in the land will surely be addressed to the land because it can give a livelihood to the biggest percent of the population in the Philippines.
In spite of the implementation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of Tax, seven in every 10 farmers still do not have their own field, including the political farm of Hacienda Luisita, which is owned by the Aquino family.
The Supreme Court has already released a decision to finally share of 4,915-hectare lot of Hacienda Luisita, an estimated number 212 farmers in 2012, in relation to this, the government released a fund through DAP for the compensation of the Aquino family and Cojuangco.
"The First Republic is in the legislative chamber that will be given by the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act," Benigno Simeon Aquino III.
