
A new Asukal will feel.

It has not yet been implemented by other reform agenda that were prepared by Governor Migz Villafuerte Region in Muslim Mindanao since he sat in position by President Benigno Aquino III, which is slowly being felt.
First, aside from the desire of most of the senators and other officials in the jurisdiction of ARMM, to have an anti-Registration of their voters, which is also the majority of the governor's agenda to be clear to his citizens.
Just like having peace is the security and adio in economic growth in the said province.
Tel.
Hataman initially implemented the "number gun zone" particularly at Regional Complex where the office of ARMM came in.
Accept or not, one is the weapon of anyone who will give fear to the majority.
And Hataman is implementing this as a proof that he is persistent and implement the privatization of peace and order in ARMM), which is why I can be proud that even if there is no bodyguard.
Tel.
Second is the implementation of the inventor of the voters that it is clear that all residents of ARMM are open to experience clean and peaceful election.
Like this, even them wants to erase the form of ARMM came from the province of the cheater.
Tel.
And when the situation is like this, it is clear that this is a peaceful province.
The fear of voters will be gone to vote the real content of their hearts without doubt that their votes might be exported and not bad for the counting.
And when the official is placed, the people chose, this is where the trust in the government will increase, which will be followed by the slowly progress of ARMM.
Tel.
Third, included in the released by ARNC government of Hataman from his agenda to stop corruption is the reason why on his 1100 days as the governor of ARMM, he immediately ordered the cleaning of the Ghost of it.
For a few million people who have been noticing it for a long time now, the projects in ARNC will be used for more beneficial especially in education and projects.
Seal is the political will only need a leader to implement what he wants in his jurisdiction and that is what I think is Hataman.
If you think about it, it will only be a simple thing that will be started by Hataman, but a giant stingray is caused by ARMM.
