The black dog of NFA.

The chta of the National Food Authority) said that rice could still jump off from the high price since last month to September.
These black dog or month-old "will be believable because even if they are there or not, the price of rainy season will be there until it comes to the months of October and November of the year.
Like a mad dog, play the P40-P42 in the price of commercial drivers.
It is really mad because the truth is, the price have long been like that and the truth is, it reached P46-47 in one kilo.
The attention of NFA should be given attention by NFA, make sure that there is a lack of supply in the supply of NFA that will strengthen the ordinary citizens to buy.
He should also be guarded in the increase in supply and price which is the price of NFA rice until it is equal to commercial drivers.
The Department of Agriculture in the Americans said that up to 1.4 million tons should be defeated by the Philippines this year so that it will not fall short of the supply of rice.
But, it seems that it is just about 500,000 tons when we are sure that the government is still thinking if the government and who imported them or not.
They were about to remove these kinds of officials "that is why they are not hungry and having a lot of food in their dining table, that is why they are just thinking that they are thinking that they are thinking.
Does the officials who have to think themselves just to be prevented?
What is happening in the emergency and this is what they always prepare before they take action?
It was really clear that this chase and a sample of their emergency was the response of the coconut tree that could bring down the coconut industry that caused a widespread hunger for millions of coconut farmers.
They are useless on the problem in supply, not corrupt or corruption in the sale and the price of NFA.
The harassment of NFA should be given to the commercial drivers from the commercial drivers of NFA that can be controlled by NFA that's why there are reports that the people of NFA themselves are taking advantage of the storage room of NFA that's why there is a signal from the warehouse of NFA in the stores that increase this controversy.
Disappear, P25-P28 of NFA local rice and the P27-Friends that NFA should come out?
I jog, all of you here in NFA.
