Administrative Order 31 and a poor town.

There is a new order from Malacañang who ordered all the national agencies of the government to increase their guns on the people who have a transaction with them.
According to the order Administrative Order 31, this should be done so that the national government of the funds will not be measured by the budget of budget for government agencies.
Long live in your own income.
In other words, agencies need to earn and if possible, their expenses will come from their own income.
One more thing, this is the only way for the agencies to give good service to the people, including those who violate the laws and policies.
But in the increase of bills, it is said that the citizens should just be just and the people will earn money.
Associated with this.
If the rules in this issue will be completed, these will probably be implemented.
As long as they say, Bro, in the government, it will be faster than four o'clock when they act on what they are talking about.
The Commission on LTO, LTFRB, DOTC.
How big are these bills really?
We are not sure but let us try to take a peek at what the Department of Transportation and Commercial Center, Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation Office.
This LTO, Bro, have their own increase of bills from its services, even an haunt.
In the complaint of the pope and driver of the jeepney driver, the price of LTO is supposedly too high on them.
For example of colorum there, it is said to have been a fine but now to 6,000 pesos, up to 6,000 pesos, pesos and if you have not paid for the 72 hours, there is an additional wage.
The driver, the driver, is wearing slippers, P1,000 will be fine, and if his license is missing, P1,500 is a fine.
If the license is fake, P2,000 and if the jeepney was used in making a crime, P3,000 is the fine.
If this is proven by the drug test, the driver who carries drugs, up to 10,000 and if he is drunk or drunk, P5,000 is being drunk.
In relation to this, the former is a fine of the use of illegal siren, it seems that it will rise up to 100,000 pesos from 150 and raised the fine of violation of the number coats from P450 pesos from P500.
Right?
The LTO has done something that we think is right.
For example, driving or drunk or drunk.
Accident, death and weakness is what you will reach to drugs or alcohol driver.
Those introducing themselves are really to discipline but those who use fake license should be punished.
Heavy.
But it can be considered, Bro, that there is a fine of P1,000 to the driver who can wear slippers that's also a problem with the line of line that is written.
With the heavy traffic, example in Metro Manila, especially if it is raining and there is a fire or those who are involved in the route of vehicles, or if there are fire in the route of vehicles or the shooting of movies and other passengers, are forced to take out of line with the drivers.
But these those who are from LTO, police and traffic enforcer, instead of those who helped in search for the roads for the public, that's where they are taking advantage of public utility vehicles, then they will arrest and build a very expensive penalty.
"It seems that it is squeezing through it, is it needed to raise a fine?
That is too much.
In the year 2008 when LTO should focus on the increase of dees, but the agency started to implement it last 2009.
The increase of fines are spreading about the content of the Department of Transportation and Communications Department of 2008, 39, and was named "Revised Rules of LTO) and Penguin.
Now that there is ao 31, it is possible that the DOTC, LTO and LTFRB can run amok, how other agencies will be implemented on May 31?
All the department of the government, like DOTC and Department of Justice, including the government units Corporation and government financial support like the banks, Social Security System and government units (Commission on Audit) in the jurisdiction of ao 31.
Also included in this, of course, the Land Transportation and Regulatory Commission, National Statistics Authority, National Statistics Authority, Philippine National Bureau of Investigation, Philippine National Police, Bureau of Fire Protection, Bureau of Fire Protection, Bureau of Fire Protection, Bureau of Fire Protection and others.
How will the national agencies have been achieved by the national agency?
DOTC, LTO, LTFRB will follow.
Will all the agencies follow what the DOTC did, LTO, LTFRB, if this is what will happen, the lives of the bosses of the President will surely have clarity.
