
Those who are the only ones in the back of social media.

In the two cases of shooting in two years, the victims have wishes.
Include the politicians who are involved.
The gunman and his companions were not only included in the actual murder.
Rico Navarro, of the last SONAs.
These are two decades that are both in radio, Bro, those who want to be involved in the local politicians for what they experienced.
Through the widow of Solavers, he asked the regional trial court to hear in the case that Iligan City Mayor Celso Ad Castillo as the brains of the murder of her.
As of now, only the police identified as PO 1 Peking jay Capangpangan, Iligan City Police Office is the arrest by Judge ConcorridBaguio in the murder of Nanding.
Rico is alive and is now ready to investigate some local officials, including a mayor, a boasts and one chief of police.
Rico believes that these are behind the failed murder of him by a gun that has a score er.
One hundred-year-time commandos were able to swim towards the FM station in Iligan City, the station manager, Rico of DWomb of Dagupan in the province of Pangasinan.
Soleta were killed last August 29, 2013 while Rico was shot recently.
Involved in the government.
For these two cases, the truth is clearly seen in the involvement of the people.
Not ordinary criminals, even if they are identified, are the suspects.
Politicians are those behind the murder or shooting and officials of the law who implement the order of the politicians.
Judge Baguio did not have any fear to arrest Capangpangan, and we expected to target the politicians behind the murder of Nanding... if there is an evidence coming out for it.
Hopefully the authorities in the case of Rico is also like this.
Because if the fear of those with the duty to implement justice, where is we going to be our society?
We should not allow the people who will die for free the law in time that they do crime.
Scalawag cops!
President Noynoy Aquino said, the straight path that the government in the government should defend.
This is amidst the involvement of his friends, allies and enemies in politics in different crimes in the form of corruption, corruption and in the middle of the controversy involving many policemen.
This is a good issue whether the defense of the "Tuwid na Daan in the media killings.
More than 170 died were being killed in the Philippines since the President's mother, Cory Aquino, was killed and more than two dozen people were killed since he was seated in Malacanang last 2010.
Only two years to finish his term.
It is good to experience the zealous defense of PNoy to the adamen, especially if it is also said that his father, former Senator Ninoy Aquino, has become aware of each other.
In fact, the media became happy when the father of PNoy was still alive and he was just taking a way back to the conscience of the country and the government in the middle of the politics and the political rottenness.
Wait for the meantime.
The adamen should not be complacent about the middle of crimes involving the police.
Although many are giving up or caught criminals, there are also those who are hiding.
They were armed and if the crime will continue, it is not impossible for them to use their weapons during the time that they can catch up with an amen.
This is what the policemen who are involved in crimes and accomplices of the active policemen in making crimes were armed, "they were armed with the hiding police who were not able to put their weapons.
That is why, this financial condition should be sent to six to their minds.
They are in danger of police criminals.
Especially if you will think that there are also involved police guns for-for-hire, like the possible experience of Navarro and Soleta.
Raving and police were called.
Again, we will mention the fast approaching 2016.
In fact, the "search warrant was started by the politicians in each other.
For now, it is full of investigation and lawsuit against the enemies.
They brought holes against each other and they were forced to malign each other but have them imprisoned each other.
Here, it is just the fire that it is going through by the politicians.
It is not impossible to lead all the killings.
And it is possible that the police and military are also complaining, that there is a possibility that politicians will be involved in killings.
It is not impossible that the police, military and other armed forces of the government who killed politicians and to amen.
They are really careful because there are a lot of corrupt politicians who are politicians, military and others are still different from the trigger of the trigger.
Um!
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in a long time, please call 092163333-1090451.
