It is out of Order: 00 for the P222,278 people and Gat Andres Bonifacio.
Bty Go of August 30, 2016), the whole country celebrated the Independence Day and for the very first time, President Rodrigo Duterte led the commemoration of this great day at the Libingan ng mga Bayani that is near Fort Bonifacio, headquarters of the Philippine Army.
August 29, the day will also be passed on when you declared champion Andres Bonifacio of the armed fight against the colonels that will be found in the current city of Caloocan.
That's why the P222,278 people just called the August 29 because this is the start of the armed revolution of the Supreme Court that would be known as the Supreme Court of Katipunan, last August 24, 1896.
Three resolution was passed by the said ship that was held and included here is the declaration of the general armed revolution against Spain; construction of a Bank of the government and the appointment of the leaders of the said government and the approval of the leaders of the said government.
That is why based on the said resolution on August 24, 1896, it is considered as the first President of the country, Gat Andres Bonifacio, which is the first Queen of Katipunan and first led by the armed revolution against the Spaniards.
This is also the reason why Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Isagani Zarate strongly condemned the proposed law and resolution which aims to declare Bonifacio as the first President of the Philippines and a national hero that has been a leader of Gat Jose Rizal.
"
This is not the first time to file a bill to file a bill from Bonifacio, which is the first president of the country and a national hero in the 16th Congress, they filed a House Resolution number 51, whom they filed at Bonifacio as "First Philippine President" and House Bill 3431 which were transported to Bonifacio as national hero.
There is a bigger possibility that the congressmen will support the resolution and bill of Bayan Muna because of his being fond of history by President Rody.

In fact, the President would often say in his speech about the abuse of the colonies of Spanish tourists who were killed by American soldiers in 1899 to 1907 in Luzon and some parts of Visayas and 1899 to 1913 in the territory of the Moro in Mindanao.
The role of Bonifacio is invaluable, and is deserving to do a national hero and identify him as the first President of the Philippines before Emilio Aguinaldo with the liver to Bonifacio in Cavite.
