
President Duterte visited Ilocos Norte after typhoon Lawin.

October 27, 2016 Cherry Joy D. Garay.

City of Laoag, October 27 (Pia) - President Rodrigo Roa Duterte visited Ilocos Norte after being damaged by typhoon Lawin and declared under the "State of calamity" the province last October 23.

In Duterte's conversation with the local officials of Ilocos Norte with the leadership of Governor Imee Marcos, he said that the national government will help the needs of the province.

Marcos also gave a report to the President about the damage caused by the province due to the strong typhoon Lawin.

In the report of Marcos, the Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (PDRRMC) has recorded dead due to the typhoon in the town of Pasuquin and Local Government (DILG), they clarified that the cause of death of an elderly is not because of the said storm.

According to him, in the latest report of the PDRRMC, 7,814 have lost their homes and 579 destroyed homes, at 7,235, their house was slightly destroyed.

Ilocos Norte was placed under a state of calamity last October 21 about the destruction he sustained especially in agriculture, which reached two billion pesos.

Around 100 percent of the rice field were destroyed in the town of Adora, 390 percent in the city of Batac.

Because of this, according to Marcos, the lack of food in the province is expected next month.

Marcos also asked Duterte to give assistance to the province of their primary needs as well as the help for those affected by the typhoon.

Marcos also said that the province has given proper equipment as preparation and will be used during the time of calamity by the local government.

Part of this is the weather condition, it is Satan elongated, they were able to deal with, Rolex, of Camping, thin, and dump site.

Marcos also shared to the President the problem in the flood control where some are quick in fixing the Madamba Dam here for the concrete preparation of the storm.

Together with Duterte in the said meeting are some of his cabinet who are: Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Secretary Benjamin Magalong, National Defense (DND) Secretary Delfin Lorenzana, Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Delfin Lorenzana, and Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) Chief of Staff Ricardo Visaya.

Before the visit of Duterte in Ilocos Norte, he went to the city of Tuguegarao in Cagayan and the city of Ilagan of Isabela for the distribution of relief goods and Emergency Shelter Assistance (ESA) for those affected by the typhoon.
