It is time to make mistakes.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
SSeptember 26, 2013.

A number of reports about "Lean" of UP Reentanglement and "The Guanilla is a" Poet "of various and kiri).
Top: "In Guesilla is a" Poet ";" Lean "
I notice that what is being pushed by the documentary about the heroism of the Aquino administration on the 25th anniversary of the Aquino administration's declaration, and for sure in the next anniversary of the Aquino administration's declaration, and for sure, the next anniversary of the Aquino administration's declaration of the country, and now, will be repeated again in the history of the Aquino administration.
The timing for this report is perfect for the administration of Noynoy Aquino to the corrupt system of pork barrel, while the price of the laborers are being implicated in a company Yngenteth as well, the price hike of the workers are increasing, and it is still not true that it is being implemented by farmers in Hacienda Luisita.
Those that are worried about this show are the Aquino price hike which seems to be natural in the blood of his relatives in the elections this year, even after Aquino, who has no experience in politics, Bambam, is not doing anything that will come to the senate since you, Aquino, will not do anything to enter the Senate.
But how become a hero?
This, I think, this was an answer recently of the two decades of culture that they were put in front of the youth during the end part of the Marcos dictatorship, Lean, "Lean," Lean, "Lean," Paula, "Lean," Paula, "Paula," Paula, "Atong" Atong "
Even though the form of the art of the arts used to the two is also good, it is also good that the "Lean" will go out of the theater and "The Guanilla, it is good that it will be the reason of Lean and Lean's contribution to the Council of Joma).
Although there is an individual who is admirable about the point of two show, and the point of the heroism of Joma and Lean, is their root of a wide movement, most of the masses, according to the songs of the activists during the time of "60," he is the real hero. "
He / she was wearing.
Vencer Crisostomo (the right) as Lean and Chalene Moncals, Lerio Bompat.
First of all, I will admit that I am one of those who increased his eyebrows at the news that was taken back by his fans in Diliman, and part of the tradition of Lean, which is why it can be seen by his fans in Diliman, and not, whatever his fans are saying or not, what will be told by G. Ricky Torre.
In his twitter account of Lean, the history of the Social Security System in the university of the Philippines, Tess Vhon Tanto the hands of Lean "bright," some of the hands of Lean "Atong" seems to reach the act of Lean. "Like robots."
In the interview, Kathryn anRamirez should be distressed as Karl Ramirez, to see the character of Lean, of course, that he hears the voice of Lean, of course, which has a good intention to express the voice of Lean, and it was helped to express the voices of Lean, and it was helped to express the charisma of Lean as a leader.
He stood in the issues, in the debate, Lean said that it is still too young at the movement, Vingno, one of those who have been able to take responsibility in the election in 1985, Lean, "Lean," Lean, "said that she was saddened by the song," Salas, "said, but it was quick to recover."
And in the middle of the public's campaign in "Mendiola's campaign, and even after Bobby is the character of Bobby," based on the statement of Videz, the narration of Vingno, the Blessed Virgin Mary was true.
More than an individual who is taking care of the cruelty to defend, director and those who commit suicide, he is still aware that he is facing a sacrifice in the future, but in spite of the sacrifice of Lean, he will still hear that the killing of Lean has no doubt that he does not stop the killing of Lean.
He / she was wearing.
A scene of the CPP in the movie "The Guesilla is a" Poet "(from Facebook page of film).
Meanwhile, in the movie "The Guesilla is going to the movie," Ang Maria Sison, a part of the lives of the leader of the Philippines and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army.
Similar to "Lean," it is said that "Guesilla has a clear reason for the movie to be a hypocrite because of the expected damage of the revolution, even if the flow of the Black Nazarene has not stopped, even if many were damaged, he could be caught, Amado Guerrero and Commander Dante.
Aside from music, the movie is being followed by the film, just like what you are following in pronouncing and Langaban, the message of the actual interview and pronounce, the message was used to express the message of the revolutionary movement and action for the revolution.
That is why I have a little suspicion in the Philippines - to show up to the two-year old old age, and it seems like he is going to finish the sympathy of the two, but it seems that the flow of the deepest sleep is sad, and it seems that the flow of the deepest sleep is sad, and it's as if the flow of the wake was sad, that it is time to intensify the revolution.
However, in spite of this, the powerful music which is flowing through "Guesilla has won't be denied, it can be recalled that it can be recalled that the heroism of the two individuals, Lean" and "Guesilla, will hear that the heroism of the Filipinos are joining the sanctity of the society.
