
The military was criticized by the US in using the tragedy to give straight to the suspension of the ships to be distributed, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
November 14, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Denise in the US military for sure, there will be an extensive tactical interrogation.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) warned the government budget to use the cruel tragedy that happened to the people due to the huge number of typhoon Yolanda (dear President) to pay the presence of the warship and armed troops in the Philippines.

"The government budget allocated by the US is already launched by calamity to take advantage of the funeral parlor in the Philippines after the typhoon Yolanda devastated and the local government troop of the Philippines," said PKP, "said PKP," said the Philippine government and the Filipino government of the US government. "
The PKP has known from the reports that the US is now deployed in the Philippines with not less than six ships, including the US Embassy TSETC), USS Guardian, and a Boeing C-17 million ransom money for the military forces.

The PKP also stressed that aside from the ships of the US and the US, those armed men of the US will go to Manila and other parts of the country, which have been used by the military from the airports and coast of Mactan, which has been used by the military by the US and coast of Mactan, which has been used by the military by the US and the US for a long time.

In the past three years since he declared a "sound of the Asia" this, the government budget allocated to the Asia-Pacific which caused the privatization of the country in Asia-Pacific which caused the privatization of the country in the region and the direct violation of the territory of the Philippines and other countries.

"Minoras and government budget is one of the government's response to the Philippines, just like the US's response to the burial of the armed earthquake in Haight, 2010," said PKP, the local government troops of the US for Gerard Richardson.

"What the Filipino people want is for the national support in front of the severe conflict caused by typhoon Yolanda in the wide part of the islands of the Philippines," said PKP, "according to the national dignity of the Filipino people in the national dignity and continue to defend their sovereignty against the foreign businessmen.

"The immediate need of the victims is food, water and for medical services, not only the warship, which can give to the national agencies to give way to the government agencies to give a straight path to government agencies to give straight and their presence," said the PKP.
