Let us take back the property of the LTO to the Lord.

Heavy words of Princess Jacel Kiram was heavy and known as the son of the Sultan of Sulu when he faced the PRO-MIA News Forum last Tuesday in Quezon City in relation to the alleged Malaysian organization of the land of Sabah which was owned by the Philippines.
Even though her outfit was very simple, you will be able to make it on the appearance, speech and answer to the Princess's daughter of Sultan Jamalul Kiram o'clock, the Sultan of Sulu, Princess Jacob Kiram.
Last Sunday, the uncle of the Princess, Datu Raja Agbimuddin, and the 200 people from the Sultanate of Sulu to protect Sabah when he tried to leave Sabah when he tried to leave Sabah.
It is sad to think that the government of President Noynoy is as if he is blind and just pretending not to see what the Malaysian government is doing to the Sultanate of Sulu.
On the content that the received from Quezon City Sports Club, E. Rod. Doctor Love, in Quezon City, Princess Jacob Kiram was a guest who went to his uncle and the people of the Sultanate of Sulu in Sabah to protect the colonizers.
Malaysia said that they are going to arrest Datu Raja Agbimuddin and his companions if he does not leave.
According to the Princess, his uncle and the people of the Sultanate of Sulu went to Sabah to fix any problem with him and if ever they are against Malaysia, they will fight until the end.
As long as possible, the Marcos family does not want the blood in the return of Sabah so the Sultanate of Sulu gave a letter to Prime Minister of Malaysia that they will be open to connect with other hours.
The fight of the Sultanate of Sulu is not only for the Marcos family but also against the Filipinos because Sabah is owned by the Philippines.
The Malaysia knows that they are not owned by Sabah or North Borromeo and according to the Sultanate of Sulu, the transfer of the Sultanate of Sulu, Malaysia
Before our conversation between the Princess Jacel, he sighed with other help that can be given to them to get back the Office (WBC) of Sulu to recover his heart and thank you.
