Don't want a sound like a vampire.

This is the new job that the administration of President Benigno Aquino III is looking for, they still need to remove all their opponents in politics in the coming fight in 2016.
At the length of the Job Fair they are simple, they need to encourage the lawmakers that you need to look like and are ready to give to the Senate blue ribbon investigation, you need to read in the Senate blue ribbon investigation, you need to read in the Senate blue ribbon investigation.
If these characteristics are already in you, he immediately goes to the Department of Justice, to Secretary Leila de Lima to call them first, while you are talking, you are already regretting it, while you say you are already regretting it, while you are talking to your nose.
Noynoy Aquino is only two years old from his position as President, he is still his only one who is busy with him, but hopefully there is a true case, the fight should be filed in court, and not those who are against the Congress, particularly the Senate.
Well, that is what their intention is to humiliate and destroy their political opponents, and there is no other reason why Aquino needs it for the end of his term to make sure that he will not be charged or charged because he is an ally who will sit on what they are doing.
They are very angry at the former Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez because the case of former Armed Forces Finance Chief General Carlos Garcia is very angry, "the Ombudsman and Sandiganbayan allowed half of his loot, which was allowed by the Ombudsman and Sandiganbayan.
Aquino is right when he posted the case again and revealed the system to correct the attempt to resign from the position of Aling Tasya.
But now, this is what is happening like the last "tanim-called" Ruby Tuason, if the testimony is followed, he will return the P40 million peso, he will return the P40 million peso, he will do the P40 million peso.
These past few days, there are still many who will enter the lower abdomen, wow!
