The cellphone between the military and B is loose.
The fragrance of the Islamic partner of Mindanao is part of them, even the smallest bit of the motorcycle.
Between the million pesos of your Islamic State in your Islamic Liberation Front, together to the government, the teeth members of the ship are believed to have evacuated the back of different cases of transactions in front of Mindanao, there are many residents who have evacuated after a few times that there might be a few times that there might be a few times in Mindanao.
According to the latest violence we obtained from the police of military, the military continues to monitor even a deep night here at dawn in the early morning.
The comedy is like that in my back in Mindanao but a owner has an operation.
When we are guilty here?
In the past few days, I advised that you are not living in the barangays who have responded that's why I was blamed.
After it.
After a consecutive suicide, Marty.
Two consecutive.
In the province, isn't it that father and father does not want to talk about it, similar to different kinds of past with what they say after, after Cotabato.
The president has grown up for a long place which has been coming out for the thousands of piglets.
Between me, but the military had five-six-six-four-five in a market in there a while ago, a child was wounded earlier.
I sent one text message to the fire.
He is your financial situation.
For sure, the respect of the maid is still far.
There is already a thousand, right?
Ferdinand Perez, it was accepted that the two of us are just standing by each other just by our report so that there is a percentage that I am with here with the operators, I don't know what was playing with a resort that they are receiving, and what happened is a bit of trial.
It is not the use of a house before I am in Mindanao but he does not want to talk.
Continue them Arquero.
For that.
Together with the new month of the government.
It was cut off.
They are not a man, they were not surprised.
Active and selling of buy-in-sell and their support to buy-minded; the internet is like that in the area who tried to go to school when they leave.
We have talked to some pounds for what they are saying almost to forget the past.
The blessing of your health is the reason why we are going to fix the situation even at night, we are going to go together with the soldiers and we still hear in the call center that we are still high in the call centers so that we will suffer in a call center for the government to suffer.
What would be, that's why, in the funeral of the final Anes, it is as if they are making an excuse to say it.
Ah, I thought that I saw that what happened here is that we will say my five-four-four children.
Full-tempered; only four o'clock.
Because of the government, it's as if we don't want to win, we have not been going through with the same time when we have known each other, we know that we are going to see what we have talked to, which is why we are saying that we are not recognized as if we are still not recognized as if they are still not recognized as Manila elements.
You are proud; he / she wants to get the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes while he is doing the two of us here in Mindanao where we stay here last night here in the province.
What kind of business is what he said, he / she said that he / she's really having a hard time to talk to, he / she said that they didn't have anything to talk to, he / she said that they didn't have to talk to each other; he / she said that they didn't have a stars; that's why we seem like a stars; that's why we seem like a stars.
Then I told him.
Because the military troop continues.
Because the telephone is holding the telephone or before.
You are fond of where you are.
How much went there in the past.
"That's why they still have a long-shirt to the former government, we can't take away from this kind of relatives there are also a lot of relatives who, all of them, whose children understand each other, but how many relatives understand him but if they are relatives.
