Complaints of the Bilibid Prison.

The victims of calamities in the typhoon and flood have already released a grudge against the government.
Included in those who expressed his big misunderstanding with a congressman from Nueva Ecija.
It seems that the national government has already forgotten about the situation of the victims.
Only the victims who were allegedly caught by the earthquake were the members of the government.
Correct!
The congressman of Nueva Ecija was right.
And we are sure that many are like her from the provinces of Tarlac, Pampanga, Zambales and other places destroyed by typhoon Santi.
The truth is, we have long been saying the negligence of the government to the victims in these areas.
It seems that the victims are just taking advantage of the extreme negligence of the government.
It is the child of tofu, because there are only few who will get additional benefit or more handsome points by the government here?
Slips off, it was destroyed in the storm.
The provinces of Nueva Ecija and Tarlac, especially that it is really destroyed and worsened because of typhoon Santi.
In every 100 houses, according to the story of the victims, only about 20 are complete and the 80 percent are destroyed or destroyed.
This is also the full harvest of mango, santol, bet, banana, and others.
These have also been broken and there are also a lot of animals in chicken, pork and other animals, including the fishpond and take care of aushering in the sea.
But the rice field is extremely affected and this is the primary product of the said province.
It will be said that Central Luzon will be said to be the rice cakes in the Philippines or the source of the biggest supply of rice in the country.
Good in the earthquake.
Those in Congress and the Palace are very good about the destroyed earthquake in Bohol, Cebu, Siquijor and others.
They know that the houses and properties are worth billion pesos.
And they are continuously handling the downpour of P7 billion for those who suffered from the earthquake.
It is said that all those in the palace and Congress are going to do everything to recover from those who suffered from the earthquake.
How about the things?
From the complaint of the residents of Luzon, how are they said?
Billions of pesos were destroyed by their properties and livelihood.
Why won't the government release a promise to recover them from the severe crisis and suffering?
One more thing, many have died when typhoon Santi'll remember, and I remember that these are more than 13, aside from those who were wounded.
But what is really intense is that the victims of the typhoon and flood have not been measured.
How lost hope on the future are many victims of the earthquake, this is also what happened to the victims.
And this is true.
If there is a 3.5 million victims of the earthquake, more than many were victims of typhoon Santi.
Call.
As early as now, the victims are calling for them to help them.
They should really help them and not forget about the earthquake.
How will the government use those who suffered from the earthquake, this should also be done to those who have destroyed it.
PDAF and DAP.
The government promised the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program in those who suffered from the earthquake and DAP in 2013.
It is said that there is another left of P13 billion PDAF and this is the jurisdiction of a temporary restraining order of the government.
There are also 15 billion DAP for this year.
If said PDAF and DAP did not promise to those who suffered from the earthquake, this should also be the same.
But those from Luzon don't hear anything, especially the victims of Santi.
Election 2016.
It is scary to think that this karma will happen in 2016.
If the extreme negligence of those from Luzon will remain, those who are hit by calamity from the typhoon and flood, especially now, will probably not forget and forget their faces even by those from the palace.
So they should not be wondering why the said victims are sulking.
Listen!
If the one with the ears of those in Congress and the Palace, they should listen to the voice of the millions of victims of typhoon and flood.
If they will not do this, just wait for your karma.
If not for the coming days, perhaps in the coming days.
Put it first.
If the people of the Congress and the palace will just go to the victims of the storm, they prioritize the widespread hunger from their ranks.
Her twin is their request that the government will slowly get up again because of the wide weakness.
Thousands of thousands are hoping that they will go slowly for building again even if they are on a small shelter.
Or listen to you!
