Ah, you are inside your older brother, just say in Project here in Palapal, that's why it's really different; he / she goes to Palapal.
Covetous, fittest, who else.
Yes, there is color that seems like you want to look for us so that you will know yes to know the people around you.
He / she grew up; he / she might do that because I might do that because I might be the only one I can do, it seems that he is going out of the people here.
You should not only have color, is there a color.
There are two who are probably still there that's why there are those who are at fault; but I do not have that, I do not have Calamudi, right?
What I know is there.
The only thing I know is that, I am the only one after me; I am the only one who was going after John to send them to our backs, but what I want is that they were in a meeting, we were in a meeting, and what is the PAO-PAO).
But it is about to have been used to that, right now, do you not have a funeral bag so I will not be close to your name there.
"Oh yes, do not just leave your grandfather because you are just crying, but when you are already crying, it's as if she is going to dress with a married couple, ah, something that's like that, so that, all of them are.
Just what I can do to my father, we do not have any idea; we are talking to someone else, but I do not know that there are many of those that we will know, that's why we will know that we will know yes.
That is a color that is happening there, is that so?
We even talked in Manila even if we are still doing the list of things since then, we have to say to older brother.
Just tell you, "do not make it look like you are not able to speak too much, so that I am going to be too old; we have more than that color, because you still have more than your wife, you have more of your wife, ah, what, right?
Believe me I want to know more early as if I want something when it comes to you.
Yes.
Bro, there are vegetables so that you can believe.
Yes, you have a lot of things there, it's as if we want to go to there yes, let us go up to what I can do.
It's because he has a lot of things that I did not go down as if I am going to go directly to the house, many will also drink.
I have a strong house where I will transfer anymore what I think is when we were talking, whatever that was.
Um, something has been replaced.
Like what's different, that kind of words are distressed; you will be surprised on who you are talking about.
That's what we are saying.
Yes, there are other kinds of feedback that is why it comes back to there.
You yes, ah, what happened, you will be surprised that you will be surprised that you say, right?
