
When the Marcos regime was a traitor.

Editorial Department.
The country.
July 7, 2013.

These past three years under the Marcos regime, there are no number of people who are going to go in and out of the Philippines that vehicles from the US will anchor, almost every week, the military forces of the US in Subic, Manila or other places in the Philippines cannot anchor.

Everyday, the American soldiers continue to progress and may anchor, just flying and on the landing of their vehicles, we will never get pregnant.

In the use of the military force of the US to the ocean and the port of the Philippines, the Philippine Army and Aquino are used to undergo the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and Mectment case in the faces of the Filipino people.

However, the government agencies and Aquino are not going to fit in the volume of places and vehicles from the US in the Philippines, especially in the Philippines, the Marcos regime is preparing the facilities in the Asia-Pacific, especially in the Philippines, the Marcos regime is preparing the facilities in Subic and other ports.

Aquino is pushing to give the US the right to conduct operations and go against its things in the Philippines, to patrol the provisions of the foreign facilities and based on the military, that it will be used to the military by the US and his allies.

With this plan of the US and Aquino's plan, it appears that they are still not happy with the whole-in-release of the ships, it is still not settle for their use to the Philippines for their rest, fix the supply of supply.

They even want to strengthen the status of the Philippines as a big Naval Forces in the Asia-Pacific as a result of the return of the government of the US as a part of the implementation of the Republic of the US as a part of the destruction of the Philippine National military "between the US and the Philippines.

What Corazon Aquino did was not able to do in 1991, he wants his son Benigno Aquino III in 1991, the former Marcos regime, who was scheduled to push the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution in order to push the provisions of the 1987 Constitution in order to finally remove the provisions of its provisions against foreign terrorists.

The government agencies that will be used by the government officials and in the international territory in exchange of great support by Aquino, in exchange of the legal support of Aquino in the politics of the country, to ensure the experts of the US for a nap and politics is active in the course of the Aquino administration.

In order to give a straight path to the US and the US, the US and the Marcos regime, the US and other parts of the South China Sea, the US and other parts of South China Sea, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam are fighting back to Japan, Thailand and Vietnam up to Japan and South Korea.

Its mission is surrounded by China and make sure that the route of trade such as South China Sea and Malonzo.

The strengthening of the US on the Asia-Pacific is contrary to the interest of the Philippines and the Filipino people, this is being made into a peaceful resolution for various countries in Spratings and other islands in South China Sea.

In giving full force to the military by the US to release and go in and station of forces, equipment and vehicles in the Philippines, the US and freedom of the Philippines have no trace of freedom and freedom of the Philippines.

The Marcos regime was a traitor to the Filipino people, this is the first time in giving way for the US's decision to let the Philippines give in the rights of the Philippines and the Philippines is asking the rights of the Philippines to favor or not meddle in case there is a national conflict.

The Filipino people should stand up for the national freedom so they should take action to block and fight the country's plan to prevent the fight for the Philippines and other facilities, which can be given to the military and other facilities, which is contrary to the interest of the people.

It is a very important thing that Aquino's plan to give the military from the US is being done while the Filipino people are preparing for the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the birth of a great hero, Andres Bonifacio on November 30.

Along with this celebration, it is just right that the citizens will be in full focus for the struggle for the national freedom and end the ownership of the Filipino leaders who are giving up to the leaders who are giving them to the country.
