Celebrate today in Davao City.
She is the first one in front of me because I plan to coordinate with him.
For us to give it a gift to the New Year, they were the father of Jeff, the beat Court for the most of Beth Tamayo and afterwards.
We can just laugh at Marlon.
There is Davao.
Fajardo.
Why is it that Mark is slowly increasing in the party games here in Roxas Avenue Davao City.
The sound of party style here in Roxas Abille.
They are being made to be the first party Festival of the Shiro Food Park.
Why do you not think that what you are going to do is not the right face of the government to join them.
It is said that party horns are just here and the contestants can also bring their own complaints.
Budget of City for office, ten thousand pesos will die so that ten thousand pesos will be wasted in the same time.
They only defeated the record of Japan.
Thousands and nine kinds of Two.
He is strictly enforced by his father in the city.
Two hundred policemen are going to be given to monitor the area with no C-C-T'boli, which was not put to monitor the kilos of the contestants.
The party Festival was launched which is also at the Fort of Two Banna.
But on this other hand, there are still some who violate and focus.
But it should just be passed by Saudi Medical Center but you should just be passed by in Saudi Medical Center but your fingers are just being counted as well.
C OD.
Yes, four four-Tropas.
Covetous, fog; and fourth of the door.
Night.
While at present, it is near here when it is near where it is raining; that's why there are five hundreds of men who are going to get their party, which is why there are some men who are going to get their party, which is why there is also a number of men who are going to have a boat, which is why there is also a number of men who are going to have a score of sharp objects, and it is also prohibited for them to have a hat on a hat.
I can see now the officials of Davao City Karylle.
A bone in person is really better so that it would be better to avoid this in Davao City even if it is raining here, it is more important that it is not yet affected because the activities are for the cops not yet affected here in Davao City.
Marlon to snacks, I will all do all of what you will do to the firecrackers of you, Mark.
