It is all hard when they get in a rich government.

Is the Philippines really rich under the administration of Butch Abad, I mean, PNoy?
If the Philippines is rich, isn't it right for those from barangay to feel this?
Here is a life of glancing at a barangay which can be considered progressive.
A sample of our exclusive barangay, deloy, you will find a lot of farms, piggery, farm and some factories.
There is a factory that has grown big but went away or closed.
King-mother, "left away from the very expensive electricity and was in Malaysia.
The laborers paid their separation pay but for the long time they search for work, the separation pay for the family's family was consumed.
There were businesses but they were bankrupted because they were full of debt of neighbors who were standing and had an actual job.
There are those who are left in the factory but the workers are just going to go against each other and their work is only up to 5 months only.
Rules of factories, Jews as well, that no one will go back to employment and the relatives of the fired worker have prohibited to enter the factory.
There are a piggery parts of the two giant company in the Philippines, but they already closed down because they have been able to transfer them to the business of electricity, oil and distress.
There have been a separation pay for the workers but, a mother-and-child, they are all running away from the small businesses that they have bought from the place where they are losing because even if you are losing because they are still trying to make the Bureau of Internal Revenue for high tax.
Aside from those who are borrowing money from the barangay, there is no ability to buy the majority of the barangays of products from the small business and various stores.
That is why, when it comes to the town election and local, almost nothing is being sold by money one or two days before the election.
It has been long for those who are dead from the poor and their actual family in a rainy season because, aside from the expensive funeral parlor, they can only find a coins from the funeral parlor, councilor, mayor, mayor and Gumba.
Before, those who died were dead from standing, tricycle driver and jeepney driver, escaped from the morgue and was asked to be buried by those who were found dead.
But it is prohibited by Mar Roxas when a donation for this has not even a cent.
"If you ask the barangay officials about the riches of the PNoy government, it is a little bit that you won't get hit by the saliva of anger in the government.
