Yes right at four o'clock in the morning, the teachers are starting to watch.
So that they will not travel to each day, psychologist, watermelon seeds are not going to go home everyday.
Okay.
Yes.
He temporarily left her own family before we arrived at that point, but to think of it, she does not even feel pain that sometimes, it is hard for me to be far from me.
"Where do you go with me and I am also going to be with me and I am also sad to think that even I cannot hurt myself, because he is over the problem where she is over.
Lubuyen was able to catch the sea which is strong at Barangay Divine.
It only lasted for two hours.
He is now changing the night because it is dangerous to walk in the mountain this time.
Just going to the day, Pamintuan has started three hours of walking.
Because what he is going through is ongoing and the motorcycles are not able to do it today, but it is important for them to feed them just half of them, which is why it's just just half of them to walk even if the day is crying.
After almost three hours.
It reached that, we were able to go to school; we were able to go to the house you are living in.
Here, we are going to let the two drink with each other when we are here in T'boli.
There was a little time I remembered that it was not right for what to do.
Everyday, you will leave the house when you came from the house.
We noticed that at the line of students, that was not coming out, only March was the same before it was just a joke.
Get ready.
You are low in the face of the siblings who are tired of them.
To the eldest child, to be a secret; he / she can always see the siblings who are tired, the siblings are tired from the truth that they are the only ones who can be able to study.
You don't take advantage of the criticisms that they are fighting for.
My sleep was Nanay Naty, just near and in number of people there, because there are increasing number of people there, because I was there that my God was there in our principal in the past when he was only able to do that he / she was just an elementary teacher.
The teachers from the song, Philip Tantos, are fond of begging and does not need to beg for other children.
This is what they provide for so many of their students, because they are only four teachers, and they still do not have any kind of time when they go home in Pandacan.
We are only four of the room, so there are classes when we are living together in one class in a class; and their classmates are together with those who are in grade 2.
We are looking for what we are saying so that we will be one to each other so that we will be able to take care of every night that I will do every night, that I will be able to take back my pictures, that's why I am in Saudi.
