The trip of Gat Andres Bonifacio, trip to freedom.

The celebration of the 119th Independence Day of a great hero, Gat Andres Bonifacio, a undercard fight against the colonies Spain through an armed object.
The life and struggle of Andres Bonifacio was born in Recto (former Azeraga), Tondo, Manila of the couple Santiago Bonifacio), Proletarian Army and Catalonga, Tyo, and Catalungan, Tyo, and Catalungan, Tyo, and Catalungan, Tyo, and Catalungan, Tutok-asa) and they are being sold in Intramuros and nearby places.
In the record of the bystanders' record, although Andres cannot continue to study, he worked hard to study as proof of this is the discovered secret which he acquired in the storage room of the Flabio Zaragosa, Bible, Chappelle, and of course, the novels of Jose Rizal, Noli Me Tangere and El Filibusterismo.
Because Andres is also allies of the Samahang Dilawan, along with the construction of the theater Porta or theater of the future, he has an actor with the Spanish Moro Islamic Liberation Front, with other kinds of people on stage, the skills of Andres in his speech.
Andres is also one of a loving wife, according to the non-mannered family, she did not leave his first wife, Bryan, who died because of an intensive conversation with her second husband, Chief Inspector de Jesus (Oryang.
Revolution.
At present, there are new personalities who say that Andres is said to have been from the type of worker because he has a high salary (12 pesos up to 20) for the common workers before.
Andres Bautista does not surrender to a type of workers.
It was the first time he worked in Faso President Andres and eventually resulted to the mandate and agents of the products just to be able to pay their needs as boochier, but aside from this, he will transfer to Fathers (warehouse), because he is good for the companies that are against the company, because he is good for the companies to be coercion.
Andres is included in the disbelief that the son of Bayan (KKK or Katipunan) last July 7, 1892.
Andres is not the first cast of Katipunan (Deypalubos, Arellano University Chiefs, but in the time that you were protected by Andres in 1895, the group of Katipunan was tied to the entire country.
Andres Bonifacio led the revolution.
In the record of some awards, there was a cheating that happened in the election that was why Aguinaldo won even if it was not in the commission because of the turmoil in the implementation, Andres Bonifacio led the election and left it.
A few days after the turmoil in the Tetuan Convention Center, according to the accomplices which are occupied by the personnel of Aguinaldo, Andres Bonifacio in Likoy Rondiano, Rizal, while he was resting and waiting for him to be stabbed and shot, he was immediately killed by one of his brother Circus.
The death of Andres and Production.
Is there a celebration?
On the 25th of November of the great birth of Andres Bonifacio, but just like what is stated in the history, the contribution of his fight against the subjugators and the freedom of the country is very rare as if the celebration will be heard or seen on this day.
Most of the confiscated or monument of Andres Bonifacio were neglected, as well as the message of those who say that he is cheating in the town, however, they are not saying that any weapon is being used to him, what is important, that only armed fight will free the country that he started for the reforms.
Even if he was disgusting, he / she was not camping as his favorite but he didn't have a formal meeting with Andres Bonifacio, but according to his personal belongings it was destroyed, most of his personal belongings were destroyed by Andres Bonifacio, which was only one of his personal belongings it was destroyed by Andres Bonifacio, which was only found out of his personal belongings.
This is just a few of the blurring of the image of Andres Bonifacio, perhaps because of his fact, the country needs to be released from the colonization of foreign countries.
