
Be imprisoned in grave.

We are expecting that nothing will happen in the hearing of the Senate blue ribbon committee of the Senate with Janet Lim-Napoles about the pork barrel scam, who is involved in three famous senators, some members of the Lower House and officials of the government agencies.
The stubbornness of Napoles.
It is really a liar so he does not have any fear.
Those who were freed in the hearing of the Senate were locked up in a room there.
Why is it that Napoles is afraid to be imprisoned until one day in the Senate if he has been used to imprisonment in Santa Rosa, Laguna for a few months?
In Santa Rosa, no one can see his real situation.
Maybe she is still Donya "she is still there, she is an only child.
If not, electric fan are electric fan.
It seems like a delicious food brought by the chuces and showered them.
In Santa Rosa, just for him to go on vacation.
The wind was cool because of the province.
He still has many kind of good.
That is why the former of Napoles is rude in the Senate?
Why is he going to be afraid of the senators, he knows them.
He just gives money to the senators.
That's why some senators grew up, the riches was made up by his bribe to the recovered project.
If he will not sing, the day will come that the senators will save him even if he has been given a case.
The shameless Napoles would rather have to be imprisoned just to look at his face, just in court, he will just explain and not in the Senate.
Because he knows, it is easy to prove that many in the court might be able to erase it from the tax evasion and he will only pay debt.
If he will talk and will spread, it might be true to kill him.
"That's why he did not speak.
It was a big joke that he invited the committee of the committee to bring a lot of guards on the air conditioner.
The treatment given to Napoles is an insult.
He was the one who stole it, even him was the good life.
I want it to be that Senator Chiz Escudero wants to remove Napoles from Sta. Rosa, but hopefully, he should not be transferred to the city jail because not all who are imprisoned in the city jail are at fault.
Napoles should be imprisoned in the barbells that is why he is with the pigs like him to let him be or remove it from it.
Maybe through this, he / she said that he / she said in singing, she does not need to make a state witness.
