
Philippines, the case of Jeffrey Laude is useless again.

Among all the gossips about the agreement entered by my beloved Philippines in America, the pitiful situation on the side of the Philippines came out.
In relation to this, Bro, for the crimes being done by the Americans in my loved Philippines.
An example is the rape case of Nicole, Lance Corporal Daniel Smith that happened in Olongapo City and the murder of Jeffrey Laude in the said city this past few days.
Not the jurisdiction of the Philippines.
Our understanding is simple for the provisions of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (Visiting Forces Agreement which signed the Filipinos and the Americans.
Especially with the criminals and soldiers of the Americans if they are here in the Philippines.
There were those who were thrown away by Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario when he took the reaction of the media about the murder of a member of the US Marines to Jeffrey Laude in Olongapo City.
It is the child of tofu, why Del Rosario said that the government should insist that this is the jurisdiction or jurisdiction of the heinous crimes made by the Americans?
Question: Is this unlikely for the EDCA and VFA, Mister Secretary?
Joseph Scott Pemberton.
Olongapo City Police Director, Senior Superintendent Macario, Delos Reyes identified the killing of transgender Jennifer Laude alias Joseph Scott Pemberton, based on the statement of the Naval Forces.
Pemberton was assigned to US Press Corps Battalion, 9th Marines in Camp Letriro.
The suspect was also identified by Mark Clarence Geller who is with Laude until they arrived in the said location.
Case will be charged by the police against Pemberton.
The US Embassy said, they will cooperate with the appropriate investigation.
Watch the toilet for the toilet.
It was a week when Laude was found dead in Burger Machine for a week.
It was said that Laude was last seen in the room of Santa 1 with Pemberton.
The tongue was able to go out, the ear fell down and his head was bowed down to so the body of Laude was found this night of week.
Jeffrey was also naked and wrapped in a blanket in the part of his body and was seen with a mark of strangulation on his neck.
It is believed by some investigators, Jews, strangling Jeffrey while immersed in the toilet until he died.
Angry or have discrimination.
A transgender was calling Jeffrey because he became a woman from being a man.
Even though they did not say it, Jeffrey tried to have a relationship with the man especially that he treated himself as a woman.
Instead of a happiness brought by this, death was what happened and tears for her relatives, friends and neighbors.
Did Pemberton just got angry after he discovered that Jeffrey is not the real and famous woman, or this is a huge amount of discrimination against Filipinos?
A relationship with many Filipinos is very angry.
Nicole is Smith.
In case a ship will hit the ship of the Americans in the murder of Laude, he was not asked to leave the Philippines or escaped by the Americans, that's why the case of rape incident happened in Subic last 2005?
In the case of rape filed by Nicole against Lance Corporal Daniel Smith, he was not only asked by rape but he was just treated like a Starex van on the road near Allowance at the former US Naval Base.
Meanwhile, Smith was put in the court but he was not allowed to be imprisoned in the cage of the Philippines but to the US Embassy.
When he was imprisoned by the Makati Regional Trial Court, the nerve of our authorities to save him and bring him to the dark night in the US Embassy.
Is this also what will happen in the case of Laude?
Disgusting things.
As a reaction to the crime of a US Marines for Laude, can we imagine that Del Rosario said that the Philippines should jurisdiction over the heinous crimes made by the Americans.
Will it be that you will go to school again?
It means, I am not under the sentiments of the rapist and murder of our court and prison and law who say that their punishment should be washed away after they get their crimes with us?
In this experience and in this agreement, the children of the Americans do not agree that their criminals and personnel will be under the jurisdiction of the Philippines.
De Oro!
The American government will allegedly cooperate with the authorities in the Philippines about the case of Pemberton and Laude.
But the history of Nicole and Smith will not happen again?
The justice given to the Philippines with Smith, especially the being locked in her.
Is this also what the authorities do for Pemberton?
Through the agreement that was mentioned, it is very painful to think that the rape and killed Filipinos are being spent by those bastards.
To be able to bet with the International Criminal Court, Uncle Sam.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
