
Support the farmer and prepare for the calamity.

It has been two times when the storm passed by, which is a bit destructive to farmers in northern Luzon.
For the first typhoon, there are a lot of farmers who lost its crops.
Here in the last typhoon, we are still waiting for the reports on what the typhoon Ferdie is going through.
It is likely that the number of these will increase.
SAID on fund.
I am usually told by money, Bro, the farmers in the first year season.
"Is it that rainy season.
One reason is, it usually goes along with a big expenses in farm the expenses like the children's schooling.
It is lucky that if you get sick inside the family, if you think about it, it is a very big expenses, especially if their sick children will reach the hospital.
He is borrowing money.
Because of the difficulty of their situation, they are only waiting for the students who were asked to come near.
Because he / she borrowed money from them.
If it is not the title of land, carabao or bike for snacks, they will reap the last day.
But it is only in a young amount.
They are usually not running away from the foolishness of government agencies because they feel, they do not want to lend them.
The Land Transportation Office is said to have been telling the pain that they are lending money.
Just like for a lot.
If we lend the government's banks, for big people or companies that are involved in big businesses in the farm.
And this is confirmed by our countrymen who are talking to farmers and businessmen to commercial drivers.
The residents of the bank also admitted.
Their reason is, it is hard to lend money to the small farmers, especially those who have diarrhea, carabao and their small land.
The private bank are lending money but they are interested to forced the land of the farmers to be forced.
Where is the help of Governor Luis?
This is the question about lending money to the farmers.
During the time of Sir Ferdie, the farmers of the association cannot be prevented so that they will be able to borrow money from the banks of the government.
There is also something like this, like the cooperative from the farmers.
But with the experience of farmers, the government is not persistent with this.
If there are those who are implementing public service, the big people and company are the only target and is usually left behind in a big issue on money.
Really pity.
The government should take advantage of those who will offer.
Because they are cases of land for planting and harvest of primary food in the whole country.
It is true that the widespread planting of coconuts were greater than a lot of ways to earn a lot and other commercial drivers but they should think that rice is still the primary food of the whole country.
That's why the government should always take care of those who will offer.
In times of lack of problems like this day, it should be considered the care for those who will offer.
It should be opened to the government's bank to lend the broken condition.
Especially when these are slowly getting rotten because of the typhoon coming.
Time to change the calamity.
There is really a landslide and flooding there.
And we are thinking of the big accidents coming out due to landslide and flood.
In the tragedy that happened in the landslide in St. Bernard, Southern, Leyte before, it is sad to think that within a few days, it is sad to think that within a few days, it is being used for the search and rescue for those who were buried in the search and rescue for those who were buried by mud, damaged, and flood.
For the long flooding in Central Luzon this past year, there are only a few boats or rubber boat that are used by the search guard of the government.
There is no need for vehicles to be used for intense emergency or saved life.
The victims of calamity are pitiful because of the weakness of the government on this issue.
Where is the preparedness?
What is sad, is the sad lack of strength of the government for losing their lives and properties like what happened in St. Bernard, in Central Luzon, and Iligan City, Quezon, and others?
Where are the machinery, people and funds of the government against calamity?
Will it be more often in the past or just begging for the foreigners to just give up to the victims?
Is there a lot of people who will teach them between the country and local government of who should be the primary ones to answer or respond to the calamities, death, suffering, illness and other people?
Hopefully, these will not happen again.
