
Even if the nape, nape with Binay and Roxas, even more broken.

If the government of the Philippines will continue their agreement with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, and the end there will be almost all the power to shoulder the politics, economy and other issues in the jurisdiction of its territory, the country will not even be divided and will continue in Mindanao but in other places?
It's because based on the news coming out about the agreement, the national government will only have a few power of the national government like the control of "foreign contacts" and tax of Customs Bureau.
After the agreement with the military forces and the police are involved in the jurisdiction of AOIL Region in Muslim Mindanao, including the possible resignation of weapons of MILF and their union with the military and police of the national government.
Also included in the critical agreement is the giving of the national government of 75 percent of the tax in the Bureau of Internal Revenue and their natural wealth in the area like gold and others, including the mining of oil, naturally, gas and other form of energy.
They are going crazy.
We think, Bro, other armed forces like the Moro National Liberation Front died.
This is amidst the government saying that he respects the agreement that he is respecting the agreement that he has done in 1996 and the time of President Fidel Ramos.
That is why the conflict in Zamboanga City and other parts of Mindanao has started as a sign of protest of MNLF and other groups.
Bro. Nur Misuari has declared a violation of the Moro Republic as a sign of intense protest against the agreement of the Republic of the Philippines and MILF.
And in the fight outside Zamboanga City, it was reported that the forces of Abu Sayyaf and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters did not report to the MNLF.
Bro. Nur Misuari does not agree to lessen the 13 provinces and some cities in the jurisdiction of five provinces in the jurisdiction of the MILF.
And he is also worried about the jurisdiction of the MILF because he is saying that he is fully utilized in the said agreement.
Consumed, "DBP.
In our feeling, the forces of MNLF in Zamboanga City will run out and be defeated, it is still not the end of war.
If the MILF crawled all the places in the jurisdiction of the MNLF, that is where the war will be increased and it cannot be avoided that everyone will fight against our Muslim brothers.
Because of the heightened power of the MILF, it is about to be hit by the interest of others in relation to the control and owned by the government and wealth and tax in the area.
When the mentality changed, which has become the rule of the government, where the Philippines will lead?
Manila, and others.
In the gathering of war in Mindanao, who will be sure that the conflict in Metro Manila and other places which have their own companions and supporters are fighting against the group of groups?
In this situation, you feel everything.
And if there will be conflict, even if there will be changes in the city such as Metro Manila, the question is getting worse, where the Philippines is going? "
They got nervous with the shooting.
The simultaneous war means the bandits who got addicted and shooting.
Death and weakness of the properties and livelihood is what it means.
Who can ensure that killings and soldiers who are seen now in Zamboanga City will not happen in other places.
And if this will happen in Metro Manila and other crowded places in other countries, what will happen?
Peace towards war.
We do not want the possibility to happen which is going to the wide war what we want is going to the wide war.
But where is we going?
Brakes.
Maybe the government needs to observe and think thoroughly about what he is doing.
Perhaps it should be given importance to the request for the request to join the Organization of Islamic countries in the chaos happening in Mindanao especially that this is one of the one who is on the right time to complete the peace talks that carries the complete peace talks.
Cayetano has a big influence to their Muslim brothers and perhaps they will listen to the voice of someone else and not only in Malaysia, which is called by the MILF.
But the government should remember that he will not surrender all the power of important issues in government.
If not, instead of offering everything, our destination is to be disunited and weakening of a country.
Binay, Mar Roxas.
There are also sad events in the area of war.
It is the child of tofu, can we believe that the death and suffering of the citizens in Zamboanga would still be complete.
There are cases of gunfire or ceasefire between Vice President Jojo Binay and Interior Secretary Mar Roxas.
Maybe there is something wrong with your two in what you are doing there.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
