There is a lack of weakness that is amazing, a threat to democracy.

The exclusive growth of our economy under the current Aquino administration is saddening because it is more full of strength to our citizens and it is clear that it is a threat to it.
Why is there a threat to democracy to accumulate riches by a few?
Because it ended up in the corruption of the system and leaders of the country.
The scandal on the pork barrel, the failure of the BIR and Bureau of Customs which is collecting the right taxes is one of the widespread votes, including the widespread votes, which is just a few of a testimony that has been dependent on us by just a few of us.
According to economics, the wealth of the world is limited while our needs are not.
This is called the law of supply and demand.
If the living room will not be fixed, those who are suffering will not be rich that's why the majority will experience hardship.
What we call is an inevitable result of the white neo-Tropas that he is being sold to the people of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III and his ingredients.
This is not surprising that one of the traits of the incessant prevalence of kidnapping and economists are disconcerted.
According to Robert Punzal, "history of bars, he / she was being harassed by his / her flawless, which was being harassed by his / her godmother.
In a case, he / she was in a case. "
He is right because the lack of wealth among the few becomes the cause of poverty of majority and this is the root of the conflicts in society.
This poverty has lead to Shiro Food or hunger, low kinds of education and lack of medical attention.
The United States Department of agriculture, the Food Park said, a situation where there is lack of healthy food for the people or the lack of ability to buy the right food.
The hunger is felt by the majority, especially the residents of the secluded area and secluded places.
This is not just the morale and political problem but it is also a health problem.
We know that those who are always hungry are weak minds (Inc. is a weak mind (IQ: IQ) and it is shallow at the emotion (Eeonpyeong Island or EQ).
Because the center of IQ and EQ, the brain and heart, are lacking in the needed nutrients so these can be fixed.
Because of the frequent hunger due to lack of wealth, this is not happening.
