Straight at the kitchen and the Padillas.
By Ellen Toribio, August 15, 2016) the cinemas are going to be placed in the recent cinemas in the recently concluded Caba Film Festival.
There were only two o'clock in the kitchen "which was headed by Judy Ann Santos in the direction of David Corpuz and Cenon Palapal and" Deguna "in the direction of Eduardo Roy, Jr.
"I did not catch the" Toto "of John Paul VI;" Tuazon "of Roderick Cabatingan but was in a pile of Nora Aunor;" Japanese who is "Neal '" by Gil M.

"
"Toto" is about a Filipino hotel which is really liked by the US visa when he made a lot of ways to go to America, he is in mind if what he is doing is right.
There is only one set for the movie "kitchen" - the kitchen, who was a witness to the life of Juanita from his childhood until he became a grandchild.
Judy Ann Santos is Juanita who has a child, which is why there are two more children Juanita, together with the movie Gloria Sevilla who has a role as the grandmother of Jumarito.
The movie started before the afternoon and graduated in the time of martial law under Ferdinand Marcos.
I am happy that the movie has a part of martial law so that somehow the youth will have an idea that most of the audience will have an idea.
Judy Ann Santos came from a heavy scene just like what her daughter said that her daughter's life was in danger because they eloped with his girlfriend, the general, she shown on his face that he did not shout, and talked.

While I was telling the "Midnight Cabinet," I found out the murdered tricycle driver Michael Simagala, who was carrying his live-in partner, Jennelyn Alonte, in Pasay Rotonda last month, along with the campaign against illegal drugs of President Duterte.
Just for the title, the movie has a huge loss of electricity which is about the life of Jane and Aries, two teenagers were home and a month-month-old baby in robbery, snatchers, 39, and their future lives.
Even if their world is cruel, they still trust them.
But the kindness towards them was still not gone, that's why they were able to jump out of the fence, and they were not shot (like those who met him, and applaud him.
Children from young artists, Rondy, Martin, brother of Coco Martin, who starred as Aries and the one who made Jane, Hasmin, and in United Kingdom, who is with his wife, a British millionaire.
The CDO is free from a private group that the goal is to improve our Filipino movies through giving assistance to the film that they are doing this every year.
Thank you, Camply.
