
No meaning to the Filipino people's praises for Aquino -- the KP has no meaning to the filipino people.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 20, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program-time magazine as for Aquino to be a candidate for the Filipino people.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) denied the counting of time with Benigno Aquino III in the list of 100 most influential people in the world and said that it is not a value to the Filipino people who are proud of the Filipino people, understanding and allies of the filipino masses, to be the fake gods and covetous of tax evler.

"He is being blamed by Aquino in his being a puppy of the US and the eheals of the US to rebuild his power over the Philippine China Sea and in asking for help from the US for the necessary defense of the Philippines for the proper defense of the Philippines," said the KP.

"He added in the implementation of the so-called program against poverty of the World Bank that does not have any other than the programs that will provide the reforms that may cause their poverty in the actual future.

The PKP stressed that it was last 2010, Aquino was published in a articles before the election case that was held on May of this year, which is a clear message on the candidacy of Aquino, which is a clear message to other candidates for a proof that the US put it on and accept the result of the anomaly they put on the disputed election.

"For the Filipino people, there are no need to be proud of Benigno Aquino III who should be increased by attacks on the filipino masses, I have a lot of tax on the land, causing the tax of foreign companies, to increase the tax and bills and for its subsidy for public education and health.

"They do not have the sympathy of the Aquino administration who proved himself that it would be an opportunity by the previous regime from Marcos to Arroyo, despite the continuous control of peace and human rights, the implementation of the brutal anti-Filipino people," added the PKP.

"In the initiative to end the people fighting against the people, the agents of the state of Aquino are continuously implementing, illegal drugs, illegal numbers, which have been charged with women and economists, those who have been charged against women and violate the rights of the children."
