
"It will not agree with 3 eggs; there should be lots of snack.

In the release of different list of abusive and thieves in the Palace, Senate, Chamber, agency of the national government and local government, the investigation should be started immediately.
It is best for everyone to make the Congress in the shooting through joint or combined investigation or if it is not acceptable is the separate investigation of the Senate and Legislative Chamber.
It is possible that the government will create a commission immediately for the investigation.
The most important of all here is to make the investigation be open to the public, that's as if the people who want to attend and open to all the media is open to the public.
You need a good law.
Hearing aid of Fire Protection should be a guide in investigating the Congress, like what is right.
It is only time to visit if those involved are involved, who are usually done by lawmakers.
Why is there a need for Congressional investigation, because of the involvement of the many agencies of the government in defending the Palace and its agencies, Congress, local government and it seems that the court will still get involved, including the Sandiganbayan.
Isn't it that Napoles is a child who is the judge here in the Sandiganbayan?
We need a good law that will prevent wide and intense competition in making crimes against the whole country.
The whole country is part of this because the taxes that all citizens and the whole country are being taken cared of by the children of corrupt officials.
And then the Ombudsman is here.
They will only join again the investigation of the Department of Justice and Ombudsman.
The reason, Bro?
The child of tofu, if these are the ones who will investigate, the citizens will still laugh at them.
They are close their doors and window in the eyes of the public.
This is in the point that they should not be influential of public opinions in making investigation and resolution.
One more thing, it will take all nine-nine until the results of the actions of these are being suspicious.
I will just tell this what the DOJ is doing to the list of Napoles.
If the whole government has not drowned the voice of the people for releasing the list, DOJ wanted to hide it for a long time.
According to the appropriate investigation and search for evidence if involved or not the list.
So, who believes that there will not be an additional increase in the list, her, if they will build a release?
Citizens are not stupid.
Earlier, the Senate should not be ashamed because of its reopening of the investigation in Congress.
This is in front of the direct closure of the legislative chamber of his own investigation.
Because, if the legislative chamber will conduct its own investigation, the truth will be clearer that around 100-200 senators are involved in the Napoles scam and other scam.
At times when the Senate will not investigate, people will be angry and will have a sure future for the Philippines.
They should not belittled the public that if the fight against the government is still fresh and their lives are still fresh and alive.
This is what the authorities should just ignore.
The citizens are not stupid that they can just do their toys or unreasonable.
There is a lot of people who are not convinced of the Tuwid na Daan and you should not control the future of wide and severe misuse of and stealing from the treasury of the country and deceit for those who can be taken.
Why are we okay?
We do not side with Senator Jinggoy Estrada with his always question, "why did we only have three (Manong Johnny and Bong Revilla)?
But, as time goes by, they know that they do not want Senator Jinggoy about it.
It is really needed to open to the public the involvement of 25 senators, hundreds of congressmen, from the Palace and from the local government.
The incumbent Senator is going to be involved in the public to explain to the public.
And even the rehab czar, Ping Lacson is saying that it is a big problem but it is suspicious that it is not included in his list and list of Napoles.
Because he is involved in the diment of Benhur Luy, he should explain it.
They should not be exported.
The Palace should not be allowed to be involved in Palace officials.
In case there is a Senate investigation, he should be allowed to face the Palace and ask about their involvement in the burial.
We can be considered that the people of the palace can be considered innocent in any allegations of crime until they were not carried away by the court.
But they should face the public and release their positions for the people to judge their innocent.
Or Senator TG Guingona, do not taste again to your fellow senators.
You called the investigation and do not go crazy on the executive session.
If he does not know, he knows!
