Death of Chito Alcides, last for a time.

If the whole of showbiz has not yet made a challenge for the death of the controversial administration of the controversial administration of Chito P. Alcides, the remains is truly fierce but to celebrate his death.
On the last night of his wake to Arquero Memorial Chapels, a crematorium in Araneta Coliseum, nothing went home in front of the chapel.
Just like other tradition in the wake, laughter, conversation, classrooms, table, video and return to memories of the place and time of the tragedy.
Perhaps, Chito is really happy and offered to me that's why this is also the give in exchange for him by those who are envious of her.
When the journalists were still alive, his surrounding was full of life, even if she was able to get the ill-tempered, fuck, violent, stolen and broken vase.
Because he is always joking like he is the protagonist but if you know him, everything is the defense of an individual who wants to be covered up by his personality but he is really more fiery.

The history in showbiz of Alcides is since the Barbara Perez and Susan Roces are in the field.
He is close to Susan and Amalia Fuentes, especially in the past two decades, even if he reviewed there, Claudine Barretto and Judy Ann Santos, Marian Rivera and Angel Locsin, Kim Chiu and Bea Binene.
He is always defending Chito to the past which is contrary to the majority whom he is about to hug.
It's because he is always compared to artists before and at present, although there is a different kind of time ago on the class of the political administration, but the culture and negligence of our political leadership that is selfish and not Malaya.
Showbiz said that, and now, there is still no different kind and because Chito and Chito will be favored by Chito and Lucinda Fajardo, this is what he is giving.

If we will turn the personalities to undergo a celebration of Alcides with your Joe Burgos, these are the primary root of the industry of movies and television on 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, 1980s, 1980s.
They are the ones who are at the custody or part of Chito as movie reporters while his head and the 2010s, he was trying to ride and he was able to make it.
In a regular social interaction, he will be prudent in the king and the queen of 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, since he created a sample of their hearts and brain.
Even before Colon was accompanied by Chito, he was already attending during reformation of Perla Bautista, Caridad Sanchez, Delia regarding and other people from LVehPictures.
Also, together with the people of Sampaguita Pictures, he gave birth to it and was there as Amalia, Susan, Virginia Ilagan, Pepito Perez and his wife, Nene, Perez, together with the representative of their children, Alhu Perez, Perez.
If there are others who are from other production, it seems that the words uttered by the Kapamilya, Kapuso, and sibling) are being treated like response by Kapamilya, Kapuso network and brother) as well as vice president Rodrigo Roa and others.
The last of Alcides is to determine how they are able to coordinate or maybe if the mechanism or the system of showbiz can be put in a pitcher.

According to Alcides when he was still alive, he was able to discover the sibling Judy Ann and Jeffrey Santos until she was able to find her co-shirt that's why the skin was filled up in taking advantage.
Until Alcane is being totally controlled in the start and prevalence of showbiz and Jeffrey.
So vast and very proud of the discussion of Alcides and Alfiant, and it is involved in all agencies and people of the community in their fight.
Because Chito is only the key of those who took it and invest in the business of the media to start, continue to be able to continue and earn a huge war on the interest and how he will inherit the interest in whatever mistake and be hit by them.

When Alcides with Arquero, he was there by his part in his profession and time like Lorna Tolentino, Carla Varilan, Julie Ann Fortich, Angela Perez, Reiner and others.
On the ranks of the pen pal, Arthur Quinto, Robert Silverio, Mona, Art Tapalla, Art Tapalla, Orena Drilon, Alice Vergara, Jayjay Espiritu, Anthony Solis, and many others.
Different personalities are also there, a teacher in the beauty and founder of Jawoni), a friend of a specialist doctor; Maraytono, a friend of a specialist doctor, Maraytono, a friend of the former chairman of the Board of Campayan and she was replaced in the time of the dictatorship and others.
Because of the influence of Alcides that because of the trust of the capitalists have in showbiz, he is very close to his big names, especially with Lloyd Samartino, Mark Gil, Fanny Serrano Street, Melanie Marquez and many others.
Even now that he is not in the hands of the young artists, he is still not holding the power, however, his communication is not given to each other but she tried to connect all his commentary on the people and the situation.
Whatever is said, Chito Alcides, Narciso G. Alcides with real life is part even if it is just a small color, philosophy and resolve of his time.
Every moment is going to be walking and the trace of Chito to be hit and getting along with the system of life is ongoing, no matter how hard it can still have a mark.
