Take the road to Batasang Pambansa.

Revolutionary Council of Trade Center.
The National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
April 30, 2013.

The message of the Revolutionary Council of trade Universities (National Democratic Front of the Philippines on the 127 international day of the worker.
The poverty of poverty is cut off!
Take the road to the Batasang Pambansa Complex going to the financial status of the Philippines and the whole world, we celebrated the success of the workers and the entire world as well as the wage increase of our laborers for the release of our kind of workers, while our wages are increasing in different ways, while the huge profit will be increased.


The current crisis in the country will be completed and full, as proof that the economy of the workers and the local government are being used to cover the political system and the local government, which will surely be implemented by the workers and the local government, which will surely be implemented by the workers and the local government, which can be implemented by the workers and the local government of the country.

The national traffic enforcers would push forward! There is no other way to take the workers and the poor, but in the launch of the Filipino workers, farmers, and poor people, that will give an immediate reform in the land and the national governments of our country, we will push through with the real reform in the land and the national masses.


It's the duty of the Dumagat-workers who will advise us to strengthen the revolutionary movement of the workers and poor people, which can be implemented by the leaders of the laborers, to make sure that the development of the workers and poor workers should be achieved by the Spanish-ranked leader of the country, to ensure the success of the workers and poor workers, to make sure that the development of the workers and poor workers should be achieved by the Spanish-governmental organization.
Long live DOTU-NDFP!
Long live the noblest Filipino!
Push the national under democratic revolution!
Workers, join the New Hala Bayan!
