Riding-in-TANDEM.

Many who attacks politicians and those in the government who are opposing in the continuing use of a motorcycle, the rain that are riding together.
Atty. Ariel Inton said, commissioner of Land Transportation and chuces the Regulatory Commission, he understands the feelings of these people because it appears that the motorcycle is the vehicle of the poor, that is why it is said that those who are against him are not poor or poor.
According to the former councilor of Quezon City, the problem with the riding-in-tandem will be solved if businessmen involved in making a motorcycle are going to cooperate.
It seems that Inton has a point when he said that the people who are doing the manufacturers) of the motorcycle should only give a statement that the vehicle that they have done is designed for the driver that they have done and should not have a motorcycle.
According to the commissioners of the LTFRB, in the span of 90, it was not allowed by their office to make the motorcycle between the motorcycle and make it as a taxi. "
It is not allowed the implementation of public transport to the motorcycle because it is proven to be dangerous aside from bringing a larger wind when there will be a ride in the pollution problem.
The riding-in-tandem should be finished because a robbery at gunpoint and killings that are involved are riding a motorcycle together in one motorcycle.
If the government does not allow the riding with a motorcycle, this will be a big step or help to the police in suppressing criminality.
That is why, Inton added, the people who are doing the motorcycle should appear and give a statement as soon as possible as the ones committing a motorcycle to stop the inside of the passenger here.
It is just right that the government force it to force the people who helped in the government to solve the problem of the riding-in-tandem who are really sick of the head of the law enforcers.
It is true that not all the riding-in-tandem are criminals and criminals.
Just an example of this are the friends who are identified as Anthony Como and Jose Alfredo Quiteria, riding a motorcycle when the police was chased by the police because the plate number of their motorcycle was raised and cannot be seen in control and numbers.
They were shot and killed by the police so what's painful is that the resentment of their relatives is that, their wallet and other documents are lost, which is why they do not know where their relatives are looking for.
The two victims of the funeral home took two days to a morgue of the funeral home because they were riding a motorcycle and were wearing helmet.
If the riding-in-tandem is prohibited, it is certain that the tragic tragedy will not happen in the lives of two tricycle drivers who were just going to the house of a relative.
