In press Freedom Day: The threats to freedom of speech.

"The freedom of journalism is not just for a nap to give it to every citizen."
This is what Melanie Pinlac's Center for the media Freedom Fighters (CMFR), on the 20th celebration of the World Press Freedom Day on May 3, was released by some media groups and individuals.
The said groups and individuals, near the statue of Oblation in the university of the Philippines in Diliman, Quezon City, reached out.
Ruedt, general secretary of the National Union of JRRMC), which is launched by the Philippines (NUJP), said that they have launched the Committee of Flying V) in a positive way to celebrate the volcano in a free journalism in the Philippines.
"Marc Logan's cherness of the amount that was taken by the High School for Pad, Philippine press," said Mangaya.
Sonny Fernandez also said to NUJP that it is important to commemorate the day of freedom of journalism, despite the challenges of journalists, we continue to be united and going to protect the free journalism. "
Looked at the identity of the group that took a nap like CMFR, NUJP, Philippine Press Institute (PPi), Philippine Constabulary (Commission (PCP), Philippine Center (PhIJ) and Union of JMM), North Cotabato - UP Diliman (UJP, UP Diliman).
Recently, the Committee is released by the Committee on Higher Education (Cambot) of the country who are most dangerous for the Joe Burgos for the year 2013.
According to CMFR, the number of the late Joe ta and media workers who have been killed since 1986.
"In spite of the promise of President Aquino to turn the IDPs, the killing continues," said Fernandez.
In fact, it can be said that up to 14 people are announced to have been killed under the current administration.
"That's what we are saying, we are saying that we have a democracy in the Philippines, but you will be surprised why the killing in front of us will continue, there is a war on us, nothing," said Fernandez.

147 in 179.
In addition to the high level of the Philippines when the continuous decrease of the seven points this year in the press Freedom Index of reporters.
147 billion is the Philippines in 179-Siruma, how he respects the freedom of speech.
According to Rappler, not only the murder of the First Class Index "is also included in the plaza, which can be bought by a butterfly knife, the law, which was caused by a nap and cahoots with the free expression of self, transparency and transportation.
That's why according to Mangaya, even the number of those who are being killed during the past years, "all of the cases of murder in the previous administration have not yet been implemented," the gunman, "the gunman," the gunman, "said that," he said.
In addition to this is the continuous experience of journalists on different kinds of threats and harassment.
This is also the cause of the worsening state of freedom of speech in the Philippines with a trace of Bangsamoro Basic Law (FOI) in Congress.
"Chilling,"
Because of the continuous violence of the Joe Burgos, it is seen that a "chilling," to other journalists.
"Chilling," is the urge to stop what he wants to say or do because of fear that is given to his brain.
"If they see something not good and need to report it, they are hesitating to think about it: What if I say, I might get hurt, not only the job of the Joe Burgos, but also to the revelation of the truth."
