
Two consecutive operations were successful already launched!

Maintain loyalty.
NPA-Camarines Norte.
Twenty 20, 2012.

The two consecutive operations launched last February 18 and 119 of December, 2012 in Barangay businessmen who were cut off, both from the town of Tagbamboo, province of Quezon were successful.
In the two consecutive operations, it will be successful if ex-Barangay Captain Rommel Moros, 53 years old, of Brgy. Casacillo, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacillo, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacillo, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old, of Brgy. Casacilla, 34 years old.

Ex-Barangay Captain Lanticse, an active relative from 2007, is that he is the primary responsible for the forcible way of their barangay hall and those suspected to have a connection with the revolutionary movement and harassment done by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that reached more than 50 residents of the Philippines (AFP), together with the advancement of the sentiments of the citizens there.

Jeffrey Mendoza, a different ex-NPA, who had a headache, was sentenced to the Bagong Hagdan in the town of Bagong Hagdan in the town of Bagong Hagdan in the town of Bagong Hagdan in the town of Bagong Hagdan in the town of Bagong Silangan.

Efren Gacillo said that it is very active and primary Barangay Intelligence Agency (WBC) of the AFP to be active in giving information on the movement of the AFP unit of Bagong HRO that is responsible for the non-time attack of the AFP against the unit of BHB) in the place because of the information he gave.


They were ensnared by special operations of the Bables as Lanticse and Mendoza while they were headed by a few more active and unactive soldiers, Reden Cordero, Roger Mendoza and Eugenio Longon, and it was arrested that there was no heavy crime against the revolutionary movement and the people.

It has proven that this incident will never be able to decide with the back of the AFP, through his immediate action, especially those who have a big crime against the masses, especially those who do not change, so that those who do not change will be given justice to their victims.

In relation to this, we are calling the other parts of those who have been used by Lanticse, Mendoza and Gacilla, to take advantage of their lives in our surroundings so that those who will be able to take advantage of the progressive countries in our area are enough to immediately surrender to your scope in our scope, and will be able to take advantage of the illegal activities in our scope in our area.
