Very small; as well as your problem, what is your problem, you understood that you have already forgotten him, but I am just a little bit more.
It was your mother who was only able to talk about myself, but do you really live-out and my six-six-year-old man to what he is the American who is in your head.
I am the only one here who will cover-up; we are very confident; where it is clear.
The number of those who are living here are the ones who responded in the luggage.
Okay.
Ah, who you are living in that you are staying in Entertainment Television.
Very small; we will be sure that he will go to another place tomorrow, Production, I am expecting that I will be able to live there until Saturday, so that I will just go to school; we will be cut and put to clean up there.
I'll just go to our place in line that's why he / she can go to school; he / she goes to the morning, right?
I am going to you to look at that kind of age; he / she said, please do not know me.
I know what time you're still sleeping on what time you are sleeping, I am already sleeping.
"What if that is still early, who is with your birthday there, who is your companion, who is Ortho-budol Gang, who is an avid reader of me, ah, all.
You can't understand that you have to be strong, instead of too much.
Yes, I have my birthday.
One of your things, no matter what viand you do, I do not know which does not push through.
"What's the center that I have lost his bruises so that I can't hear why she was not able to hear about it, as long as it's okay, that's okay," that's okay, "that's okay," that's okay, "that's okay, that's okay.
"It is time to bring you that you are okay with your clothes, okay, you are okay with a little bit of small amounts; rather, I am okay to see that my mother-in-law is okay.
I was not able to do something like that, maybe later I will be embarrassed, go to and Production.
I said it's okay to say.
With what is feared, maybe later you leave, it is not right to In, not only to In, but I am not stupid; I am not looking at Alice who is okay.
I have no idea; he / she has no idea, no matter what yes, we are sure that we are going to work, but that is okay, yes.
