Lesson on the streets, on the Holy Week, it is right to fight.

By P2,500.
October 6, 2014.

Professional with name, but a slave to treat a government.
This is how the teachers want to express their situation under the administration of President Aquino, in their welcome of a protest in the foot of Mendiola Bridge in Manila, they announced the immediate garbage in the foot of Mendiola Bridge in Manila, and the increase of wage and benefits of the teachers and employees of the education sector.
"What we want on this day is to give glancing at the system of education and the situation of the teachers," according to Benjie Valbuena, president of ACT party.
Meanwhile, according to Nico John David, teacher from Eyebank Foundation delos Santos Elementary School, it seems that the appreciation of the teachers at the present is not being felt.
"It seems like in the SONA (State of the Nation Address) only, you will hear nothing from education and what the government is saying is what the government is spending, but also to the government.
Salary, benefits.
In all the attacks by the Philippines from Ferdinand Marcos up to Aquino, only the current president will give additional wages for the teachers, even in the next year (2015), there is still no appropriate budget for additional wages.
It was initially passed by ACT, Representative Antonio Tinio, the House Bill 245 in the legislative chamber that aims to raise the salary of the teachers (P1800,000 pesos (P25,000) and employees (P9,000 pesos to P15,000).
But according to ACT, many lawmakers in the Senate and Legislative Chamber are supporting the proposed law, only Aquino was the cause of the proposed law for him to finally be released.
"The salary increase was no longer increased, more benefits of P5,000 is allocated for the Christmas bonus, the additional P2,000 will be released, for P7,000," according to Valbuena.

Instead of additional wages, the teachers received additional jobs and it is still difficult for the teachers from the appearance of the based on the based rating of Health Organization (RL) and Lefancy Information Agreement (COP), according to ACT-governmental organization.
Rhea is brought out for the employees of the government including the teachers who say that one employee needs to achieve his target and to be able to be able to be able to solve the benefits and work of one employee.
The teachers, on the feast of their students in the celebration of the Department of Education (DepEd), are being complained by the teachers, who are saying that they stay at dawn "in the slow celebration of DepEd."
He also added to them because the teachers have not received any job for their additional jobs.
According to Rowie, the professor from De La Salle University-Manila and the president of ACT-Private Schools Administrations, they are also suffering from very high salary even in a private school.
"We are suffering from six to a year contract (the teachers in a private school).
K12, Cahis.
The teachers also want to stop the implementation of the K-12-12 because of different problems experienced by teachers and students.
Included in the problems that the teachers are saying is the lack of lack of lack of lack of lack of lack of chairs, similar to the shortage of chairs, in books, books, and others.
"On the K-12-12-INTEL), now, there is no one given to us that will be used for technology, we still need to take a glimpse of our own laptop," according to Melissa Castor, 33, from FG Calangon High School.
According to the teachers, they rushed the K-12 and the teachers and students now who are having a hard time and are still lacking and they rushed the training for the teachers.
It would be better for the K-12 to 12 years to school because of the lack of preparedness to the K-12-12, according to League of Filipino Students (LFS), who also joined the said action of the teachers.
"How can we say that for the improvement of education is the K-12-12, it is still not right now that these are not the only problem of the K-12 but also the goal of making their young ones inside and outside the country," according to Charlotte Velasco, spokesperson of LFS.

Awra knows that the 85,000 teachers in college are afraid of losing jobs in the release of the Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education) which aims to make a connection with the Filipino language in college, according to ACT party.
"It is not only those who are also in college who will lose because all the GE (general education) don't take it down to senior high school where there will be a lot of people who will receive school in college and university when this is going to be implemented by the K to 12," according to Madamba Dulay.
Elite!
According to Melania Flores, Deputy Secretary General of ACT-State Universities (Colleges, the goal of the K-12-12 and of Cutud, that the education in the Philippines will make the purpose of the policy of the international economy.
It was allegedly shown by the K-12 and Cutud, where the education of the Philippines was heading to the Philippines, Flores said, in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Instead of telling the problem of the government, it is only 14 youth were able to finish college, what is being done in college, what is being called by the white neo-liberals, which is being called by the school, Flores added.
The implementation of the program is becoming a problem in secluded places because they do not have anything or lacking in the ability of the schools to find grade 11 and 12 in college.
"What will happen, it would get worse to get worse, even if the children are not able to finish, the children will not finish in the provinces, they will not be able to get the academic, which is why they are going to be able to join the College so they are at a disadvantage with college," according to Flores.
Not only college will be lost from the suffering of the poor.
He said, even the use or strengthening the English language is being pushed to protect the education of the Filipinos in following the demand of jobs in other countries, this means that he does not have a job with enough salary that can make it inside the Philippines.
Aside from the Labor Law Policy "it seems that the K-12 is used to be increased by the K-12 to be more aggressive in order to be attracted to foreign tourists while the rights and interest of the Filipino workers are compromised.

Flores even explained that in the development of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), together with the Board of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), along with Oio-IBIG, and human Capital Region here, they are pushing schools to make the youth agree with the needs of the Labor Law.
ASEAN is an political and highest organization of the countries in Southeast Asia that was established in 1967 due to the year 2015, the implementation of the suspension of the region, which aims to ruin the countries here in the economy and politics.
Many critics of the ASEAN Inc. is criticized by many critics because it will be investigated to the interest of the big players of capitalists have, especially in the United States.
Lesson in the streets.
Aquino remained deaf and numb about the complaint of the teachers, according to the teachers.
"What is the teacher's wish," that's what they didn't listen to, that is why we will not allow the teacher not to suffer if we are not suffering here on the streets? "According to Marissa Penafloat, 53, teacher in Carlos P. Garcia High School in the span of 30 years.
For ACT party, if the Aquino administration was not moved to protests to pay attention to their long-time call, they are ready to raise their fight and hopefully it will add up to a widespread brownout in the mass.
"We will recognize Aquino, we will point to him our rich experience with no additional salary coming from heaven (and) there is no additional wage increase from the militants, that we will prevail.
