It is out of Order: Duterte in Tanauan, Batangas.
By Fortun, October 11, 2016 2013 when he was elected as mayor of Tanauan, Batangas, Antonio "Tony, Halili, his platform, anti-crime and anti-illegal drugs that he fulfilled within three years, which is why he has been able to win as mayor last May 9, 2016 elections.
Mayor Halili is known in his "campaign" wherein he was caught stealing a box of dried fish, complaints and other goods that are roaming around, please do not make a sound. "
Because of this, Mayor Halili gathered criticisms on the Commission on Human Rights (CHR), but he still did not falter and after that, there were drug pushers in the streets of Tanauan, there were also drug pushers and drug pushers where they decided to fight against the police in Tanauan, and unfortunately, they decided to fight against the police in Tanauan, and unfortunately, they decided to fight against the police in Tanauan, and full of gunshots.
Because of his severe campaign against crime and illegal drugs, Mayor Ynarez, "Duterte of Batangas, said that because of the style of the two mayors when it comes to the campaign against criminality.
It is not surprising that during the campaign of 2016, Halili is a host of the forehead of the former President Rodrigo Duterte, which also held a program in the city of Tanauan.
Here in the past election, Halili is a retired general of the Philippine National Police (PNP), who is the sibling of a retired chief, who was assigned to Batangas for a long time who was assigned in Batangas. Isabel defeated his most strict opponent when he got more than 80 percent of the votes.
That is why it is not surprising why the personnel of Halili is being harassed in Batangas Provincial Police Office (PPO) and Mayor Tony, who was also forced to join illegal drugs from the campaign until the present time.
Before May 9 elections, the personnel of Supt. Jacinto Malinao, Jr., who is the chief of the intelligence of Batangas PPO, the house of the leader of the Mayor's Anti-Crime Group (Mac), even all the guns of the said person are licensed.
The Mac Group head, Supt. Malinao, and his staff were accused by the intelligence group of Batangas PPO, the said group, who was involved in illegal drugs and Mayor Halili is allegedly a protector and protector of the group.

Mayor Halili is not moved from the said accusations because the residents of Tanauan and in the entire Batangas said that there is no truth with the said accusations that even once, Halili is not the truth to his former chief of Police (COP) and current COP in Tanauan, not to catch or reject any drug pushers.
If it is needed by the focus of the intelligence that the police personnel need to be given to the office of the police personnel, they should ask "the former COP and provincial directors that they are the ones who know about the activities of the local government units.
This is probably why President Rody is being electrocuted in those similar to former Pangasinan governor and now he was seated on illegal drugs just based on the alleged unfair policies of the former PD and regional director of Region 1.
The accusations against Mayor Halili is not stand on illegal drugs because even before he goes out in politics, these are legitimate businesses that are similar to the abeCard system and became the president of their association.
Katrina believes that the performance of the best public utility pesos "will be considered as the purpose of the anti-anti and anti-drug campaign against the retired police general who planned to run as mayor of Tanauan, 2019.
