Ones who are drug addict, PNoy!

It is not bad for President Benigno Aquino III to be honest if this is in the issue of bark, in politics or private, according to the true friends, no matter what happens, no one will leave him.
But as a leader of the country, G. Aquino has a big responsibility to correct his governance, as well as the members of his cabinet, the members of his cabinet should be responsible for all the movement and actions of their agency.
It has been four years since he was elected in Malacañang for four years, but instead of solving the problem he found, you just do not know, Mister Aquino, if you arrived in front of you, you are all thinking about what you have left, your improvement?
The MRT and PNR, lined up because of your negligence, all the arrogance of your personnel or friends who are seated, they can clearly see that they do not have abilities.
Before, even if the MRT or PNR is being ruined and given quick action, most of the many passengers, there are no problems or complaints against your friends and friends, why don't you ask Jun Abaya.
This is even one of the MMDA who boasted that they will be able to resolve the strict flow of traffic, which is why, Atty. Francis Tolentino will be able to solve the result, PNoy?, a kilo of vehicles coming from North Luzon Expressway!
The line with the MRT station that is also a number of those who are old and with disabilities are not included in the train because everything is working in an elevator and escalator.
According to MMDA chairman, it seems that it's too bad to think about it, all his first year with the MMDA, do you think that the traffic in Christmas will be lost because of its implementation of "Christmas lane," Anzon?
She himself lost his feelings because his name was not true.
Also in addition to the line of the line, where is that now?
PNoy, it is not bad for you to be kind to your troop but mortal enemies of tolerating your evil friend when you sit on the agency.
Butch Abad, Donasco, Dinky Soliman, Ramon Paje Egan, Ramon Paje, Jun Abaya, and the form of the form of your form, Francis Tolentino.
Oh my, President Aquino, your people are all just full of failures, then you are tolerating his "friends, you are still many friends and your troops that are being given to those who are from the" lily's Calvento Files, lily.
