Cowards.

By Cutud, Kevin Arguna.
October 14, 2013.

"Hmmmp!" In this way, or maybe there is still a lack of news that we heard in the past few days, we have no end of the antagonist, we all have all of us, and all of us will never end this story.
"Their mother!
"What is that, they were pleased with it?" This is the reaction of many that while we are suffering, the millions of bonus received by the director, its proposal to raise the contribution of each member, which has additional wage increase in a small salary every month.
"Their faces are thick," what else can be touched by their faces that the officials of MWomb, according to the news from the past, those who are leading the leaders of GOPLAN), are experiencing the money that the citizens have worked hard for.
"They are too much!
These agencies have been bombarded with criticisms especially on the internet because of the increasing news of stealing from the public funds through pork barrel, you feel that the workers are on top of the news, that's why it's good that the workers are on top of the history of SSS and MWalis!
But if you think that we already know all the villain in the television series of lives of the Filipino people, well, what should we call for those in Malacañang and Aquino, even though they have given attention to all that are close to this?
The director of SSS is said to have nothing wrong about the million pesos worth of the director of SSS because this bonus is still lacking as gratitude compared to the good selling of the SSS and raising the income of it.
It is said that the government is giving a bonus to this agency, like SSS, because of its very beautiful scenery this past year.
Even for the spokesperson of the Palace, isn't it that if you are also in our status, this is what you are going to do?
In every corner of the country, Malacañang got the research to run in SSS and should be thankful for the slow pension and benefits that you have worked hard to pay, that is why they will bear to live for the small pension of SSS?
Can they still see every month that they are paying in water?
It's because there is only one reason for the palace to use a good purpose compared to us who are ordinary people, because it means that this is the outline of their income and not the primary use of their service to determine if these are the billions that they should use to use.
But not.
And where will they find an example from the officials of human rights, but also to the president?
The position in the government, from the pork barrel scam, is from the pork barrel scam, up to millions, business and not service if the government is a big Mafia, that the government is a big villain, which is continued to have no money but the future of the citizens.
But like all television series, it is not possible that the villain will win, not all the time is disturbing, not all the time is disturbing, not all of the news shown by those in the government, the stars are growing up.
From the abuse and fight.
It is believed that the days of drilling the government are now prepared for the protagonist for a hot scene.
And this is the first copulation and we are not sure if you are in our status and this is what you are going to do? "
Heat, camera, action!

This is still a form of the Leflawless, but it is quiet in the middle of the issue of corruption and stealing from the public funds for the television series, this is one who is pretending to be an ally of the protagonist but also the antagonist.
