Does he know that there is a National motto of our country.
Nothing right, right?
I am not alone.
Well.
Okay.
Went down the Black Nazarene.
Ah, it's not those who look back on your own language.
Your driver, Brother Joly, is the payment that needed.
Bautista while there is life in Pag-asa.
What should I do?
Stopped.
Poverty is prohibited.
He / she was on duty to leave and then the country looks like one another country looks like a twin boys for a few minutes that's why he / she didn't want to break Ramos in me, because he wants it to be.
The exchange of motto that happened during the time of President Corazon Aquino's time to adjust, that's why they have become proud of, as well as the goddescent; "Aquino, Aquino, the safety of, James, because it is just for the call of the call of the call.
With the volume of return in the center we talk about.
Does he know that ten are recognized by the child.
Some of them are not familiar to many of them.
On the other hand, four-year-old people, whose name, Fidel Ramos, had a former president, Fidel Ramos, who was the former President Fidel Ramos, who was first known in the Philippines as well as the rich in Perla.
To prove to us, it can be found in the paper where there is rice, more than six kilos in the whole world.
Four years have been taken out of Talk table a six-year-old maid who had an appeal of narra, the removal of narra, the memory of narra, the filipino country, that's why Filipinos feel pity for it. "
Cleanliness, that is just what I don't know.
I want to be involved with women who are going to be involved in the streets; they are stubborn; and even the man.
But that is right.
These are Senator.
She is the character of the older sister for our conversation with us.
But when the Senate will be approved by the senate, the queen of the Philippines - what we need to say is that it has a law that we need to talk to the ordinary people, but even if it comes to your house, we can still remember that your mother is my mother.
Filipinos are twins, according to the child, who is very entertained by the child, which is five under the Administration as he laid down the Philippine Alum and twin.
We are proud; as long as the Americans are still in other countries, we know that we recognize those who are known for us to call for those who are recognized in the law for the Republic eighty-four pesos only for the law that I left in the Philippines.
It is a distance to the simple things of the country.
At the Seal-up, the National BE.
So, it's as if we are like the public transport between the projects which are ready to be prepared for the seminar when we are ready to go to the public utility vehicles, to become resourceful in our store in our store, what are our officials who are just inside the bus.
It is Thursday that the speed of former president Arcillas get the speed of the speed of our country that we have done to the country that we are playing in our country at the same country, with the Edith R. in the country he was made to take care of and take care of.
Okay, I can say like any law that our children, who are our senators, are not aware of what kind of law that they bought, they are so big and can't know that this is an ordinary person.
Now, it is only ten officials of the country and it is clearer that many of our knowledge here, ah, are small.
