
My sister, Commander Nony (Leadversary, Examination was also a part of 13).

September 27, 200 square meters.

It has been almost two weeks before in our combat against the island of Sulu where my unit was assigned by an encounter and a riot in different parts of the historical island.

When it was around ten o'clock in the morning of SSeptember 27, we received a radio call from 1040Brigade to transfer us in Indanan, Talipao, where the Abu Sayyaf will be spotted, the Abu Sayyaf, the Abu Sayyaf.

It's because it is really possible deployment of M-M for our units, which is the quick force of the Philippine Army, which is the reason why our home is implemented, that is the reason why our home is in our combat, which contains our office, which contains our country.

As time passes, I called for my NCOs for a short mission.

"Prezantation for a.38 gun and 2: 00 p.m or 2: 00 p.m.
Commander Nony.

One of the things I am worried about that day is when I found out the Assembly area of all of us is in Barangay human rights under the armed group of Commander Nenita, who was previously arrested in the ranks of Abu Sayyaf.

I asked the people of Brgy.

"He was the leader of the armed there, sir, and he had a fight with him, which is why he and the group of Supata who passed through their barangay going to Jolo," said one Tausug who met him.

"With us who is Nenita, who is helping us and is able to show that we are our ally," said by Intel Partylist whom I have asked.

Red and white, it will only be easy to look at the feast in Sulu, Kabarilan, you might be on your side next day and it is also not possible that you fight everything together.

However, I reminded the troops that we should not trust, not to give 100 percent the trust, especially that I don't trust that person, but I opted not to remind the troops that's why they don't want to remind the troops that's why they do not want to go home on the straight path inside the coffin.

Barangay human rights are just near where we came from.

When we arrived at the said barangay, around three o'clock in the afternoon, the armed men drew closer to us, more or less than ten were faced to us in order to greet us in their area.

He / she was hugged by one by one by one, but the guns of the officials were crying, but my troops were able to follow the agreement to be alert, but I was able to ask them to be alert, which was used in the fifth period of combat that's why I am confident.

When I found out that Commander Nishida has been facing, he was stared at by my inmates (who was able to catch the muslims) and my shack.

"

"

"But, we are all siblings and look at our skin color," I added that it is good at my skin that has no difference with them.

"What we came from is only one, the ten Datu Paglas,"

When we were given all their sectors, I chose a part part in front of Barangay Solo and around the eastern part of the town of Barangay Sevidal and near the eastern part of Buhuman rights (human Hill) that he had its wings in that place.

I tried to save that place, because I felt that we do something like me, because we did something like each other, but I talked to the personnel of Nenita, who went to my sector.

"Sel, do not worry about the hut that is on top of us, we are watching.

It is really okay, people in Sulu. Sur.

I decided to go on patrol to the patrol until Barangay Synod wherein the residents were abandoned, since the residents found out that the entire Jolo will go out of the thousands of soldiers on May September 16.

The Salas.

We know officials of the Light Rail Transit Battalion who are not all the people in Sulu, the problem of the citizens here are evil and rules here in the area and one of these is the son of the MNLF commander last 1970s.

That's why I brought a half-year-old soldier for the patrol place in the area, when they found out the face of the place.

After I talked to the troops that are based in Bayog Hill, I went to the place not far from Barangay human rights.

The Shuler is one of the barangays in the jurisdiction of the town of Talipao, farm the lives of the citizens here, and there are several trees, coconuts, banana and other plants.
On the side of the road, there are flood and I noticed a few of them seem to have abilities in life without able to do wrong, most of the houses are able to do to the bamboo and light materials.

I just noticed that the land is already known for a lot of months here, it might cause laziness or maybe it really is not enough for the knowledge in the peace he is doing in Visayas and Luzon.

Under the coconut plantation, they plant tall wood (casually), who is one of the Shiro Food of Tausug, it's easy to take care of and like the wild boar they used.

Not the shadow of people that were left in the area were the members of the Abu Sayyaf that are surely in the forest, meanwhile, some residents are from their relatives in Indanan, Jolo, and some areas in Indanan to avoid chaos when they were in fear of being involved in the encounter.

After more or less one hour of monitoring the surrounding, we went back to human rights to prepare for a mission in the next day.

I am going to kill each other.

I don't know what he was able to eat because I was able to eat because I was chosen to have a close and convulsion while we are preparing for dinner.

He brought all the food he brought to us in my position because there are those who are going to be named (casual), driving and even the small rice cakes).

"Sel, it is considered as a sibling that I feel more comfortable with you," he said.

I tried to listen to her eyes when she was saying something or what was said to be what he was saying or what if the dialogue was being talked to, that's why, not far from us, my personnel are just watching over us, and when we were not carrying a check-in-law.

I did not give him / her when I asked him why he joined the Abu Sayyaf.

I have learned a lot from her stories that I found out about the system of their marriage, their beliefs in religion, folk, and even what he knows in the history of Sulu.

He also has doubts that, just like his motive, is why he favored the group of Marwan, and even his stories in the field of courting, he said that it is better for him to get married in the barangay because the man is only working and the man keeps on top of the gun.

I found out that like other community there, they need to be weapons to protect their families and they are looking for a high-caliber gun from their hands, that is why there's a big number of guns coming from Sipadan.

We are talking about each other and we have reached more than two hours when we taste the sardines that has a mixture of fruits at night and cooked too much!

Before leaving, I saw a magazine from his backpack.

"Sel, as a proof of my acquaintance with you as a sibling, let it be a cup of M 16 million pesos as your memory to me."

"Uy, to be able to win!" Thane thank you), I liked an improvised gun because it seemed like he was using a turmeric tea in Afghanistan.

"

According to him, the form of the.

When Commander Nishida has left to return to his house, I talked to the Team Azkals.

"Gens men, let us adjust, based on the evening, we need to go under the stove and just give a new position to our neighboring units."

We do not want to be one of anyone.

I have found a vacant position because there is a big tree that can hide if you are hurting anyone who is not working.

Before we were quiet, I gave the amping for their target to buy-points (TRP) for 10-millimeter mortar which was brought by the 32nd Infantry Batallion.

If there is a brave attack, it is a priority for me to take a bath in front of the position so that we can take a bath when we tried to fight.
