PNP filled with 47 and leaned into by PNoy.

It is not surprising, whether the Philippine National Police is currently in the center of controversy because of the scandal that there are 19 personnel, including the five generals, those who are involved in violation or 1,000 units of P51.47.
Why do you think?
"That is according to the record of the police!
Here is the story of 1,000 units of P51.47 (high-caliber gun) disappeared from the PNP and the Philippine Army discovered that the missing guns were held by the rebels.
Weapons and state will go to the enemies of the government?
King Ina!!
It is very painful for soldiers who are likely that the weapons of the opponent will probably come from the government, King-mother!
What is more important is that, the report that five generals who are involved in the accident will be involved in this issue, but hopefully there is something going to file a case against the five generals so that the said anomaly will not happen again!
It's because it's just difficult, a lot of government officials who were charged in different kinds of foolishness but almost all are missing like bubbles!
PPP) program!
One of the people that we cannot leave is the project for the advancement of LRT and MRT, which according to our officials is really for the masses because of the hardship they rode!
Just think that it is tired from the line, a crowded passenger and frequent trouble, which can be said to be the cause of severe illness by a riding public.
Have some fainted because of the exhaustion from MRT / LRT?
This is aside from the health of the passengers of crowded places that may be taken care of cough, cold and looking!
"Be" horny! "
There are also a lot of escalator in an elevator that is not working so as not to be able to do anything, even the erness, pregnant, and with disability to use the stairs, which is more worried about their illness.
Hopefully, the feelings of our official will be removed to give solution to the said complaint of the masses!
It is different to say that there are a lot of obstacles from the meter like bus or to buy a vehicle!
"Is it, a crush, is brought by the case to be brought by the Public Works and Private Conejero of the administration of PNoy?
It's really an animal that becomes tangled!
