These are the lawmakers of the 670 million pork scam.

Orena Sais of Butch M. hehehe!

Aside from the Senate being reported by the COA, the said controversial issue that reached 670 million pork barrel, which was said to have been called by Senators Juan Ponce Enrile, Gregorio Honasan and 47 lawmakers?
Oh my!
Is this true?
The barangay officials said that, there are a lot of crooks that are cut off, however, there are a lot of crooks that can be implemented here, but they might be charged.
As they say, it would be embarrassing if their names go out if it is true that they are together because they will surely be jailed here.
"What if they are a pro-administration?" Asked the fool out.

The members of the officials of ORA 9208 Sawata, the Senate Blue RNC Committee said that the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee (PDAF), pork barrel and Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) scam.
According to the asset of the elements of ORA 9208 Sawata, many Filipinos are wondering why there are a lot of fake NG Os), but it looks like the followers of Janet Lim Napoles, "the favorite award of the DOJ and Blue Ribbon Committee?
Oh my!
Why?
"Janet is not imprisoned because of the scam but because of the illegal detention case," said the fool SPO-10 in Crame.
The barangay officials said that, the cadmium, said that the report that 670 million pork barrel scam, which was said to be 670 million pork barrel, was said to be exported in fake NGO), 2011 and 2013.
"It seems like they lost interest in the cancellation of them to investigate them after being able to investigate, or maybe, Senators Bong Revilla Jr., Jinggoy Estrada and Enrile are wrong.
Oh my!
Why?
"Is it because they are Opposition and deally?" The fool member of Burger Machine - Sique.
According to the asset of the owner of ORA 9208 or MO, the law should be fair to everyone who does not have a poor or rich, fat or thin, single or gay, single or ill, brown, or blind, deaf or blind.
As they say, the hole should be equal, but it is already wrong!
Said barangay officials said that this is the campaign of the government as the government of the government for the government's campaign against the corruption in the government on the wrong use of handkerchief, or a fund of the country.
As they say, it's not sleeping?
Oh my!
Is this true?
As they say, who will be the trend of COA in their book, I mean it's a report and if proven guilty.
They say, taking the prison bars!
Wait for it.

Muntinlupa City Masukat, 414.
On May 25, 2015 (BTAC) and to 3pm to attend to Vingno, 1st Infantry Battalion of Looc, 1st Infantry Battalion in Muntinlupa City Masukat, 414, there in Muntinlupa City Masukat, Victoria Homes, Tibagan, Victoria Homes, Tibagan, Las Pinas City.
Mica's, (Tom Rentoy was said to be the opponent Speaker and Muntinlupa City Mayor Jimmy Fresnedi will be the will of the inspiration Speaker.
Vanguarbal said, everyone will be invited to attend the said occasion so you will not regret if you will not taste their grand subdivisions.
As they say, look like a sound.
Gayle is Gayle and you can see each other there!

DENR to work.
The barangay officials said that some of the officials of the DENR were avoid some of the officials of DENR that's why their work was not done to catch the heavy traffic and jeepney they cannot do.
Why?
Answer - they are nervous and many are pleading.
According to the asset of the owner of ORA 9208 Shum, it was around 8: 21 in EDSA, Mandaluyong while they were traversing the roads that they are following, that the huge bus that they are following are suddenly surrounded by smoke.
As they say, Newcastle, plate number TXJ-3618.
Question - what happened?
The answer - almost no one can see the vehicles next because of the severe smoke he fell.
"What should be done to avoid this?" Asked the fool and cough.
"The DENR is conducting an anti-bust operation with PNP Highway Patrol to penalize anyone who violate the law of vehicles.
Wait for it.
