February.
We have one million pesos for ten pesos to ten pesos.
What?
Then, it seems to be white smoke that's why, it's okay the P / U-M-B; we were not the reason why you were cleaning the road when we were cleaning the moment, that was why when we were cleaning the moment, there was a chance that it will be an obstacle to an award.
The length of high tuition fee in the west-school University of the Misalania, which there are rice cakes in the same age, has a different agenda like that.
Apparently, they are able to take care of us in the office of PNoy?
Let us look like the U-bala "I am the U-T where it will be passed by cellphone for us to just wait for it.
What should I do in the operation of the beauty that would be the beauty that is very good; so as if we visited, it seems that there would be someone who goes to the U P / her to have five thousand pesos.
I went up to one five years and you are afraid to study but I am afraid of him, which is why he / she's very pitiful; we are okay.
Do you have problems in the hospital problem even if we are always.
You have a twin.
The life of our twin is the life of our twin, the taxes that we are applying for, so that we are going to pay one million pesos, so that it's not one of the students that we are applying for five thousand pesos, which is why it's not one of the students that we came from (GAA million pesos, which is why one-five-million pesos, which is why one-five-million pesos.
You have a problem on Sundays the fourth day.
In your studies, it is the one who has five million pesos for five pesos and will be able to pay one thousand pesos.
Two have been six months to the Bicol.
They can make it so that he can't pay anything about it, so that you will pay, I can no longer look for four years because of your entry to you.
University Two Wives.
Two Wives four pesos for its subsidy, will not pay.
Here he is the arrogant and online women like me.
Just an hour to Abel Prize.
Yes, of course, there is something that is why.
Why don't I don't know that the salary of the stars are being done by the stars that are only one thousand pesos and one hundred pesos only for six million pesos and why not, less than 20 pesos.
The students of PNoy are the operation to be given.
They will not be paid.
It is said that the Lupit of PNoy has said.
In front; we were able to go ahead; I have been there anything that's why they will pay their tuition because they are going to pay their tuition because of them.
He said yes, then let us say that the family take one million pesos.
Study at Ateneo in La Union.
Office is one hundred pesos for the Amagsaki, why is there a big help in one year University, and then.
We, all of what we are paying for here, this night, at nightfall, we can say that it is not right for the Philippines to be able to discipline, but what I am only right now is that the reason why it is only right now is the cause of the high tuition fee.
The government has money for eight years.
"That may lead you because the Philippines has so big payment for the show that I have a debt of gratitude for the Philippines, that's also already left by allergy, that's also something that's why I am not a government unit."
"There was a number of six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six.
You have not yet seen a student coming from an extraordinary bystanders' sister.
There is a solution.
Okay.
That is why one of me, whose names are very different; we are thinking that there are other people who are different from studying, I think there are a lot of mosquitoes here in the schooling of the Philippines one thousand, and slow.
Education is the public service that I am not yet Manila Zoo and stroll in another country, why are they not going to other countries after it goes to the same age.
So I really love so much, I need to be annoyed, but I do not know the payment that the people are studying, but I do not know that the government is being searched by the government without doing anything.
"You here in the Philippines, what is the right thing that I cannot deny.
I am really the Zurbano family, four years old, with the advise of the government, who are deem not yet and does not want to.
Answer?
