
DAP, correct?

Benigno Simeon Aquino III spoke from Malacañang.
The theme is his defense of the abusive funds of the country, the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP).
Bira 3 said the Saligang Batas "made the formation of DAP.
That is his belief, along with his troop.
It appears that one of the understanding of one of the inventor of our 1987 Constitution, Father Atty. Joaquin Bernas, together with forty-seven, many of those who wrote the dead) are already wrong.
It appears that former Senator Joker Arroyo is wrong, as well as Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago.
The three leaders have said that it is illegal and is not perfect for the formation of DAP because it is also possible that Malacañang has no show in the order of its full force.
It is also stated by the constitution that only Congress has the right for the institution.
The question is, who really is right?
It's okay that we will allow Noynoy to be allowed to have a right, in DAP.
It is also true that a president needs, that even if he gets the president he is holding a fund like the Presidential Social Weather Stations (Police District).
He has a right time in times of lack of need for immediate action, especially during the time of typhoon and calamity like the earthquake in Bohol and Cebu.
But the question is, if he is clean like what he said to his boss, "I did not buy," his personnel, friends, classmates and Kabarilan who were taking care of the different agencies of the government?
Everyone is coming out about their involvement in corruption and corruption.
He did not even resist them.
Their work is ongoing.
And does he really need more or less 1 billion pesos in his pocket?
The DAP is similar to the anomalous Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) which is a famous pork barrel.
When it is said that pork barrel is said, this is the fund where the congressmen are from the executive leader.
What PDAF is right is right, if it is used in the proper discretion.
But now, it is proven now how they abused the pork barrel in the character of Jony Corporation, Janet Lim-Napoles.
I believe that Napoles is not alone in the crime like before when the P10 billion pork barrel scam was revealed.
I am sure that there are more people like Napoles who got the amount of the treasury of our wealth.
Because the PDAF is noisy, Butch Abad admitted that PNoy built the DAP.
On the other hand, it is not clear that Father Joaquin asks, Joker Arroyo, Miriam Defensor Santiago, Miriam Defensor Santiago, and there are still many legal agencies who said that illegal drugs is not only illegal but not to be illegal!
But in his speech recently, Baba 3 called the Constitutional Commission on Constitutional Commission on Human Rights.
(WHO) that was the name of the victim?
Is Aquino really good for the legal wife and to become a nuisance, wow!
What do you think of?
Are you willing with what he said?
Is it fine with you?
I am just looking for what Baba 3 said "the projects?
Where is it?
Are you just telling you?
