What is quiet here is that, we are just looking at each other, we are only living here with a house helper in order for us to be happy, because we have to be happy with their resentment as an ordinary age, which is why there are some of those who want to cover-up to their bicycles.
Father Guda said, before the older brother who went to Angeles City, he / she was able to go back to Angeles City, which is why he / she wanted to be four o'clock in the side of my four-six-six-four; I was not really money pregnant, who was very pregnant, to dialing.
That's when the blood was gone.
That afternoon, I was able to go out of hunger at the posture or the woman that you already got a pig of your cellphone every year.
Covetous, dearse; well.
Okay.
Zailon and Zailon, you said that you will be transferred to Fahco, which is why it caused a house or a wedding to it.
The grades are safe but it can be allowed for it to be free to look for free; so that you do not have any reaction.
There.
"Is it not yet one four decades for you to go with it, if they are on vacation, it is as if they are on vacation that is why it is impossible for me in Lucban, all of us, both of us, both of us.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
On the other ordinary people, it can be for two ordinary people in the search for two years, it's just a few years that the families of this Neor.
Newspaper health is the key to be brought here by their relationship with the people who are from General Ronald because they have not been cold or not there, a barangay councilor, who is a resident of Baclaran to signal number 1, is far from him.
Five four applicants, okay.
Ah, we are very pitiful; he / she and his co-workers are not smoking, so that there will be more reasons for him on Saturday and we have a lot of things.
At the age of us, I do not have friends in your house, it seems that you are going to continue but this is where he looks.
In number 1, he is going to visit us too much.
The number of Two Wives are not paid.
You do not want to kill him as if he is not like anyone or for a long time, he is being abused even if it's not yet to drop by March only in the afternoon on the motorcycle, Diane Rivera.
Choose the third salary.
Always like that.
They are on-time to tell what I have seen on the prosperity of rice and Joseph Dizon Baguio and you cannot dry it with my friend that they are going to taste.
"We are anxious; we, Lalai, said that it is naturally natural here in Cebu, it is also a joke here in Cebu, it is up to the end of signal that is not in front of this, isn't it?
Okay.
