There is no funds for the Ebola virus.

We do not admit, our Department of Health is very anxious about the big possibility of Ebola in my beloved Philippines.
If you will be followed, Bro, what the DOH is saying is that you are going to be happy even if he is saying that the Philippines has Ebola.
Well, DOH is calling on all the citizens to cooperate with the authorities against illness.
DOH said, thousands are expected to come from overseas Filipino Workers and tourists today, Christmas and Christmas, and from these, the disease will come from.
It is certain that there is no class in the Philippines.
According to an official in the country India, it is possible to stop the arrival of Ebola in Asia, including the Philippines.
The official said that there are countries who are strong and have abilities to fight the disease like Singapore, South Korea and China.
But there are also other countries like the Philippines that can be weak in fight.
The Indian official explained that there is no sufficient fund for the Philippines government against the illness and it is full of the community who will be used to pass by the deadly disease and have no clear treatment.
It turns out that all the countries in Asia have their own immigrants or Overseas Filipino workers from Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Mali, Senegal and Nigeria that they go to Asia from these countries.
There is no fund.
"Isn't it that the law is currently being monitored by the congressman for the national fund in 2015?
The congressmen said, they should have a fire in the sun and night to end the law early.
But if their proposals to be studied here, we have not heard that a law is going through Ebola in order to have enough funds against it.
The pork barrel allegedly put in the pork barrel scam, which is ready to question the Oryong 501 in the legislative chamber.
Ebola.
As said by one of those who do not care about what is happening but you are fond of making a lot of profit from the proposed laws, the Philippines is said to be free.
That's why the fund is not being discussed against the diseases of congressmen.
In the Senate, there is also no talk about the theft from the government and the thieves.
This is the visible comment: Those who are investigating are also believed to be thieves.
That is why, it appears that the thieves are mad at their fellow thieves and all of these are more than the election 2016, for their own pocket and not for the welfare of the country.
LGUs.
In our observation of the local government, it appears that no one is thinking and selling funds against Ebola.
Even if there is a big possibility that Ebola will have Ebola in their provinces, city, town and Barangay.
Can we imagine that these local officials believe that they will just face the pain if it is already there.
"It is still English in English to saying that," Let's cross the bridge, we, "Hhmmmp!
But if they are talking about the ways to earn, the child of their posts, they will be faster than lightning in making ordinances so they can earn from the implementation of their projects until it comes to implementation of these.
No one should be blamed.
In case we were able to enter the disease and the citizens are unaware, there is no one to blame but the own leaders of the country that are not doing anything but push for their own interest.
To get rich in position and close their positions so they will get rich in using their power.
There is no thinking about the children's children, as well as the strict countries like the United States, the Ebola virus has been possessed by Ebola and it has been increasing in number.
Now it is as if it is too late for the Americans for them to have Ebola, and they are anxious that until they come from the churches in church, mall, office, table, and others.
Even they riding the airplane, bus and ships, their hairs stood on private and they are riding a passenger or similar to them even their own countrymen.
What if we entered Ebola because of the negligence of our authorities?
Action, VS.
Now, Bro, we can ask the DOH, the whole government from the national until local: Everyone has a serious campaign against Ebola?
We have not heard anything that I admire and have a widespread program.
The media is making a way to hear the people about how to prepare against the illness.
While this is happening, we heard of the doctors' complaint that there is no training being done to them by the DOH.
The private doctors and hospitals are what we hear is preparing but they give doubts whether they can fight the disease, especially if the victim has many lives.
