Lies in DAP and luxuriously.

Do you know why PNoy is fighting for the Disbursement Acceleration Program even if it will lead to the minds and destruction of the Filipino people?
Here are a few signs.
It is not true that PNoy stopped the DAP such as their reason when they are fighting in investigating the SC.
Their reason then, the SC should not make a decision anymore because the DAP was stopped and the academia or Hacons are just the same or no meaning of any decision.
But when the judges of the decision and 13-0 fight against DAP, it appears that the severe lies of the PNoy government came out.
Here, DILG Sec. Mar Roxas and DPWH Secretary Rogelio Singson said they cannot do anything but stop all their projects which have the DAP.
King-mother, it is still working more than two hundred pesos DAP, Roxas for money to buy patrol vehicles and others.
Meanwhile, Singson asked the truth in saying that he can't do anything but stop the P5B flooding project from DAP.
King-mother, who will be the next to prove the extreme lies and fraud of the PNoy government about what is happening in the government now, duh?
Then, the government has the interest to say that they will be impeached all of the justices in order for the end they are all followers of what they are doing even if they are against the Saligang Batas and the laws.
But what is with DAP, and like a crazy dog, the PNoy government is like a crazy dog?
Is this related to the upcoming future where they are feared to have a way for PNoy and his allies in PR?
Remember, the people from Dilawan, what the citizens want is for PNoy to remain in Malacanang for additional six-years!
Isn't it right? "King-mother, for what?
So that they will not be complacent and go to prison to the Constitution and laws like what they are doing to their enemies now in politics?
And for them to continue all big chunk of funds of the country in the form of DAP, Presidential Social Weather Center and more than P2.5-page national budget every year?
All of these issues should be vigilant in all of these issues.
