Will only be protected from the SEA Games?
By Caparas, July 10, 2016, 100 million Filipinos are sad because Pad and Gilas Pilipinas at the Manila Quatar will push through today without a won at a game.
But, hopefully, this will serve as a call to our countrymen and even the supporters of the basketball, that maybe it is time to make the attention of other countries that there will be a big chance to win the giant gold medal.
1924 when the Philippines started to start the participation in the Olympics and to amend the highest achievement of our boxer, Anthony Villanueva and Onyok, in the field of basketball, it is true that we have changed our neighboring countries and even the countries in Europe.
Let us just say that the Philippines is already grown up in the Philippines, but in my opinion we still end up compared to other countries except for the Southeast Asian Nations.
The proof of this is the continuous attacks in basketball Events in Southeast Asian Games. But until the SEA Games, we might just be eaten.
Maybe we should admit it even if I have seen the whole Philippines in basketball, that we are not the game and the ASEAN region will only go.
Probably, let us just imitate the Malaysia year 1990 "since they were abandoned by their ministry, Sports), which has no hope to win the gold medal in the Olympics.
The funds for people who have no potential to win the gold in Okinawa are brought there because it might be brought to the big international competitions.
Like the business opportunity coon Manny V. Pangilinan (MVP), the help in basketball and boxing is invaluable.

Maybe it is time for the money that he will throw at basketball, put in other sports who have a potential to win the gold in the Olympics.
The target to be held in the Olympics in basketball, which if you think about it, is not a burden or success of the country but only with the success of time and money.
It is true that there is a lot of money saved for basketball by the Philippines, especially, as well as well-like supporters like Danding Cojuangco and MVP, but what they did was full of resentment and grief!
