
Wu, it is pitiful, "I am sorry.

In front of the cadets of the Philippine Military Academy at the end, and in front of many who joined the PMA pressuring the parents, tourists, tourists, snack and fellow leaders of the Senate, together with their running candidates in Sabah, only because of the instigation and financial help to make trouble.
Are you happy?
It's obvious that President Noynoy got tired of his wrong beliefs and wrong whispers that he was saying to tell where he faced and talk about his cheating plate on his attacks on the former President and now Pampanga Congresswoman Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Based on the interview with Edwin Lacierda and Abigail Valte, those who gave the US $600 each head to go with Rajah Buayan and sisters of Sultan Jamalul Kiram, to take his Sabah to Malaysia.
They belittled the character of the RoSecurity Forces of the Sultanate of the Sultanate of the Sultanate, even if they are in poverty, their brain is not like that kind of amount.
Instead of PNoy to talk with the Kiram to finish his post, they make sure that the issue on the wrong posture is better.
If your accusations are true, it is true that you remain to name the "prepaid electricity, but you have a lot of profit from the Kiram III, you have nothing to fear to tell who are the ones that you are saying.
One more thing, what would you disturb the opposition if there is a real opposition, then you will be the only one to turn your head in pushing the system of the country?
Your term is over, there is still no clear and a secret to the country and the people but the stories that are useless!
Now, those before do not care about the issue, is the lack of your interest and protection to our countrymen who are in Sabah now, they are aware of the true image of your leadership.
The ordinary citizens now say that you are part of Malaysia than our fellow filipinos, that is painful, Mister President, so you can show that you are Filipino and not far, your grandfather is like a pro-Malaysia, the call to be able to choose!
Do not Mister President, do not allow the people to get angry at you and your personnel, do not meddle with your troops that are plague to you from the quicksand of mistakes.
But if they are more important to you and in your life, sure, you are going to enter and turn your back to the people! It's embarrassing, Mister President.
