No.

There is no movement in strengthening the United States (US) in Asia-Pacific.
Just recently, US Defense Secretary Leon Pananglement of the outline of their plan to transfer the 60-graft case of the US Naval ship will transfer to the Asia-Pacific during the year 2020.
Meanwhile, before he went to the consecutive state visit to the US and United Kingdom, he went along with President Benigno Aquino III to Martin Dukhovnaia, chairman of the US Joint Task Force of Staff, to give permission to the American troops to use the Naval and airport office in Clark, Pampanga and Subic, Zambales.
It has been long been prohibited for the increase of military based in the country since the Senate junked the Mad Defense Cooperation (VFA) but through the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA), which led the same year, the American troops continued to continue in the Philippines.
Even if it is prohibited in the Saligang Batas, Aquino allowed the construction of the US government of the National Coast Guard Center in the shore of South China Sea that will be the partner of the US government in the launch of the intelligence operation.
With the continuous control of the US to sovereignty and improvement of the country, there is no mix of attention to our leaders and immediately follow the desire of the foreigner, even if there is a more source of damages in the country, if there is a greater path of damages in town.
This part of history is important for the US.
Being aggressive in America is their presence in different parts of the Asia-Pacific Ocean, and when it comes to the Philippines, it is not enough to get the agreement that took place and the US is also armed with the growing tactic in order to become their presence of it.
Recently, there have been released again, a branch of the ship between the US Navy and Coast Guard, by a Mega Job Fair they seem to look like a simple Job Fair, but he can still look like the American troops in Northern Luzon.
Whatever way to use the US, it is sure that only two things are sure, they cannot deny their selfish interest in the Philippines, and that's why he's always supporting and given to our government.
According to the Aquino administration, they will not allow the American troops to attend the country without permission, but if the basis, the leaders of the US to the ports and ocean of the Philippines, the government will quickly lose in the coast and ocean of the Philippines.
It has been proven that in the history that every time the US and the Philippines came, we just agree with the scheduled direction of America.
No one soldier, Filipino or American, has been tried after the cases of those who were involved in an accident explosion while they were doing the training in the Balikatan last Tuesday, the woman raped by an American soldier in Subic last 2005.
The government always wants to look like the presence of the American military in the country to give training to our own soldiers, and for us to remain allies of the most powerful nation in the present, there is no assurance that when it comes to the Philippines, it is ready to defend the Philippines.
Due to the blind ability to worship the Americans, the country remained firm with the sanctity of the country, which is also affected by the US and the economy of the country, and they are also the ones who will destroy the country like the privatization of education.
That's why it's not help or help from the US's continue to stay in the country for the real freedom of our ancestors to leave the same essence of the American troops in 1991.
In the time when it directly spread and exposed the violation of US to our country, through the position in our government, there is no one right to direct the people but to be direct in terms and fight.
