
Medical head in Bulan, Sorsogon, deceit for the people and a temporary solution to the crime of the AFP-tra: The people.

Samuel Guerrero.
Celso Mabog Command-NPA-C or R) or magazines.
July 1, 2012.

31st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay has launched a medical mission in Brgy. San Francisco, Bulan, Sorsogon last July 1, 2012 to analyze the citizens and cover up their crime against the people.

It can be recalled that the military was gunned down by the military and was gunned down by the military and was shot by the military in front of his family last June 17, 2012.

When the wife of Cesar admitted that he was a civilian, he was hit by a stray bullet that became the lies of Lt. Col. Toribio, the residents of Brgy. Paltrow and 31st Infantry Batallion and a nearby barangays of Barangay Paltrow and 31st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay.

Two weeks after the mentioned crime, when a bird was taken from Jee, and harassment of the residents of the town of Bulan with the medical mission of the government troops that is part of the medical mission to attract the medical mission to become a liar and soldier of the 8th Infantry Batallion and 31st Infantry Batallion.

The AFP troops are ordinary activities by the government agencies that are government agencies that are allocated to government agencies and to be part of the illegal drug operations where the people are going to beat up a little show and to hide the increasing number of human rights in Sorsogon due to the Oplan Galugad conducted in Sorsogon due to the Oplan Galugad conducted.

While they are pretending to be declared champion with human rights, the list of violation of 31st Infantry Battalion in the public schools that resulted to the military troops are clear to cause trouble to the houses of civilians, this is a clear violation of human rights particularly in some barangays of Casiguran, Sorsogon.

The Filipino people, will not be raised in the campaign of PRIMO, and continue to fight the against the citizens in Oplan Tokhang.

You are Samuel Guerrero.
Speaker.
