Nagged by his posture of the students of DLR.

Probably no one thought that the students and employees of De La Salle University (DLRU) are able to let them know the issues that they are facing now inside the university.
On the 25th of June this year, the students and employees of DLRU) are going out of the leadership of the Supreme Court (SSC) and the Model Shop for the university and maltreatment of the students and maltreatment of the students.
According to Juan Carlo Espiritu, the chairman of Station 6-DLU, some of the issues were faced by the students in DLRU, no permit, lack of sufficient abuse of the students and consultation, their opposition to those who were said to have been stolen from the university.
They are calling for the President to resign from their duties as well, Bro, Jun Erantol, they are also calling for a school to the said issues.
Eaten.
A letter was received by the SC, the students brought closer to Salanglement (Salunoy at the Araneta) Farm or De La Salle University (Vet Institute of letters which is said to have been working in the construction such as blessing and we was let it was a protest.
According to SSC, the students allegedly got the students in different places in the Philippines to make a scholar, they thought that they were going to be a scholar, they thought that they were studying in San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan, they were surprised when they were married in San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan.
"According to them, they do not have anything to do with but to study, but what happened is, they are working on five to eight hours from Monday to Sunday, according to the women," according to the Supreme Court.
In the released official statement of DLNU, the students know that they are studying as Salomens.
Veluz added that in the conversation between them by the administration of DLRU, it is said that the work construction of the students under the southwest monsoon is said to be a part of the sanctity of the technology, human-Tropas.
"Those who responded to hold-hold-control) in piggery, are not graduating," according to Veluz.
Even those who are fed up in which are also complaining, according to SSC, full, egg and corned beef, shrimp, and corned beef, which are fed up by a dog, cooked and fed to them.
"They also showed a video of us," the fish that was filed against them, "according to Espiritu.
The parents also complained to them (SSC) to their parents because they were traumatized by their children, according to Veluz, when they went straight to the administration about what is happening to the Salazta, they just laughed at them.
"There are five who approached us in their situation there, when we are asking them if they are feeling well, they said to us," they said to us "we were treated," Espiritu said.
Even if the couple was shouting, the students who are on the second year have passed, those who are on the second year now have to pay 50 percent or half of the spent on their university if they will not continue, Espiritu said.
"So," others, are here in Manila to work to pay, because they will not be able to study others.
In the official statement of DLNU, to answer the issues being pushed by the students, it is said that they will conduct a proper action on these accusations.
But for the leaders of the students, the administration has not yet done anything, and if they still did not mention it, they cannot take responsibility.
The leaders of the students are wondering why it was replaced by the name of Salomens farm towards De La Salle College so as well as questioning the leaders of the students, as well as the students who are studying at Salazta and having their own council.
Height.
The increase of 5 percent in the tuition fee is also one of the failures of students, but the administration who has been able to increase and increase for the First Class.
DLNU explained, the 5 percent increase in the tuition fee for those in the first year will be approved.
The leader of the student insisted that he did not talk about the agreement last January 11 when there was a "Supreme Court that happened," only one thing was allowed to be seated on them (SSC president) in the said meeting.
"We really do not want to be an official, because in the past three or two years, there was nothing wrong for us, but it's just nothing compared to us.
Even the issues like additional wages for teachers and employees are still not given anymore, the teachers and employees are not yet given, and it is not clear if there will be a wage increase in salary.
When Espiritu allegedly asked the administration where the additional tuition fee will go, he said that it will just be seen in a financial report.
"But in the past two years, we did not have a financial report, when we given us last because it seems that he was forced, he did not explain if he was really suffering," according to Espiritu.
In the statement released by the administration who's released, he says that there are new projects which will vote for the facilities in DLU U.
The Supreme Court also added to the continuous increase of bills from the image of human cellular phones, which is said to be exalting), a high price increase in the form of ID System, Athola, internet and other people.
Even with the problem being taken for examination, he still remained in DLRU because of the implementation of his implementation of "no permit," of the exam. "
"They said, we do not have any permit, no permit, but we have a legal basis that it is just the same, we know that it is prohibited in our law," according to Espiritu.
In the statement of DLNU, the school admitted that they have no permit, no permit, but no one will study which is not received by the examination.
But, Espiritu insisted, that if there is no examination, there is a need to protect the administration, but as long as there is something to make the administration, they will do it so that the students can give or pay.
Even in having a new teacher in the university, they put them in a university, accepting his increase in tuition fee.
The students also call for an additional teacher in the university, because of a new woman who has been accepted by the said school.
"If they were able to save them," the new graduating, they have no skills, but according to the retired retired members from La Salle-Taft, "according to Calaguas, the chairman of the CSC).
Consultation, representatives.
It is said that representatives of the students are supposed to have a lack of education in the coming consultation to the five council of the students in the university including four college members of the College of Arts (CED-CSC), College of the Social Security Council (CED-CSC), and Bureau of Health Council (CED-CSC).
Only the president of the SSC supports the position in front of the administration regarding issues that affects all the students.
This is allegedly an example of the meeting related to the international organization and.
According to Espiritu, two conversation happened within three years.
"Trillanes IV, those who can talk about it should be open to everyone but only the president of the organization," according to Espiritu.
In the statement of DLRU, they called a conversation for the students to be able to talk carefully about the issues, but supposedly the students did not go on June 13.
"We did not give up to the rally, if they were open to the issue, we did all means when we passed by a conversation but we were forced to call them because they were forced to call them because they were forced and hot the issue," according to Espiritu.
According to Manangan, on their first conversation with the administration after the recent rally, their conversation reached three hours but they did not find a clear answer from them.
President, asked.
Since the current president took office, all of the negligence is what happened to DLRU, according to the leaders of students in the university.
"That's why he did not know the real condition of the university because he can be seen for two months only for two months before he took office, he was in a peaceful university," according to Espiritu.
Only the dancestries of his bed named Christopher Polanco, they were talking to in the issues of the university, but they were not able to get a positive answer from him.
Although they wrote a letter to officials of the university, even in De La Salle Philippines, to take action on their complaint against Erguiza Espiritu, he even extended his term until 2016.
"We do not want to go there for three years that what we saw and experienced in him are enough, that's why our call to be a child," according to Espiritu, was enough.
The fight continues.
There is still no change happening in DLNU, although their meeting with the administration continues.
However, the leaders of students are still determined to continue their fight.
"There are several kinds of reactions that we have done to the national rally, some were surprised, there were millions of eyebrows, but there were also some who told us to continue what we are doing," said Espiritu.
His posture and action that they are doing is a big issue for them, even if they are from a private university for them, it is part of the rest and fighting for your rights wherever you go.
"You became good at the acing politics, but you have become subservient.
There is also a case against them, Espiritu was said to be an issue when they took a video in the recent rally, someone was able to tell them that it was allegedly being studied which caused them to damage it.
But on the other hand, they know that it can still happen that it is still their duty as a leader of the students to take care of the interest of the students, they used all their needs outside to state, according to Espiritu.
"We got all kinds of defamation and praises even in social media, but we did not do this to be famous as long for us, we are doing this for the majority," by Espiritu.

