Said to be brave, Brgy. Chairman of Manila, apparently, there's a coward!

It was said that the brave Barangay Chairman of Manila were tied after he was chased by the members of the Manila Action Force (Special Action Force (masses) because of the non-bust operation that was held in Blumentritt without coordination from the Manila City Hall where many vendors were wounded.
Well before, Rodrigo "Rody" Cruz, who is the owner of Sanga-Cruz, in Rizal Avenue in Sta. Cruz, was already dead on Friday when Mayor Joseph Estrada and City Administrator Fr. Simeon Garcia gave it to the people of the masses.
What happened was what happened and it did not appear in his barangay and instead hid in a place in a businessman inside the businessman inside the village inside, Bulacan on the ground that he was claiming to be arrested in front of the sentiments of the vendors in front of the spinal cord, Bulacan on Thursday at around 12: 00 in the afternoon until 1: 00 in the afternoon.
Some vendors say that he just wants to send them a payment for the payment for daily positions just like what some guards do, causing traffic in Blumentritt and Tomas Mapua, asking alms or Kotong from the drivers of jeepney and tricycle.
According to him, Cruz is proud that he does not need the coordination from the Manila City Hall because he does not have the time to identify Mayor Erap and he also does not have a time to get to know this because he is his boss, Roland Lim.
Lily's Creator has found out that Cruz is very angry with Mayor Estrada because he was not able to run away from the party of the mayor except for the arrest of his / her godchildren, Eduardo Manoy, alias "Eddie," who killed the opponent in the election of chairman Armando Ramos.
The reporters said that the said crime was also pointed out, he is also pointing out the murder of Manansis with Ramos.
Just a reminder to our police in Manila to be careful in the end of Cruz because he was armed with MP-5 fingers, even his personnel and men also have guns.
Hopefully, this will be arrested in the tough barangay chairman so that he will stop harassment and harassment from the vendors, who just want to live in the head of sweat and not the deceit of people like what Cruz is doing.
Let us get to know, abusive policemen.
Sometimes, I passed by there at the stretch of Quirino Avenue, and I witnessed the driver of a Bus Terminal with M.E. the driver of a Bus Express that has body level 1: 00 in the evening.
I looked into the incident and found out that it was the driver of the said bus, approached the police and cursed because he was called out by the driver.
The police, Deona, said that his stomach is too arrogant to see the driver with his gun when he raised his clothes, which is why the driver and the passengers saw his gun.
I was even shouting by the police of Station 4 of QCPD, don't you know that you are a policeman, but, it is obvious in the movement and form of your clothing.
Colonel Senares, sir, a few policemen like Deona are those who have something to do with the Novaliches Police Station 4, who will ruin your good image that is why the driver has a fault, "it is also a person who knows how to hurt and get hurt.
