Ate Vi is insensitive.

It seems that Governor Vilma Santos-Recto has already been drunk in power because he is numb about the complaints and complaints of his countrymen, until now, Ate V. does not want to act on the complain of Batangenos that are everywhere gambling.
As a mother of Batangas, his countrymen want to make the actress-in-law to stop the STL-boards and other ingredients in the province that is why it is just easy for Ate V to stop gambling, they will surely stop gambling.
The STL-Kalawit Gang operator of San Jose is Kovalev, Viray and Kathleen, Bauan, Ka Kathleen, Ka Kathleen, Ka Kathleen, Mario and Lito Atienza, Mario and Lito Lapid and OPLAN) in Mabini.
In San Juan, GLs is Kailbo and Flintshire and in San Pascual, Nene.
It is just a little bit that we are talking about the progress of vice-vice operations in the area of Ate V. and Colonel Acio.
PNoy using the TSETC!
It's clear that even if President Noynoy Aquino is the name of President Noynoy Aquino, he is being used by the businessmen there at the Bureau of Customs.
Wow, it is not talking to the president by someone introducing themselves as Cris Aquino "to corrupt the Aquino administration who is certain that it is not the famous sibling of the President," Cris Aquino "and is sure that the famous sibling of the President" Cris Aquino "is not stupid.
These happenings in BOC are not good because President Duterte himself was the ones used for asking for alms from the "desaparecidos," and the children of PNoy should take action to make a mask on this person using the name of the President.
The modus operandi of Aquino is to approach one athlete and promise to check the goods that have a problem with BOC.
"It turns out PNoy was not the only one who used it because according to NICA-PNP.
CIDG and police force groups have been used to collect it as well as their things or things that the BOC needs to collect it, which is why it is where he is "Cris Aquino." Jesus Maronilla, it's really severe!
It is a bad sign that this is happening to BOC because it is the name of the President.
Used in foolishness.
"Because of this, the way of this year will not stop, which can be exash, where the proposed" straight path "of the Aquino administration will not stop.
