It is out of Order: Restore the Con High School and ROTC in the College.
By Fortun, August 8, 2016) President Rodrigo Duterte is in order to return to the university and college which is going to restore the minds and heart of youth students to join in the minds of youth students to join the discipline and love for the country.
Duterte stated his agreement that according to a cabinet meeting recently, where Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education were able to make the ROTC because of a lot of goodness given to the youth.
The ROTC became a law between the National Transformation Council (NSTP) last 2001 as the reaction of lawmakers during the series of hazing that resulted to the death of some students, which resulted to the death of some students, which resulted to the death of some students, which resulted in the death of some students.
The conservation in the said Cabinet meeting will be made to the NSTP program where the ROTC is going to be held at all students in the university and college.
Senator Sherwin Gatchalian is one of the oldest who are pushing the ManduROTC and in fact, he has filed a proposed law here when he is a congressman of Valenzuela City.
For Gatchalian, the Marawi siege became stronger in the middle of the problem in the West Philippine Sea because the youth are ready to be soldiers in case there will be a war between the Philippines and the countries owned by the Kalayaan Group of Islands.
It should not be an issue for the youth to enter ROTC because there are some countries who are neighbors of the Philippines like Singapore and South Korea (SoKL) that determines two senior military training to all the citizens of the age of 18.
Singapore is needed in Singapore because of the possible war in Malaysia while SoKor is under the "state of war" still in North Korea (NoKor) because the existing peace in the two countries is caused by the longest ceasefire in the history of war in the world.
One is Ronald Carega, chairman of the Duterte Youth, and former University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman, who is supporting the call of Malacañang to make the ROTC and even the Cuya Army Training and C)) for high school students.
