
Take a vacation first.

It seems that politics is very good in our country if the basis is the statements of those in the custody of the Senate as Senator Franklin Drilon, according to him, he will continue his leadership in the Senate because he does not have any fault even if his name surfaced on the issue of pork barrel scam.
"However, though the Disbursement Acceleration Program (Disbursement Acceleration Program (AIDG) was about to avoid getting 100 pesos in DAP, she could not avoid being an actress, my daughter-in-law, but she could not avoid being beaten-up and so-in-time," he was even discouraged.
Drilon made the statement after he was asked by the actor Robin Padilla to ask his release of 100 million DAP from Malacañang after the impeachment of the former Chief Justice Renato Corona.
I suddenly got envious of the Japanese because their leaders have not yet resigned from his duty, they do not even ask him to commit suicide if Drilon wants to commit suicide if we just want to commit suicide in order to investigate the issue that is currently facing him.
Our request should also be clear that on vacation, it is not only for Drilon but also for all the "pul-politikos" which can be leader of the government agencies in relation to the conflict happening to us.
The vacation should not be used to having a sin while vacation is the right way to do the people involved in the issue of pork barrel if they are really innocent and for the people whose individuals are innocent.

Some told us that the "pul-politicians who are involved in the pork barrel scam did not go on vacation, including Senator Drilon, because the Congress would stop.
It's because almost all "pul-politicians benefited from the pork barrel.
We might be the same in the United States who had a huge difference, the only difference is that it is not because of lack of funds but because of the involvement of those in power in scandal.
He / she was wearing.
For the additional information about the issues of the weather, it is a habit to make a caskets at the casual period (9) Terminal 3) up to ten o'clock (10) in the evening.

If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
