The payment: $700 million expenses in the Miss Universe is already ready!
According to Chavit!
By Jojo camp August 1, 2016.
Alico, the Miss Universe 2016 is sure to be held in the Philippines on January 30, 2017, and this is according to Ilocos Sur Governor Luis "Chavit" Singson, one of those sponsored the international beauty pageant.
Singson confirmed that the agricultural sector will answer all the expenses and clarified that before the election happened last May 9, 2016, he was talking with Miss Universe Organization.
"The presence of Donald Trump, they asked me to answer immediately because it is good for them because it is good for the Philippines, Fight IT.

It looks like what is lacking is to push through, what is lacking. "Bethlehem," we are talking with Miss Universe group, we have been talking for a long time, President Rodrigo Duterte agreed.
"In fact, it might be an issue for President,"
"They will spend on the Miss Universe, to 12 million dollars," it seems that we can put an end to our help.
"To help us, no money will come from the government.
"We, to him, to be the US $12 million," the NGO), most of that, of FS Group, "the companies that I have been with while I have been together with the television series Cojuangco.
"So, we are just waiting for the government, there is no expenses for the government," Singson's story about the start of the negotiation to hold the Miss Universe 2016.
In the Philippine Air Force, more than 300 million pesos is the equivalent of the US $12 million but Singson is not expecting that they will get back into the Miss Universe 2016.

"There's nothing back then that we might lose so much because the 12 million dollars is big but we have a lot of household help.
"
GAB or less, 100 percent, 100 countries, all the media they will arrive, maybe they will stay here for a month.
"We need to spend money for him.
"But was extremely saddened, all the businesses here in the whole world are being observed.
"That's the situation right now, to express what is lacking, he agreed that almost all," the Oper Group, "the four casino employee, Henry Sy, agreed to use" the Mall of Asia, which is very high.
"Beauty with the elections, we talked once again, I prepared all that we have an airplane that will be used, there should be buses anymore, including a cent.
"What's important is that Miss Universe will be used by Miss Universe, Fight IT's in mega lotto, a huge amount, coming out, Monaco is coming from Italy," the additional information of Singson about Miss Universe 2016.
Because he came from Ilocos Sur, we asked Singson if he is part of his plan as one of the Major AJ Riana Miss Universe to invite the Pambansang Kamao in Vigan being declared as one of the New 7 wonder cities of the World.
"That's what we are talking about, that's why they had a hidden talent in Vigan, Davao.
"When they arrived here, perhaps they got separated, if they would not fit in a province," the ones who will not fit in one province, "said Singson.
