It has been eaten by a government six o'clock in the afternoon when only a weak member is the one who will support one January on Monday.
In my opinion, it is an effective treatment of the rice that they have from Pampanga in Singapore, okay.
There was the source of the point where the story of the story that they did not stop from the checkpoint, men did not stop himself, before they arrived, they were riding a check that they were riding, and they were pointed at by the police when they heard them.
It was one o'clock in the afternoon in the afternoon.
In the mouth.
The people can only make it when a group of children were able to enter their area.
The two passengers who were annoyed just came out like that.
It was said that it was only for them to study when they chased the coins in the payment for some of them so the authorities said it was a celebrity as long as he replied to the road where their father is exhausting.
In line, he / she grew up to the police; that's why, of course, there was no man who committed suicide.
For them to be angry, she still needs to be defeated by the questions.
He went down one by one to buy a gun so that I could give me an umbrella; so I saw that it's good that I saw what the gun he did was past.
They were taken away, isn't it that they have been fighting for two.
I have been fighting for that person, and then I am looking at me here in Malonzo.
Covetous, dearse; "
There were only eight.
The heroism of James is the two he said that he just copied their guns for a nipa hut without a robots.
There is no.
While waiting for the blueberry operation that happened in studying, there is still a hiding place.
But in the end, after you to be able to talk to ten people who are residents of Barangay Cabadbaran, we did not have a name.
Will you finish our M-M for you to have the hope that we will fight for us in their house so that we will not go.
Which is why the politician wants to force the soldiers' soldiers who, for them have age.
You want to see that you have resigned from a vacation and new soldiers in the seashore.
.
Just like that.
What?
!
News.
I told him what he said.
The children did not know Patrick Panganiban in his farm where I cooked for them.
His personality will leave.
His sibling has not arrived yet.
She is a relative of her mother who is sick.
That's where his father starts to school inside a hut.
The priest.
With his blessing.
Are they safety?
What are you in the office?
Covetous, deport; will make it up.
Covetous, fur.
It can be ten o'clock.
Christopher Agustin.
You are still there by what he mentioned, that is why most of the public in Zamboanga are closed, that's why we are closed to wait for us to buy food here in a lucky transaction.
There is Anito.
A while ago, this is what happened when we were fighting after just passing away from our public to take care of its public to take care of it.
Your customers are lined up, wouldn't I buy.
Before you were able to talk to him, I did not know that we were able to know earlier that we have known each other for a long time.
It was said that, from those who were on the street, I was able to wake up to two-four students from Pampanga, they were caught to have two students from Pampanga, they were there in a month what happens, that is why they are getting okay, they are getting it okay.
The crisis here will come true; we can see that there is something that can be seen as if it is going to be a problem in computers that goes out.
I really see that what is happening to us is that he has no intelligence to Gelo that's why I am serious about it, that's why they feel that they are very serious.
This might be after those who will say that they will not be after all; we are able to go out and go out of it.
There was a Kalayaan area that will be at a celebration, to their barangay in the barangay in Barbara, in their area, it seems that it turns out that they are going to go out.
It's a good money even if it's small that is why, in the checkpoint, there are many who are wondering why the soldiers are looking, even if we have noticed that we have noticed that we have noticed that there are still questions that happened earlier.
After being asked about the barangay in Barangay, the firefighters were not able to enter.
We can say that, it's as if yesterday, they will go ahead and say that it is severe now.
We are crazy; we ask for other people there are other people who still have an operation or operation part of the church.
Fuck, deport, one of those who got married.
You are also in the situation here and it is still in the situation there is something we are doing, but we can see, we can really say that we can look at it.
That will also not agree.
We are anxious; that they are really earning a lot, and they are really waiting to talk to you.
I went here and I went to the same age; we, our promise, ah, it looks like the promise to drink, your promise that you drink in the same way there is the promise that you drink.
We are anxious; he / she knows that we are in the newspaper Information but, like that, at the same time, we do not have to see each other every time that we can see that we are not used to each other; we are still sleeping; we also do not know if we are from overseas.
Because what I was feeling towards Information Office is because they were able to call me on the contract given to them, the mayor said that it was only said that there was an accident that happened in his contract earlier, which was said to have been thrown at the contract, which was said to have been thrown at each other in the contract.
Fuck, fog; and fur.
Accurate!
He said, aside from Mendiola, you will go here on the corner of the corner where we see here because there is a malfunction on how we can get the real animals that are happening there in some barangays of that kind and gadgets;
In truth, he is honest in what kind of police are, who are really not able to enter the side of the police Intelligence and soldiers who are in the custody of the barangay captains.
But there can be people who can go to school; we are getting along with those injured by those who are wounded after drinking there, but they do not have a chance to run as yes, but he / she was not able to finish my friends earlier.
In your opinion, we are very pitiful; there are still many places where it seems like a house that's like a house helper, fog, and holding the group, "Emano.
It was like that in their Barangay Barbara, he saw in his opinion that he / she thinks that he / she wasn't able to see him / her.
I was a photo of the video of him / her cellphone, and it's also then that he would be shot at the score of Information Agreement which is the source of the source of drubbing.
We were able to talk about the speaker where you are living, but he is really able to save there so that I can be able to catch up; we can be able to look down; he / she was full-tempered; so he / she can go to school; he / she cannot go down.
In time someone arrived and then.
He / she was able to look down; he / she has no Calaguas well, that's why the heat in his eyes are really being shot.
He will just leave the firefighters who have entered the worst incidents of the nearest area, which can be Active people.
Medical Center are those from district using drugs.
To show that they are not going to fight here, our group, we are okay, we are okay to Baclaran now who are our conversation on who we are talking about.
Control situation.
Do that, in what we saw, we saw each other; we saw the video of it.
There is a way.
There are soldiers after the agreement but they are just going to escape.
Everything?
They are thick and Blumentritt.
Just like that.
"That's the right thing that's why, in the same age, they were able to enter the franchise; we have seen the franchise that we saw or those who have seen him at the two-day floor of the house where they are studying Father, amazing.
Just at the time when their bystanders entered, they are really not able to do anything, they cannot be able to do anything because they were not able to do anything that's why they don't have anything to talk to, those who are holding their positions, were not able to go back to the Zamboanga Medical Center; that's why they don't have any pictures, that's why they have no idea that they are all members of the patients, that's why they are okay to be both members of what they are holding.
We saw a while ago in the hospital that's just okay with the hospital, that's okay, when it was you, I would be able to finish four classmates in the outposts which is why.
We can see in the possibility that in case there will be an intensive conversation; as long as the military, they might be seen in the military as well as the military.
With what is going to happen that we have to go to school; we are really not able to go out; we are not able to go to school; we are not able to go out of the house and in a small barangay, we can still be able to go to school, because it's as if we are going to eat while we are the same as if we are going to eat while we are the same.
It is the most important role here when they are strong and in the third party that they are saying so that there is something to be involved in that, which is why they still have to think about it, which is why it's still early for him to think that we are very refreshed when we hear each other.
He did not go outside and it was not just exactly when they really did not know when he was really not yet identified; he was not able to make the record because we were holding a tricycle in the source of the accident in Zamboanga and the doctor.
SEA Games.
To be able to go to school, think that this will last for a long time, to be careful, which might be hard to see, because it might be hard to look at least four of the government, that might not be able to step down; he / she said that he will not be able to move his own father now.
Yes right.
We are anxious; we understand that it came to the point that it came to the point that you can see that it has been difficult to prove that this is still difficult to prove that this is still difficult to prove that this is still difficult to prove that there is a store in order to buy food that we have seen in order to buy food that we have seen to buy food.
Even if they say that the soldiers have no effect on the operation, as long as they have not known each other for a long time, they see that it's not right when they see each other, that is why when they see that they saw each other, they see each other in the interview when we see that we are going to see each other in the interview.
Well, he is saying that they want them to send them to school.
It would also be good to listen to the two ill-mannered family, so many can take care of it so that the respect is okay thank you.
