Tuesday, April 17, 2012.

Alex Boncayao, leader of Mangguray.

Alex Boncayao, leader of Mangguray, party of Ninoy Aquino in the fight (1978.

The spokesperson of Gregorio V. stars Jr.

(Published, an eight-year-old man was published last April 16 to May 15, 2012, M 18).

Ka Alex Boncayao, one of the party of former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Junior, was well-known, when he ran for the election last 1978.
The Lakas ng Bayan, with the political party, which is currently detained by the political party, which is currently imprisoned, and not yet in the election, but who was used to be famous, not yet in the election, but who was used to be named by Alex Boncayao, and who was used to be named by Alex Boncayao Brigade, Alex Boncayao Brigade (ABB), were used to him.

According to some research, a native of waves, in the town of Bato, in the province of Camarines Sur, Alex Boncayao, from the family of the farmers.

Because he became aware of poverty in the countryside, at the young age, he left the municipality and finish college when he arrived in college when he arrived in college.

It is the time of the law to become the chairman in the relationship of Solid Milan.

He led the protest against the workers of the Solid Mumbai, 1976-77, one of the responsible leaders who were first from the west of Filipino Workers (BMP) who led the militant movement of the Marcos regime.

He is included in those who run as candidate, with the leadership of Senator Ninoy Aquino, under the lower part of the fight, in the election of Associate Batasang Pambansa (IBP).

Because of the wide and strong cheating in the election and pushing the Marcos dictatorship from the candidates of the fight, Alex Boncayao of Bagong Hala Bayan (NPA) in Nueva Ecija and decided to join the armed fight against Alex Boncayao of the soldiers of the Marcos regime in a encounter in Nueva Ecija.

One year of his death, in 1984, the Metro Manila Rizal Regional Office of the Philippines was formed by Metro Manila Rizal Regional Office of the Philippines, which is used to have a goal of being rude to the masses, and even if we do not want anyone or to what we want, the Filipino masses is taking advantage of the rotten system.

Alex Boncayao, similar to other being a martyr, will not forget the movement of the movement and movement of the movement of making his name became a symbol of fighting against abuse and abuse.

His meaningful contribution for the advancement of change is invaluable, and he is really a real martyr.

Long live Alex Boncayao, worker!

They played around.

(A) books, UPP-May.

(B) Wikipedia.

(C), NJ.

(D) being horny.

(), Talilan, Bayan, in 1992.

Reporting, Alex Bonclubs.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

It will be 12 billion pesos.

The fight is still ongoing.

A lot will be defeated at night and day.

With the voice of some tears and grief.

Your name seems to be washed away.

You were together with Ninoy Aquino.

You are a candidate for the party Laban.

And ran against corrupt government.

So that the country will be imprisoned.

And when the election was completely finished.

Do not sail at the streets.

You went there to the revolution.

The masses is with him and served.

Principle is strong, not able to go.

You know that you are a leader of the masses.

But you murdered white cloth.

Most of the severity of your sacrificed.

That's why what happened is all immorality.

In your name, it is called a week.

Misalania considered as Mahogany.

Who are taking advantage of the workers.

You are those who take advantage of you.

At that end of the rotten system.

You are true, Ka Alex Boncayao.

Like you a worker, real hope.
