Mayor Duterte, was able to buy a ghost?

Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte is really different, when he spoke in the media, it is really being talked about by intrigues, becoming a big story.
"Duterte is known for being a" tanim-dugo "of evil spirits in Davao City.
That is why criminals are afraid to make mistakes in the city for sure that their feet will increase if Duterte threatened, he is really doing it.
But many are condemning Duterte, what the mayor is doing is a violation of human rights violations but in general, majority of Duterte should be the next president of the country, which is said to be the next president of the country, "there is one word, brave and not corrupt.
With the number of crooks in the Philippines, it is said that one Duterte needs for the country to improve the country, so the "Duterte for President Movement"
But the mayor is really strange that is why he is being supported to put the highest leader of the country, he is still angry at the group.
Duterte said he will kill if the person behind the call is to be the President.
Just once, he doesn't want to be elected in Malacañang, he is very afraid of the Palace and many ghosts are afraid of the ghost? What he is referring to is the "Ghost program" who goes under Malacañang, put the way or being blessed by the President.
It is probably because Duterte is afraid to be tainted with his name because he does not want to be criticized if he was involved in various corruption involving in Malacanang.
Duterte is right that there are many "ghosts" of the past in Malacanang that were imprisoned because of plunder, the current president might follow his position if he is not a chicken that will be held in the right but are twisted.
That's why Duterte is mad for those who are pushing him which is taking the nest of ghosts because he is afraid that he will be bitten by this and if he is infected with a ghost.
Duterte said, it is better for him to die first before being president and be with the ghosts in Malacanang.
Why did he not like President Aquino to think that because he still wants to be with an animal "because he still wants to be with the ghosts, but also has tons of animals in corruption in the government.
