"It is Banies, Gerard Jinggoy and gambling dens in the MPD.

Senator Jinggoy Estrada did not agree with the statement of Senator Teofila Guingona's statement that the statement of "Ruby Tuason appeared that he can be considered a basketball player."
According to "actress" Jinggoy "Jinggoy, this can be considered as a" prepaid foul smell! "
It's really a mother, judicial system, as a lawmaker, even if their accomplices are pointing out, even if their accomplices are pointing out of tolerating the issue, they are still trying to taste the issue.
Here, okay.
If it is not true that Tuason revealed that even him had a commission of plunder case of Jinggoy and Napoles, why is he ready (Tuason) return his millions of acting?
Hh, is it that Jinggoy wants to say that there are an ordinary person who should have a score of a shot "Tuason?
Hey, it, Jinggoy Print Plus.
That is some of those?
"Or maybe Jinggoy wants, because he can be considered a" free-free "because it is free or not a guard in the Senate with the said statement of Tuason, which is why it's only one point."
In short, Napoles is the only winner!
No, make sure, it is a severe basketball that is really in the Senate in the Senate.
Look at what Senator Jinggoy did, after Senator Guingona made a mistake in his "point," Tuason appeared that he suddenly passed away to go to other senators the ball.
"It's just that, Senator Trillanes immediately complained.
"It's because it's really," Jinggoy did not go through! "

You are all just game there, you are driven out!

Entice the President.
We are not sure if in this moment, Colonel Nana is still seated as collectors of the Manila Police District.
There is a point or a sample of it, Chief Superintendent Gilbert Cruz is just going to sit as the new MPD Director.
Even if the two officials who have been mentioned are holding the amount of snacks, I mean, the number of policemen in Manila, only one thing is certain.
That illegal gambling in Manila is being used by Boy Abunda.
Boy Abunda is saying that he cannot stop his boasts of the race and gambling because he is direct to Erap!
Amas, Erap is a part of the gambling Lord!
Yorme has forgotten about what happened to them by Chavit Singson!
His former part of the gambling Lord is the reason for his being a lawyer!

The video of Gina Gutierrez's video karera to all corners of Manila is still widespread in all corners of Manila!
