Teddy Casiño was different from the traditional candidates for senator.

The weather was not able to stop the filing of Bayan Muna representative Teodoro "Teddy" Casiño of his certificate of candidacy in the office of the Commission on Elections (Comelec) in Intramuros, Manila last October 3.
And because he was running for senator, Casiño was true and his supporters from San Agustin Church in Manila went to Manila to present to the candidacy of 2013.
There is a strange way for the filing of Casiño to the candidacy of this because for her and his supporters, Casiño was a unique candidate.
"There's a different thing that a few seconds, which contains the name of the militant congressmen, after two consecutive days of the filing of the candidacy of traditional politicians who will run for the candidacy of traditional politicians who will run for the candidacy of traditional politicians who will run for the candidacy of the Comelec, and it was soaking wet in the office of Comelec.
"We might be the only candidate (who filed a candidacy) who is in short pants," Casiño was laughing at the supporters outside the Comelec.
But Cuadra's offer to the public is not a joke, "I can assure that we will take care of everything for us to win and have a voice in the Senate," according to Casiño.
Casiño added, in the time now that those running are the incumbent (present) or coming back to senators, or the children, siblings and relatives, or even if there is a debate in the previous elections, it is important that people can choose from it.
His platform is said to be clear, and it is clear that this is for the ordinary citizens and the people.
There will be a candidate.

Casiño was holding the lesson from the previous administrations of the militant organization at the election for senator, particularly here is the candidacy of Filur, and Liza Maza, under the town of citizens (Makabayan), in 2010.
On the lower part of Alyansang Makabayan last month, it was announced by the leaders that they will be ready again in giving alternative candidates for the citizens, according to APD and Rafael Mariano, chairman of Alyansang Makabayan.
For the year 2013, Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan decided to transfer Casiño because of its lower record at the legislative chamber as a representative of Bayan Muna and the sake of the youth, as the former general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and former president of the College of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
Casiño made sure that in her candidacy, he is being the interest of the interest and face sectors of the Filipino society.
"The fight in the Senate is not about me or to my dreams that this is part of our hard work to have a real voice in the Senate, the common people in the Senate," Casiño was declared to have a real voice in the Senate.

Trust in the success.
Mariano said that their trust and faith that they can support and lead the movement of the movement of the masses in the Senate of Casiño was strong.
"First of all, the agricultural sector in our country is strong and wide, and of course, the Filipino group of 1st Infantry Battalion are still there, and of course, the Filipino group of Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan," Mariano said, when the Filipino seafarers were centered on us.
According to Casiño, it is a very big challenge because they are still studying the other traits of the gathering of the rally at the election, however, according to Casiño, he has a big trust in the support which are commerce.
"What we are going to talk about is our group," that is an effective accident that is an accident between a party-in-law, according to his principles, and of course, the record for 15 years for a 15-year in the Congress, "Casiño was said in the interview of Filipino Weeker.

He also said the clean and proper goal of petroleum is for the citizens and the country will be the one who will make his campaign better.
According to Alyansang Makabayan, Casiño was brought to her candidacy for a long time, and the masses, for the progress of the majority of the citizens who are featured here for the safety of the real reforms and the National Football League.
Casiño was also featured in the Senate to know the rights of the workers on the meaningful wage increase, investigation of human rights and stop to the rules of human rights and policies, the law on the Value-Added Tax, mining Act of 1995 and others, and many more.
"What I want is for us to serve as loyal to the country, and for the best of my ability, what I did for 15 years to the sake of my principle, the readiness to act and fight for the country - what I have done to the country - because of the speech in the country," she is proud of, in his speech in the speech.
There are still many who need to chase after the lessons coming from the past elections from more than widening of campaign until answering like a black propaganda.
"The political party are the strengthening of the program, you will not expect the only few leaders of the party, but with the vast Filipino leaders who will be able to understand the issues.
It is an alternative that in the election.
The alternative Alyansang Makabayan is one of those who will take advantage of the fight, according to Casiño.
"I think there are already looking for a new face, a new voice and new representatives of the Senate," that's what we should talk to, and we think there is a way for an alternative candidate, "according to Casiño.
This is also what Ocampo led, according to him, the participation of Alyansang Makabayan in the election is important to give an alternative candidate for the citizens who have long been submerged in traditional politics in the election.
"What is important is the implementation of basic commodities in the low sector of the agricultural sector, the political agenda can be given, even if they are given the right direction or not, they are given the right to analyze the events, and they should be active in politics," Ocampo explained.
If this is compared with the traditional party parties, there is a huge difference.
"This will reduce the sharp difference between us by carrying what kind of politics is our countrymen who have no other than politics, our country," said Mariano, "said the quality of debate in our country."
The clean record of Alyansang Makabayan, which is continuously being asked by the citizens and other politicians, according to Mariano.
"The representative of Alyansang Makabayan, who is not accustomed to public, I have no other wealth, I have another wealth, my principles and friends, my wealth," Casiño explained.
He was one of the oldest congressmen in the Legislative Chamber, and it remained hard for almost nine years of service as representatives of Bayan Muna.
"I do not like a ball just to get a vote, and even if I do not use my position to become rich, I might be the candidate who is not a millionaire," according to Casiño.
