Conducted by Toh!: Joshua, his singing was crushed!
I was born, Justin said, to weaken.
Bakar Regalpa, August 30, 2016.
In spite of the huge fan based on the tongue, Sharon Cuneta, it was only done with his pet dog, Antonia "Tyo, which was made up by the bagman of The Vaice cream (3 Grand champion Joshua Taduran.
Even if they are saying that no matter who among the three grand subdivisions, Justin Alva and coach Bamboo gang, it can really win, but there's a different glitter in the talent of Joshua in the finals.
Even before this, the netizens are having a guess as to who among these three will win, and they have their own chicken, but aside from many who supported him, a lot of those who supported him, a lot who supported him, a lot who supported him.
But, meanwhile, Justin also said that it is deserving to listen because aside from his voice, he is very eager to listen, because he is very famous because of his good looks.
However, there are also a lot of drivers, Joshua, who is indeed because of his voice in full and on his face like he is looking for a point.
If we will turn the story in their respective lives, they have their own deep predicament that might be the reason for them to vote.
Miro'clock ,-like Lyle GROs) being swept (first The Vaice, the story of life, where the family is living under the bridge, and many are selling to live.
Joshua meanwhile went to Manila together with his father from Antique to join the The Vedice, even if they lived in the side of a multimillion building and lie on the grasses so that they could not be seen.
Meanwhile, Justin did not fail in The Vevice cream, and his disability is a big inspiration to everyone who should not lose hope.

But, in the evening of the real fight, where are they qualified?
According to the majority, they are able to do a lot and their goal is big.
At first night, many were disappointed and did not see the quality of the Virgin Mary, which is said to have been reading for him, the song, Batang-, Ka Jerry, and even told her in the last piece of one she showed.
Even if he / she gave up his song, he did not want to chase the point to win.
Meanwhile, Justin meanwhile is up to the First militant group, but there are also many who were caught in the third Sambi'll know, that's why the viewers were very cold to send the votes of him.
But, Joshua, on the three goal, he will eventually be held accountable for the three songs, but he has been tainted with his performance of his performance, which is the owner of the bombing, which is why he was given to them.
Anyway, contagious for the three and hopefully their career is going to be good such as Daragang Maganto, which is still continued to be different from his political life despite being the First Lieutenant.
