You will bet on top.

It is rare for anyone who have watched and heard in the speech of Carmen "Mother Roseng, one of the most famous face and voice of the community which is called by Mother Mampang who is being taken away by the poor people who are calling him to become a part of the poor people who are calling him to be seen by the poor people who are calling the same faces of the poor.

Through singing, dancing, shadow and video, the demolition and noise of the whole community will be known to the viewers, "the violent problem of the lives of the poor," the violent problem of the poor people, "the violent problem of the poor people," the violent problem of the poor people, "said to be prepared in his immediate contribution to the movement of the masses.
Different problems and issues have been showed in a small problem and issues being showed in the short construction of the gement of Damayan Lagi, progressive and the theme of the flow of Damayan Lagi, progressive and the sanctity of the problem being swept in front of the problems, hence, of the women in discussion of the problems, particularly of women in singing of "soap."
The culture of the organization that usually see in rally are also together with Domeng and other individuals and groups from the movement of Sining, Arciation, RTEL, NJ, and Rose Bucot, RTEL, Catalibis, and Katauch, Cataloy.
The temporary position in the story of Mother Mampang who is wanted to be revealed by Diyaryo ng mga Bayani (Loy, person, Lalai "(Loy) and another original owner of the national history; and the group of personnel who will be held by Lanuan, Alexandra Yungga.

Although every number (number 1) may be effective in a particular theme, this is the topic of "demolition," workers, "workers, and this is not clear to the viewers, but it is possible that the audience will understand if they will be confused by the flow and full of primary ability.
In spite of its implementation, the usual effort in the production of "Mother Roseng" will be seen in the production of "Mother Mamunga, which can be seen on this kind of hard work, should continue to improve and be watched with a wide dye.
It has been a bonus to the latest survey of March 21 that at the end of Daga, the true Mother Deguessed to her words, she is a "Ka Mamunga," and all viewers, she considers the actual speech of Ka Mameng, "to hear the actual speech of Ka Mameng.
"I am just like the poor, it is just a coincidence that I was given a chance to talk," said Ka Mameng - there is a sign that many of the voices of life and struggle to give strength and inspiration will give up to the missing success.
