
There are benefiting from gambling in Manila.

The resolve of Manila Police District Director, Chief Superintendent Rolando Asuncion in his campaign against illegal gambling in Manila is firm that Mayor Joseph Estrada is in favor because Mayor Joseph Estrada is in favor of the level of livelihood of the Manileños.
That is why General Asuncion uses his District Special Action Force (PCG) that the work is against all the illegal activities in Manila and his office serves as the counter intelligence of his office against the police officials in his jurisdiction.
The general goal is good in his campaign against gambling but why is it a official who benefited from all gambling in Manila.
He is proud that he is strong with Mayor Estrada's management because he is allegedly involved with the former President.
Well, this is the cause of General Asuncion to clean Manila on illegal gambling.
Not only the principle of district director of Manila is being destroyed and being stepped on by this official but also the name of the mayor of Manila.
It might be good if General Santos will try to stop this person so that those who can determine the foolishness of this official would be better.
Um!
There is a big help from the motorists and the opening of the road in Sitio Talon and Barangay Ugong of Valenzuela City because the flow of vehicles was fast due to the help of some civilians who was currently under traffic.
Hopefully, the Philippines will reach the management of the Valenzuela Social Welfare and Development and even a few children can reach traffic in order to earn money that is sometimes at night.
This can be seen and witnessed by the police, patrolling the area, but they are not noticed because they are in mind that they are not affected and they do not have a job in giving attention to the youth on the streets.
Oh no, police officer in Valenzuela, your work is fixing peace, peace and safety of the citizens so you should also take action for the safety of the youth who were directing traffic in the streets in noise, Valenzuela.
This is dangerous to the health of the children because they can handle dust, aside from them not safe from the streets because there is a possibility that they will be hit by vehicles.
Mayor Rex Gatchalian, you are the one who ordered your people to give attention to the safety of the youth who want to earn money on the streets.
Um!
Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista and Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada should be given attention by the barangay watchmen of the PMount Halcon in Quezon City because they are currently sweeping the traffic under the severe heat of the day to the Manila North Cemetery.
They are trying hard to make ways to fix the flow of traffic on Saturday, Sunday and even on ordinary days, the personnel of the Manila Traffic Enforcement Unit (MTEU) did not do it.
This is because they are busy in fixing their income from terminals of UV Express and passenger jeep in Blumentritt.
