They are those who are famous.

By Ali.
"It's a waste, his handsome grandchild."
Because of those who can say about the issue of violence everyday, those who are at the hem, this is what my youngest sibling managed to say when I went home one night.
Like all, I cannot believe that that kind of violence will be done in a famous showbiz personalities that I have read in social media, I have no longer count the chance to have read this in social media, with new evidence, of new evidence, of new evidence, of new evidence.
Aside from this, others also made a joke about the issue, "let's go to my condo!"
The pull of showbiz was really different when I witnessed this quick spread of news when typhoon Yolanda hit the country and when it came out of networking, the people will spend time with Napoles and the government who continue to take care of them.
In every part of the new issue, especially in showbiz - the issues of the past few days are quick to be drowned in an issue that they should not handle the issue on pork barrel, or they intentionally have forgotten the issue on pork barrel.
There are an ordinary individuals who experience the abuse of each day, most of the time, it is very quiet to set aside for a person who has sufficient reputation, he, and interest from the public, the people will be together in asking for justice.
It is possible to tie him from a lack of interest in spite of the incidents such as violence in asking about the lack of houses being experienced in San Roque, Quezon City because they are currently facing the lack of houses, and similar to many, lack of justice.
If this will be given to a millionaire, it can help the people in the violence which are happening in ordinary people who do not have anything else but to protect their rights, but this is also being discussed, or not, it is unintentionally discussed.
It is true that Vhong Navarro has the right, like all of us; but just like Vhong Navarro, all of us have the right to hear and fight for the people's potential to be part of the most important issue that needs immediate solution.
The two are enough until three days of giving news regarding this, they are going to leave the things that we need to give attention to what we will get in case the issue of Vhong Navarro has been finished?
It is possible for others, issues like Tacloban and corruption are just repetitive, but these issues should not be ignored, not only on the issues that should be implemented on the good of the country, not only the same year.
