
The outline of the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

In one of our column, we discussed our fervent desire to end our Muslim brothers in Mindanao because there are many obstacles from each of us who know!
In that column last February 2, 2014, we went back to remember how our initial agreement was failed, but to make the failure that it should not happen again, "so that it should not be repeated again.
We said how and why there was MNLF, MILF and BIFF in the difference of view of the next leaders of the next leaders and their first leaders from Nur Misuari (MNLF) going to Hashim (MILF), and the American Development Authority (BIFF).
This is not unity in the construction of a new group that the members are all calling the "new group" who has lost command, "Atong" Misuari, "tanim-bala 'group," Chegal group, "
In total, it has not been implemented, if not disregarded, the signing of the Tripoli Agreement of 1976 in between the government of Ferdinand Marcos and PamNur Misuari himself.
Next peace talks will be between the government of Fidel Ramos and Floyd Junior that there will be a need to be strong and followed by some of the endorsement of Misuari that the last will lead to the bloody fight in Zamboanga Peninsula in 2013.
Meanwhile, MILF attacked Hashim, thank you that there was a new conversation at the time of President Gloria Arroyo, the Supreme Court failed and approved by the Supreme Court (GAA-ABB) that resulted to the bloody fight between the government and MILF.
There was a new conversation between President Benigno Aquino III and Al Hacademic, and before that reached the road, a severe fight happened between the troops of the government and BIFF where the historical signing of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on the Bangsamoro (CAB) happened between both sides that were did to witness the huge wave on the 19th of March 2014.
There are still a lot of need to end like the Bangsamoro Basic Law (BBL) and it can be given solution regarding the jurisdiction of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, but the important issues like the Bangsamoro Basic Law is finished but important issues like the MILF, power, and abide by the qualified members of the MILF in AFP and PNP.
In the incident that happened, ARMM came with the challenge now, how to be implemented until the lower part of the Philippine Army and the members of the bandits Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) in Basilan last 11 April 2014 or 15 days after the signing of CAB.
Eight (18) have been reported to have been killed - four regular members of MILF.
The management of the AFP cleaned the name of the MILF, without permission from the administration of the latter the involvement of his members in the fight, only the MILF killed their relatives who were members of the ASG.
This is not the first time that MILF and ASG have been involved in the fight of the military and ASG), the help of other groups - MILF or MNLF) is no one to report to the help of other groups - MILF or MNLF) - the reason why people don't want to give importance in the peace talks which is existing for MNLF and started to MILF.
The peace talks will be given importance compared to the actions of only a few members, but now, the MNLF and MILF are called the lost command, "Misuari" Misuari, "the" tanim-bala 'group. "
In our experience before as a young official of the Marines, the fight or war between the clan will be common in Mindanao, the question: Between the MILF and PNP?
In front of an enemy, like soldiers of the AFP or member of the police, the issue of the law or justification; becoming a member of the law or reason, is greater than a relative.
That's why, the Enforcement group's leadership in entirety of peace agreement is one of the challenges.
But what I consider is a critical condition and important is the implementation of the BBL to present to the Congress because it depends on a law, and because this is a law, it is part of the power of the Supreme Court (SC) to decide on the constitutional process of the law.
There is no need to rush the BBL even though they are running after someone.
The suspension of this should be carefully scrutinized and be careful not to be a separate "country" because if that happens, it is in danger that it will declare that it is against Senator Miriam Santiago, what is allowed by the constitution should be allowed by the constitution and not separate countries inside a country.
It was reported that the price of BBL in Malacanang is not enough.
This is amidst the lawyers of the Palace to fulfill the purpose of having a law to pass the Congress before the end of 2014 and it should not be because according to Secretary Herminio Coloma, it should not be because it might not affect the desire of the MILF.
Nevertheless, it is not possible that the BBL will not let the BBL act wherein most of them have no skills in the law that they will not guide the lawyers of the government.
Because of the declaration of the SC, the GAA-ukay because we have learned a lesson, we also know what will happen if the BBL will suffer the fate of the GAA-370.
It's as if we are weak at nightfall, we hope that it would be successful to reach the end.
(With your reaction: Carevasion 90 centimeters.
