The payment: Those who are addicted in showbiz, are also afraid of Duterte!
By Jojo Cabinet July 7, 2016 "when there was no fear, there was a problem," what Ricky Davao said was meaningful, "he felt that he was in a gathering of Dalig, Michael Williams and John Arcilla.
A original Filipino guard is the DOM which will be held at the dump site in SSeptember 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, and 10.
Ricky is the director of your liar day, the afternoon of the drama actress of GMA 7 that will start on July 18, even if she is busy with the taping of your liar, 30 years old when there was a problem, "the story of Ricky about the new project he is facing.
"And then, 30 years later, he / she went to Facebook again, on Facebook, on whatever social media, because they need to be an extra-tempered for the one of the members of the members of the Office of cancer.
"We are worried, there are problems already, there are many problems about the mid-raising crisis, to the problems of men.
"I was worried, I am not a pro-not, who is not a pro-not, but I laughed at me when he / she was taking care of me for a while.
"My last, 7 or 8-years old," the EJ, "what happened in Buhay of Eguio, and Edgar Jawson," the additional information of Ricky, "the additional information of Ricky," the additional information of Ricky, "the additional information of Ricky Doren.
President Rodrigo Duterte just recently changed about the senior police official who were involved in the drug trade when we talked to Ricky at the press conference of the DOM.
Just like many Filipinos, Ricky surprised the statement of Duterte but he understood what the President did was serious about his threat to solve the problem in illegal drugs.

"Yes," the answer of a good actor when we ask if the artists using illegal drugs should be afraid of the actions of Duterte who are also afraid of President Duterte, and are planning to surrender and change their lives.
Ricky also knows some of his colleagues in the industry who are addicted to illegal drugs but he does not want to tell him because there might be no effect on his good motive, "we know that the drugs might be ruined but I might not be criticized because they might be one of them.
"But," those who have someone to talk about, "the one smoking, just stop smoking at a foul odor like that.
"What's important, the discipline comes back to us, nothing.
"If I am, if I can talk to President Duterte, I will tell you," Sir, talk to you, listen to you, especially now that all you are saying are being followed by the people. "
"Can you say that tomorrow, nobody is going to throw a garbage on the street, and if we see, they won't be eaten and you cross the right cision?
"There is nothing wrong there if we do it, nothing is wrong to follow.

For us also, this is the small thing I think, the will be the will to show how great, how serious is this government and that is also a person.
"Do you want to change, you voted him, follow him / her, follow it with a joke that is why we ourselves are not the problem," the caring statement of Ricky, who is in favor of the ordinance which is implemented by the newly-elected President.
