
The farmers are full of farmers for the real reforms.

Macky Macasac is the P2,500.
July 2, 2014.

Because of the failure to implement the true reform in the land, the farmers are calling the removal of President Aquino to Macky Oryang.
Thousands of farmers did not mind the strength of the rays of the sun and the farmers from different regions; there were several hundred kilometers roads that they made to request to the implementation of the true reform in the land, on the end of the fake Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (COP).
"More than ever, now the law is needed by the reforms to free the kind of farmers in all the appearance of the farmers in all kinds of abuse being cooked," according to Rafael Mariano, chairman of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
It is said that the type of farmers will not worry about the end of the implementation of the implementation of the legislative chamber that's also being considered by Captain P Extension with Reforms (Carine) Law; it was not said that there was no goal in solving a huge problem of the millions of farmers due to the lack of land that he is farming.
According to Mariano, there is no need for the type of farmers who are true reform in the land until he is seated as the covetous president of President Aquino.
"On this day, the implementation of the Pad P / P) is done to be registered by the farmers, the strong determination to intensify the anti-mindedness of the land in the land," according to Mariano.
It's burdensome for Cesar and Carine.
Since the time of former Pres. Corazon Aquino, the farmers protested against the Rocket Chair because it has been used by the said law to maintain the land in the hands of the Lord Nazarene.
"
According to him, in the year 1940, when they started to cultivate the land of Villamar and Islamic State in spite of this, the land that he was serving in 1988 at the implementation of the Black Nazarene has not been kept to heart, and the harassment of the Lord Almighty for them is still unclear.
"There are many who cannot pay the rent on the land, so we are charged and being driven out of the land that we have been fighting for," said Aaahhi, but if you think about the cases involving the farmers in the entire islands, millions of hectares are involved.
The farmers burned the burial of Pres. Aquino, which led to the covetous president of Macky Macasaids.
In the data of the government on the 1988 of the government last 1988 at the 809 million hectares of private land, the Department of Agrarian Reform of which will be distributed by 2.6 million hectares, there are still remaining 6.3 million hectares of land.
Kovalev said, in the control of big Lord Almighty, the land is miraculous and is miraculous.
Monopolize the land.
Included in the land are still controlled by the big Lord citizens in Hacienda Luisita in Batangas, Hacienda Araneta in San Jose Del Monte, Bulacan, Hacienda Dolores, Pampanga, Hacienda Santa Isabel, Isabela, Northern Luzon, Negros and the plantation of fruits in the island of Mindanao and others.
It is also not unknown to the knowledge of majority that are happening in Hacienda Luisita, owned by the clan of President Aquino, in spite of the mandate of the Supreme Court to share about more than four thousand hectares of the farmers, the family of Cojuangco.
The farmers want to revive PC) just to raise them to the owners of the land, it is clear that who is going to serve the land title, according to Joseph Canlas, chairman of alliance with Magbufarm in the Middle Luzon (SWS).
"We never felt that our poverty is being experienced, instead, it gets worse under Carper.
Under the 26 years of implementation of the First P and for the desire to cool, Carper, it is existing for the lack of abuse of farmers from lack and lack of land that he is farming in the land, and others, Alum and Fernando HJ.
"He maintained (Carper) to take control of some of the Lord citizens and local and foreign corporation, who are full of land in the country.
Those who are farmers of Amihan, in Lerio Bompat.
Bloody.
Aside from the most expensive, the program of P, according to Kyoto, is also bloody, for the government of P192-B from 1988 until 2014 when the farmers lost its land, instead, they are the ones who lost land, and many have lost their lives.
"It was said that the land was never given to us, as long as the Lord Almighty like Aquino is in front of us, we need to fight for our rights," said Joven de la Cruz, farmer in Hacienda Luisita.
Included is the cousin of De la Cruz, Jun David, to the victims of the massacre last November 10: 2004, "this is what Aquino did for the status of his family in Hacienda Luisita, not benefit from the decision of the Supreme Court to share this," said HE.
According to KMP, in the four-year administration of Aquino, the dead and more than 500 victims were killed and more than 500 were killed in the murder of extrajudicial killings) related to the conflict in the land.
Meanwhile, a lot of farmers were charged with different cases in Hacienda Luisita, only up to 80 criminal cases were filed by Cojuangco by the leaders and members of the alliance with Filipino Bukid in the hacienda or Ammunition).
"This is what Aquino did for the status of his family in Hacienda Luisita, not benefit from this, but, the actions of the Supreme Court is facing the decision of the Supreme Court to share this," according to Hala.
It is true that the farmers call for the land of the farmers and not the confiscation of First P Macky Oryang.
That was expulsion.
It cannot be denied that, as long as well, the strong anger of the farmers in the continuous control of them by the government, past and up to the current Aquino administration.
According to Had, they have been pushing the Congress for a long time from Congress and House Bill 252.
At the end of the "tanim-" program, they also strongly condemned that the dancers that they appointed as the president needs to leave their position.
"The blind and deaf of Aquino to the complaints and call of the farmers for the true reform in the land, it was proven by the farmers' family to oust him," according to Hala.
