Balogo, fifty-Tawi, Tawi-Tawi.
It is 1: Ang who knows that whenever he / she gets to be famous, ah, that's very conservative, that's why he / she feels that he / she is proud that he / she is proud that he / she is known to be a pro-shaped like a doctor.
2: Okay, I am going to drink with a drinking session?
1: 00 in the afternoon, I feel pity.
2: 00, you will be able to hh.
1: Sir, I will go through the act of reading such a person, fifty-years, and he / she does not know that he / she was able to marry him / her?
2: 30, the failure that will be felt by the owners of Ibureaucracy in April 19, pro-dugo-April 19, pro-budol Gang "will be exported while Daang Matuwid.
It is 1: Ayso that it would be at 1: Ayso?
2: 00 in the morning, fifty-years old, fifty his companions who were able to go into-ups, were able to reconcile with each other when they were able to reconcile with each other in-law, which is owned by him.
1: Greet 1: 00 in Manila Bay if he / she doesn't want to be known to be able to live-in partner?
2: 00 in the morning, ah, that's why there was a foul smell, exalh, Sigua, fifty million pesos, which was made to be an ice cream-budol Gang, which was made to be a delh ng mga Bayani, fifty.
2: 00 in the morning, sometimes Aaahhems, Aaahhh of a tree fell down at Aaahhh, pro-Tropas that will be exalting.
1: Ah, i'll greet "h. NJ, ah, a movie, which is a flyer that turned out to be cut off.
2: Those who are living in the living room, ah, you were able to breathe, that he was able to marry, fifty; Ipit Gang 'hhh Tantos, Talaba, Talaba, Talaba, Talaba, Talaba, Taba, Taba, Tantos).
1: 00am edh.
1: 30, it is sent by 1: 40, the BI-BI, and BI-BI, which is said to have come back when he said that he will be sent home to rape, ah, it's for sure?
2: Axe.
1: 00 in the beginning of Ondoy, Sir, hmmmp!
2: Salas.
1: 00-old ah, Sir haunt you in the middle of the turmoil that can be seen in the middle of the mercy, beef, and beef?
2: Aaahhh.
2: 05 in the sea, it seems that it would be rainy season when it turns out that it would be washed away by a black coercion.
1: Greet "Ayso as if Sir Al-Ghamdi and his companions have a pet dog, who can fly to Iya?
2: 00 in the afternoon, a pro-southwest monsoon, as a clan of haunting of Aaahhagat.
1: 00 in the southwest monsoon when you are going to be Aaahhh!
2: Sumaoy.
1: Magayon because a 1: Hala Bira will hmm?
2: Marayes, Tantos, Tantos, hhhhhhhhh, hhh!
1: 30 to make a hh h, which is sent to h h, which is blocked by all BI, some pro-mannered and dancing?
2: 30, there was a lot of thunder that can be washed, which can be washed away by the eateries where we were able to make sure that we were able to go back when we were able to go back to us.
1: Bira will be ehek, Sir?
2: Heanalehek V-eheehek Hehek hhh.
1: 00am edh.
2: The fact that he / she hears a piece of lightning striking him again, ehek.
1: 00 in the shape of SMAS.
2: 30, it's just like when we're on top of each other, we also tried to see each other, we also tried to see each other, and we also tried to go back to each other, we were able to go back to each other, we were able to go back to each other, we were able to go back to each other, we were able to go back to each other, and we were not able to go back to each other, we were able to go to each other.
1: Nayes, which is the symbol of the race that we have to become a maid, ah, his co-worker?
2: A lot of co-Ghamdi and his co-IBIG, I know that they were able to make sure that fifty-dugo Gang "hhh" hhh "
1: Aaahhmmmp, Taykit, Tantos, hhh!
2: 00 into a point that ah, you were able to fix the dancee in OPLAN) that you were able to make sure that we were able to make a lesson from each other, which is why it's as if you were able to send a lesson to the rain that would be felt by the rain that will be felt by the rain that will be felt by the rain that will be felt by each other.
As a 1: 00, all of them gone towards the lust of the child?
2: Mogadishu in SMAS.
1: Ayso-8h!
2: 00 in the morning, we will find a text message of a bus, and we are going home together, we are going to be able to feed us, we are going to be able to pick up Aaahhh TIDs; we are going to be able to assist our co-dih; we are going to be able to reach a pattern in general; we are going to be able to send a cane-INTEL.
It is a 1: 00 in the middle of the manger of those who were his companions who were his companions, who were cheated by, which is why he was left behind by the BI?
2: 00 in the morning, greet Shh, i'll be able to go home and Hala Baniaga when we go home without a pro-bureaucracy.
1: Ah, i'll be sent to a h.
2: Aaahhh, there is an indication that there will be someone who will pick up, clumsy, PPETell and BI.
1: Sir, which is qualified, who will be able to buy a pro-INTECAYETANO!
2: A very long time, that's why she's very lonely and I really feel bad.
1: 00, it's very quiet for me to go back in order to go back in a hurry to break a disagreement.
2: Okay, Teng will be held.
