
People Power Plant, numb and the protesters.

Starting yesterday, there are gathering of different organizations against President Benigno Aquino III and Kabarilan, friends, supporters and other K.
His bosses are from his bosses: He called the actions against PNoy and KKKK.
Will the bosses who want to lower down PNoy and blaming him?
They are pushing.
It was said that PNoy was not able to step down and those assigned to his post.
In fact, PNoy is just waiting for the length of 30, 2016 that his decrease in his position is the date of his decrease in his position.
The date of the law's statement is to drop by an elected president of the country after being elected and lead in six-years to legal and legal process, those in Malacanang.
Meow!
According to those who wants to lower down from position, PNoy should allegedly leave or report to the Palace and he will be driven out by the KKK.
Noguna!
This is what the people who strongly believes in PNoy is the companies to lead the Philippines.
Although the law sets and constitution should be driven by an elected president in the Palace, they will surely be neglected by the effects of his rights to the position.
And if he will not do this, the power of the citizens through the People Power Plant is going to be taken back by the anti-PNoy and KimXi.
Boss Vhmmmp!
If the events are to get into the events, it seems that the fight now is bosses versus bosses, "is the bosses to Malacañang and bosses in the streets.
My bosses are not receiving the streets to call the bosses of PNoy and they are not receiving their bosses, PNoy.
In case the collision of these bosses will continue, where will everything lead?
Teeth, eyes and eyes.
Can it reach the teeth and eyes to the eyes of the two bosses?
What is scary to think is that if the majority of the citizens will be blind, the most of the citizens in the collision of the two.
This will happen, Bro, if they make a iron fist to use the two in their fight, it is as if the military and police are divided.
One part of the police and military is on the side of one side and one part on the other side is one part of their side.
That is why what you're going through will be effective for the lead and gunpowder that we have witnessed in the mutiny.
There is a pile of time to fight.
Perhaps, the collision of the two will be peaceful if he will inspect the power of the citizens like the past EDSA People Power Plant.
This is in case all will reach its peak and not giving more to both sides.
That is why, if the change is really like that, they should depend on the majority of the citizens.
The majority of the citizens are going to live with them and not pointing fingers, in case the majority decides to go with the call of PNoy and those KKK or not to stay in power to remain in power.
Noon.
It appears to the problems that are serious in the present.
The anti-PNoy said, it is clear that it is not true that their lives are progressing.
Aside from each life of the very expensive electricity, the MRT and LRT are expensive, expensive taxes, expensive taxes, loved ones, love, expensive price of goods, together with rice and many others.
There is also a sign that there will also be one o'clock when the lives of the citizens are going to stop the normal lives of the citizens, they are leaving their rights to those who are hiding in the house where they are renting from Sierra Leone, losing their hunger to the families.
There are other lack of livelihood until they are forced to be an OFW and a professional and professional for other countries in the future.
Numb!
But the big issue in the past one year is what PNoy is numb about the situation of those who are driving the way to the small Filipinos.
There have been successive calamities that hit the country from strong earthquake until typhoon Yolanda, like Yolanda, and it was followed by the bloody and full of bulging waistline in the town of Mamasapano.
It is slow or found in the lack of complete concern for the victims of calamity that came from the environment and actions of the people.
On the other hand, it is said that on the other hand, the people from Malacanang will save and protest against the progress of society.
PNoy prioritized the problems in the accident at Serna Daan and taking advantage of the marriage and giving big businesses.
This issue is not enough, in truth, Bro, problems which are the source of war in EDSA now.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
