Out of Order: Karma of Senator De Lima?
Holy Week July 15, 2016.
Before the Senate hearing, the young senator and former Justice Secretary Leila de Lima will wait for the investigation of the increasing number of killed drug pushers, he received criticisms not only to the Duterte administration but also to the veteran senators.
The first response to De Lima of Solicitor General Jose Calida is what the former secretary has done what was done by the former secretary of the Department of Justice to suppress the widespread illegal drugs inside the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP) which is under an administrative control of DOJ.
On the operation of De Lima, the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) was on the operation against illegal drugs and criminality and instead, he was used by the NBI to file a case against illegal drugs and criminality and instead he was not able to file a case on the pork barrel scam, he was not able to file a case on the pork barrel scam, the senators and congressmen who were rivals of the Aquino administration.
It can be recalled that only on the second part of the 2015, De Lima was held today by the NBP, and was not able to immediately see the horrific act of the drug lords due to the help of the PNP-Special Action Force to enter the said dens in the drug lords.
If I am not mistaken, it was only then that de Lima was sure to run as a senator in running the drug lords in the NBP, and he needed to transfer the 20 drug lords in the NBI charges, while the 20 drug lords in the NBI detention case was being pushed to destroy their boards that is full of expensive appliances, bathtub and high-caliber guns.
It is surprising that we have nothing to hear from the cases filed against the officials and the jail guards of the NBP who are responsible in the Philippines, responsible for the drug lords such as Herbert Colangco, which is being dragged inside the NBP compound.
We also have not heard a case filed against the high officials of DOJ that was said to give signal to NBP officials who gave the drug lords in exchange for a huge amount of money.
And there is a wonder that the Senate and the Lower House will investigate in Nueva Ecija for the drug lords in NBP because they are allies of President Noynoy Aquino as their ally, which is why they were included in a sign of burying the sister of the Liberal Party.
This is probably the reason why the veteran senators like Panfilo Lacson and Richard Gordon are against the plan of De Lima to conduct an investigation on the consecutive killings of the drug pushers that reached 910 to July 3 according to the data of the Philippine National Police.

It is also not impossible that DOJ Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre is not able to conduct its own investigation about the Philippines, the drug lords in NBP, and if that happens, this will probably be the karma of Senator Leila de Lima.
