Take care of the environment of By Rey Marchil on July 22, 2016.
In all the controversies they are facing in our daily life, it is time to focus on our nature.
In the country like us, the issue of nature is not given a big time even in social media.
There are few who are going to build the issues of nature, but this is being pushed by politics, crime, sports, economy, and movies, when we are just being given a bigger attention on the issue of nature, and so that this calamity is under our calamities.
Now that rainy season is expected, we can expect that the left flow of some areas is the destruction of crops and effects in our agricultural sector.
Too much disturbing are the said La Nina that followed the El Niño that we experienced.
Because El Niño is the opposite of La Nina that will cause strong rain in us, and in the countries like us, we know the effect of strong rain in flood, calamity, it is hard to find the effect of strong rain in the agricultural sector, which is also difficult to live by crops from the agricultural sector.
These kinds of events are just noticed by many of us when there is only one "in the event that happens.
But the truth is it is not noticed, that our lives depends on the situation of nature, and our future, the truth is, all of this is dependent on the environment of the environment that should be given by everything.
All of us have a contribution - no matter how big the environment will come, and what will happen to the future.
All that's happening to us has no meaning if we do not care about our environment, if we themselves will take care of it.
So let us not depend on the government to take care of our nature, let us learn to join, do our contribution as a good citizen.
It is a huge number of Filipinos who have work in the past administration, based on the result of past surveys.
But along with the good record, it is also good to identify the sector or industry who is able to give many jobs, if in the Business Administration.
In case it can be determined which sector was the contribution of many workers, it is natural to identify which of the industry will need an additional arms in the country in order to strengthen the number of our countrymen who have no jobs.
You need to know the reason why there is a lack in the industry that can be determined despite the big number of those who are unemployed and always remember, "my spy and I am my spy". "
