
TIDBITSSNIPRESkakel and SETC.

The Supreme Court said that it is against the Constitution by the pork barrel, baptism of Moro Islamic Development Assistance Fund which is made by Madam Cory before.
Also the pork barrel which was caused on the year 2000.
Guimbolanan is said to have been conquered by congressmen, senators and from the Palace for projects or programs that have a fund while the national budget will be done in the Legislative Chamber and senate, even from the BI-Illegal Drugs Act of Committee.
If we are studying, from the time of Madam Cory, until the decision of the Court is effective, the pork barrel which is being given importance by the pork barrel which is being given money by my eyelid.
The Court's decision is a landslide about the vote of 14-0 from the 15 magistrates.
"It cannot be done.
The magistrates explained, the lawmakers are going to make the laws that contains projects or programs of the lawmakers.
But they will not allow to get involved again after the law is approved on the national budget and only the Palace will conduct it.
This is what led by the Saligang Batas to say that the congressmen and senators are going to file a law while those from the palace can implement its implementation.
They are crying.
Of course, many congressmen and senators are crying now.
How can they take back the millions of peso that they spent on the campaign in the election and they are expecting to remove from it to recover and have too much funds for their future?
In the complaint of our Usahay, a congressman needs to be around 50 million to meet the win in the election.
The senator needs to release from two hundred 50 million but he is still not sure of the win.
In the salary of these, those who are just playing will be playing in a month, how do they do much to take back?
Of course, they have a millions of pesos in a trip and other benefits, according to the Commission on Audit.
But these are not enough to make it up and save for their own future.
Wise!
But these lawmakers are wise, they can make up on the Supreme Court.
They have a lot of ways to make money and steal from the country's budget if the statement of the cleaning the senator and congressmen will not work, they should not respond to the Court but follow.
Kautasan in the Crime Operatives).
Who has a saying that he will not spread the lawmakers who want to have money?
It is the Palace who is going to decide if they will be implemented or not the favorite gifts of the lawmakers because it is only here on this power of the Palace, it is expected that the followers and obsequiousness of the lawmakers are coming out.
In other words, if you want to have a project or program, those who are from the palace will be the ones from the Palace, "
We are very well, they will still have to catch them.
Especially if it will be blind, the Commission on Audit, Office of the Ombudsman and the Department of Justice will win.
Edgar Macabeo.
This is where the lawmakers are going to build their own contractor which is why these will be strict with his partner to their contractor.
That is where they will live in projects.
The question here, who are in the Bids Blue Ribbon Committee on the agencies of the government will stop the congressmen and those who are drug pushers to meddle in their work in exchange for reward?
Especially if these lawmakers say that they are allies of the people in Malacanang?
Heeking the same!
It is a puppy of a puppy.
Do you think the patrons of the patrons of politics are also distinguished?
"Is it possible that those who are on top of those who are on top of the lack of pork barrel?
In this system, the lower part should be followed if he wants to have a blessing.
Others said that now that there is no pork barrel, those who are on top of the Palace will not be used to avoid binge their support for all that are confusing.
They do not make mistakes.
It is in the palace.
Let us repeat.
The executive leader in the country is controlled by the country to control and release a public funds.
It is not in the decision of the Court about PDAF, CDS and CI am the prohibition of the President to control the release of funds for the proposed projects of the lawmakers.
That is why, if the President said that there is no funds for your project, you are dead and Sen. you are dead.
You need to respond if your project will not die because of lack of funds.
Help with MIDs.
Senior citizens and San Agustin Rebalde, the homeowners of the Brgy. Talipapa, Quezon City said to not hold their Christmas and New Year's party, and instead they were able to donate 20,000 pesos for Yolanda and Bohol, they were able to join and put it on ABS-CBN.
