
PPEK the television address by PNoy.

It seems that our President is really misled by the real reason of the acceptance of our citizens, that is why he still cannot see the reason for supporting his countrymen who are not doing anything but to create stupidity to our government.
In his television address last Wednesday, President Aquino thrown the blame on the opposition regarding the issue of pork barrel scam, he also defended the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) that his administration needs to put our economy in order to put our economy in order.
It would have been okay if PNoy did it because he showed him as a president, he showed any thing that his administration has done and was not able to be blamed by our government and he should also be the one to face the citizens.
The problem is the continuing refusal of PNoy to the real reason why many of our countrymen still continue to excuse him and they have not done anything but to give shame to his administration.
He still continues to defending his allies in politics who are involved in the issues of corruption just like the pork barrel scam of Janet Lim-Napoles, there is a basis for the people behind the pork barrel scam, that is why one of his colleagues have no basis because of one of his colleagues.
After all, the names of Davao congressman and the House Committee on Appropriations Chair Isidro Ungab said earlier that there was nothing against him, the names of some of PNoy in the cabinet just surfaced like the Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala and Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa.
But why did the President just ignore the accusations against them? Even if they will be held by the Department of Justice (DOJ) against them, the agency did not do anything when he was filed with a case against the opposition.
If the television address of the President was announced, he announced his firing of those stubborn in his administration instead of getting rid of the pork barrel and DAP, I think many of our countrymen will be happy.
It is clear that the reason for the fall of the trust of our citizens with PNoy is the truth that he cannot keep on his best "straight path" happiness which is why he is blaming his shameless companions.
