The reforms are widespread in the land, "the Congress doesn't want to worsen.

The proposed law that they are taking advantage are from the implementation of the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (COP) for two years after the members of the Aquinos who are owned by the President Aquino, who owns the most controversial hacienda, Hacienda Luisita, are benefiting from the end of the administration of President Aquino.
Recently, in the vote of 7-1, the House Bill 4296, has passed the committee level 4296, with the distribution of land for farmers, it is said that it is not being implemented by the Department of Agrarian Reform (PA), there is still a 260,000 increase that has not been implemented by the suspension of the game.
There are also similar version in the Senate, the Senate Bill 2188, who is in the committee level.
"What can I do?"
At the end of the implementation of Carper (COP Extension with Reforms) this June 30, the passing of the said program is being rushed to the implementation of the said program for the reforms.
"They rushed the passing of the committee to send it to the plenary before the session in congress closed," said by Tarlac Representative Noel Villanueva the passing of HB 4296 to make the distribution of the land of the Aquino administration.
"What can be done by the farmers in the 25th anniversary of DAR and it is not a guarantee that if the land is placed under the lower part of the land, said Antonio Flores, general secretary of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), in the interview of Filipino Weeker.
Most of those who were given by Cers of Land OPLAN) and Cerge (CLess (CLT) attacked him because they could not pay the privatization of the Lord Nazarene like what is happening in Hacienda Luisita.
And while the passing of the Congress of violating the land is being rushed to the economy of the Lord of the Lord, they are also rushed to the Lord of the farmers, and filing of cases of the farmers, and filing of cases of cases of killings.
Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas said that the passing of HB 4296 in the committee of the legislative chamber is going to be an equivalent on the passing by the farmers.
"In the span of 26 years, the large company of the Lord Almighty, the giant company of the real Estate and local and foreign corporation were disconcerting to the many cases of maternity leave for the sake of the poor in the countryside," Flores said.
Flores insisted, the Virgin Mary is fake.
Against the farmer.
Within the more than 40 years, since former President Ferdinand Marcos was from the Presidential Dec.72, of former President Ferdinand Marcos to be "crib program" by Corazon Aquino's Pambansang Kamao in 1988, the manhood of the big Lord of the earth did not falter.
Buyers now are proud that it will be distributed by 4,597545 hectares and the Department of Environment and Natural Resources just can be held at 755,357 hectares of the land to be more than 5 million MT.
But the group of farmers insisted that the changes in their ranks have no shouting and the majority are still submerged and majority of poverty are still submerged in poverty.
According to Kyoto, the lack of land is worse, not only by the traditional Lord Almighty, not only by the traditional Lord Almighty, banana, and oil oil in Mindanao, and the coast of sugar in Negros and other places.
"
The leader of a lawmaker has also said that the proposed law was filed at Amang P extension last April 10, it was surprising that it was immediately passed in the first reading on the committee.
"He said that the passing of this is part of those pushing for it by Representative Noel Villanueva and seven other congressmen (like)) from the bag of Akbayan," said Hala.
According to Karangalan Village, the government will only hope that they will have a lot of land in order to have a lot of lawmakers who are in favor of the Virgin P to pass the implementation because they have a big benefit.
They took as an example of Villanueva who is a member of Hacienda Luisita, there are more than 1,000 hectares and I heard that the man was allegedly used as a fan.

"At present, the value of the case of Hacienda Luisita, not less than 10,000 pesos every year from 10,000 pesos per kilo before finally thought to AdP," Flores said.
Under the system of ENDO, the local officials of the government or former leaders of Hacienda Luisita, preparing the land of farmers.
"It was used by the system of Cojuangco and their accomplices in 2005 to maintain the production of sugar and their control on earth, this is widespread after the Disbursement Acceleration Program of DAR," says Flores.
Virginia Torres is pointing at the former chief of Land Transportation Office to the members of Hacienda Luisita, up to or more than two hundred hectares of the land that he will be selling, "according to KMP).
The group also said that it is not only the experience of the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, proven to be the anti-farmers of Captain P and Carper.
It can also be seen in Negros, which is the bastion of the traditional politicians like Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco Jr. Thousands of hectares of land remain in control of the landowner.
It is up to 60 percent that the land is being taken out or concentrated from the called beneficiary of the Black Nazarene, according to KMP), which is why it is not a guarantee that the land was distributed, similar in Hacienda Inocencio Street, Negros Occidental.
"Especially in the local government of Negros Occidental, the accomplice of the giant companies, Jews as well as DOLE (Philippines) in expressing the land from the farmers," Flores said.
Aside from Negros, they still haven't acted upon the conflict in Hacienda Dolores, up to 2,000 hectares of Porac, Pampanga, said to be the one made by Leonardo-Victory al-Leonio Holmesburg, Incorporated. Lalajala), both have a relation to Ayala Land Incorporated.
It is plans to make the residential area of 1,280 hectares of the hacienda for those who are very well-elected President, as well as the tourism, tourism and nearby areas.
The alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle Luzon (September GL) said that the company of LLINTEL) will enter the said project, which is in favor of the Aquino administration, which gave funds to the company of Ayala who gave funds to his campaign last election.

The case of Hacienda Luisita in Nasugbu, Batangas is the one made by Henry Sy of more than 1,000 hectares of land is the plan to make the tourism in Manila South Coast Development Corporation and Fil-Estate.
According to Alum and sweat, it was put under different programs in the land the hacienda, last 1990 when they were given protection from the farmers under the Virgin P, in total, thousands of DAR and 25 Cambot who are roaming around 981 hectares.
But after a few years, dozens of DAR were cancelled after they sold the government under interrogation which costs 113 million MT) in MSDC for the amount of P215 million.
"Said to Henry Sy is the land of the farmers in Hacienda Luisita," said Hala.
Along with the failure of the land to the farmers, violence in their ranks, some of them were killed under the Aquino administration, many of them were killed under the Aquino administration.
"Why is there a need to give attention to the Congress to give the implementation of the First P, while on the 26 implementation of its implementation, there is no one to be given to the farmers by the Lord," said they are interested in the budget given to the Lord of the Lord.
"There is a big budget allocated to 150 billion pesos.
It is said that a big percentage in the budget is possible to allocate time for the Lord Almighty for this and this will reach 150 million pesos from 2009 to 2014, the payment of Land Bank from 1972 to 2005 still reached P4.8 pesos.
Kumamoto and Asukal are insisted that it is right to end the fake reforms in the land, and exchange of a true reform in the land, it would be better for the farmers to pass the proposed bill from the farmers, which will lead to farmers.
