I am firm, "President Asukal?

For Edwin Lacierda and Abigail Valte, there is no ability that will declare President Benigno Aquino III (P3).
Do we agree with the customers of Balides with what the two customers say?
If you think about it, last year we just pop up and be prudent in the issue of the Presidential impeachment.
It started during the height of the impeachment complaint against the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.
It's because the impeachment of the committee is new, who is nonsense and feared at the House of Representatives.
"Is it the signature first before asking or not, you do not have pork barrel, you have no prize if Corona is removed.
Bring here the mysterious document as evidence made out!
But even before the lawyers of SCCJ Corona and the leaders of the different movement and civil wedding, Atty. Oliver Lozano and one Marcos Kalagayan is also first to attack.
How much is the reason, we will never know that!
According to the people we talked to, as a lawyer, this case is increasing in number, which can be the reason for the burial of Aquino.
From his negligence in duty, lack of proper and identified programs of the country and being a dictator in the system of his regime, it is not enough but too much.
The negligent leadership of our fellow countrymen who were victims of past typhoons even last 2010 has a secret.
Since then, until now, they have not been given a new project for now.
There are typhoon Agaton today, he visited Mindanao which destroyed typhoon Sendong and Pablo.
Instead of fix it, there is still a joke!
At the height of the impeachment of Corona, the votes of the votes surfaced to be removed from the former price hike.
Many congressmen and some senators admitted.
Senator Franklin Drilon, Juan Ponce Enrile and Chiz Escudero were not denied that they were given more than one hundred million pesos.
Other senators, 50 million and congressmen?
Umm, from P25 million to more than 50 million!
Wait, it is said that this is not an additional pork barrel because "they are hardworking," they are obedient to the impeachment reward, "the budget is not from PDAF but the questionable DAP!
With the true personality, can it be said that President Noynoy Aquino will still be firm against the impeachment of President Noynoy Aquino?
