Correct your thoughts.

Not what is on you or who you are or whatever you are doing or what you do that makes you happy or what you are thinking about this.

Less good thoughts will affect your mind.

Your character is feeling that, where you have a full force and lack of control over the physical events, you are considered a small thing, this is considered a small thing, this is considered a small difference in your life.

Thinking is different from anyone who does not have the power to enter if you are going to accept any feeling that you do not like each of us has the power to choose a positive attitude, or negative opinions.

This is the foundation of what we are making or going back to our hobby in life, the biggest part of our happiness, and not only in our opinions but these are parts and can be washed away, but we have the ability to stop and cheat on them!

We can control how and this kind of struggle is not enough for this.

.

Compared to old age, if your thoughts is hurting the feelings of the people, you are still hurt, because in the result of their mission, it is sure that there are many issues that they need to face and treatment towards you.

Your thoughts is your future, real, and simple rules.

Choosing the right attitude is meaningful and very important changes in yourself, if your fares will be given, you will be the first to benefit the result if the result will be seen on the reaction of your face.

Remember that life is 10 percent how you are doing this, and 90 percent of how you receive this, you are becoming happy while you are receiving to be happy with all the events in your life, this depends on your reaction.

We never change the past that we cannot change the truth that people are moving with the difference if we do not change the things that we have, and this is our opinions if we themselves have responsibility in our opinions.

It seems that it is hard to find a fish; you are not sure of the kind and size of the fish that you will catch up, but if you are just based on your thoughts, you have no personal decision that you can do.

Good thoughts.

My child, do not forget what I taught.

But let your heart be careful with my orders.

Because the length of days and the years of life is long.

And their peace will be added to you.

Do not neglect the goodness and truth you leave you.

Tie them around your neck.

You should listen to them from the depths of your heart.

So that you will make the distress of the that you have shown and good reputation.

In the eyes of God and people.

Believe in the Lord your whole heart.

And do not listen to your own understanding.

For all that you have to consider Him.

And he will do your way and right.

- with Kawasan 3: 1 to 6: One of the things I learned from the painful way, there is no benefit of losing hope and trust on your thoughts and trust on your thoughts and trust on your thoughts are the primary ingredients in success.

If there are questions, there are answers.

- are you happy now in your life?

- if you are envious and you are afraid of the events in your surroundings, do you continue to reading and watching news on everyday?
Manila, do you have a plan before starting a task, or, you are just doing this for the last moment if you are focused on and have no refuge?

- do you have in a crisis now because of their failure to plan early?

After a while, do you have enough control over your reaction to not commit mistake?

- if you speak you think, will you hesitate to come upon it?

- do you feel the right importance or respect to your loved ones, to your friends, or even with your partner?

- can you be angry and cannot be patient with those who want to be patient, and for a long time to understand what you should explain?

- are you studying the right thoughts that will help you to show your real personality?

Success or failed?

Whatever it is, you are in your power to choose and this will be your fate.
