
Training at the airport Police PPERA 9165.

He said that the training of the airport police will earn a lot.
It was said that it was said that it was said that it was only 30 minutes and in Pili, and since it was long been complete, it was said to be a long time problem, but since he was seated, around 11th, Nunth and 13th of this year, was only three years old.
If before, they are being given the list of those they will use for the training and they themselves buy the training of their needs, now they will be asked for the ones to buy P45K for training equipment.
It is said that the bag that contains the training of the official is said to have not reached the amount of P20K because those inside the bag are APD, t-mannered, rubber band, rubber band, and various other training.
If before, the training is almost 2 months, now it is just a month since the official is in a hurry to form a new atch, of course for the new income.
And in this situation, the training of the airport police are becoming emotional that's why we are not surprised why many are rude and do not know how to get along with people, so that they will be okay now.
Because if before it is the 72 units in the College, now, there is a need for me to graduate before being part of the gch.
It would have been good for this kind of system to run because of your greed for money, and how can people pay the amount of P45K?
The official's ATM card was said to have been holding the ATM card of the new police, he will not return as long as they have not paid their training as well because they have not been paid for several months because they have not been paid for a few months.
Aside from the training of the airport police, the other livelihood of the official is said to be a source of income from the former office of the PNP Aviation Security System (Our Lady of the airport police and PNP Aviation group, and the money is going to go.
Lily's column found out that this is the official close relative of MIAA General Manager Ret. Gen. Jose Angel A. Honrado himself, who is the cousin of President Aquino, lily's Day.
