
Rats, the cats and CIDG Collector Dela 4-A.

We can't see that, his logic, the logic on the leadership of the PNP will be implemented by the security guard who will be attacked in Camp Crame.
Like this, the cat's den can be guarded by rats!
That hmmmp! "
We do not recognize the ability and integrity of the security guards, in fact, many of them are more popular, dangerous, instead of the horrific cops.
But it is a different discussion when the issue is on monitoring the gate of the gate, arteries and important office of "headquarters of the PNP.
Because, what for example is that, why are they being fooled and brought by terrorists?
The security guards cannot be held martial law!
What if they have the weapons to buy weapons?
How can they monitor the high officials and officials detained in Crame?
They do not know how to be known in monitoring of the prisoners!
That is just a few of the questions, judicial system, which can't be given reason because the PNP just wants to save.
That because the number of policemen who watch now in Crame is being taken out of the streets.
What if the police are outside all over, then the terrorists will use the PNP headquarters?
If we are going to discuss the discussion, we have something to do with it, make sure that we are free.
"We are boy scouts" who will be guarded in Crame!
Oh yes, all the military's camp should be guarded in security!
So that the foolishness! Bwar, har, har!

The gambling lords in Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon are crying.
Because of this, alias "Milan" which is taking advantage now for the Deputy Director Region 4-A (Commission on CIDG (R2).
The bad thing is, because if they are illegal gambling, it will also be illegal and it may lead to the task of Milan!
Just a few moments, make sure that they will get killed, especially in Calabarzon area?
The reason, they carry the said unit although there is no blessing from the CIDG and it can only be the canal of the CIDG?
Because if they will not be defeated by Milan, we believe that it is true that he is the true deputy chief!
