The fight continues.

The fight is not over yet.
It is contrary to the annual system that the government of UP and other public locations every year will be received by the meaningful price increase for the next year in the proposed budget of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) in 2013, the biggest amount received by the university in the history will be approved by the Congress.
It can be considered a success, there is no space to opening this news for the studies of the students to be complacent about the time when we have been fighting for us for a long time, that is why we need to be vigilant and more than the call to act.
Despite the expected increase in budget in 2013, the condition of the education sector in the country remains complicated, and there are still many lack of tuition in public and private university, and there are still many lacking in facilities in schools, and there are still many lacking in facilities in schools, and there are still many lacking in facilities in schools.
The increase in budget of change in the government is not a signal.
Even if there are more than 46 cases to be increased by the budget for state Universities (Colleges (SUCs) next year, it does not mean that this has been abandoned by President Benigno Aquino III for the long time that the government has given their own income that will increase in the shortage of government.
In the inside of UP, you will see the indication that the government has not yet recognized his whole responsibility for the agricultural sector which is caused by the shortage of budget and those who are planning to earn, an agreement that will be spent for business which is not sure to be exported.
The administration of UP also does not have the initiative to return the amount of tuition in 300 every kilometer unit instead, it is said that the essence of becoming a quality of education in the national university of the Philippines will not be met.
The mentioned trend and improvement of UP will surely rise from other presidentiable.
Outside the educated barangay captains, there is also a problem with a crowded place, especially the intensified implementation of the Aquino administration in the program K-12 this year.
In spite of the lack of canned goods, books, and teachers, Aquino still supported to add to the current condition of education, Aquino, to ensure that the program will be implemented, even if it is true, they are just waiting for the actual work they are waiting for when leaving.
The government directly admitted to our actions the increase in budget for the next year, according to DBM Secretary Florencio Abad, the increase was given because the government was listening to his citizens.
But the government is having a clear solution to giving solution to the root of the problem of education, even if the budget is increasing, there is still a high tuition fee, even if the funds are still high due to multiple cases in the past.
If analyzed, they will increase the budget of UP but it will not be red from P15.4 billion request of university that will give a higher budget to meet the needs of teachers and those rushing to meet the lack of facilities and other needs.
That's why we should not respond to the news of budget increase.
Let us go back to the history, the government will not be humble if they were not shocked by the voice of the youth that they went to the streets to protest the dialogue and other more orderly form of protests to protest and face the direct threat of fighting.
The government has not yet finished but our fight is not yet finished in the coming July 13, we once again show the strength and shouting of our ranks, and we should leave the sidewalks where we need to insist and request to it.
