The PPCRV became partisan?

When the Parish council Council for one responsible voting or the PPCRV will set aside the leadership of Miss Tita de Villa as chairwoman, it received praises from different sectors of the society.
It is supposedly the purpose of the PPCRV to have the Calaguas well, destabilization "why the group of Madam Tita de Villa has not seen the many cheating in the past election?
Now that the barangay election is approaching, some of the candidates noticed the biased of the PPCRV to the enemies of the administration candidate or the enemy of their relative.
Even before October 11, the residents of the PPCRV will reach some barangays in some barangays, many of the PPCRV are going to remove the tarpaulins in the jurisdiction of the PPCRV because what they know is that the COMELEC is the only direct control of it and the COMELEC is the only one in power to remove it.
Maybe if it is being done by some corrupt personnel of the PPCRV, it does not mean that it came from the leaders of the said organization with the command of the said organization, which is possible that they are protecting their relatives who will run this October 28, election election.
The barangay involved in the pork barrel scam is also involved in the pork barrel scam.
Every day of election, you will notice that almost all allies of the leaders of the barangay are going up, "according to their barangay chairman before going to their barangay chairman before going to their precinct to vote, they know what the voters are doing inside the barangay hall.
To those who were able to talk to those who were able to speak up and entering the barangay, they said that they are saying that their chairman is going to be grateful to them first before voting.
The voters will complain in the area, "when the voters goes up, it is sure that the money will be received that the lowest is 200 and highest pesos.
A simple vote buying which can't be seen by the COMELEC or just pretending to be blind because the administration is making it blind.
Hopefully, our voters should learn now, they wake up to their long coats, do not sell their votes in a small amount of suffering for 3 years of suffering.
