Paper paper - the demolition of demolition (KD).

Position paper about the demolition of community in Tabing Ilog, Estero and those living in the depth of the Tulay ng mga Bayani.

The demolition of demolition (KD) will be held.

We are worried that the poor are worried that's why we want the government's whole plan only this February and we know the whole plan of the government because it is certain that this project is a big effect in the livelihood and the future of our poor people.

The government needs to clarify and release all the documents and plans to hit our poor, that is why it's only now that it should be prepared for a long time, but as early as now, we should know the whole plan for us to prepare, to ensure our participation in the whole project that is why we are not being stepped on our human rights.

We, the poor, who are living under the bridge, caused the government being blamed by the government in the past typhoon Ondoy, Pedring, southwest monsoon and other calamity, that the reason why this is the reason for the poor, not the reason for the poor, not the cause of flooding, unlike in the Mall of Asia.

We, the poor, that can handle the water level, it is clear that an example is the injection of the SM in Marikina that he stayed in Marikina River because we will not allow us to be blamed because of the flooding that happened in Manila.

In the previous demolition, we are always pitiful because of the destruction of our homes, we should be thrown away by rats from different Relocation Site which is far from our source of livelihood.

When we damage the eyes of capitalists and are rich, we say that our rights are not right in the city and we have the right to fight and we will fight for it.

So in the government's plan, what is the guarantee that our rights are living near the river, under the bridge and canal, our rights are just a shack here, that is why we are living in a shack that is living and our families are living together.

We do not want to give details about it because we are ready to fight, and fight for our rights!

So what we want, the government should not hide the real plan, the real project that they treat us from far away, because their threat to their family is scary, because the future of our family is affected, especially our children.

We want the government to expose the real project, because maybe like in the past, there is no electricity, no water, far from our work, because it is far from our work, because it is far from our society, it is far from our society and it is often worse than our community.

This February this year should be discussed, not in June where we will be surprised in the immediate demolition.

Our wishes:

1 - there will be no demolition until it is not affordable, strong, and safe relocation, which is the agreement of the government and the poor.

2 - the process set by the law is next, according to the version of the law's statements, it is just right to advise and have a negotiation from the affected families and will not immediately conduct a demolition.

3 - it will be certain that it will not lead to death penalty or the community who will be delivered to a danger zone, like fate of those in vitality, in Montalban.

4 - make sure that there is complete and sufficient supply of water and electricity is near the political service of the government like school, health center, and others.

5 - relocation should be made in the city to avoid being a nuisance to our children and our livelihood.

6.
