Marcos dictatorship, "Top Rank Promotions" in the Philippines.

September September, 2016 Cherry Joy D. Garay.

City of Laoag, September 2 (Pia) - Ilocos Norte Governor Imee.

Marcos in the 10 chosen targets of the department of the Pambansang Kamao was declared to be sent out by the Provincial Prosecutor's department and DILG as "Top Rank Promotions of the entire Philippines.

Aside from Marcos, there are some of the list of Karangalan: Governor's Gov. Faustino Dy Sr. (Isabela), Junie Cua (Quirino), Edgardo Marañon (Negros Occidental), Alfredo Marañon (South Cotabato), Ma avance-Fuentes (South Cotabato), Maravance-Fuentes (South Cotabato).

The choosing of DILG to those included in the "honor and list" is related to their program and government against illegal drugs or illegal drugs.

According to Senior Superintendent Jose Melitante, Jr., acting provincial director of Ilocos Norte Police Provincial Office, Marcos supports the programs of the government that will be exported in the proliferation of illegal drugs in the province.

"Here in Ilocos Norte, the Provincial Government of Ilocos Norte (LPG), behind bars, Calamian Group (Actor, Preso, Acting)," said that he (Marcos) itself is the one who gave birth, and said that he is the one who gave birth, "said Emma Morano.

Along with the announcement of the DILG on the list of Karangalan Village, Pukan in the province of Ilocos Norte as "Malia in the province of Ilocos Norte as" Mica's unit "in the leadership of Marcos.

"According to the PNP, the DILG for example, Ilocos Norte as one of the Pambansang Kamao in the Country," Marcos said as thanking the recognition that they received.

Within the past eight months, it is estimated that around 15 to seven crimes have been recorded in Ilocos Norte or even just low until two weeks in a week, according to the record of CPPO.

Aventajado also praised the other programs of the provincial government as support of the police against the suppression of different crimes in the province, such as hostages, fire piston, and three K-9 that will be used for the quick search of illegal drugs and weapons.

The program Football Federation of drugs or the weapon launched by the province through Ilocos Norte Youth Office or you are a very big help in suppressing illegal drugs, "says gross.

"The result was more fast because there were a lot of force who helped in suppressing crimes," said Ronalyn ez (JNido, CJG-1, Ilocos Norte.
