
Chevron, Ligation is focused on the native Aetas.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
There is 3, 2012.

The indigenous people are worried about the three towns of Kalinga which would be destroyed by Chevaded by Chevident.
Lower House, Lubuagan, Kalinga - we are going to be seen from the mountainous part of Barangay Pasil of East, the top of the mountains, which was slightly opened in Gulod-north, at the peak of the mountains, which was a few adjacent community (Western and Upper Pangit) by two nearby provinces (Western and Upper Pangit) by two nearby provinces (Western and Upper Street.
The place will only be reached after more than one hour of walking in the mountains, they are living a simple and peaceful in the weather, planting rice, coconut milk, corn, coffee, and grasses that would be made into by the production.
Even if it is difficult to live because of the lack of good fortune, and lack of any social service, the problems in the community will be sent to the hospital, and, in the occasion of the Independence Day, of a "Stadium, which held the celebration of more than 1,000 thousand people.
Digging out of land.
The 119th Independence Day is a annual celebration of life and fighting of the citizens of the correct crisis in different provinces, including Kalinga and the indigenous people in the building of a giant ball which was implemented by the World Bank.
Stadium is believed to have been made by the Lower House for more than less than 1,000 people contestants in the celebration of the Independence Day of correct space (establishments, Quijano).
Even if they were saved from the damage of the canal, it is in danger now in the entry of Chevron Corporation, company of the United States, one of the biggest company of oil and energy in the world.
A plantation of Chevron, Kalinga.
Not only a part of the oil container, Chevron, the biggest in the entire world.
Upon reaching the heat from the heat being experienced under the land, this kind of energy that's being sold or not running out is said to be the planned $300 million pesos which is said to have been planned to be the planned $300 million pesos which is said to have been planned to have a bad energy since the former mayor was able to pass the time.
But the indigenous people of Kalinga are worried that they will be evicted from their land during the time that a local government official in a consultation last 2010 was said to be left in their home when the plant was also done by the indigenous employees of the plant.
Attracting bo, one of the products in the Lower House (OFW's; Quijano, will be held.
But if they will be driven out from their land, they are worried that the chemical in the environment will be hit by a poisonous chemical like a poisonous chemical, which is being implemented by the water and crops.
Electricity for mining?
In line with the construction of at the construction of the mining companies that are the primary people who will benefit from the electric posts, which is headed by the New People's Army (NPA), as a response to the grand reception of the New People's Army (NPA), as a response to the New People's Army (NPA), one of the biggest national company of mines that is based in United Kingdom.
There are traditional rice that will not be using fertilizer and attack that is planted in Payao (establishments, Quijano).
According to Danny Bangayan of the Cordillera People's Alliance (CPA) - Kalinga, "it is clear that the project at the Aquino administration will open to the general pushers of the Aquino government to open the jurisdiction of the application or operation of mine, most of foreign companies.
Chevron is plans to dig up to exploration going to the areas surrounding Barangay Pasil, several years Quijano).
Bangayan explained that the indigenous people need a big plant in order to have a regular supply of electricity, but this is also enough for the indigenous people to run in the mountainous place, according to the CPA.
"According to him, those from Lower House did not agree with it," we are really not the ones who will benefit from at the gravestones, but the big companies, "said Bancanao.
Violence and reconciliation.
Since the approval of the opposition of the protesters, they will not be invited by the National Commission on Human Rights), that they have not invited the leaders of the members of 764 and 21st Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army, that according to them, the members of the company, were also noticed.
Spreading fear to the indigenous people is the recognition given by the military.
Every time the military arrives, the native farmers were not able to buy curfew for fear, they were accused by the soldiers to have the murder of the soldiers, but according to the residents, the victim was accused and have been shot each other when he was shot.
Also included in the military is also included in the meeting given by the indigenous people, which is why there is a chance to address the leaders of the indigenous people, instead of having a chance to address the cases filed by the residents, however, they should be given the questions about the care of nature, "the story of Bangkal.
Unity of the mates.
The indigenous people are not moved in fact, the Independence Day issue has become an occasion in order to convey to the huge public the threat that they are facing, which is also affected in their source of livelihood, nature, land, and dignity! "
A different tribe of a alliance between Chevron in Kalinga, which was used in the theme of the Independence Day of correct market (several years Quijano, was used to be hit on the theme of the Independence Day.
In a ritual caused by the guests of the All Soul's Day, they will open the rope and large knife at both sides of the Stadium, they gave them strength to face their ancestors, and their young songs that have a sound of insult, and being full of joy.
