Fur.
Obviously four.
Eight people!
Fur.
Four years and good morning, Francis is a good morning to us who are watching yes, and we are able to send our invitation to an agreement in spite of our invitation in spite of the experts.
Thank you, he's okay, he / she's okay, as well as his friends, they bought there's no one, which is why she graduated with the older brother's older brother-in-law; he / she was able to go to the older brother-in-law;
You are also a military who entered and force herself, so he said to his sibling.
Eight.
As a number of people, I saw him at P Javier, I saw him at P Javier, i'll be able to attend to us, do not go to us, not to join us to our Filipino after the graduation ceremony in P), we received information.
As they say, he / she was distressed.
In the hands of those who met him and for being an official, I really have a lot of things even though I laughed with different positions one Corporation (WBC) that's why this is the last year.
I am the Miss International Space Station in the office of the teacher at us.
It is impossible to win.
That is when we have said that we have a mistake; we are the mistakes that we are mistaken, so that we will be able to help each other for cheating; this is the only thing that you are going to be the ones who are at the same age.
I do not know if we are going to put it in Communications elecoxib and the door of August.
"According to us, I am the one more than half a year when I only went there to the office of Mother's threat that's why he / she can take care of and take care of communication; Electronic Court.
For the posture or taking a look, this is just this duty, sir?
Source of income.
Do not break-control.
A voice cannot it be.
Just call the Commander of their chin, do not allow a pipe but you will not excuse it.
There, they need to be given a car that is okay now, but we went back to this day, Arhhness, and we went back to the All Soul's Lapian ng Masang Pilipino; we are still young; we are still young; we are still young; we are still young.
"You are not sure but no matter how we will give and take care of this word of the All Soul Cirilos who is very tired, it's right that we are tired and eggs in Adeleza.
It has been one Brigada Eskwela to go to the Philippines in the Philippines, which started to go to the Philippines, which is in a Sunday.
Acquaintance.
We are taking advantage of the training like that in the cemetery.
As early as now.
He's the president that will lead to the honor.
In Bataan, 33 years old, whose name was woken up.
For the day of the Kagitingan reef is that we are okay, as well as our breast, that is why we do not really do that, but for the next generation that we have been fighting for, but for the next generation that we have been fighting for, but for the next generation, we almost have to fight, but the cellphone they are asking for should not be stopped.
What?
Covetous, very fuck; we are going to express the importance of returning to what they have done.
We are here in our country so that it can't be distressed; our children can understand each other.
Because you are going to go back now, it's as if he's going crazy.
We are doing this.
This is what we are saying, it seems that we are using the opportunity for us to allow those who are just beside the age to search for our own.
And if we are not yet done?
We will have a house helper in their visit that's also visited by our country, to the sale of our country, that is also ashamed of what we signed.
That's why it's okay that we know that we know that we are very okay; we know that we are going to be able to help each other, we can help each other, that we can help each other, that we can help each other, we might be able to go back to each other, we might be able to think about it, because it is also some of the criticisms that they can get to the negative things or things.
Very small; we might look at the same age; maybe they are only two of the free entry of call; we really know that we will be given their support but instead, we really know that it is a big thing that we're going to take care of, so we really know that it is a big deal, that's why it's really a big thing that we can look like.
They are lucky to go back to that prison.
I'm texting because it is just like we are taking advantage of it.
The one who is at the Complex which is currently being applied until now.
He is still true.
He needs a need because he signed.
"We are anxious; the coins are the coins when I have seen that, we really do not really want the sale of our self from any form that we have signed, which is okay, which we signed, that depends on the T-V, that is okay.
They have no idea, to look down.
So that our ability to talk to you are our ability to text what we have said that we might be alone.
It's the baby we went to, but before we agree.
Age!
There are those who are worried about us that if we do not have five years, we can't handle the sale of those who are going to help me if we will have a way.
"That's what I am calling for, but is it that in the exercise that we are doing, what will happen to the exercise that we are doing, whatever we do, we don't have the same surname training as well as the same surname training.
Called it.
He / she was able to go to school; he / she is not the one to be in exercise which is only ten days since he died in April 19.
Even me, but the first Metro Rail Transit is going to be in the middle of the start of Palawan which will build the schools that will build the schools, whose legs are being treated.
To those.
Filipinos do something like communication who are in need of communication.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she was first killed; it was first before.
Because we do not end up to ten-high school building, cravors; and covetousness;
Pauleen came first by the stars that both were five years old so they have the bread of Civil Engineers of dollars, and that's why they didn't Engineers of U Vs.
"This is the usual tor that they want, that they want others to go before, but even before the Formosa do not go to school; it's okay to go; that's okay," Ipit Gang; that's okay.
The military forces are Tayaban, or Joe Santiago, after one hundred thirty-year-old children, which is why it was okay after one hundred years of how I received the military address that they got from us.
There are a gift she said that there are a lot of people that we also need, that is probably one of that, that's why it's okay with Concepcion which is okay with this.
Ah, he is one of the training after I went to exercise that is why we are okay with our training; we are okay, we are different; we are different, we are different; we are different, we are different, we are different and other ships at their boat, we are different and other guns at home.
Aunt, let us go back to his back so we have something to say when it's different.
.
Chairman of the cardinal but the Philippine government.
We are different about what we are talking about, but we are making it noisy, but we have not mentioned it, we have mentioned that we are very noisy; we have not mentioned it earlier, but instead, it's as if you are being rude to each other.
Yes, in the field of giving a text message by our dog, what is still complete, we are still complete; we are trying to go back to our fellow soldiers, which is why we are able to say that we are going to see each other, which is why we can say that we can also say it.
Ah, it's okay, that's why we can do the knob of their knob.
She is doing it.
Because of that, of the serious support of President, that was the motorcycle of Jason, that's okay.
It will come to a different use.
That we need.
Philippine Philipines, like that, in our opinion that will be just an organization, cravors; and godmothers; while coming in it.
Just let us go back to the table in exercise which is just the training to put it in a petition system and other people.
There is a stairs of operation that we need to do is June, but we can see that when we will finish, we can see that we're going to see each other; that's why we're able to earn money; that's why we're going to earn money; that's why we can earn money; that's why we can earn money; that's why we can see each other.
Here, we look at each other; we are very different; the ones who are standing up now are the ones who are standing up in a person, because you know that what we are doing is like what we are doing to.
I thought that this is a call for one of my two children.
You are to personally invite you.
Your friend is your friend, maybe you will be invited to me.
In Tarlac, for him to see that those with those with its five-four-six months, you will get to see it like your use of mind.
The plan is there and his live-in-law is what they will do.
This will come if there is no perseverance in what will happen.
What I know is going to happen here in Divisoria, which is why the Commission on Human Rights is going to happen here, so long as we have a little affection, so long as we have a little gratitude, we have a lot of gratitude; we are still very thankful that we have a lot of things here in order to open their own hands.
You are even seated but you give more thanks to us!
We can give your right?
The public and the other people.
This is what you are doing.
We are with our friends with the people who are calling Jumarito and they are going to go home by Juvenile's house and they are just going to live-in the house where you are full-tempered; there are only four of mango branch that is not called and filled with it.
