I said that he is open to the circumstances for so long; he is very hot and hot-headed.
Yes, it is a hot time now that you know why it is like that, from the description of the crooked road; we are looking for you to look for you.
For two o'clock in the morning, he called the senator as a senator, who even knew that they are still finding out as a senator, they are still fixing the results of the SEA Games because they haven't resigned from the overpass which costs up to four o'clock.
About the road, how can't it be that it is not right for the twelve pesos if it will be.
One five-year-old teenage boy, four years old, had been arrested for four years and will give you immediately.
.
Too much.
Cold and wet are those who are not yet imprisoned but they are not able to do anything because they cannot do anything about the protests being thrown at each other.
Yes, my friends are also kind to eat at a chore.
Which is now said by Secretary said on the wall that's why it's been waiting for me to have been delayed, but we have not seen that we are talking to me, we have not seen that we are going to be able to see that they are going to be able to see that it is just around ten o'clock in the evening, but we have not seen that it is just around ten o'clock in the evening, but we have not seen each other, that is why there is already four vendors around that.
The number of number is being guarded!
We need to.
You really know that I will really talk.
He said that he has a lot of headache.
Or what's the news that we also visit.
They are the senators on how they have an action and a surprise, we are going to make the fight here with Chcherness, because it is possible for you to recover from the impeachment, due to the public evidence, there are no money to buy all the expensive condo unit which has no money to buy all the expensive condo unit which has no money to buy all the expensive condo unit which has no money to buy things.
Yes, why did his name call on the area filled with discipline, but there is nothing that does not start, that is really okay, but it is really okay that it has not yet started, but it is not good that we should understand what is right.
Jesus believes that we are full-tempered; we are not yet in the beginning of Pad traffic but they are starting to call for the same surname.
Bryan and it has not been started and it is not really good that he / she himself / she herself is the passengers of the barangay captains and to release evidences.
Very small; we might be happy; it seems that we will be happy even if my lawyer is just a little bit.
We are picking up evidence here in our place.
"
"That's why you can't understand Corona that you should not be the one whom I want to play in line; so that you are not worried about it.
Strategy.
On the other hand, that's why he / she was in a noodle house; he / she wasn't able to speak; he / she didn't even do anything because he was not there anymore.
He / she grew up; proud to lose evidence so that he will be weak at times even if he is weakening of the crown.
Covetous, fog; and sincerely.
That is why you do not want to talk like this Tell that we do not want to investigate; we do not want to investigate the impeachment process, that is why we do not need to be a love to the public, that's why we really need to love the public.
What I want to know in the school you said is what we want to know who is there in the colleges; he / she doesn't want to answer, he / she doesn't want to answer to other people but I am not able to answer to others but I am not with his voice.
"It's because it's because it's because it's not because he / she didn't take care; he / she might be very good; Jason ah, what's really good; he / she was very well-tempered; he / she was still open; he / she was still open; he / she was still open.
He became happy.
It seems that I am not stupid; we are the only ones who are able to face each other; that's why they are able to face the checks; that they are friends.
It seems that I am the only child of her parents.
Change in the car.
He showered.
We say that we make sure that the politicians are taking advantage of the streets so that the politician is threatened by the politician in our positions.
Let us answer now.
"I myself.
I will go there.
There is something like that, it seems that there are people who are envious of what you are doing, "you said that you really love us very much, isn't they really love anyone but just like what he did to the decision.
You should have a lawyer.
