Decahavez, Family of advice.

It will go back to each other and the most very long and highest down celebration of the Christmas season will be finished in the world of September, the first in the whole world, but many of these traditions and Americans were busy in this All Soul's Day, however, we are in our own native Aetas and Americans.
As part of our family's celebration during the celebration of whole clan or relatives, it is also common to our filipino family, especially during the Christmas season, it is really important for a year if it happens, this is important for the whole year and you can hear everything.
But for me, even when I am still young, it is more sad compared to every year during the problems faced by the country especially in politics and culture of low feelings for the poor.
First, the number of those who will be able to attend is diminishing, not because the others are losing interest, just like the individual's opinion, if they do not work in other countries or at night, they cannot attend.
Overseas Filipino Workers or OFWs are increasing in danger because of lack of work and suffering in the country, and even if they are not able to save their promises to the country, it is also possible that there will be a bigger problem compared to local jobs, such as debt, that many Filipinos are having a hard time to leave.
For those who are not lucky to leave or chose to stay in the country, it is also a job in a call center that can be seen in the lack of jobs and poverty in the country, it is also easy for the workers to change, especially the youth, who have to find other jobs after they are in a different country.
Second, although there is more tomorrow, there will be more open to the issues like the alleged sex marriage or divorce, from my observations by the conversation and agreement, the prevailing thinking will be lessened.
It's because many of our relatives are now having a lot of children, even if they are going to be discussed, not just because of those who have been talking to each other, it is still low because of those who have been hit by a religious family, it is still low when there is a symbol of love and knowledge of the lord.
My observation is the same with the issues of being gay or tomboy, although he is open to a gay or other gender of their child, it is still a topic of joke to those who want to talk to them, it is more noticeable that some of them are fond of comments compared last year.
And third, yogurt with relatives who are included in the Middle East against the poor (relatives or not) should be lessened.
Even if it is only up to a little bit more, the other relatives of those who have been hard for the whole year, it was very difficult for the whole year, he was just blind to hide the peak of a silent and very hard time.
In the conversation of those who are going up and not in life, those who are standing up in life are looking for an apology to all the expensive vehicles and they are only going to be proud of the primary cause of poverty, that will be accepted as the truth in life even if the reality in life is.
It is almost being treated as a memorial program and giving more relief goods for our relatives who don't even hear the problems, and just like the Middle kind of audience of films, Poverty.
Like a television series, but this is the reality that it is giving alms one year, but he is afraid to help more than one time, even if it is more than one time, the help that is given more than a little bit more than one hour is more than one hour, enriching your conscience and concern for the poor.
Even the Christmas season, where people are more kind and artificial joy, you can still see the worsening condition of the country, which is more worse than the worsening condition of the country, the worsening poverty of poverty in the country, the worsening of poverty in the country, the worsening of poverty in the country.
This 2014, before the year, old problems will still be faced.
