The COMELEC, Pinoys, how much are they really?

We support what the Commission on Elections (Co-ABB) is doing to correct to correct the party system in our Congress and at first, we already said that we should be able to fix our money in a way of pork barrel and those who are going to suppress them.
That is why the COMELEC should start cleaning the cleaning, we are asking our support to them in our program on radio, worried that the Constitution has given the Saligang Batas to the poor sectors of the society, but it was planted by the opportunist politicians to make them clean the power in politics.
The Congress was lucky because majority of them are still a lawyer.
It is clear that the Saligang Batas of the constitution should be clear but they themselves received.
The legislative chamber's true line of the legislative chamber is also exposed to have been released by those who will sit as Reagan-asa, there are also members of the politicians who seem to be exiled by the government so that there's also a group, farmers, farmers, drug addict, drug addict, drug addict and above all.
First, hahaha!
But we are happy with what COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes did to make sure that he's planning to clean the COMELEC, along with the cleaning of the COMELEC, including the cleaning of the syndicate, one more, with some relatives of the syndicates.
The Comelec denied that there are also a lot of those who want to win!
Just, why is it that it seems that one of the names of the partylist are being removed, why do they not do that they are doing each other in the same time, so that they can stop the system of removing those who are not worthy of the way of removing the list.
There are some who get along with the narrow-minded people who want to leave a way of giving out many groups and to ten o'clock, to be vigilant at the line to prevent their group early and not remove it.
The COMELEC also said that their boss does not make up and the price is what they are doing now, is it true Mister Brillantes and commissioners?
It's because as they say, as they are looking for P5 million pesos to be included in the official of the list, they will be able to take one of the wins as well, they will be able to recover from pork barrel, salary, they will be able to recover in pork barrel, salary, of an expensive vehicle, "SUV."
It should be true that you are going to be true in Comelecoxib and you should not rush the departure of the fake, Pad, boasts and should not be able to take advantage of you, there is no doubt, you have no doubt, you have a lot of problems!
