"You are making a different aspect of our conversation right now, no matter what kind of women have, I don't have any problem, that's why I am not with my children, that is really not a problem, that's why there's no problem, that is really hard to do that there is a new thing.
I am because in spite of the problem, that's why he's in a problem.
"
He still asked for forgiveness.
Oh, isn't it?
I will be able to bring you.
Maybe it will be immediately an example for a higher example, isn't it so that they can go down and go down to school; we are already poor, which is why it's also difficult for it.
What about my cousin, I heard the song's songs here.
Why are we all the right place to convince that there are other needs for the house of my family, instead I am here in my family, it is easy for my parents to have a good fortune, but it is also not right for me to stay here.
Very short; we are lacking; we are not enough for us who are looking for a sibling, who is difficult to look at, very hard to look down; to the children, who are young; and godchildren.
We are looking for a lot of land that's why it's difficult for the children to be poor in number 1 million pesos in order in exchange for nothing but there are men who still have something to do in the comfort room.
Brother Bong, is that really needed?
Ask for anyone who should come from your child to add it to your child.
Five o'clock.
They said.
He / she grew up; he / her arm is weak; what is the arm that should be very beautiful.
"It would be better to adjust, that's why he / she doesn't want to adjust; he / she doesn't know how to taste; he / she doesn't know that we are our fellow countrymen who are in Facebook, I know, Anthony Castro, and you should have been together with that.
Ah, it's okay to look down; we are proud.
Coming.
That is what he said, that is why there is no old man who wants to help a child to improve the people who are going home to their yes right, right? "Will you bring a new wife,"?
We should also drink with my children once the process of all kinds of votes; we are going to look down; we are already.
