
Sidelines at UERM Hospital in BUCOR and "egg" by General Ronald.

Recently, we released the gratitude for the Bureau of Corrections Director C / Supt. Franklin Bucayo of the prisoners at manipulation Security Compound because of its action against ISOG.
The ISOG that seems to be "Elite" of BuCor but instead of being able to go out of excessive poverty such as non-control of the prisoners like what was done to prisoners Ricardo Revil, today, 2 Batad, today, 1 Gabriano) of 1 Datul.
In this instance, we would also like to bring the knowledge of BuCor director for a severe affection in which if it will not be resolved, the director of his personnel here in Bilibid will surely be harmed.
What is being done, director, by some corrupt personnel, they are still finding out who will be the one who will win inside the butcher.
Afterwards, they are working on "for them to be transferred to the medium Security Compound or even in any colony.
But after just a little time there are also officials who are going to make a way to bring back the audience.
Do you know, sir, how big amount is in exchange for the return of Maximise in the said prisoners?
Just a little bit of putting it in a while, General Bucayo, so that they will not be harmed in the coming days, I believe that if director Director this is easy to determine, this is easy to identify the brain of this way!

While the Regional Director of Region 4-A identified as C / Supt. Jesus Gatchalian that the police are supported by the police in expressing his "number" policy "he is just laughing at" Danny Itlog "."
"Itlog" Sushmm, is currently under the field of illegal gambling in the province of Cavite, particularly in Cavite City, Kawit, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta, Noveleta,
If you want to prove this, General Gatchalian, you will secretly investigate the mentioned places so that you will know that you have an official in the regional Office which is being received from Danny.
This is also giving a warning if there is a corresponding team from the region.
"It means, that's why" Itlog "is growing because there is a wall in his back where there is a wall in his back, which is more dark," egg-shaped "" of General Gatchalian!
