TV Patrol, June 22, 2012.

My letter for father.

Father.

I know, you have read everything that I have written.

In many times, I am always mentioned to the things I write.

I do not know what you feel before every time I have been mentioned to you.

Perhaps I will not know it.

I just do not know if you can read this; I am just waiting for me.

Maybe there is also the internet where there is a internet or maybe, there are print media for you, like what their mother is doing.

I have wasted a lot of times but I should have done it for a long time, but I do not know how to start or if I will finish me, maybe I am afraid to show emotion from you, just like my siblings.

I also understand why it is like that; you also grew up in feasts in society and a bitter family to show emotion is a weakness and should be strong, because the lashing of life is painful.

Every time you get drunk, you will just tell us about your painful experience on your youth at the hands of your childhood friend, and how I am afraid of you, the alcohol that we are afraid of, is that he was the one who helped you when you get the person who got angry at the world.

I also understand why your concern for those who are struggling and being abused in different corners of the Philippines is that why don't keep it so that the narrow-mindedness of the country we turn, but I did not reach you.

Uncle Mon has mentioned to me that you are not given a extravagant life, because for the help of those who will be rich, we cannot say what we have.

We have a lot of misunderstanding and many resentment that are not mentioned.

Perhaps because of fear that you might not understand what we want to say, or maybe, we are ashamed to show emotion because the emotion is a weakness that should be defeated.

It is hard for you to reach it so we don't know how to enter your hard work as if we just have done that, we can see that there is a child, and we are asking for help, and we might also be diligent in searching for that child.

What we just thought, is that no matter how we are hurt and our own reflect.

Someone told me, you are very angry at God because you don't understand why he let the poor get sick and death, even those who are useless people, no longer have a grudge against him, but it seems that you did not greet him on Thursday, right?

The anger that you are mad at is that the anger of our will have become a hindrance to listen to our children, you still love our children, we still love our children, we still love the new shoes that we need to understand.

Father, the only opportunity is for us to speak before, through a guitar and piano, how can we do a piano, and when we are losing electricity, it is a good habit to reach our voice in order to reach ordinary Juan or Maria.

These past four years, we have been met in mind when we learned to listen, not only as children but as a person who also care.

But I cannot say everything.

I cannot say, Father, that even if we have not been rich, it is important that you have taught us the love of the country when we are not important, but what is important is that the money is not important, but what is important is that it will not be forgotten, and never be able to recover.

You taught us, to stand up for the principle that is believed and it is not easy, but it will cause more pain and burdensome for a lot to be sacrificed, but, Father, "do not worry, we will sleep well.

It is painful to love without giving back the offer of love.

Why aren't we crying when I did not accept it or maybe you did not feel this from your children, hopefully, we did not feel it to you, perhaps, there is no other painful tragedy in life, but no other most painful tragedy in life will probably not love your children.

Hopefully, Father, you can read this even if there is a internet in heaven, right?
