It's a serious admiration for me.

By Danilo Arana, Arao.
March 9, 2013.

It is easy to be called activists.
The word puzzle on 1915 was first used in 1915, according to mercury contamination-Wisconsin, this is the meaning of words in the English: "(EAMC), a doctration or any form of an intensive care of the one side of an issue of an issue."
In other words, whatever movement is possible for you to be called activists.
As time passes by, it is noticeable that having a negative conservation in the streets are noticeable, especially those who are fighting in the streets, especially those who are fighting in the streets, what is being pushed through is a big obstacle in the development of society, which is why there is a big obstacle in the development of the society, because there is a big obstacle in the development of society.
Instead of looking at the ehek, which is the reason for you to have an emphasis that this kind of action is just being done by the youth because of the sudden downpour of feelings, just because of a chase with the police and the debate with the authorities.
Of course, there is an opportunity for the opportunity to conduct a picture or to be interview by former activists for this, isn't it that you have been able to have a bridge in popularity, especially for a leader of a student?
In this point, they should examine what some of the elderly are saying, including some of them, who are former activists for their youth, they have chosen to support them (but instead of fighting the world, they have chosen to change their lives, and instead they have been elected because of this, they have been famous because of this!
They really have the changing of change for some of the elderly, they are supporting a form of someone who have been working with those in power, they are trying to give its own meaning, that it will not be acceptable to the majority, that the militant groups have to spread and continue to hug him.
It is possible that a person will be brought to this kind of argument especially that it means a simple way of action, he does not need to sacrifice for change when he will work or study from Monday to Friday and will be activists just last Saturday and Sunday.
But the question: Is this, if you have been able to have a deeper question, maybe there is a deeper question: Why the society needs to change in a way that the few need to change?
It is better for the other things that are bothering our mind for the time that many are being killed in the political reason, is it a solution for them to just stay and be proud of what they are fighting for and will be ready to show up with other people similar to what they are fighting for and will sacrifice.
It is easy to be called activists.
The true that you have been doing is a move to change the society and to have a person who will benefit from the current poverty, if needed, for the improvement of a task, if needed, it is hard to believe, there are kind of individuals who are ready to sacrifice even for what they are fighting for.
It is hard to stand for being real activists, especially since the society is being judgemental, so that there is a simple way to live with other individuals, especially those who were deprived of support and others, especially those who have denied their own sacrifices for the goodness of the majority.
The society's condition should be very serious in order to know why there is a need to understand the lives of a real activists, it is better for them to mind the life of a real activists to make them look at a simple desire of a government agency, but it is hard to take a simple desire of a government agency to make a good message to the road.
Yes, the real activists should understand because the time they are supporting and sacrifice is coming, but for those who do not want to act and sacrifice, the real activists are not waiting for the recognition that they have been hoping for to fix it.
