
Ka Roger already is an avid follower of Ka Roger, who is harassed in Mendiola as a tribute to the NPA.

Eduardo Labrador.
The national Katipunan was the Pambansang Kamao in Southern Tagalog.
March 26, 2012.

The New People's Army's Philippine Army is ready to love and be united with the message of the citizens who launched a proper instant as a celebration of the 25th anniversary of the NPA on March 29 at the very part of Malacanang.

The national Katipunan was brave which led the National Democratic Front (PKM-TK), to face the National Democratic Front in different sectors who joined in action and called the widespread support of the people for the armed fight.

"This is the proof of the recognition given by the citizens to the armed forces serving the country, the NPA is defending the interest of the people who are defending the poor and being oppressed in life, according to Eduardo Labrador, spokesperson of PKM-TK.

It is in the plaza, which contains the call "Paula, of the New People's Army's than the New People's Army, the purpose of the group to encourage the people to let the people make in different form and favor of armed forces to free the country.

"Like Ka Roger Rosal, Ka Armando Teng, and other sweetened bosity, the NPA are just simple people who want to offer their only life and help to our countrymen in the countryside," Gordon explained.

The group of rape group (15-836), who has hit the face of Ka Roger Rosal, identified as former spokesperson of the NPA as "Heroes' Cemetery."

The action has also made a chance to show the dismay of the people in the turmoil that was held and asked to finally bring down the government of US-Aquino.

"In the whole history, we do not see any real change under the headed by Aquino," hundreds of proper land in the country, just like the supreme court's property in the country of Hacienda Luisita, not enough to give the legal rights if we will not fight. "

In front of the worsening crisis in economists and politics in the country, PKM-TK is calling on the advancement of a democratic country, according to the group, the group is calling out to share the land to those who are digging and comprise it.

"It can be recalled that the germs on the scope of the NPA, '70s is widespread and the demolition and distribution of land are everywhere, the citizens are facing the strengthening of different fights, the citizens will face the strengthening of different fights.
