Some of our countrymen are forced to stop in studying to work and help the family but they still have a lot of hope that they will not lose hope when they're going to lose their relationship with his mouth with two armed men.
A house helper of a challenge to listen to Riza, in the morning, will be annoyed at the room.
Upon arriving at the afternoon, a love one in his school year-year-year-old lady.
Then, there was a party when a six-year-old maid was caught in a pipe; he / she was able to ask for help from the school.
It is my obligation, "my brother.
Because I am stupid.
Okay.
He / she said that it's also a time for me to look straight at the same time.
I will buy.
They did not go.
"You have accepted until Riza," she told her, that the youngest sibling of amamel is over and you are over a lot of things because of them.
I will take it because I am here in front.
My debt to them is that of my second life.
Yes, we go to manual.
Beltran!
Covetous, deport, Riza, said that their house will end up in the next year.
Are you going to file a video in the Philippines, will you win in Bulacan.
In other water, didn't it be determined to make a joke until I endure the moment he was able to finish his siblings, right now, I am going to study again for my dream to finish high school and one time.
I was able to go upon when I went to San Mateo, Michelle.
We those who live there are tricycle drivers that we don't able to finish high school, there are times when there is a chance for you to enter the High School.
Here in us, we have to look at each other, who are waiting for the most waiting for the sake of those who are waiting for each other.
It can be better if I can't do anything, and whatever is asked for the fare, it's as if she will end up with his / her classmates in his mouth, maybe because it is not impossible that he will end up with his / her story in his mouth, maybe it is impossible for you to believe that there is nothing that is impossible in a year that there is nothing impossible in one year that there is nothing that is impossible in one year.
