
Nora Aunor and Brillante Mendoza, live together in the movie.

By Boy Abunda.
March 11, 2012.

Brillante Mendoza and Nora Aunor.
Brillante Mendoza could no longer be able to stop the destruction of Palos, Oaytono Director in the prestigious X International Film Festival last 2009 for the absence of being slaughtered (The Legal solution of P). "
More than ever, he is now challenging his creative mind.
Brillante Mendoza has long been playing with the mind of Nora Aunor, one of the famous actress in the Philippines and a unique stars of the riverside.
That's why he already spoke to the actress and agreed on many things related to the arts of the movie.
When Nora recently came from America in the past two weeks ago, Mendoza has the project of Mendoza.
He / she was wearing.
The superstar, in the US for a few moments and now he is ready to go back to work including the things he will do on TV 5 and in continuing to make the "El President The General Emilio Aguinaldo?
Clay pot happened between Aunor and Dante Mendoza.
The topic or topic of what they will do is about the Badjaos.
The discussion on this issue of the indigenous people from Sulu who went to Manila is timely because their tradition was slowly disappearing or slowly disappearing in the ocean.
He / she was wearing.
The appreciation of the indigenous people is one of the things that should be supported by our Filipino and not the selfish steps of taking advantage of the culture of these.
The grace or current events are not sure if the indigenous people do not do anything.
They are big and important in our history so they should be given importance.
They are the first people in this community which is why they should not fool, even when we riding a jeep, especially in the province of Laguna, example, along the old national road or Highway, an example, the skin or mothers, those who want to borrow money or donations for the Badjaos.
As an excuse, they have helped each other for the sardines-for example and this is currently being hit by their hands so that they can take advantage of their hands with the Badjaos.
He / she was wearing.
This is the scene of the Badjaos, from Mindanao because they are on top of their area as if they are on fish in their area as if they are removed from the water which can lead to any space to live.
Showbiz said that this is a showbiz scene because it is not for the common idea and the concoction of showbiz that you are full, deep, complicated, full of drama, shrimp, and colorful.
The meaning of being showbiz is not negative but this is the state of life that is full of adventure.
In the arguments of the Badjaos, they need to win in their fight with the continuing life with integrity and relief.
With our help of what they rushed and put out of copper from the mistreatment, they will achieve the real meaning of life.
Brillante Mendoza should show her masterpieces for the body of Nora.
