
New strategy is to defend the US, not focused in Asia, Philippine.

Director D. Quijano, January 26, 2012.

It is said that President Aquino and US Senator John're lucky, in front of the portrait of the former president of the country (Gil Garabat, the government of the United States will slowly implement their new strategy to defend, which is the most important implication in the country.

For the growing economy of the economy and politics of China, the reason for the US government to strengthen the influential military in Asia Pacific, according to the report of Washington Ppost this January 26, in said articles, the Philippine government and the Philippines admitted that the two sides of the studies of the two government have increased.

The report of this one week after the four senators of the US visited Malacañang, which was led by John lucky Cuya and Joseph Semillano, members of the Senate Armed Forces Committee.

It is lucky that Pres. Benigno Aquino III admitted about the conflict between the Philippines and China about the Spratly Islands, he insisted that the US is ready to support any steps from the government of the Philippines so that the US will be more ready to defend.

"We Examination for the US... that they will be able to make the order to be held in order to the Office of Iglesia ni Cristo (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), "according to the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan)," according to the Bagong Alyansang

It is confirmed by the report of Washington and post the suspicion of the militant groups for the possible increase of the influential military of the US in the country, after the two senators of the US and US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 2011.

"In giving a new strategy to defend the US, and do not follow the physical appearance of the Philippines who inherited from the Marcos regime, there will be a violation of our national sovereignty," Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.

"We should not agree to become the military outposts of the US for the eheap of interest of the latter," said Reyes.

The US Embassy in Subic, Zambales last 2010.

It is said that the US government's strategy to defend himself was formed by US President Barack Obama on January 3 and the US will be transferred to the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation ("While in the United States, and the US will be transferred to the territory of the US in Asia Pacific, whether the US will push through with its own power in Asia Pacific," the ability and the influential military in the region.

The appeal of the US is identified with the cooperation of its cooperation to the government of India for the security of the region which is part of the Indian Ocean.

As well, through the help of an ally government, the US wants to share peace, peace, or in easy words, their control - in Korean Peninsula.

Before visiting the Philippines, the senators also went to Vietnam and Burce.

They laid out the agricultural sector to remove the implementation of the US in Vietnam to remove a long list of the government of Vietnam by the weapons they want to buy from the government of the US.

Fortunate in the government of Burce promised to be removed from the US President here if the election will be clean this March.

To control the Asia Pacific, it is important for the US to be strong in the US, especially to the countries like the Philippines, "based on the new strategy, it looks like the American troops will remain here," said Reyes.

The government of the Philippines and the US are repeating something, or there will be a permanent military forces of the US in the country, but since the launch of the Visiting Forces Agreement, it will be a long time staying in some parts of Mindanao, Joint Task Force-Philippines, under the US Special Operations Task Force-Philippines.

The decade of the Balikatan last month of Balikatan Examination will start on January 2002.

There is still a part of the US's strategy to defend this kind of presence of this kind of presence ("

But the US admitted that because the course of this is limited, the government will choose the location and often increase its operations.

It turns out that it is possible for power if the basis of Senator is lucky in visiting the country, it seems that the Philippines is still in a high priority, especially the leaders who are strictly allies of the US.

Even though it was not surprised by the Bayan, the group was dismayed by President Aquino to insist on the sovereignty and interest of the US, "according to Reyes, the burial of the senators of the US," according to Reyes, the location of the senators of the US, "according to Reyes, the location of the senators of the US," said to be related to China, the location and the types of said exercise.

However, they are looking at it as a part of the US for their power, things that are very important, according to the United States, which is very important, but according to the new plan, China and Iran need to undergo a democratic governance.

Peace and responsibility is needed by the government of the US to their planned military in the whole world, but it is clear to have a war and chaos brought by the US in the international division.
