Rafael, embarrassed to buy sex gadgets, Allan Diangco, July 20, 2016.
Rafael Rosell is getting angry at the afternoon of soap that is a liar.
He is Roman, a womanizer, who came from an influential political enemy, Clara (Rhian Ramos).
If Rafael's invention will be famous, Rafael's girlfriend is said to be his idol in real life, she said that all of us have a Darna's side, she said that she is hot in bed and wild.
When he / she has been in a gathering, he / she is playing with vegetable with Virgo that she is hurting her bed, "that is what he will do.
Wow, like Christian Grey Salas.
"Camply, Christian Grey said, I am ashamed to buy a sex (sex), because I am an artist.
"They will know that I am the one who bought it," considered the Kapuso sitcom.
To be more handsome, Rafael's desire to use a glimpse of his partner.
He has not even tried it, but he is fond of trying to try the candle for the body of his partner.
We asked Rae, there is another man who wants him to be hurt from the bed.
Isn't it, he will also bet with someone with a bait aside from the Pharisees?
"He / she said that he / she wasn't able to step down again, that's why it's okay, okay! It's agerness, that makes the 33-year-old Kapuso actress according to the 33-year-old Kapuso actor.
He already experienced the slap of her partner or he is using her nails.
"I am not saying that there is a kind of romance that I want," But-chan, that's why the bonus is very good.
"It's as if he / she seems to be a masochist because he is getting hotter than him than he is hurting anyone.
They have a love Scene of Stephanie Sol Aragones, who is taking a mistress from the Kapuso afternoon close to soap.
That's why NF, PGH, can also share the request of his girlfriend.
Meanwhile, Rhian is also going to have a love Scene, but it is not yet given a pillow.
It was also experienced by Rafael's war in cybersex and if it will come out that the scandal would come out, he will admit it.
But if trying to deliver it, the diment of Fight IT led by a Fil-Illegal Drugs Act, he is proud of what he has.
Rafael's mother is now a former lover because he does not have any form of Candaba.
Indeed, they are already known by the Model Shop, Olivia Medina, the winner as the winner of CENT UPP-RL.
They have been together for more than a year before they separate because of the quarrel and they cannot get along well.
At Block 7 of Olivia in Instagram, they do not have any condolences in each other.
Ex-shirt he / her ex-girlfriend, who is one foreign Guy, has a new enemy.
I want to sympathize with the beauty pageant after SMP) but she might not accept it.
It can be watched on your liar day in GMA afternoon of Prime after different Mundo.
