TIDs TPEAH.

CULRO that is supposed to be a violation of the Constitution and is a violation of public trust or disrespect of people for the trust of the citizens are the primary reasons of the impeachment case that was filed against President Benigno Aquino III yesterday.
While he is being served by 28 congressmen, bishop, priest and pastor of different parts of religion, lawyer, farmer, worker, artist, worker, actor, artist, and other kinds of citizens, PNoy is talking about an occasion and is calling for love for each other.
The direction of the wind has changed from Malacanang because from the start until the Supreme Court had a decision against the Disbursement Acceleration Program, they are continuously fighting.
Anzon?
But although the call of Malacanang for the romance is there, there is a sign for the teeth and eyes to the eyes, just like what he is doing from Miss Gloria Arroyo, Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez and ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona until three eggs in the Senate and the judge of the SC.
There is no retreat from the fight of the de horny's fight against the yellow or yellow that is being sold by Malacanang.
This is when I remembered the Ht-10 that became the start of the direct transfer of 10 officials of their boss Miss Gloria last July 8, 2005.
They were with Aling Cory, they called for his resignation from the duty of Miss Gloria.
This is also the content, bones and soul of the impeachment against PNoy for his decline or resignation from his position.
But, a mother and mother, Miss Gloria has a thick face then and he finished his term.
Will PNoy put the thick face of Aling Gloria before and will finish his term, duh?
But what is being sold by rats in Malacanang that people want PNoy to want PNoy to remain in Malacañang in the next six-years after 2016?
What does he want?
King-mother, here are his votes in the SC, his rating of surveys and now has an impeachment case.
What's good is that you are just taking advantage of Malacanang and just go back tomorrow to all over RL. Jun Briones.
