Agusan del Norte is lucky with Banker.

Susana is also a big loss to National Food Authority (NFA) to resign from his post since September 30 this year.
Baninay Bautista is going to run as a representative of 1st District of Agusan del Norte to cover the Butuan City and town of Las Nieves in the coming election in May 2013.
In case, the lack of NFA will be the benefit of his district because it will surely be a big help to promote and improve their province.
Because the beautiful record of Banker in public service is invaluable.
When former President Corazon C. Aquino was chosen by former President Corazon Aquino as Postanes and General of the Bureau of Posts, he gave up his income from P540 million to 987 million every year.
Because of what he did, the agency of the right to make the right government to make the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (Philpost) is being called.
It was not long before Banica's as General Manager of Philippine Tourism Authority (PRE) of former President Joseph Estrada were chosen by former President Joseph Estrada.
For those who are pointing out, he led the implementation of the two big people to have had a clean water and construction of water for it to be coercion in the island of Boracay.
Because of this, the tourist was even more popular and increased in the island that is now recognized as one of the usual destination of tourists in the whole world, he is also the one who made the Manila Boys Island which is on top of the Manila Film Festival.
Banker made the projects while he is also doing the job as the Presidential Adviser on political Affairs.
When President Benigno S. Aquino III will be assigned as NFA chief, he reached out the agency that is drowning in debt that reaches up to 95 billion pesos.
That's why the Banica's made is that he changed a system of operation which is why after two years, the agency's debt went down to P143 billion.
But he hopes that until it is possible that it can be erased from the said debt, which is the result of the policy of the government to buy high from farmers and sell the citizens in low price.
Because of this, Banker decided to lessen the debt of NFA in order to reduce the debt of NFA more than the private issues.
It can be recalled that from P110 million services that last 2010, the agency can earn additional 1.6 billion pesos and P2.6 billion pesos this 2012.
He also declared the bages of rice from almost 12.45 million pesos in the last 2010, it went down to 860,000 tons on 2011, and 500,000 tons only this year.
Because of this, the local farmers have a bigger profit from the cost of NFA from the US 630 pesos per kilo in 2010 to 480 and 470 of this 2011 and 2012.
