
Strengthen the ranks; management of the Filipino Moro in the national and under democratic revolution!

Azerhmmmp!
Molo of Southern Mindanao.

7th of June, year 2012.

This is a statement on the 7-year anniversary of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.

The Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MG), together with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front of the Philippines (NDFP), is celebrating the 16th year anniversary of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, the national and Democratic organization of Moro who are defending and supporting the rights of Bangsamoro.

There is no doubt that the regime of Benigno Aquino III is against the citizens of Moro and against the Filipino people, while the crisis being faced by the country is ongoing, the dissemination of the US-Aquino will continue to be covered up by the traditional government of the US-Aquino.

Along with this deceit of the Moro leaders in the name of the program "reform, and the giving of positions in the government to make peace and do not have a fight for the right decision of the PNP to be a clear example of the peace sentence by AFP, it is a clear example of integrity and deception.

The Philippine US-Aquino continues to deceive by the citizens of Moro Islamic Liberation Front and civil treatment of the government and their leader, the government still does not have justice for those who have been signed by the MILF, and there is still no justice for the victims of human rights violations.

The former US-Aquino also encourages the entry of fake projects such as oil companies that might affect the community's community which will affect the community of Moro.

MRagas believes that the impending propaganda to the US-Aquino will never be resolved by the national issues of Bangsamoro Basic Law and their own decision of Bangsamoro will only be resolved by the national growth of the people will be achieved by the right amount of distress.

It is a big challenge to our ranks to double the tasks in propaganda to reveal the rottenness of the government and the continuous abuse of the filipino citizens to fight the national corruption and discrimination among the government of Arroyo and Aquino's government.

The number of members and personnel continue to increase and have their ranks against the advancement of the national and under democratic revolution.

Continue the hard work to be part of the advancement of the national and under democratic governance, especially in the countryside to end the three-time problem of suspending the nation's poverty especially the Bangsamoro Basic Law.

Together with the anniversary, the Molo of the Moro who became a martyr of a revolution.

Um! Hmmmp!

Long live the filipino masses!
Long live the Molo!
Long live the NDFP!
