
Marwan was held at Si. "

Just for the title, did you feel that the similarity of former President Ferdinand Edralin Marcos and Joseph "Bong" Ejercito "was felt?
When they felt that the people are already angry, they used the forces of Malacañang to go out of all the station of television and radio, including the chief of newspapers to face and explain to the people.
Their statements were long while the forces of the cabinet are standing in their surroundings, as well as the forces of the national police and Armed Forces of the Philippines.
They are trying to explain about the issues that they are involved and the accusations of their serious connection with corruption, stealing of funds of the country and abuse of power, in spite of everything, the time of the country's decision comes.
They were kicked out!
Recently, we saw in the television and heard all the radio station of Benigno Simeon Aquino III (Bira 3), he explained about the lack of his administration for serving the country and the people.
Before the hour of the clarification, it is confirmed that his followers of the Presidential Communications Group is confirmed to be moving to all the office and network of the radio and television to release all the broadcast media so that it will be better if they will be involved in the criticisms of the people.
The truth is, many are mad at PNoy than they are happy, because he would make it clear about the pork barrel and the wrong name of her as the pork barrel scam. "
It turns out, the one will teach him and will try to fight against his opponents in politics.
He made the fool with the people around Boy's results as the result of his speech.
And who is the one who said that he stole him? The bad thing, he was blind with his troop in the statement that, "I did not buy, we were not a thief? And who was the one he was referring to by his critics?
In the whole world, those are lined up to do with what the king will do, why are you very angry?
If I have a, Mister Aquino, please review your speech, you cannot answer your intention to clarify his intention to clarify about the demon pork barrel and it is Satan he is experiencing in the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP)!
With what you did in front of the television and radio, I remember those who got angry before to clean the self of Marcos and Eve.
After that, they fell on what you are feeling now?
