Sunday, November 18, 2012.

Everybody is on truth and after the whole afternoon, the questions that we will ask for us will be the one who will decide who will happen to us and what will happen to us.

He is happy, wherein the truth is that he is going out, not a colorful speech or negative words, instead of his awareness.

And there is even more than greater than what they are implementing.

2- our opinions or recommendation and to our feelings are always convicted because they cannot see themselves as well because they do not see their own bangs that becomes the truth to what you are doing.

3- whatever it is for us to know and stop the senseless and things in secret, we can't blame it if we do not know anything about the sun.

4- a chance to give attention and question those who are pointing out and searching for things while it is favored to discover the needs and the eyes can cause prosperity, and can't see prosperity.

We, who have the ears, do not hear each other, with the mouth, they cannot talk, they are still sleeping or going to sleep on events.

Are we going to be responsible for the checks and grief?

5- why are we excavated from the show and hobby that has no source of gratitude and prosperity, instead, our personality is numb and without meddling and no direction where you are going.

6- he is going to talk to his words, with his own opinion, he survived from many opinions.

There is no person if no word will understand or make the right thing to decide.

7- Him for him is one of the things that is one, and we can see all things, and see all things, and we can see all the things, and you will feel peace in God.

85th - my Lord is the truth to you to be the one to IOS in no love.

For 9- I am always tired of seeing and read many things that have no meaning, only in Iyo, or my God, to me who is needed and all of my greatest adversary.

10- allow all teachers to stop and keep silent, and all of the creatures are silent and let everything remain in order to hear the Lord who is talking to me.

Around 11 - until there is a lot of people in God, I can advise him understand, because the light of misunderstanding comes from the sky.

Nunez - pure, pure, and a bad spirit is not doing anything because she is doing all the things in the glory of God, and Romney takes the self from the glory of God, and has no nonsense discussion.

13th - anything that's bothering you is more than what you have to be in.

14 - a good and avid person is first seen for himself to do the things that he is planning to do.

15- who has a serious offer to run out instead of using the strength to defeat himself? This is what we need to defeat themselves every day, strengthen and improve our souls.

16- up to this world, there are traces of law in the world, and we will be attracted to each other, there are those who are taking advantage of it because it is more than eath of light if it is called Martial Law.

17- an intensive conversation with yourself is acceptable to God than going to the chase and discovered by this world.

18- those who are going to be cooked or usually mixed in things are not needed to avoid it is good and acceptable to God; however, there is a clean conscience and decent life that you need to focus on and achieve.

19- because most are chosen to make it in a peaceful life, they continue to get in danger and are convicted, no matter how small fruits or meaning of these are.

20- if people really need to take a hard time, make the root of bad vices and corruption, and plant good manners and all good, similar to the preparation of the questions, there will be no corruption and corruption in the head.

21 of the days that we will pay; we are sure we will not ask what we have learned, but what we have done, but what we did to your borrowed body and the name that was given to you?

22 - you should answer me, where are the great people that you know, we have seen or heard while talking when they are still alive, but now, others are hoping that they are living alone but now, they are very popular, but now no one knows or talk about them.

23- if their lives have been fulfilled like the finished knowledge, they continue to be happy until their death is left.

Cavite - there are many who are in danger in this world so that you can make your own happiness, and remain in power to finish the glory of God because they would even want to be famous and popular than to serve as a famous and popular than to serve.

Reading - Him is real and unreasonable person is humble and calm, not looking, asking for awards, praise, and proud of what the Lord wants to clean and improve, and he is the one who knows what the Lord wants to clean and improve.

Only the truth will be given to us.
Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
