Philippines, there is still no effect to those who are guilty.

Malou Escudero (Filipino Star Ngayon), PO2 44; UPP-June 21, 2015 - 12: 00am editing.

Bandila by the Philippines.

Manila, Philippines - although there have been recorded cases of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (NGO) in Thailand, Malacanang clarified that there is still no assurance that the government is going to resolve the said country or even in South Korea where some have been recorded dead.
According to Presidential Communications Office (Izzy Canillo) Secretary Herminio Coloma Junior, Health Secretary Janette Garin himself said that there is no case in relation to MERS coronavirus even if there was recorded cases in the nearby country.
"There is nothing like that in Thailand (for Thailand) after that," during the clarification of Health Secretary Janette Garin that we do not have a chance for traveling in South Korea.
According to WHO, they still do not see any need to release a raid in the countries there have been recorded cases of MERS coronavirus like South Korea and Thailand.
But Coloma assured that the government is ready to fight for the threat of MERS coronavirus which will be released a case in the Middle East where there are also a lot of Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs).
"On the part of our government, our readiness to fight the threat of MERS coronavirus which is only being started, is that of the source of the Middle East," said Coloma.

According to him, what the government did is the distribution of information, especially in health workers where the infection and protocol are ordered to avoid having symptoms of MERS-CoV.
Coloma added that the Honor Code will be strictly implemented especially for the coming in the airports of the country.
"Here in us, the Honor Code will be strictly implemented, but when it comes to the airport, it is said that there is a fever and the passenger from abroad, this can still be seen by other symptoms, and this is where the passenger came from abroad," said Coloma.
Coloma also added that the citizens should not worry about it because the government is in full effort in order not to enter the country.
