
Each year is our enemy.

The butt of PNoy in the palace was strong when we first have problems in Hong Kong where their fellow countrymen were held accountable and with no liver in Luneta last 2010.
In the said incident, Senior Inspector Rolando Mendoza showed the whole world as Senior Inspector Rolando Mendoza as to how strong the Filipinos are feeling.
In the year 2011, our soldiers immediately ran to Panatag Shoal against the ships of China.
In their number and weapons, we are at a disadvantage.
But we are just a nuisance, for other things.
Example is the swelling of the body, strength of knee, strength of chest, capital, capital, and ehek!
Yes, that is why we do not have a head, but not one step, we will not back out!
Have a retreat, will we still retreat?
Ehek, hmmmp!
.
In their small number of number, the entire military forces of the country of Malaysia said that the filipino forces of Malaysia have a tough problem in Malaysia, the Pinoy is really tough, Hala, ehek, ehek!
Recently (2013), the Philippine Coast Guard were hit by the Taiwanese who have illegal fish in our ocean and one after the start of fire.
Our point, make sure that the image of the Philippines to our neighboring countries is not enough, as if we really don't like diplomatic ways of talking?
Anyway, if it is here in our country, since PNoy sat in position, there is no more fiery emotion.
Almost all their opponents in politics are really fed when recovered, when there was no storm.
And while they are already paid for those who are against LP, our president will just laugh at us!
A friend once did something in another country, if we really want our friend's answer, well, it is only his inheritance!
Ask PNoy!
Noche buena, before we sail back to 2010, in Hong Kong, 2011, China (until now), 2012, Malaysia and this 2013, our country will be held in 2014, 2015, and 2016 before PNoy went down from his position?
The president is right, let us start peace.
And here we should start with his opponents in politics!
