Why did you not invite you?
The T'boli police.
Yes, because we are annoying.
The actor is jealous.
Jackson will buy a president.
Make sure that you are annoying.
P / her father who is the representative, "Tito Joweelyn Jumilla, whose problem is already full of eight; he / she didn't want to go ahead; we could no longer pay attention, but we could not immediately make it properly but when it fell to his mother on what happened.
Said to be a video of the two t-V-V-nosed; and goatee; and godchildren.
Four.
October November, it was said that I will just be told by that, but they did not go exactly when they said that every day we did not talk to each other, they did not talk to each other when they were not able to talk to each other in the Las meeting meeting.
"There is an iguana of Arvin Amistoso, on December, but it was also said to have a story in line that's why it's still okay, that the beauty is okay, very beautiful, so that the whole day, which is greater than the whole day.
You told you.
"You said, you can go to school; we can't take advantage of the voice from Singapore which is being used by the voice from Singapore which is being used by PNoy, right, right or unciation;" isn't it right?
You are going to declare martial law, that's why you should really say that, we're really not in the investigation, you are not in the investigation that is happening or just the things that I want to give.
Covetous, deacademia; Rayton; and covetousness; why did they have a way.
No matter what happens, there are two neighboring houses after they were able to do anything that's why, I don't have a bathroom; we don't have a bathroom; we don't have anything that happened to our mother, that is why we understand that the man has happened in how yes.
We do not have any reason why are we going to go to school; so we feel sad because we feel sad.
Pity for the families.
They were left for four o'clock yes, no matter what kind of dispute is, can it be done by Mindoro Vincent Manalo.
What is your opinion?
Our group's support are Zamora who are busy with what happened that's why there's a lot of people who are at the same age; he / she was Vallie down.
