PNoy, noon.

There is a number of pieces of criticisms that President Benigno Aquino International Criminal PNoy recently stated in Malacañang, in front of those assigned to the lawmakers, so he has a sermon to the critics and media?
Mister Aquino, the person is trying to step down and admire people who are doing well, good and beautiful but if what you are doing is wrong, it is just lucky if they will not be cooked!
For example, will the passengers of MRT and LRT are admirable if there is always trouble and damage?
Will the passengers be happy for every day of their riding a kilo of line with a kilo of line?
How can the motorists be happy for two to four hours, the flow of their vehicle is still on the streets of the turtle?
Can they jump out of joy from those affected in Mindanao and Visayas Region which were from them to destroy them until now, do not have to claim the rice, clothes and food given during the height of the storm, most of that are from donations from the citizens of the world!
And in the issue of criminality, it is just enough for you to blame the past administrations that have passed since you said, the criminals and criminality are true that there are criminals who are members of the national police, you should be proud of them by CPNP Alan Purisima?
It is a job that was caught by the police or even all the criminals or syndicates who are affected by their job, if they caught them, they should be proud and be proud of?
Are you going to blame the media and critics if, the media is white when your service to the country and the people are right, if you are sensible in the governance of the government, it is certain that all sorts of things will be harvested.
You himself during the new seat of PNoy, those who take care of you especially the media sector is almost 99 percent.
But you are just a few months in your position, you have seen your real personality.
The status of the state of the state of the state!
You are pitiful, you pity you, your term is almost over, ZEve, your right service!
