You can do it, Mayor Rodrigo Duterte!

Durian Shake by Edith R. Regalado (Filipino Star Ngayon), Nunber 1255; UPP-June 29, 2014 - 12: 00.

This is really serious because of the repeated declaration of Mayor Rodrigo Duterte that he has no plans to run as president this coming May 2016 elections.
The mayor directly said that he does not have interest and will not be the president of the country even if there are many groups, organization and even men who are urging him to run for the Presidential elections in 2016.
"There is no!" "" "" "That is the usual answer of Duterte for all those who are asking him if he will run for president this 2016.
And the mayor said that there was no president in Facebook if the basis is the urge for him in FB to make him run for president.
Duterte is repeatedly saying that he will be here in Davao and it is enough for him to be the mayor of this city for his own son.
But many are still going to happen before the 2016 elections because it will surely be known in October 2015 to know who are the presidential candidates because this is the deadline to file a certificate of candidacy.

According to mayor, this is still a bit more because even if he is saying that he does not want to become president, he will get along with his explanation that people don't want him to be the president because he becomes a president. "
Duterte made sure what will happen when he becomes president of the country, he will be in rebel in his own administration because that is the only way to change the system of government that is really covered with corruption.
Duterte is saying when he becomes president he will just separate the Congress and senate, and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System and even the Social Security System.
Duterte has expressed all that he will change the government system to lose the corruption that became the problem of our current government.
And because his means of extremists, and the uncontrollable fit, Duterte said that he is sure there is no one who wants to run and be president.
That's why sometimes in the continuing statement of Duterte, the people cannot also avoid to think that there is also a possibility that he will run for president.
You cannot blame people who have bugged him on interrogation if he is going to run or not because of his ongoing statement.
This is really no answer and assurance now that this will only be sure in the coming October 2015, which is why Duterte is not fighting for what he is feeling.
