
The Grets!

By Campos.
February 18, 2012.

On the other hand, he has been dead for a long time, even if there are stories, she is still good to sing, even if there is a good fans on him, even if there is a good fan like him, even if there is a big rat, he cannot entertain them.
What he is saying is funny on YouTube that he has a bad fans, there are some who are saying, that there are some who are saying, that there are those who are saying that they should have stopped at that point, but there are those who are saying that he would have stopped at that point that is why he himself has to stop at that point.
Many are worried about his wife as well as his addiction to vices before, it was said that he will be married, a friend said in the television that he got married in the television that is why he was always the theme of his personality, for permission, that he became a big man in his life.
And it is just that: Even in his death, drugs, the life of the couple is complicated, and music is being discussed, because there is no solid position, because there is no solid position, because there is no solid position, because there is no solid position in defending them and the attack of others.
He flourished in the suspension of the neatly folded country - and it might be one of the "Grets chest Love, and the theme of love to his songs, and the theme of the American troops in the gnomes in Iraq, after they were confronted by the American troops in Iraq, after it fell to the" end of history. "
He is saying now that he placed the path to success in the success of other Adik-American who had been in front of her godmother, Gladys, his cousin, Gladys, his cousin, Gladys, his cousin, Gladys, his cousin, Gladys, age, and Chuwariwa-role.
But in his peak, he really does not like him, the Americans do not like him to change the quality of his voice, which is more good for the downfall of the quality of his voice, and who are the one who can be set aside from the giving of his feelings for the meantime and who is the most beautiful, it will be easy to watch?
His skill is obvious compared to those who wrote to him now that he is already dead while many of her thoughts are already dead, like she has no hard time, in search for those like him, they have noticed that she is just like a strong wind in the surrounding.
As a friend said, if she sees his / her favorite named Joni Mitchell, she told him it: "Hey, Joni'll be able to say it, she was a picture of joy in making someone who wants to do, to give others using her own talent, things that denied the majority of this society.
He died after being able to leave a foul odor, of the scenes which he has to ask for a celebrity and does not need to make up again if he does not need to make up again, isn't he going to work again?
Because of the peak of his talent, she is not like that, she is the best.
