
Brgy. Calanoga, Binangonan, new shabu Capital?

They can already be called "shabu Capital" in Barangay Calumpang in Binangonan, Rizal, because drugs is widespread here.
We learned that shabu arrives in the said area from Muntinlupa City Jail and National Bilibid Prisons or NBP.
How do it be true that drugs is already true to be allowed by jail using the vehicle of the government?
"Well, it is obvious that there is nothing too late because it was too late because it was red plate number tsk, tsk, tsk-tsk.
It was also related to some members of the Philippine National Police that serves as a protector and they were identified as Mike Seno, police of Cardona or Antipolo, alias HJ, and the police of Antipolo, Mister Anida.
If the police was driving here, it is only the money only in the sidewalk where it is called, and this is being done every Friday, Saturday and Sunday because there is no office so they can free a transaction.
They said that this is also useless on the arrival of Binangonan, Mister Molina-ino, Mister Jews as and Sir Areza because there are those who are giving up, aside from them, they are the protector of drugs there.
Oh no, PDEA should take action here because they are the direct agency regarding this.
Journalists in Davao City, dead.
Even if the case was not solved yet on the murder of our colleague Rubie Garcia, here it was again, another journalist was killed in Digos City in Davao del Sur yesterday morning, like before, the criminals who were riding a motorcycle cannot be determined.
It was said that it was identified as Sammy OPLAN), a native-year-time radio commandos headed by the University of Mindanao Bandola, and his wife was on his way home from the market, together with his wife, when they were shot and shot by a riding-in-tandem of the suspects.
Like before, what our police are doing is still being done, just like that, there is a thorough investigation until you forget about what happened to the Rubie, there is an mentioned suspect, but why not, why?
Hopefully, the murder of OPLAN should be given justice.
PNP Chief Director General Alan Purisima, the many crimes that are happening here in our country, do you still do the PNP Chief?
Well, if not, why don't you resign.
