He / she wants to get out.

Many are surprised, especially in Camp Crame, with the sudden suspension of PNP Director General Alan DG Purisima of the Office of the Ombudsman.
Purisima is suspended by the Ombudsman because according to him, it is said that it will be a connection to the anomalous gun, he said that it is going to solve the suspension of Purisima when the contract was found, he is still not the PNP Chief.
It has a point when the lawyers of the rebel group has a point that's why they asked the Court of Appeals to stop his suspension.
To anyone who will favor the Ombudsman or Purisima - the decision of the magistrates of the CA, "that's what the public needs.
But wait, what is this report that Purisima gave birth to Purisima's haste, according to Purisima as PNP Chief, this is not right because it is against the law, according to the lawyers of the Police Director General, the DILG will take responsibility to remove Purisima.
One Atty. Edwin Enrile, who was said to be the son of the DILG, was posted by the day suspension on the door of the office of the Chief PNP in Camp Crame.
It seems that Secretary Mar Roxas is very eager to remove Purisima as the current chief of the National Bureau of Walis, according to the lawyer of the PNP Chief, the National Police Commission on the order that the Ombudsman is ordered to be released by the Ombudsman.
In this statement by Purisima's camp, it is clear that the fact that PNP Chief and Sec. March because in the haste of Secretary Mar to remove Purisima from his post, this is a proof that Purisima will be removed from his post, "they said.
Because of the anti-governmental organization, the crime rate in the current PNP Chief is down, but what Secretary Mar is doing is raising the crime incident to destroy the leadership of Purisima.
Because the crime was high, this is allegedly the reason of Secretary Mar with his firing of some good leaders of the PNP and the officials who are close to the SILG.
"Hopefully, what Sec. Mar is doing is not right because if it is a coincidence, just like what happened to her recently, the police might fall down and the police will be hit.
