She has a civil wedding.

After the Americans, Hen, Emilio Aguinaldo themselves, and take advantage of the country declared by Aguinaldo to release $20-M of the United States to pay $20-M for the country, for almost 50 years, the economy, education or society, which is more bad, is still ongoing until now.
Through Martial Law, lucky, the American government has been strengthened by the American in 1934, and promised to return the rights of the Philippines and the American troops that will build a huge territory in the Philippines, and also assured the implementation of the free trade of America and the Philippines.
Under the mines that they see in the Marcos regime, different kinds of abuse have been taken back on July 4, 1946, there is the Saligang Batas of the country, and after July 4, 1946.
It is still there that martial law in America and the Philippines will still be there for accepting the construction of the military based on the other hand, it appears that this is not a hard time for the CPP-NPA, it appears that this is not a hard time for the CPP-NPA, it appears that this is not a hard time for the CPP-NPA and other government troops that are patriotic and progressive in the terrorist Abu.

Because they did that the national leadership have made a lot of personnel, from Osmena, Roxas and Quezon up to now, they are free to send a low price of sugar, Patintero, coconut husk, shrimp, and other types of products they do not want to support their country.
It cannot be denied, they are pointing out and put in the country a educated Filipino in English which, if you think about it, are an effective instruments of politicians to destroy their products in order to destroy their products for the destruction of the local industry.
Because the Americans are still trembling with a flyer that almost all levels in the national field, it is not enough, it is not surprising if the filipino masses will just deny the real justice and disconcerting their goals towards the Pambansang Kamao.
In a short word, even if the Americans went back on July 4, 1946, he grabbed the hands of the indigenous people who were declared to be held in June 12, 1898.
And it can't be helped by Recto to the Filipino people: "We dream like Bonifacio, and let us continue the struggle for the full of our race from the hands of the new administration of the new administration since we can meet a huge waves in our journey."
