+ 66.

It's sad, to make sure that the stories that are working in different Pad, also included with our beloved Remate has also included.
These are the murder of a 31-year-old son from his 7-year-old daughter because of leaving his wife who went to Canada, together with his friend.
Mark Alvin Manunggal St., Novaliches, Quezon City is the son, Angel, and for her wife to have sex with his wife the pain of his wife, he also made her own child.
Here is more, a few days after he / she was able to complain, his wife was killed by a balikbayan box office in a week in their house in Roxas District, Quezon City.
In the report, their daughter was crying for five years old because of hunger but he did not have any idea that his parents are living together in the Philippines for four days.
Because the husband is from Japan while his wife is already a month in the country from Dubai and the very day when she was going to the said country, he was murdered by his wife.
The motive, the husband was extremely jealous with his wife and in order to fight back at first, he asked her to go with Dubai and leave their child.
However, it was not agreed that the husband shot his wife on the head and shot himself on the chest, tsk, tsk, tsk!
Another case is, it was seven times when the wife stabbed his 3-year-old daughter in Benguet this Tuesday. Hofelenad!
Is there a mother like that?
The motive, father also left his mother, which is why he turned his attention to their innocent child.
Although this is a personal problem, isn't it that the government has obligation to reform the thinking of everything?
In the consecutive crimes that is confusing, the Abilympics is the category, that is why people are getting blind?
We have the Department of Social Welfare and Development which is not just the welfare of the people, but it looks like the DSWD is busy supporting their condolences in the form of Condleweight championship and confusing how to give importance to others.
It might be a seminar or activities that will be returned to our good luck as Filipino, hopefully everything is not too late, to bring back our good characteristics, to be loving with family!
