I am writing a letter.
Call centers.
In line with the Philippines, he will win during the year cell at bureaucracy; Paving, call centers.
The Filipinos can be clear to their fault in order to fix the anger.
It is very angry at the 'Khorny that might be very annoyed because in the' 80s, "it seems like it was eleven o'clock in the Philippines, it seems like it was eleven o'clock in the Philippines that left the thick smoke.
Those who want to go back then are the Filipinos, who are deport; Rayton; and seize the call centers, as long as they have their own lives.
That is also the countries that are deported; rather, he's the Filipino Worker (five center of facing the customer.
It depends on the center companies that are just woken up by the search and call to call the customers, who are also called by the customers, who are just calling the complaints of these kinds of complaints here, they are now old heart disease like that.
Yes, the call centers are the faces of those who became weak and become weak.
They will call for a simple person to leave those who are going to leave where they will leave the survey results.
In a point; we were able to look at the call center (Scene of the call center in the Philippines, one by one, when the customer called you, they were drunk when they were young.
It will be clean in the Philippines to taste fare.
They were able to go back together with the people who arrived at the people who arrived in Bira Eve.
That is how I am, of course, you don't like how much parts of their bodies are not lazy in which they can leave in order to leave so that they would leave it properly.
What are our positions in the tasks that you have received, but you have received a text message, you laughed and say what is right in the call centers.
Sometimes, it is said that the City call centers are going to be a call center in line, Makati to leave the capital of the call centers in the Philippines.
P-R - the call centers in the school are the call centers that are going to be at the same age, to say to the room and feel it from the room.
A big age for a big age was made up.
The school-mindedness of Talk '"Anne Hidalgo will take care of it later that they are weak at around five o'clock.
Not there were no customer companies to deliver what happened to those who passed for it.
That's why it's just like that they should first prioritize the Commission on call centers to those who are worried that they will leave the bus that they will leave, then they will sell it later.
