This is not the first time that a dried-year-old school ended up in the accident last year, which caused the seven victims to come home to the accident, which is why sometimes according to Education, it is too early that the dock was too much, not just in Quezon City with a one of the ashes of Marash.
There is an old way to think about it, the Education are good for this kind of wage increase for the past Santa Cruz, 48; but because of these kinds of incidents and narrow-minded people, it is not possible that it will reach the crown of the business when it is said that it will end up to the wins of the business in the minds of May Two.
What is happy with the BI-Break of the students of Marinduque who went back to the past year, he went home to a big accident that night which caused the death of the seven.
It is also the field of beauty that was also ugly before in Bulacan World floor, aunt in Bulacan yesterday because it looks like a tragedy.
It will explain to the commission that they are taking of rice for this, which is why we can give drugs to give a report.
The school.
What happened here?
Because that's also the rights of the people.
I have no car for those who are affected.
Their rights are all about to protect their rights and for example, there are people who are opposing with that there are some who have shortcomings in the Agency (Jesus Christ.
Covetous, dearse, might have something to do.
The parents showed that the right way of Bulacan City was amidst the right path of Bulacan City despite the fact that there is nothing wrong for a school if there will happen that you will not be able to take responsibility in their pictures at the market of Rated A, he / she can't take advantage of their pictures at the market of Rated A, which can be seen in the market of Rated.
He / she was able to point out; he / she had four sons; that they would have a familyly; he / she could have a flawless; he / she seems to feel bad for the police during the end of the investigation.
It's as if we learned if there was shortcomings.
And we can see where it was wrong but he explained after nothing.
It's very small; as long as they are not in the Arellano University, not the solution to escape the possibility.
The people will be trusted.
Especially if someone can understand something.
It is the laundry in the Church that they are implementing capital when it comes to two armed men.
The doctor, Riza Hontiveros, knows that he should have been in my car and this is only in my car, right?
Learn to learn from other things.
Is it a better field that we see in their hearts.
These are the security, that is why I often have bruises.
The destination is also safe and not anymore.
