Actor, watch the TV host in the forest.
Sunshine Cruz, it is happy with Macky with her bashers in bashers By Jun-October 14, 2016.
YANCITY - the former male teenagers who is a product of an actor search in TV is really a US.
When the former male actor first introduced the TV show that she joined, her former wife was unusual and you know it will be famous.
Though they were not lucky to become the grand winner in the said celebrity search, there was a TV series at the former TV network that he including former male teenagers.
It turns out that he is just a drama "because he can experience gay for gay people!
Yes, it was a non-mannered family that at first, he doesn't want to make his "gift of Comedy" because he is proud that he is proud and a lot of gay came closer to him.
What he / she was talking about was perfect, duh!
Sometimes, former teenagers were able to be with the gay leader of TV host which is severe as the "K" when it comes to his post.
A gay actor, TV host is a gay actor, a gay actor, so it seems like you look like a chatter of you.
Of course, C / TV host knows the chatter of a former gay actor, which is why he did not waste time.
They agreed on the two of them and already Break, there was a miracle that happened in the two.
The chatter of the friends of former male teenagers is out of town where the two were together.
TV / TV host invited the former male actor to a forest in the forest and there was an unusual concert there.
TV / TV host became famous because he proved that the 1896 Revolution was real, "former teenagers.
Now, former teenagers in showbiz did not stand up in showbiz, but he still did not forget what was happening to him by the TV / TV host in the forest.
He is still always joking with his friends.
The rainy season for former male teenagers in their Vazza was brought to the forest. "
They will just laugh at each other.
You are stupid that Sunshine Cruz is said to have sex with Sunshine Cruz, Macky Mathay, who is an older brother of Ara Mina.
Macky is separated from his non-showbiz Wife, but it is said that the separation of the couple is not legal.
It is also separated from her husband Cesar Montano and Sunshine Cruz and their separation is still not legal.
Sunshine is blamed that it is the reason for the separation of Macky and his wife, but the actress was defending her friends.
Macky is said to have been separated for a long time since he knew Sunshine.
It is said that the doubt that Ara is the one who introduced himself as one of Sunshine and Macky is the one who wants to know Sunshine himself.
As of now, although Sunshine is fed up, because of the way to take Macky, the actress has no plans to talk about his true situation with Macky.
Just ignore Sunshine.
Sunshine has also made the social media account of her children because there are some critics that even the children were involved in the issue.
Sunshine's friends said, that the actress is happy now, but he does not need to explain the reason!
