
General Garbo is useless in Pasay and "inmates.

"We could not make an excuse that we are going to talk about our conversation but" prisoners who are considered as the queen of the P10 billion PDAF, which is said to be the prisoner, of the P10 billion PDAF, in the position of some evil!!
With the desire of PNoy and SILG Mar Roxas that can be given to "Ma'am, Janet Napoles, the inhumane treatment of the PNP-SAF in Laguna due to his excessive restriction on his security and hiding, that's why there's a big effect on his security and hiding, that's why it's a big effect of the people in the community and the very short pants of the camp.
"That's why it's not surprising if in some interview, they directly stated that they do not want it to be in their place, the prisoner, Napoles, is clear, that it is clear that Napoles is a clear" prisoner or "Ipit Gang"!
It's because PNoy and Mar with them "Ma'am, Janet, Janet, where are you able to see here in the Philippines, who is being served in the Philippines that is being served to a prisoner, poor people who are suffering from the PNP-SAF?
In the case of libel, "we have been imprisoned for five years, together with their stay in cell, 330,000 pesos, Vinzons, and with a measurement of four prisoners, if you will decrease, we will just go to each other each other.
We are happy, deloy was happy, in that tight prison, but it can be considered that Napoles can still be contented with his co-85.
Tangere, buoy, is even asked to have a "nanny" while he is imprisoned just because of "clumsy," Tantos, "Tyo,"

We admit, a crush, that in other aspect, Pasay City Chief of Police Senior Superintendent Rod Lador, said that he has fulfilled the duty of the police, but if he is talking about illegal gambling in the said city, he will not be talked about by NCRPO Chief, C / Supt. Marcelo Garbo Jr.
While a trace of saliva, because General Garbo, against illegal gambling, Corcuous, in some parts of Pasay City, even the game of Yasay and his co-workers, Lito Atienza and alias Prince, was still unmoved!
Can you blame me, General Garbo, if I directly say that you are useless on illegal gambling in Pasay City?
