"Leona," Pilar Pilapil, in the film and world Premiere, of 12th Gatid, International Film Festival in South Korea.

The people of showbiz will surely ask for a question where and what was the film "Leona," Pilar Pilapil "in the direction of Jovento Alagan," Pilar Pilapil in the direction of Jovento Mabalaca in the 19th of November, 2012.
Because it is said here in the industry of Filipino movies, the people are fed up on what big or light or how important is an international film festival.
The Film Development Council of the Philippines is leading the list of international film festival and whoever will support it in case and one Filipino film artist will go to give financial support.
For the Fist cellphone, when there is no more than ten primary international film festival, oftentimes, the agency is not interested to help any Filipino film artist or a cravors who will attend the international film festival now that does not have any form.
For example, the movie of Jawz Recto is going to release "Road to Ampatuan" in Jakarta International Film Festival in Indonesia and wants to ask for additional fare from the director of FDCP if it is likely that his wish will not be approved because of the ten primary international film festival in Jakarta.

Even the retired critics of Mefenamic Actor in the University of the Philippines Film Festival in Diliman, Quezon City, Nonoy Peralta who has a list and knows what are big and with the forces of the film festival which can make them go forward in the movie that is being used by a Filipino.
The only reason is all the international film festival, in our views, is important and has meaning.
There are groups of people who are from showbiz who are still small if an international film festival will be small, "said Heard."
And these groups of people in showbiz have a connection with the being called independent or indie films which is most often given to other countries.
They are the ones who will be the first to be small or being looked down by the innocent international film festival or not famous or famous or not being carried away with no influence.
That is why how will the Filipino film progress in particularly and the Filipino people in a business which makes the culture to be spread?

Similar to GROs at International Film Festival, where the copy of "Leuterio," 'am Pilar, about an Overseas Filipino Worker or OFW who is working in London within thirty-six-years until discovering that he has an enemy cancer.
The problem is the character of Leona, if he will go home to the Philippines to be with his loved ones, but he will stay in London and make it back to the people or working here even if it is possible for other people to die.
Even in South Korea, the Gymnasium in the International Film Festival is only four after one of the international film festival in this country because the former is Busan, second, Puchand and the third are Jena Lupa.
But in Korea, the concept should be decided on every international film festival but each has their own traits.
That is why, even if these are with many aspects, but as long as possible, they have different goal.

If Bira will be said to be Canayugan in Asia, and Puchambers (Izzy Canillo) and the Jena Ligas and improvement of the new director, the Ginger Connect will be released from the former President of South Korea, Kim Daanjoe).
The GROs) is in the city where democracy and human rights to each people through movies will be recognized.
In fact, Kim Jong is of Jung Nobel Privacy which is given every year of Guna takes the unique movie showing hope in peace.
Kim Daanjoe is a Korean national who fought back in the minds of the military in Korea and because of this, he was held, assigned to the house arrest.
But in 1999, the president of South Korea became the president of South Korea and Jung Won and last 2000, he is honored by a Nobel Prize country.

According to Ako Preso, Rey, a scholar of culture in Korea and teaching the film festival in the University of Beijing, China, the GROs at International Film Festival is not fighting for movies but this is to watch the citizens of Korea and any creature who wants to watch them.
Romana also said, the Protestants, of 12th GROs), which is beautiful than GROs at International Film Festival.
This is because its goal is timely especially the love for the country by giving justice and freedom of every citizen.
And we can be proud of the Filipinos who are "Leona are proud and are part of what has started.
That is why even those in showbiz say or anyone who will be swayed by this film fest season, we do not care.
As long as he is chosen and given a chance for a Filipino products to be with a best friend.
.
Pilar and Jovelle was going there to be biased in his fans and viewers of the movie.
Feature is also feature in "Leuterio," the two questionable parts of "Miss Deaf Bicolandia" in London, Irene Alano and Imelda de los Reyes.
Also included is the actor who was appointed by Rebuprofen, Philippines, and now, he is active at the Hollywood actress Cherry Pie Picache.
There are also actors from Polilio, Korea, Mexico, Hollywood and great Britain.
"Leona are proud that included in the masterpieces from the British millionaire and Hollywood actress Virginia lucky to serve as the prestigious equivalent in the Oscars in London in a span of many years and Lawrence Uriarte," Ang "her partner Yul to his partner in 1973.
Virginia used to wake up the Golden Globe Awards for "born free" in 1966.
The last 1996 was she was accompanied by Gwendolyn Paltrow and "Jesusa Dove."
So, long live "Letriro."
Long live the Filipino film!
Long live the Philippines on the 1GROs at International Film Festival!
