Jodi is Magno, SEBandola in Int, EMMK BE, Allan DHay-October 18, 2016.
We see in the face of Jodi Sta. Maria that she has been waiting for her First International Awards that will happen in New York.
The beauty of Jodi is aggressive in 44International Criminal Court where he got nominated in his performance rating of an actress in the remake of the Kapamilya series promise to "Yo (The Production).
Fight of Jodi VS. JUDi was because of his strong opponent for the said award at Dame Juvenile's EpiPen (UK), the two other opponents of Jodi is a Brazilian (Hadezers (Humalig) and German actress Christina Inged) and German actress Christina Inged).
When we watched the Kapamilya actress in Sunday at the PNP Custodial Center where he regularly visit Senator Bong Revilla, with her boyfriend, Jolo Revilla, what we said to Jodi is that she should have a selfie together with Dame Juvenile.
He / she was also able to see the Hollywood actor, Devera due to complete honor for winning actor.
A Brazilian was found, a German and an actor-an actor who is going to fight against Humalig).
Mark Renil is a medical partner to make a medical exam that Jodi is going to wear at the International Criminal Court at November 21 in Hton New York.
Jodi is going to post her Instagram account, which is why he / she was wearing a gobosity of his / her gobosom where the actress came back to the said white Toyota Innova with the beauty of details on the back.
It seems that Jodi Sta. NYC has been flying because before the award at night, they have a press around and other Events which needs to be together.
According to Jobird, it seems that he will be put to a shower light there that is why it is likely to be exported.
Aside from the international media, he was considered to be a pro-ranking of foreign agents there which can possibly have interest on a Filipino actor like him.
Star Ngayon that the companion of Jodi is with the said trip by Jolo, Jolo, because he is still busy in his work as vice governor of Cavite.
Before Jodi is allowed to serve as Angel Locsin (for her fantos) for the 37th International Criminal Court in 2009.
Angel was not lucky, hopefully, the time is working that Jodi is working, and Jodi is still working that night. "
The term Year in Teleruz, the Brad of ABS-CBN, of ABS-CBN, received a Canadian and two Brazilian in this show.
