
Asked by the KP, is it that Aquino was able to make out that Aquino is oppressed by the people who made the newspaper in English?

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
February 2, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is asking the spokesperson of Malacañang if there is an attempt by the US Marines and military who were able to do it for more than 80 times when the US Marines and military did something to make the newspaper or tuberculosis or any form of it?

This is the reaction of the PKP, it is expected yesterday by Malacañang that it was given diplomacy to enter the ocean of the Philippines and tourism in Subic Bay and it is said that it is not the implementation of the economy of the 1987 Constitution in the arrival of the 1987 Constitution in the entry of the 1987 Constitution in the entry of the 1987 Constitution.

"Is the Malacañang himself knows if the cardinal did not have a number of people with the US as Usahay," said PKP, "said the said military offensive of the US for a thorough investigation to investigate if he has a illegal weapon?"

"As an appropriate time for the ship to anchor the ship and it can anchor the provisions of the US, the rules of the US will be placed under the constitutional solution which prohibits the newspaper and the construction of the corrupt military," said the KP.

"Based on the way of the American soldiers in the Philippines, it is clear that the ship will go out of the Philippines, it is clear that the American soldiers on the Philippine territory of the Philippines are clear to prevent their strong weapon for the warship of the US which crashed to the warship of the US that crashed back to the flood.

"Because of a disrespect of the local government agencies, this is not in your financial condition, the prohibition to the members of the US and the US will not voluntarily undergo under the implementation of the law of the government budget for the Philippines," said the KP.

The PKP has expressed their objection in relation to the cancellation of the cardinal the US leaders of the US in the Philippines, that this serves as the approval of some military from the US in Asia-Pacific, and as well, it shows that the government agencies of the US in Asia-Pacific and as well, it shows that the government agencies in the Philippines will anchor.
