Rape and Uber are warned for the BBL?

Be careful of the taxi and Uber.
If there have been reported in India with a rape case of Uber, there are also cases like Uncle Sam.
Uber are a type of taxi drivers who are traveling through contact with a private vehicle through cellphone or other gadgets of communication.
In the Philippines, there is no mark of the vehicle which is very clear that it is one of the passengers like those seen in the taxi and they will be able to use it in every corner of the country.
The rapist.
Included in the recorded murder case was the separate shooting incident in Chicago and California.
The case in Chicago was suspended because it was seen in a video that apparently treated and hugged his passenger woman in the driver before he went down and went to the police to complain.
At first, the woman's woman and the prosecutor admitted, but after a year trial, the video was already out causing the case to be dismissed.
But the case in California was added to no details in this case but it can be said, like what happened in India, the rape incident happened inside the vehicle, but in a few places.
Driver that are registered?
According to Uber, it is carefully recognized by the drivers of these vehicles that mean that the drivers of the documents that proves that they have no bad record are complete.
But in the appearance of the rape case, the American government is on top of the cases against the Uber and failure to stop being a criminal case.
We do not know what is the outcome of the cases against Uber but because it is legal to Uncle Sam, it is certain that this will be where they will be.
There are still no cases filed against drivers and Uber in the Philippines, rape or not, but it does not mean that there is no other crime happening.
In the case of rape or being harassed, isn't it possible that the Filipina who died will not be identified because more than them die or were destroyed in shame after using a case?
Controversy.
But the truth is, we do not know if someone is operating in my beloved Philippines.
Because of what we know, Bro, there are some who are talking in Land Transportation, Orchell that will be allowed to be legal in the Philippines, not only because of the competition but also for the possible abuse of drivers and Uber.
One more thing, the drivers and Uber are still not clear to the passengers like its insurance for its insurance so that the drivers and Uber are paying taxes.
What is really the news here, LTFRB chairman Winston Ginez himself?
How can we hear of those who have a secret and secret operation of Uber in the Philippines? If it is true, well, passengers are dangerous.
A warning for the war.
What is the chief of the Philippines's chief negotiator, who is facing the peace line up to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which is facing a severe chaos in Mindanao if the BBL will not be passed as soon as possible?
Does this feel fear on the belief of what happened to the Fallen 44 of the Special Action Force, this is also what will happen to any non-muslims or force of the government who are moving in the territory of the MILF?
Is it even if he / she is still trembling with saying that there are 10,000 armed with MILF that cannot prevent its arrest if the BBL will not push through?
And the 10,000 people are possible to be militants like the Islamic State in IOS and Syria?
Does not want to.
MILF Chief Executive Director General Iqbal Singh, they may not accept any change in the proposed Bangsamoro Basic Law.
He almost does not want to meddle with the Congress or the Senate and Senate the BBL and he is forcing PNoy to follow the favor in favor of BBL.
What if the congressmen and senators are found in the content of the BBL that is contrary to the Constitution?
For example, the MILF are having own territory and government with complete ingredients like almost fully control of their jurisdiction of the people, including the christians and other Muslims and economy?
It will also have their own armed forces that can correct the type of police or military and the weapons, salary and other needs of them will come from the national government.
What are these, duh?
What Ferrer should do is just go away from his position in showing fear and seemingly pushing for the interest of the MILF when most of the interest of the majority and the entire country.
