By Noel Ferrer November 21, 2016.
Around 1: A call IT SUWERTE: A call IT led, Shou king as Fight IT led between the Metro Manila Film Festival 2016.
No matter what changes, it can be surprising but instead of making noise again, that is why we were able to throw at Chance in Chance?
Here are the initial reactions and failures of the people in the field of the MMFF Execom.
Rebudless, intelligent and indie films, they are the same movies, which is why the indie film (New Zealand) Homicide Section (MMFF is dissolved.
Because it's not different for the standard of human beings, "isn't it only?
The challenge will lessen the television series of movies in the next festival. Number 2 although the children, do not have a movie for the chosen to be chosen?
There are those who can see the children, most of the novels of the MMFF, it might be GP who would suffer from the children while they are the parents watching the MMFF, which is GP and PG.
After watching, they had a discussion and has a lot of discussion about the movie, instead of me getting mad, crying or fear.
Number 3: Many of our countrymen who have money in Christmas only have money and they just want to see their favorite actors?
Our countrymen have worked hard for the money they are going to spend for making a movie, that's why we hope them to watch them with more nutrients, "right?
It is also good for us to challenge the famous actors to create more beautiful projects in the next time for them to be able to join the quality festival.
Number 4 Paano, no adStars, many fans, how will the viewers of the movies increase?
The MMFF Committee is a big faith in our countrymen.
Let us also challenge yourself to be open to change and support the good film entries even if actors are not famous.
Let us show to the famous actors that we will support them if they make a better film to start changing.
Number 5 when Christmas is, our countrymen just want to be happy and they do not want to think if he will watch a movie.
Sir Nong Tiongson (Head of the MMFF Selection Committee) said, "we should not belittled the thinking of our flag."
And if you think about it, should we stop during Christmas, let us stop in thinking and use of brain? Isn't it right, all the time will be cooked and aware?
With what is being on the monitor, this is celebrating the Magic 8, no star Records or just smirked, that I tried to watch a good luck, and hopefully there are those who watch the movies, "those who are fond of movies," are not able to go to the movies. "
The producers will lose a huge amount that will not be hit by the top 8 of the MMFF 2016.
They are the ones affected if we are talking about it, including those who are benefiting from the cruelty and internet during Christmas.
But like what Mae Paner (Ian Veneracion) last MMFF is Scuon, "the commercial drivers who were not able to be with, was we met 365 million in one year.
"Tanim-Ass would be the same time to be defeated by the rest of the rest of the Year." And it looks like that is what will happen.
Star Cinema has a direct implementation yet on November. 30 which can be considered by Vice Ganda and Coco Martin, or lemon juice from Jessy Mendiola, Arci Muñoz and Coleen Garcia and Ejay Falcon, Vin will be Vin will.
Then, there is a news about the First Brigada Eskwela or January (January) after the MMFF) is the movie of Vic Sotto.
"Mano Po 7 of Regal is allowed to target the Chinese New Year with the release of the Chinese.
With Tindan, I hope that the person who will be able to take care of the person, most of yourself, is like our concern in showbiz industry.
