We were drinking last night, and what kind of my class is that he is the only one in the government.
If there is a problem at work, it was a strong work for five-four-four children who should be outside the plastic bag, at four o'clock in the morning, around eight o'clock in the morning for his classmates.
Those with the T'boli police are doing the barangay chairman just to pass by.
You did not push through.
There are dried fish.
"It is more beautiful than you to understand that we can understand each other; so I don't know that the youth are already in prison.
He added that he goes to prison at night.
It's good that it's good that we will look for a job, "we should just talk about it.
It is only Tuesday that you are praises and recognition that you are now strong with the strong rain for our students.
Why don't we look pitiful; that there are no rain here, there are no rain here, that they have no money, that's why there's no money, which is why there is no money.
Why yes, that is why we ask him / her to look down; he / she is very well-tempered; yesterday before you are good.
In front; he / she cannot believe that I do not have any kind of love for you.
Covetous, fittest; we should take care.
Yes, in the barangay to me, it is not right that you have a lot of things there, five-Illegal Drugs Group.
"We are very pitiful; he / she and we were talking to all barangay officials and then at the office I called, I told him that there are people who look at each other for each other.
We will see each other.
Okay.
Let us monitor this, it is better to take care.
You are still there.
We, both of us, but if he wants to be Papa to them, that is okay because that's okay because if something is near their area, it is okay if something will happen to him because you know they are big.
Let us here.
Baclaran.
It is like a driver of a very big person there.
The youth are close to their area.
They should monitor what happened.
Well.
There are just to let us just go to school; we can wake up; what time I wake up later.
Your troops are going to give you a long time, such as four o'clock in the afternoon.
Later.
Do not monitor it.
We did not stop in office so it is good for you to have his attitude to wake up in the morning many wish for the morning.
There are times when you are at that time there, we are okay to talk to.
What is that the youth feel for what happened that is why you say it's just right for you to sleep just to go to each other tonight.
They are really on top of what if they are really going to fit, because yesterday, they're really going to sleep, because they are really the children of the baby who really want to sleep, we should do that the children of the baby, we should do that are the children of rain, we do not really want to push through.
I really do not say that, you have nothing to say so that they have been taking pictures; we are taking pictures, that is why it's not possible that you say that it's not possible that you say that it's not possible for you to say that they have no bruises.
Yes, he / she's in condition that's why he / she has long been asking for a long time, that is why he has long known each other.
It is laid down again yesterday when the beauty of the student in school does not complain, what is the issue of the system of love.
Ah, that is really nothing.
It is said that there will be a business that will only be in the gathering when it means that the school attack is just a high school High School.
"What kind of students say, they should not neglect it.
And then.
He has to pass on whatever it is for your tricycle, yes.
"It's good that whatever we know, the policy that we really know is that, in the house we really love, we will be happy with me now in Quezon City.
It is really different condition in Manila when you know the always of course, "of course, no matter how much we are.
A nuisance.
It is not enough for you to wake up early.
What if he can't get out of it, there are a lot of people who are in different parts; he / she cannot go ahead, just let it be.
There are several kinds of people who are in line with each other, bronchitis, Bisayan or Thursday and just as long as the problem is in the station.
Maybe it might have happened in the afternoon so that the people holding a car parked in the afternoon to the public that he will fulfill it is the morning of how we talk there, that is better for the Lord Chairman, the youth of the barangay.
I did it to Quezon City.
They are the same.
In other countries.
There might be a copy of Quezon City that are just near your eyes.
"What is the condition of district one here in their house in the investigation of the investigation on him, that is why the captain is just right.
They are going to be Clearance, which is why we can go to school; he / she can live-up; we can live-in and stay here, which can live-to the barangay hall to go to barangay 'Cemetery.
"It's okay because that is okay because for example, there is a big chance for example not all of those who are not working in the school, because it might just be said that it is not needed in the province that he might just go to the province or to go to Barangay Chairman, Corporation of the Philippines, to go to the province.
To wait, what kind of health will be.
"I just want to know how to go on the discussion of the College while I will go home to this number 1 hour, but when we think that we are okay with our financial situation, they say that you should just look for our financial situation, right, right?
Perhaps.
One to go.
In the school University one in every university, they need to think about each other, and the Two Wives are not able to see each other.
What a long discussion is that she will have a lot of going to Jeddah because he is always asking him that she is not able to go out, he is not able to go out, he / she was not able to go out; he / she was not able to go out, even though nothing was mentioned.
Thank you for you for your Ate Jackie.
Before we sent that, we were able to go to school; we should realize that the barangay cannot see each other; the barangay cannot see the rain that will be hurt if you get hurt.
It is five o'clock.
Possible.
"We might have a family in shorts because we still have a problem which is why we still have a problem with them and we still talk about it, it's good that I have no one to say that there is no class when you're doing nothing.
But we have different situation in every place he said, the mayor is right, but I do not understand why she does not understand why her color is no longer sleeping in the morning so I can be able to buy my seat at the roof of the house.
Maybe the rain might be very small; maybe it's only now that the rain is very strong, that we should call it at the other hand, that we should call, that there is no class; we should just say that there is no class; we should just say that there is no class; that is why there is one of the things that you have to say, that is why there is something that we say that we should just talk.
