Typhoon.
Might be true.
Earthquake.
They are the only ones in spite of the frequent face of the Philippines.
The country is in the third position of the country on the list of the most straight brief.
He does not like his head like a board number.
Up to more than four million Filipinos are affected by the old people who are first among them are our students.
We are anxious; that's why it's the help of the CPP-B; I am Karen and other aspects of the government to be one of the democratic public schools to be prepared at this time of request.
Change is the change of our countrymen.
This is enough in order to bathe the safety of the Villa Family of the students of the narrow-og of the ocean.
Yes to make it clear that you are a clear sister, maybe you are living on the telephone or a little by Quezon City.
I bring back to you, except for all those who are watching the things of good fortune that would have been too much over March 28, why is there a perjury case to bathe.
This is very cold to our countrymen.
We are title.
Or for being a Filipino, to become our Filipino; the ones who have been affected by Jojo said Bulos, different kinds of food, we are really stubborn at the roof of two years.
And you are the same with you, I order the training of Two.
That is there, there are several kinds of words that we might support and do not believe that it is in the country where he will go to the country Vietnam.
If you do not pay attention, your child is always dead.
Now.
Basketball, in you to study compared with worms, your strength is on Sunday.
And even the people.
Yes, Vi agrees that we are in the middle; we are in the middle that we are in the middle that we are in the middle of our opinion as well-tempered; so that we are going to go back to the age leader, "we said, it is more hot, as if it is hot now.
Okay.
It's only three o'clock in the morning that we will experience the cut-off from abroad who have entered our few abroad who have entered our small amounts to us together with Dante 'that I am going to fetch me at around three o'clock.
I am not there because it is also here in Western Homicide Section, Dante's, and then your Eve, you are not just pretending.
The airport people are able to lie down again, whose legs are degrading.
Yes, we are complaining that we are from each other, fellow citizens, fellow countrymen who are renting there in Negros because it's a bit strong.
That is now what we have experienced in the waves of Cotabato, Tita Carla Carmen my four who have not felt too much but there are just a few call that I have been affected by the Montenero and we are not stupid.
There is a cold that Jango or a visa were sarcastic, why did I think about English?
Yes, SPARK.
Yes, Boracay Two worry.
"We are anxious; as long as we are compared with the talk of C-R there in a different video, I will not be able to do this, but to the Department of our two, Dexter and to the Department of us, we have already known the teaching of our students.
Now that they will wait if the age is coming yes to any vice here, especially our schools, yes, right?
Maybe because of you, as long as former four Basud, what comes first when they have been affected with the older sister, Justin, in the other side.
Always at the same area of number one that we are waiting for five, our schools will really be buried in Manila, but the suspects are flooded when our students are flooded.
They are trying to enter the wrong neighboring bag that's true.
Where in a bag of question why is it not the R-R yes to PNoy?
Aling Maroons.
They are thinking about it from the place to sleep in Cavite.
Because if you give the youngest to the youngest then on reading yes, it's the same with Christie who is calling each other with Sibol, which is why they are just going along and down.
He said I am sorry.
"We are anxious; our father, who is not in the right age of Bicol, did not make it right here in Bicol, which is why there's no change in Bicol, that is why it can be recalled that there is no more cellphone until there, it can be recalled that it is going to get up and then we can remember that you are going to get up and then go to the same age;
In Mindanao, a old store in our country is in Mindanao.
They directly went to their favorite yes, so I am my favorite, because I do not know you were.
It is really good that there is no electricity inside the fire but computer yes, we will run for a landslide Thursday, and with a neighbor who is going to die, we are doing, "we are doing.
To our countrymen.
So that before they are not going through the storm now, we have a tight time that they should know that nothing is safe from here in the Philippines so they can know what they should do not before they can't have money to buy.
It can be felt that it is not for parents who take advantage of it, to the students what the school is doing, so that it will be easier to study.
Traffic laws.
No matter how much we see, we are able to talk to each other; we have five children, we have five years for us to be ready if ever it comes to school.
He / she said that he / she / she / she says that he / she was distressed.
Why, isn't it true that I am getting angry with the other answers that I have no joke here?
Ah,
Before, biko, wanted to have a month if in the previous beauty it can be seen.
Why is it?
Global warming is going to happen again.
Yes, school building, covetousness; three breads.
Why is it that or not for the payment, they say that they are going home to the provinces when they go home to the province.
Very small; we should really have an honor, it should be that if the children are running away, it is far from our income that we live here in Manila, which is why all of our places here in Manila, why are all of our places here in Manila, that is why all of our places here are similar to each other in the same province.
So we are calling the DepEd Sec. C-R.
And he / she said that he / she / she said that he / she was going to give an open award which is just far from Kuwait that they are working in Kuwait; he / she grew up in Kuwait; he / she was making ham; hence, we are making ham; that is what the Hoy was doing?
You are ten.
A little before eating what you have done on Saturday.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was very angry; he / she was not able to answer that, at a visa, she was not able to respond to a visa-tempered; that's why he was not able to answer anything about different kinds of narrow-minded people and that's why it was not yet given to what we should do.
And if ever there are incidents that you have accidents, the Midnight Cabinet can still change; that's why.
Midsayap, the landslide that has been a landslide in a landslide; that's why they have money and what is the right thing to do if there is already.
And whatever is the right thing to do after your throat, I have said that you are close to the southern part of the evening you are applying for.
I am the only one I am saying, to sweep peace and peace.
It will be better if they should not be able to get it well, "it is possible that there is no other storm that can't be done, ah, it's just a morning that I am being slaughtered and did not respond to what happened to our country in the country.
Only four o'clock in the baby is what we need.
Mark is expensive, even if he / she looks down, there are other people who look out.
"We are cooking, we should have a straight path, we should have a hospital to go to hospitals, so I need to have school; we are ready to school; we are ready for the First Class God or for Gelo that they are ready to buy other people that are still not success?
You are in Fairview, you are saying.
We have not been separated for a long time, but as long as he / she has not been sexy anymore, he / she didn't want to be sexy; he / she didn't really love her to go to school and his parents.
Myself was outside, I said.
So, I have an umbrella for parents who are left to always be angry at them.
It is said that we are from Pag-asa so that we will know what kind of condition you want to listen to radio and watch in television, what, Anna.
We were riding a bike for our fellowmen, and we asked the students to let them know if this is a heart, we should always remember what we should do when we have a sky for your letter because we have a letter on him.
Why is it being punched, isn't it?
Are you crazy?
There are two who sit there at that way, in giving mean time.
Having sex.
At yes, Kate is calling that he has a point; as long as you are going to go home again, it's too bad that you are going home to each other and that we are going to know that we are going home to the internet; we are going to know that we are going home to each other, which is why we have been going home to each other, which is why we have been going home to each other, which is why we have been going home to the internet; that we have been going home to each other, which is why we have been going home to the internet; we have already had an intensive care; that is why we have been going home to each other.
Yes, we went here after we went out of the evening.
Two of them were Two boys for four two motorcycles.
There?
You do not know that if you are working at night, a lot of those who have been broken will be seen in the outrigger.
Yes, in the price, even students need to sleep and reveal the water.
Batad, we are always siblings.
In Metro Manila, we have been the type of R.
DepEd is always included.
We are always siblings, right?
