Worst in media killings, OPLAN).

What kind of President is that I love the Philippines?
He is giving a reason to kill a citizen of whoever, he is offering rights to join the happening in the government.
This appeared, Bro, in the interview of press about the violation of human rights to the Philippines with President Benigno Aquino III in his visit in Brussels, Belgium, this last Tuesday.
He said, "he / she said," in the media killings, some of the media murder, some of the Philippine Military Academy at the media Unit, DID, which is the one given to the Ethics Committee or DID, to be a solution to the ethics committee, or DID, to be a member of the country? "
Reason for killing.
From his words, Bro, these can be killed if the discussion of this is not a deep discussion on an issue or he is not the "investigative.
He can also be killed if he is responsible and he will not reach the standard or law to the amen.
He can also be killed in other reasons.
It is the child of tofu, the President is clearly allowed to kill the murder of Camen.
He let the riding-in-tandem and the boss of them to be killed by journalists.
President wrong.
The President is really wrong for those who are talkative against amen.
If it will be easy for the report or discussion of the Pamen of the country's issues, they are just laughing and if they will be united, they will lead to the laws of libel.
But if they become the "desaparecidos," whose name will become corrupt and will cause names of corrupt, corrupt, abusive and others, this is where the people who will die and those who will be ordered by them will surface.
Even if it is still fair, responsible and responsible for the implementation of the law or to the implementation of their reports and discussion on the issues that the people have interest, death will still be the death of the people.
Because of death, the controversial issue involving criminals, abusive and thieves inside and outside of the government is submerged in fear.
Li Family was killed.
It is said that PNoy has started to become famous as ex-Senator Ninoy Aquino due to the young lady senator who was implicated in the war in Korea before.
And Ninoy became famous because of the alleged cooperation of this, fair in the report, responsible and honest in the Ethics or law in the media.
When he went home from America, he went along with a few militant foreigners and local so that his trip will be focused on and put it on the forehead of Manila International Airport.
It was then that he picked up and shot him.
For being a true friend and leader, later on, he took peace with a bullet of a gun.
Because of his being smart and leader, he even made a hero and was used to leave the airport their place where he died at Ninoy Aquino International Airport, which is now the former MIA Immigration.
Now, is it just okay with PNoy what happened to his father?
Is Ninoy became shallow at his being covetous and not Investigator who is responsible and did not reach the standard of a good trait?
Child of seven canned goods, PNoy.
Politician, can it be.
With PNoy's reason about the media killings, no matter who will be killed, no matter how much it is, and even in other way.
Politician, lawyer, judge, priest, a pastor, an ordinary citizen, businessman and foreigners.
No for free, the death penalty can be held on the streets.
It is half-year-old massacre like what happened to the Ampatuan massacre.
The child of tofu, is this what PNoy wants to happen?
Death penalty is being used.
The death penalty is prohibited for murder and massacre.
The penalty was removed from the law of Republic Act 759, and was made to be 20 years old and one day up to 40 years in jail.
But with what PNoy has said in Brussels, god, that it is okay to kill a person without court and has no law.
It is estimated that you will be toppled down by anyone like what is happening to the Philippines, because the death penalty is not prohibited.
Rare.
This is probably the reason why it is very rare for the social media that even during the time of the Aquino administration, that more than two dozen people are killed.
And what is the truth that many of the killings and massacre are made by the people in the government?
Because it is usually a report about corruption, corruption, abuse of power and other lies of people from the government is the cause of the media killings.
Ask from the victims of the Ampatuan massacre, who are involved in violent politics in Maguindanao, to happen between P720-million worth of 170 victims of the media since it became president of PNoy, Cory Aquino, and Cory Aquino.
It is scary to go to the Philippines.

Ultimatum at him / Benny.
