It is only here the authorities have the blessings of D: M / her might be the Islamic State involved in Midsayap, Cotabato last Monday to protect their own welfare in their fights in Mariveles, Cotabato report, whatever they are with.
Just this morning until one hour, no one was recorded dead in front of anyone and the soldiers are still on duty to those who are implicated in it.
He can also feel hard.
You can do you.
In the other hand, the heroism of the doctor is being looked at, which is coming from the clubs.
The soldiers.
The investigation of the body is lost in fear but your husband will get along with you in life and I was told that it was the three of you who are loyal to the Philippines - both of you have been loyal to the Philippines - both are loyal to the Philippines.
Yes, what we are doing is right.
Let us reach our countrymen who are at the same age.
We still do not pay attention to them already at night.
The authorities are going to investigate upon entering the illegal drug pushers.
Day in the past.
Between them.
In Barangay malignant creatures.
We saw each other in the afternoon in the afternoon, the house that happened was very bad for nothing.
Additional friends in the morning.
Let us go to here, it is clear what he took.
They often play good in the barangay until now that we have been deceived by five hundred students, we saw each other on a day, we saw each other in a day.
I am not going to be the first to be the first to be good that we have not hurt five, but we have no idea that we do not have any idea to go to.
It took long for them.
Because two thousand residents have evacuated according to many gay, I will also go home to fear that the accident will not go back to fear that the accident will not happen again because I am still here at dawn.
We are crazy; we are very fond of us here in Manila.
Especially those close to the players, what is that?
What you want to say is that they are going to be different from each other.
That's why it's an allergy of the Philippines, whose names are from Eric, and those close to my favorite situation.
It is okay where clay pot is coming from.
According to what they are receiving from here in the Philippines, we have their own to go to their pocket so that they will just go to their pocket so that they can still understand each other but, Susan cannot understand each other but is Susan so much.
She said she was a thousand of the piglets.
It is clear that there is a clear name of a Japanese in the Philippines that we want to give to our fellow countrymen who have been going to give to each other here in Lawton, because when we talk about it, it's because when it is open to be called four pesos, it's because when it comes to the Philippines, it's because when he is called four pesos, it can be called for four pesos.
Maybe you should not buy a license for the meantime.
On the t-V-asa; we will only go to the opportunity to have a chance to have a chance.
It's because I remember that it is really the same time that there is a problem in Mindanao which has a problem in Mindanao, that is why they are repeating anything.
What he avoided in the Philippines is that they are going to go to the Philippines coming back when I go back to my friends Christopher Agustin Organization, so we talked to him so that the situation here in the house will not worsen.
