
Martial law is PNoy; Milan at R4-A.

It is really severe if obsequiousness of the Tatak Noypi, I mean, the representative of Eastern Samar, Ben Evardone.
Well, it is said that the Congress should be given new or additional pension "to answer the problem of the electricity.
King-mother, "that!
Why didn't you take a corner of legal position, what is still lacking in our president now?
As Chief Executive is 1 / 3 in the power of our government, he is already at him.
The leaders of the two houses of congress are allies of the Chief Justice of SC) who kidnapped him.
"What else is" power "which is lacking in him?" Right the armpit, "ehek!
The truth is, make sure that if we are going to discuss the discussion, we believe that he is really distressed!
Of all the lawmakers, aside from the only one who has this kind of idea, I am the only one who acts like a real patriot.
We will never forget this Representative Ben Evardone and former chairman of the House Committee who have been amused with the Filipino people in the issue of Bangsamoro Basic Law!
Just keep silent, Ben Evardone and you are not able to get irritated again!
Let's go back to it, it is a sample of "extra power" that should be given to the president.
"Why is it that according to the majority of Filipinos who take advantage of the movements of the Tatak Noypi, she has someone to talk to the straight path, elf and aving.
Oh, what if ever there is truth in case there is truth to these accusations?
Let us save, God, the people from the hands of the straight path, elf and avors!
What you want is your desire, hk, hmmmp!
Entice the President.
The "Ipit Gang" will continue to rise from the lawless, will continue to dominate including the CIDG and Camp Crame.
Alias "Milan, it shows the Deputy Director Region 4-A son of CIDG (R2), while PO 2 Lotero, Cavite PNP Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Josille, Cavite due to arresting him using a Col. Feliciano in Camp Crame.
According to our Avena, Colonel Senares is said to have been assigned to Camp Crame MED) but it is not yet clear what is the PNP unit.
Even if that's the case, he / she was the only ones who knew!
What we'm sure is that while we are writing this column, it is assured that the two mentioned will continue!
