NFA-DA, have a TSETC.

We are monitoring the crimes that are made by officials of the government related to their search for private individuals who are saying that they are doing something in some big problems in the Philippines.
Rice!
The bosses of the government are pointing out with a big pork barrel scam, which is why the Senate and the Department of Justice will keep on this year and they are going to come out to the other classmates.
But there is an activity that will be connected to this, there are those who treat these as bosses who want to give money to the accused that they are accused of.
And what is wanted is the trunk of the money, who are the high officials of the government?
Alert.
These were extorting money in order, "Bro, and another modus of corrupt politicians to profit from the private sector.
As long as rice, those corrupt are on alert after extorting money in order in order for them to earn money.
Who is the responsible for the alert order just to have money?
There are also high officials who are behind them.
Permits to be free.
Complaints of the progressive countries are warned, that some of them are called by corrupt politicians, they will not have the importation of rice if there is no issue that has no permit for this from the National Food Authority (Department of Agriculture.
Now that the revelations on the issue is on top of each other, the people of NFA in DA have been defeated by the people of NFA-DA.
And they keep on what they give and make a permit that is done on top, together, they do not have anything to do with the problem.
No plans.
This is what hurts.
In the investigation, the clean and righteous bosses are the officials of NFA and DA for being corrupt or are negligent of these.
But we don't feel that those who want to implicate other bosses to involve or use the people of NFA and DA.
It seems that the prisoners have no plans to suspend, remove them from position and imprison the corruption in the said agency despite the coming out of evidence that they are accused of selling rice.
Case in the Ombudsman.
There are cases against the officials of NFA and DA in the office of Manang Conchita Carpio-Morales but we have not heard any action from the Ombudsman here.
Question: Will these cases be held at the Office of the Ombudsman and only the private individual will be taught to have a lesson from the government?
.
Aside from the "traslacion" receiving permit or EEO in the private sector, they have their own modus for enriching those inhumane in NFA-DA.
They are implementing the heavy rice-NFA that based on the cases filed in the Office of the Ombudsman, more than 800 hundred pesos were stolen by the "righteous" in the worsening destruction of rice from the government this 2013.
How about the first years that the government has an importation of rice, it seems that it is impossible to replace it.
Or does not have a plan to ask the authorities that they do not have anything else but the private businessmen?
Jeck Batallones will stop.
Even if he was leaning on the case to the officials of the government, you did not even find them to be seen by delicadeza.
"Should he resign from his position and let the authorities continue to investigate.
They do not want to imitate his ex-Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, who will resign from his position to prepare yourself from the cases and so that he will not be implicated in the name of his office for the accusations being thrown at him.
I have a property and it seems that the faces of the those in NFA-DA have a thickness of their corruption and corruption.
Or they are doing everything in order for them to use their power in opposition to the question of their corruption?
Child of seven canned goods, those stupid fools, whose faces are evil.
With the liver.
Like in a horseshoe, what is being done by those who are cleaning the clean and Ponong Pilgrimage Site in NFA-DA is the reason for the damage of the people in the Palace?
"Is it that even if President Noynoy Aquino is clean, he can peek at that he has a responsibility in all the foolishness of his personnel.
What we are asking for the president is this: How this is the determination shown by his enemies in politics in any mistake or suspicion of corruption or corruption, it should also be done to his KKKK.
This is to get the whole support of the country in its programs for the benefit of the citizens.
But until he is considered as "he is innocent, his officials who are implicated in corruption and corruption are innocent, until the court has not carried out their mistakes, and even in fake surveys, which is being made in favor of him.
