You arrested me now! By Aries, Bernard Taguba, Eralyn Pritil, Tina Mendoza, September 29, 2016.
Senator Leila de Lima could not immediately stop yesterday when he challenged President Rodrigo Duterte to arrest him because this is what he wants to happen.
"You should catch me now," that is really what you want.

You will be imprisoned right now, I can be imprisoned at the Walis do thank you, Mister President?

Wait for thank you, "de Lima insists in relation to the non-stop allegation against him in the illegal drug trade in New Bilibid Prison (NBP).
Even if she was put inside the tears and his voice was trembling with extreme anger, de Lima insisted that she is not coward to retreat from all the allegations against him because he knows he is innocent and has no fault.

"It is the fight that I am going to fight, I am not coward, because I do not have any fault," those who are hiding, "those who are hiding and" the lady, "according to the lady," according to the senator, she called for the press conference.
Because of the desperation of the President, he is trying to destroy him without thinking about its effect in the country.
"In front of you, to malign me, you do not think of what your appearance is in the eyes of the country and in the world, I am the innocent.," he insisted.
Because of this, the senator asked the president again to stop all that to be a delusion because he was just divided on his allegation that is lacking and lies.
The senator admits that he did not know what he will do and sometimes he thought that he won't win even though he did not regret for him to run as senator.
The news made yesterday that the senator's alleged sex video of the senator was released by the senator and the alleged driver of bodyguard Ronnie Dayan along with the investigation on the spread of drugs in NBP during the time he was Justice Secretary.
In spite of the interview of House Speaker Pantaleon "lady" Alvarez before he called the "majority of Daucuses" yesterday morning, he said that they are considering the release of the alleged sex video of De Lima.
"Well, for me, there is no problem so that people will know if it is really true or not, if it is needed because it is as if that will be your personal relationship," Alvarez said.

Alvarez wants the people to judge if it is true or not the sex video that's why they plan to show it to the Congress, but they did not say when.
Senate Minority Floor of the legislative chamber to show the said sex video held by Justice Sec. Vitaliano Aguirre.
Senate President did not complain about the alleged sex video, "the sex video" that is "Psy war," that's why there's a lot of blessings that are like that, "we were holding this kind of topic," according to Senator Koko Pimentel.
He / she was able to sleep at the bed sheet. "
This is the reaction of President Rodrigo Duterte on the statement of Senator De Lima where the senator increased his voice and insisted that there is a force or surrounding the president who were taking advantage of the anger or reconciliation caused by extrajudicial killing last 2009.
"In all the all sorts of human rights, I was able to send gurt with Hamper, 94-5.
