Aquino charter change, fight the Congress.

The widespread groups are focusing on the front of Batasan Pambansa in Quezon City to insist on the trash on the proposed charter change (charter change) and for the implementation of the session in the legislative chamber this March 5.
"Their promise (congressmen), ready to make a charter change, we are here in expressing our protest against it," according to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo also said that the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is pushing the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is being pushed by the allies of Aquino in Congress in the Congress which is a real trait of charter change.
"Postpone a charter change in Traw@-@ Pacific Economic Cooperation Agreement (US President Barack Obama and Obama and one of what was made to accelerate," he continued.
The content of EDCA is accepting the American troops that based on free from the local government of the Philippines to implement his presence in the country and in Asia-Pacific Ocean, the objective of charter change will open the land and business in the Philippines on 100 percent owned by the foreigners.
Gabriela Rep. Luistro also said that Aquino's allies will possibly include a charter change in the Constitution which prohibits foreign permanent based on military in the Philippines.
"It is clear that the EDCA is not against the provisions of the Constitution which prohibits foreign based on the Philippines, the executive agreement, like the EDCA, the executive agreement, not only the passports of the foreign investment but foreign based on military," said Ilagan.
Service, offered.
Gloria Arellano, administrators of Kalapati, Daet), believed to pending charter change, it can be considered a business in public service such as education, health, school, etcetera, and even if the poor would be treated more.
It is owned by Doctor Gener Rivera-Reyes, general secretary of Health Organization (ALS), who said that in the entry of Public-Private (head), who said that in the entry of Public-Private (head), it is expected that it will be more effective in the majority of the poor Filipinos.
"Because of the provisions that they want to change in the Constitution, our hospitals are in danger, especially the big Special Action Force we should be in order for the investment of the foreigners.," said Reyes.
Once a charter change, said Reyes, together with the hospitals and services that can be built by foreign businessmen with 100 percent, and also with the projects of the government, PPP, and also with the projects of the government and our countrymen, "he added.
Antonio Flores said, general secretary of Kilusang Mamunga, farm of the Philippines (KMP), said that the effect of charter change and broadcasters of Carper on their mouth is severe.

"We, the farmers are not willing to be a law because this is their promise, 100 percent of the land, the foreigners.
Just like the original law of Frank P, it is still included in Carper on the non-free distribution of land, and will be able to restore the huge land for the Lord of the Lord.
Flores said that the Lord Almighty, with the help of the government, the farmers who are fighting for the true reform in the land, just like what happened to Nemelao Barcia, farmer and should have been Carper hour in Hacienda Dolores in Porac, Pampanga.
"On the other day, they were killed (TBarcia, because their land being sold as fareville when they were taken away by the families of Ayala," said Flores.
Fight in the legislative chamber.
Meanwhile, Ilagan said that aside from the provisions of the provisions and EDCA, the administration is strict in hoping to understand the passing through the Bangsamoro Basic Law - which is needed for the implementation of the peace talks between the government and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
"In the other hand, all of them were together together and it was only three when the changes in the Constitution," Ilagan even explained.
"He added, like the EDCA, the congressmen have not yet able to get the copy of the Bangsangmoro Basi Law, but we are talking about it before the Congress closed that is the basis of the Bangsamoro Basic Law," he said.
HE is said to have been pushing for a long time for businessmen and foreign contacts is pushing for a long time which will open the country with foreign investment on the danger of local products and services.
"It has been proven that those who will greet this) are not effective, since we entered the provisions that will be proud of the progress of the Filipino and local capital for their natural resources," also explained by Humalig).

"The representative of the one watching the letter."
The poor people who live in the city have said to join the protest that are only being used by conclusion to non-charter change while the interest of their fellow people who each have seen each other.
"
Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate insisted, that even if the voices of the seven representative of Bangsamoro Basic Law in the legislative chamber, the majority of the congressmen are still the majority of the congressmen who have huge indebtedness.
"When it comes to the counting, we have the loser. But even if we are only alive, we are doing more opportunities to vote the Congress to reduce the issues of our citizens," said Zarate.
AOIL, Fernando Hala, which is headed by Alyansang Bad in the legislative chamber to fight charter change, Carper extension, and the proposal of an alternative programs that can be given to the majority of the people you can get.
According to him, Alyansang Makabayan is pushing for an alternative program, for example, for the implementation of true reform in the land, "we have the proposed law that is there," Genuine iodine or House Bill 252), which is stated in the free distribution of land to farmers, and support to improve the economy. "
Hala which is also mentioned by an alternative program is the proposed wage increase of workers in the private sector and 30,000 pesos additional wages for the government that does not want to change the land in the advancement of the national anbantayan.
But Zarate said that the strong movement of the masses will still decision to reduce the real change in the Filipino masses.
"Against these people.
