The blessing of blessing is why the first Christmas of life is very important (there is nothing to do with the egg.
March 29, 2016 when you lived again in order to keep your life alive.
That is the Central Bank of the Christmas day to the life of Jesus (or "what is called for a lot of Easter Sunday, that is not about the eggs that has been held and colorful by the children.
The truth that Jesus Christ arrived in the whole message was to the earth because of our mistakes, read the following ghosts.
"Like good news," there is no right way, nothing, no matter what happens, "Rome 3: 10).
"All of them have sinned, and did not reach the glory of God" (Rome 3: 23).
"Because the payment of fault is a death penalty" (Rome 6: 23).
With the three branches, we can see the reason why we need to save the sin in heaven, the Bible, that the Bible, is not taken away from you, which is why the situation we inherited from you will not be taken away from you.
So what Jesus did was that he died in the cross to take responsibility of our sins.
"But he was wounded because of our corrupt people, he was beaten-up because of our evil; imposed on him is the punishment for our peace..." (Preso 53: 5).

"But when Christ said that he is the only one who offered his sins for all times, he sat on the right of God... that through a offer they are being talkative on all times, he is being talkative on all times.
I will feel the words that they are saying about the books of IOS and the letter to those from Hebrethren, which resulted in a great hope for everyone who will believe in Jesus and his offer to make it in the eyes of God.
He will have the privilege to go to heaven even if she was born with a sin.
This is the good news that Jesus has not stayed dead for three days after he is able to die in the cross and be buried again! He did this in order to maintain a safe and peaceful life.
"I am alive when we are married again, and their livelihood is its limitation on me, although he is dead, however, he can live." (Juan 11: 25).
"And this is a testimony, that we are given God's life without him and his life is in his son, the whereabouts of the son of God is where the son of God is not where she is alive." (1 5: 11-12).
The truth is the truth that the Lord Jesus will live again!

He needs to show his death because it is the one who is undergoing everything that is happening with all of us, who will die again, but because of the success of God, it will be a new and great hope for each of the blessings that will give up to each of their lives in the division of the Lord Jesus!
A friend, the first "Easter Sunday is a waste if you will not understand and praying for your sins and trust the Lord Jesus as your prayer and trust in your life, you can pray for your own sake.
"Lord Jesus, I am extremely worried about my sins.

"I turn our backs on my sinful life and starting this day, you, or Jesus, I am receiving the strength of your Holy Spirit, for me to have a new life, thank you, Lord God, in life without eternal life."
My prayer, friend, your safety today.

Jesus Christ is the Lord, king of the King, Lord of the Lord, God bless!
