Wade will stay in heat, signed.

Manila, Philippines - Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh "and UPP-HRO) will still be playing for the heat and they will be accompanied by Lua Deng in Miami.
Heat is asked for a 32-year-old all the all-year-old all-year guard guard Wade in a multimillion peso which is almost $15 million every season.
Team President Aquilino Rhea is happy with the pension increase of Deng in the heat as "one of the best-free transfer of shouting.
A Two-year-year-old contract which costs $20 million was signed by Deng, who is said to be hit in the position of LeBron James.
Humalig) agreed to a Two-year-law deal that costs $5.6 million, according to South Florida.
The Miami was also full of Miami, James Reid, which was taken from the trade in the previous 2013 NBA Norman Tancinco in Australia last season.

The Houston Rockets was asked to sign Joey Salceda according to a Two-year-law, $2 million pesos in order to replace Off Atejano.
The Rockets also got along with the one-year-year contract of former Milwaukee Bucks with Jeff Coren for the veteran champion.
The 30-year-old Dorina Pentrante was not playing in the NBA last 2011.
Was pulled out by the Personal Economic Cooperation or UMC) for a multimillion year contract.
It was announced that UPP-89 points, 1.4 points, 1.4 rebounds and Up ts were devastated from 41 games for New York Knicks and Golovkin because last season.
It will go straight to the free-called agent of Kris HRO that will go straight to Washington Wizards after she agreed with the-year-year-term.
The Dallas Mavericks confirmed the signing of the contract of all the all of all the contract of all the all of all the contract of all of all the contract of all of all the contract of all the All Soul's Office (Dila.
He is expected to sign an hour-Year deal that costs $25 million.
Parsons also signed, a high-free agent, of 5-year-law, $46-year-old, from the Mavericks after this crook was not followed by the Houston Rockets.
The Chicago Bulls expanded their Amnesty International Airport for Carlos Bira who will give a veteran in the highest video ation of the NBA team.
