
Warning by mail!

I really cannot understand our attitude of Filipinos but we consider yourself as a pro-God because the Philippines is the only Christian nation in the entire Asia.
But what hurts, we often see our faith in God.
Corruption is widespread in all branches and level of our government and many of our countrymen does not want to be defeated by many of our countrymen who have their own styles and foolishness.
What's painful is, it seems that some of our countrymen don't care that instead of helping the suffering of others, they are still doing this opportunity to earn.
There is only an example that Labor Secretary Rosalinda Balentz revealed some of the people who are pretending to be from the Philippine Labor Office (shirt) and Philippine Embassy in going around some places in Saudi Arabia.
He promised that this fake artist promised to help the OFWs there who are affected by the social media that will be charged and will hike on their papers.
Of course, in exchange for help, the affected OFW are going to pay a huge amount, and because this is a huge amount, they still do not have something to happen because the papers to be given to their papers.
Balarz identified the accomplices in the group, based on the warning of the Philippine Embassy in Riyadh, a Sunny Robredo (C-..Nasipit, Robredo), Albert Panopio and Aiza Monanares.
Aside from them, they still have other companions who do not have done anything but to deceive by one of his ways to give fake documents such as TV Patrol, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birthcertificate, marriage certificate, birth@@
The thickness of the faces of those who will rob this is to take advantage of the dangerous situation of our countrymen in Saudi Arabia.
That is why OFWs should not trust and instead they report to the authorities in case and there are those who will approach them and will offer help to the problem in exchange for a huge amount.
Their relatives should also advise them to the Philippines not to deal with fixers, that is why instead of helping, they will surely have a source of income.
