Vote for Binay, I am confused.

When President Arroyo went down to Malacañang, the people are looking for the new president who will lead Gloria.
The people are mad at GMA because there is a lot of charisma on his administration.
Manny Villar is at the same time but he is doubting the growing chicken of GMA.
The real candidate of the administration, Gilbert Teodoro, is also not like the people.
It is because Barbie is very rich that's why he said that he will not be when the poor will be seen.
Mar Roxas who is a candidate of the forehead of the Liberal Party is not going up and will not go up to the laxy.
He is still not what the people are looking for.
That's why Noynoy Aquino entered the scene when Roxas gave way to his thought that he will win as vice president because he is a tandem of Noynoy.
But there is a group, "Snooky Serna" or Noynoy-Binay.
Noynoy won and he did to be imprisoned Chief Justice Renato Corona who was also kicked out by Chief Justice Renato Corona who is "Midnight Cabinet" of GMA.
The opposition who are in the opposition, Senators Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla, on the issue of the pork barrel scam.
Just after the end of 2010, Binay immediately said that Binay will run for presidency in 2016.
For now, it is said that he will be the one to be with, "in 2016, based on the information gathered.
Rumors came out which is possible to adopt the LP as standard bearer.
PNoy only has the blessing of what the presidential candidate wants.
Why?
It is important for the Aquino administration to be the winner of Binay in 2016.
They will not allow PNoy to be imprisoned, got sick and sat on the wheelchair after his term due to corruption issue.
If PNoy is not a bet in 2016, he will surely be imprisoned in 2016 when Noynoy did not keep his hand and hide under the reason that the Supreme Court will decide even if the Supreme Court will decide on it.
Now is the question of Binay that he is ready to fight and put the child of Cory who took him back then to become mayor of Makati City?
Even if Binay gets to get married or not as a chicken, the fate of LP in the next election will be defeated by what their President PNoy is doing.
The candidate will surely look for Juan dela Cruz to hold PNoy in the time to end his mandate.
It is certain that Binay is not yet, who, just in the corner of Ns.
