
The president is full, hungry.

No change in life is almost half of the population of the Filipino family, according to a survey.
According to the Social Weather Station (SWS), it came out that 50 percent are said to be difficult for the SWS, around 10 million families are said to be poor.
This news is saddening in the middle of the severe news about the robbery of funds of the country, in the corner of the corner, the children who usually commit suicide, who are being fooled and dispelled their families in extreme poverty.
Politicians and leaders of the country are abroad abroad and have their own money from Juan dela Cruz.
In another survey of SWS, seven in ten Filipinos or 67 percent believes that they are not benefited from the projects which are being implemented by the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF).
This hopes that PDAF will give a livelihood to every Filipino but it is a big part to pocket people in the government so they cannot see any service.
When he was campaigning for the president, Noynoy Aquino promised to raise him from poverty in our country.
More than three years in Malacanang, this is still here in our situation.
The life of those who have been poor became more fiery.
He promised to go after the thieves being sent to the administration that he did, but it turns out that he should also be chased by the mud but he brought his P25 billion pesos to Asayes last 2012?
It seems that the Commission on Audit (COA) needs to conduct the proliferation of the pork barrel of the President that was given to him by Congress last year.
In the next year of budget, PNoy intensified his self-control over the public funds that seemed like he doesn't want to go through pork, "turns out that one of roasted pig wanted to go to him.
The pork barrel should not be dissolved but be transferred to the government official.
And the office of the President will be followed on who he needs to raise.
The amount of diets, the own pork barrel of PNoy is up to more than a value of peso which is almost half of the budget for 2014 where it will go.
That is why our president is very full, for sure, his dogs are very full.
We need to maintain peace in poverty, and continue to suffer from poverty.
A child of a miserable life!
