Talk to UP CAIDs.

Inside the university of the Philippines (UP) Diliman, these tarpaulins are scattered near the building that will be used for UP College (UPU) this Saturday (August 3 and 4).
It is definite that the traffic going on the sun will be intense again in the days of UP Diliman, last 2012, 48,462 residents used to get UP Diliman, according to 11,3732, they received in different parts of UP Diliman, according to 11,3732.
What is one of UP Diliman, who has the most applicants, even though seven percent of them passed last year, let us read what is written in the English field of the UP Diliman (Tantos) in the evacuation centers of the Commission on Higher Education (National evacuation of Exodus. "
There are just a lot of cases of UP Diliman, there are three programs for the level of the graduating), aside from the 90 program for the 5th and 46 programs for the corridors and 46 programs for the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (GAS), the first three programs are currently included in the Commission on Elections) and Film Festival.
Even though the prestigious contest of UP started to study, especially in the so-called pork barrel campus, it is still surprising that not all those who have received are the one who received the actual data of men in UP Diliman, you will believe that all their entry and 2,511 students (or 64.8 percent only) are the one who did not want to respond?
What happened to others is better, it is better to check where the number 876 have been passed by UP Diliman last 2012, most of them (51.2 percent) from the public General High School, but many have also passed (51.2 percent) from the public Science High School.
And because it is usually from rich families who are able to study in a private school, there is a possibility of entering a private school but it is not too different for a private sector such as Ateneo and La Salle College so that the tuition fee of UP Diliman at Ateneo and La Salle College was not too different, it is possible that the tuition fee of UP Diliman were not too different, it is possible that the financial tuition fee (Izzy Canillo) is not too different.
For the poor family, can they fulfill their children in UP Diliman, yes, if they will be able to get a scholarship, their scholarship is limited and sometimes it is possible that they will be able to push through to Bracklers because there is a need to prove that this is going to undergo 35,000 every year or more low.
Unlike other State Universities (Colleges (SUCs) that the tuition fee is deliberately low for the poor students, this is the reason why there are those who are opposing in the implementation of STS.
We need to remember that UP should not be different from other universities but education remains the right in the so-called national university of the country, the only need to prove that one student is his ability to pay, not the ability to pay.
But what is happening at present is that it is as if the prestigious contest is being connected to the privatization of the community history so that it does not mean that this is severe, the competition of other high tuition fee is what is worse, the competition of other high tuition fee.
If you are scheduled to get UP CAIDs, hopefully you do not want to pass you and if you accept the opportunity, you need to get involved in many struggle to change the trend, because what is expected in a true scholar of the country - is what is expected in a true scholar of the country - what is expected in a true scholar of the country - is what is expected in a true scholar of the country.
