
40 years after the law.

Macky Macasaverted!
September 24, 2012.

Activists once again sold the roads going to the bridge of Mendiola in Manila to commemorate the tragic history of the martial law of former President Ferdinand Marcos on September 21, 1972.
Many of them have fought against the Marcos dictatorship and the ila became a victim of human rights during that time.
With the leadership of the group of human rights to Karylle, protest is the way of remembering the activists for the martial law, they said, the legacy of the Marcos dictatorship remains in the country.
Up to the present, the implementation of the law is still ongoing while the group is still continuing to see that, like the implementation of human rights such as illegal drugs, kidnapping and destruction of human rights are still widespread, the abduction and spread of government employees are still widespread.
Meanwhile, in the separate interview of President Aquino to the law, he criticized the violation of the military before, and said that he will not allow the law to prevail again.
The victims were taking advantage of human rights during the time of the military and activists.
Activists appealed to Aquino to be like his father, former Senator Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino Jr. "Who fought back to him, Aquino, this can be done by Aquino by giving justice to the being of human rights, then and now.
"It would be embarrassing to the comment of President Aquino to Marcos and in Martial Law, because what he said in his speech is the same happening under his speech, there is still no formal declaration of the law," Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Karylle.
Palabay also said, "Aquino is able to listen anymore to Aquino who are against the checkpoint in the military while it is widespread now especially in the countryside.
Even the arrest of Marcos to activists and critics before is still happening in the present.
"There are 385 prisoners now, and 170 were arrested inside the two years of service," Palabay said, but through his speaker, Edwin Lacierda, Aquino has previously denied that there are political prisoners in his service - like the refusal of Marcos.
Just like before, the killings that have been known are rampant and extrajudicial killings now.
In the record of Karylle, more than 100 were victims of EJKs in the two years of President Aquino.
"The Armed Forces of the Philippines and the group intentionally attacked the culprits," added that he was an example of killing a leader of the indigenous people in Agusan del Sur last September 13, and was tortured until he was killed by the soldiers and they were tortured until he was killed by the soldiers and attempted to attack against illegal mining in their area.
According to the group, it is not enough justice for praises and offer of the flowers for being a martyr who offered their lives in fighting against the Marcos dictatorship and the law.
Worry about the law.
For the citizens of Moro, it seems that a law is still happening in their places, until now, hundreds of Moro who are political are still in jail - many of them are still detained.
For activists and veteran in the fight of the law, the bitter lesson that he left is clear, as well as the dees of the citizens to overthrow the dictatorship from the government of the US.
"The past administrations have failed after Marcos, from the first Marcos regime, there is still no justice for the victims of the law, forty-year-old no justice for the victims of the law," Untalan said, the chairman of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and the former prisoners in the law.
Araullo said that the President has no interest to give justice to the victims.
One of those who voted for a piece of director Baniaga said that he should not forget the law of the military and they were arrested for four times and now he has been imprisoned at the University of the Philippines, Judy Taguiwalo, up to 70,000 to be arrested and jailed.
They insisted that the victims of the law has not yet been achieved by the law, even if the victims were still not given justice, while the victims were still not given justice, where the victim was still in power and there was still no justice, "says Taguiwalo.
"I am worried against Bongbong Marcos," stated in the offer of Cervantes regarding the plan to run as President of the son of former Ferdinand Marcos.
Along with the celebration, it is said that the preservation of the tragic part of history should not be forgotten, because the sacrifice of the filipino people is still not yet achieved, that is why the veterans who have to let them know and look at the next generation of the law should continue.
"The bitter lesson and great struggle of the people to overthrow the Marcos dictatorship should be called for the next generation," said Araullo.
