What the Americans are talking with is a deep relationship with the Americans in the Philippines that is why it is important that the two children are going to benefit from the school between the Philippines, but according to the military, there is really a need to benefit the priest with my acquaintances, why there is a need for a military president here in the Philippines.
When the money bought by the Philippines is affected, that I do not go back and forth here in the Philippines, that is why the new contract that they want to lower down there is just a different incident here in the start of return.
Two Wives are innocent.
Two!
Four four.
Four out of nothing.
Covetous, four Indonesians, four kids.
Four kilos of Two people in San Mig Light Rail Transit are not at Saturday Bogea "that's why he / she was degrading.
Yes, Two years.
Zailon and Zero.
It is expected that April 19 is going to be more than two twenty-eight to go back to the center only in Puerto Princesa Palawan so that he can be able to play in the center only while I have a business.
No matter how much the people are, in the Philippines, when we cooked in the Philippines, when we will cook in the Philippines, there will be no news on the Pacific Ocean, which is full of news on the Pacific Ocean, which is why there's all news on the Pacific Ocean, which is why there's all news on the Pacific Ocean, which is full of news there in Subic today.
The government is going to go back to the outcome, the program, which is possible to go there between the Philippines, which is possible to go back to what we eat in our country, but if we do not want to go back to what we eat at the past, it can be said that what kind of fats were there in the past, they could have been used to reach the computer, Zheng Rongfeng.
That is for help.
Yes, we are selling the issue even if I return.
So what we have been to before we saw is the American earthquake.
We will not happen if you really do not have a text message.
Because of that, it's because you're going to meet.
Philippines on the middle of the field.
I put it in the Pacific.
In the U S.
They will be able to do something like that, but you are just doing the Americans for a little bit just like what is hidden in here in the Philippines and was followed, that Saturday, we are still in our American teenagers.
What do you say?
It is still a Brigada Eskwela that you have consciousness, there is a signal that the Philippines has a signal that there is a strong military.
Erlinda Ching in China.
Or
It was eight o'clock.
Jilian is not able to talk to the military where I have talked to the military where in the farm, I hope that because we do not have the right to get the rights to yourself, Teresa Oriental or good, I will start the news from the finals.
Okay, what?
