
The race that is lurking in Lanao.

Although there are many foreigners to visit ARMM, it seems that the visit recently of the delegation of Thailand led by Deputy Chief of Democrats and Liberal, though it is its goal to get a lesson from the reforms implemented by the PNoy administration through.
Abumbi and Liberal Party of Thailand, although it is strong based on Bangkok, there is a strong wind in Bangkok, particularly the group of Abu Sayyaf, PFM, MNLF and the MILF, with the current peace talks in the government.
In their visit, General Ban Ki-lualto, Director of Peace Center of the Philippine Army's Philippine Army's Philippine Army's Philippine Army's Philippine Army and the government has a concrete program involving the MILF and other groups which are part of the security to lead the region.
Even though there are chaos in the area of the region, it is said that the previous issues being used in the events at ARMM are said to be positive and are still considered successful in general, the action of the government, "Governor Dewana Dimatulak, of Southern Thailand, Budol-muslims.
In a short ceremony, the officials of ARMM came out with the leadership of Ampunan, Regional Chief of Staff, the said delegation of the region because of the support given by PNoy and fully trust the former lawmakers of the son of Mindanao Partylist.
Awooooooo!
The family of Coco gave birth to the camp of the 103rd Brigade of the Philippine Army in Marawi City after it exploded and there were so-called Budget Inrament scam in Lanao del Sur, which included politicians, businessmen and employees of the government.
Before this, a few unknown men fired shots at their house in Mabog, Marawi City although it is believed that it is believed to be a victims of the scam who has been victimized by the scam.
Your servant does not neglect to give warning to people that a deceit is being conducted by the people for them to be able to give interest on the issues being conducted by those who are scheduled to happen in case the money which have been used by those who have been placed in Coco bank should not have a payment.
