They will be caught in the elections, he is being attacked by fried rice, technology, hmmmp!

Instead of stopping it, the Commission on Elections (Comelec) is getting worse, the Commission on Elections (Comelec) made up his mistakes in the passing of the autasan in the elections.
It is possible that this might be the cause of the suspension of the elections and the widespread fraud, according to Aaahhch, a group Ports in the election.
In a piece of um last January 18, Aaahhch of one hems, on the preparation of the COMELEC, here, the COMELEC has a land again.
According to former commissioners of the Comelec, Gus Tambunting, alarming and possible to follow the COMELEC with the Commission on Elections Law or Republic Act 869, most of these are the lack of payment code Lima and use fried rice for the election.
They said it is a technology.
There are both problems in the ballot and as long as the ballots, Transmission Corporation, wrong number of votes, and lack of Filipino hospitals that will be held by the House Committee on Human Rights (ER) and Cerge Regional Office (ER) and Cerge Commission on July 24 last year, according to AOIL).
The group vehemently denied what the COMELEC is saying, "they are only saying that these problems will not happen again in the election and result to the wrong number of votes and abuse of voters," according to the group.
More than this, voters should be worried about the use of fried technology, a experts in Information Technology, which is said to be an expert in Smartmatic and the Dominion elections that is why, which is the owner of the commandments which is why, which is the owner of the coercion.
Smartmatic, is a company haunting of COMELEC, which makes the COMELEC raise for the Dominion bus according to Lagman, which is against RA 9369, "it is against RA 9369," it is against RA 9369, "it is against RA 9369," it is against RA 9369, "this is too important," he said.

Lagman is known to have changes in the election's system, but Malacanang fired after 10 months in his position.
Lagman also questioned the continuing refusal of the COMELEC to give the payment code on the wild dynasties and political groups and parties to verified the result of the election.
"We cannot control this to the COMELEC and Smartmatic should just leave this in the COMELEC and Smartmatic should not agree with this," said Manayes.
Malacanang, it's quiet.
In Asutilla of AOIL, other problems also come out, including the following.

The man named Cuya was not a We-Onse-Read-Many (WOPLAN).
UltraTech, IOS and Detection Kautism is one of those who were Senior Police Community Precinct-scan).
There are no coop of Verediting on Audit), according to RA 9344.
No Secretary electoral mission was not able to show that the COMELEC will not show the interest of the virus that will be used in the election.
It is a loss of the Transmission Facons to the cities and municipality.
The problem with the barism is a problem.
There is a lack of information on how the Randapon was released by the Pandapon, according to RA 9344, according to RA 9344.
The Comelec did not show the Filipino hospital to the ER and their COC.
It did not reach 99.995 percent that the number of votes was being monitored.

Many of these problems have been experienced in an example, it was discovered that the Board of Election Code will be discovered that the ER and COC last 2010 election, so they have no way to verified.
Maricar Akit's warning to the Transmission Telectoral party, the mistakes of the Comelec today is more intense compared to 2010. "When he was not fixed by the COMELEC, he / she was not fixed by the COMELEC, which is why he has not fixed that cheating," he said.
According to father, Joe Dizon of Hala Baya, "alarming that we have not heard from President Aquino. Malacañang himself said that it is okay to buy the COMELEC (Malacanang because if he does this, he is the question of his victory in 2010."
Dizon appealed to the citizens to be more on guard, and the COMELEC and the Aquino government will be held accountable in placing the integrity of the election.
According to Anna Leuterio, it is possible that one election in the hands of the private sector "the issue here is the sovereignty that we have to hold the election which has no participation in a private, and foreign, which is the company," he said.
Escolta pointed out that there are so many local experts that they may run to the autasan in elections, but even his participation in their monitoring it is being blocked by the government.
