
Karstopped in Balikatan, held in Central Luzon.

By Soliman, Santos.
April 18, 2012.

Different groups are fighting against the leadership of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and International League (NGO) from Quezon City going to Basa Air Base and Clark Air Base in Pampanga to gather the start of the American troops and Filipinos last April 16, 2012.
Along with this, the militant groups also conducted a protest in different parts of the country and the world to registered the disapproval of the influential military of the US in the country.

In Mindanao, a feast was started in the entire island every day and will end on April 18 in Zamboanga City, where 600 US Special Forces came from 2002.
According to ILPS, there are also protests done in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York in the US, Canada, Netherlands, Hong Kong South Korea, Japan, New Jersey, Australia and Saudi Arabia.
The Bayan in the Philippine government warned against getting involved in the conflict in the region just like the entry of Chinese Navy in Scarborough Shoal, the group said that the US is just meddling in order to maintain the power in the region.
"The Balikatan is just a part of a big plan to make the American troops be permanent in the Philippines, even if there is no agreement with the events like the launch of North Korea and the statement of the US in the Philippines' territory," according to Rentao Reyes, general secretary of the Bayan.

Every year, it was revealed that the concluded Balikatan of the National Defense Cooperation Agreement (VFA) and Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) has been allowed to implement the said agreement which is according to them, "one of the side."
"Where do you see a visitor that reached ten years, said Reyes.
No one can advise.
He also denied the promised modernization that it will only cause the Balikatan of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) that he gave an example to the BRP Gregorio, del Pilar that was bought by the Philippines in the US which was used by the US Navy.
However, despite what the Aquino administration strongly appealed to dismiss the Balikatan, the Aquino administration did not do anything about this year, which was done in the Balikatan since it should be implemented.
The Balikatan of Luzon will be held in Central Luzon, Bicol and Palawan from April 16 to April 28.
Upon arriving at Clark Air Base, they were met by farmers and people from different parts of the Middle Luzon and held a program in front of the said based.

Meanwhile, the Minaderos, the said exercise in Zamboanga, Basilan and Sulu is held at the Greeks with Mindanao, a sabotage of the alliance in Balikatan, 4,000 are estimated to be trapped in their ceasefire.
The group is worried that the influx of American troops in Mindanao will only cause a "damage to the lives of the Filipino people.

"Because of the Balikatan, it is said that this is allegedly used to fight terrorism, it is spreading fear to Moro brothers in Zamboanga, Basila and Sulu, since the US should launch a high treatment against terrorism happening in 2001, every muslims in the country is becoming a victim of a fair treatment," the group stated.
Also because of the number of cases against the Abu victim and other groups, thousands of women and children are driven out from their homes.
A series of protests in the entire region has already launched a series of protests in the region and other parts of the region and other parts of the country.
"Many people are going to be affected because it is expected that the fishermen in places that are affected like Palawan was not unknown to our knowledge that Palawan was rich in their knowledge that Palawan was rich in their knowledge that Palawan was rich of oil products (this), which led to the secretary of Bayan-TK.
The group also explained that it was 17 years old since the Metro Rail Transit in the country was dismissed because of its severe violation on the rights of the Filipino people, now in the form of VFA, the American troops won't need to enter without need the passports or visa.
It can also quickly escape cases like murder, rape, rape, rape, being harassed in our countrymen and destroying the country's jurisdiction because this is not what happened in Okinawa, Japan, that this is not what happened in Okinawa, Japan, that this is not what happened in Okinawa, Japan which is why the government of the Philippines will escape and rape them, according to the Bayan - TK.
Also against the groups that will ruin the said training of an said training for the environment of the People's Day for the environment of the People's Day for the environment of Palawan which is considered as the "Pectment case of the country.
This will allegedly have a big effect with the environment and community which is also causing the destruction of coral Reef and pollution in the environment.
An example of the environment was given to the destruction of oil by the warship of Subic last 2004 when there was also a case of accidentally bombing in the community in the province of Zambales last 2000.
"Because of this, the government of the Philippines should stop the release of the exercise and the VFA since we need to protect our rights to healthy and full of nature to stop the entry of American troops in our land," according to the group.

The natives are also against the Balikatan.
Bawking said that he is being treated as a practice area for the military as their farm but they are also advised that they will be guarded while conducting the Balikatan and capture the military who disobeyed their order.
It is allegedly spreading fear to the farmers the training given by the military who are affected because they will not be able to make the source of their livelihood.
