Between the new three of the new three with such as well, those in the bridge that are discovered by the turtle, sir, not in Banawe Street, isn't it, but in Antique, it is said that last March last year, it is said that this is a year since last March last year to take care of the gravtor in the 'Visayas, okay, Manuel Rom.
He / she was only able to lie down.
On the end of a Peria station, the government immediately defended the government that I saw in Saudi San Remigio companies that seems to be a four-year-old two-five-four-four-four-five-four-five-four-five-four-five-four-five-four-five-four-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-four-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-four-five-four-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-
To!
Maybe there might be some who are involved in this because there are two Filipinas who are still young.
But in the length of the mountains of Antique, of course, the source of the message was immediately found.
Once more than a year has a fat area of white, but where is the Emplayer, which is why he will get him from July 7.
This week passed by myself.
Five mountains are allowed to go away from the entrance of town, as well as the slow drama that needs to be done.
Are there those who have been buried at dawn in the mountain recently, there are two of us who have a cliff.
Only a gunshot was starting from the past.
It is just the first time our team passed through with an eye hearing.
He will be replaced.
After a while, there are times that they will lower in the town carrying their businesses that they have brought the bank that they are still open.
And this is one of the whole cow with what you will do at the house they will sell.
Mung beans.
While the day is increasing and the increase in the hopes of our team is increasing.
Their suffering will not be measured.
What?
Well.
After seven hours of going up the mountain.
They will arrive at the barangay there in San Remigio.
This is where he has been with this kind of view.
Which is probably why it's only now that you can see anyone from the public.
The cheek of the Doctor was seen.
Something bad when we see each other.
Here, the stairs was confirmed, "is it not in the province of Antique.
Which is called Equal Employment Opportunity or STD.
What's difficult to go to this year-law is that if you will look at it far and they have been unable to think even if you have failed to see me with the Whole of the Philippines, he might have been able to do it to the Philippines with the most hard work in Banawe, per cent, which is much more than ten thousand pesos.
This is part of the Monday, five-year-old people, who are very happy until twelve of many, but who thought that he is just busy with the Court Villa Family, Teresa Munoz in our country.
Yes.
The faucet is lined up at that way to the farm.
"According to the province Agriculture Office, a receipt is being harvested by the receipt to them, which is why it is only now the reason why it is now confirmed that there is already confirmed that is already confirmed.
There are those who are being looked at because we are on the mountain here in Nut, whose legs are continuously being cut off.
My buddies in your immunity for a nipa hut, that's why I am in a nipa hut; I am not too old; I am too much.
We were not able to remove it by rice in the country because it is far away from the youth that you are loved by Two Wives and those who are taking advantage of your passports.
Just buy five but how much was left.
Do you have three times a year if they have a lot of rice?
He / she is from the Star, who is wearing his feet.
I was almost five years old every year.
The land is rich.
According to him, there are other places where it is only two times every year when it is very full of rice.
Here in rice, there is also a deep room and I am talking about it.
And because they are far from spite of their crops to take care of their crops, they will take food as long as their bodies have no pain in our body.
It is only seven runs of rain in the barangay.
It also has Elementary School but often there are no classes because it is rare for a teacher to reach the country.
But because they are far away they won't take any hospital alive.
Very short; we were able to release Mario, it is true that there is no medicine except when it is a way for the grandmother to treat her.
My mother-in-house gave birth to my own home; he / she was the four of my children in the house that my grandmother told me that I would have brought it with me.
Covetous, fur.
The electricity was low; as long as they have a report, but they have a report that was only opened from six to six o'clock in the evening.
My grandmother's grandmother does not want to win as a visa.
Those who are able to lose their hair are cut off and comb their hair to the area last night in their barangay last night, it is said that it would be easy for you to let Anna get along with me, Julian Fajardo, ", of course, we should just let Anna go to me, we will be able to let me know that we are close to me; we should just let me know that we are our fellow countryman.
Because it is normal for them to be staying in and out.
It was only one o'clock when they were left to the farm where there are those who are on their history because they think that they are being used by the farm where they are being used by the field where they are being used to by the field where we are calling out, which is why they are calling out to the fields that we are calling for, which is why they are calling the coldness of the farm where we are calling.
Very small; we are going to face the leader of the pipe that is why we will suffer the training of the mountain so that we will suffer the training at the mountain so that they will be eaten as well as their father, which is why we also get more than that.
We are crazy; we are not the only barangay; this is not just the barangay who has rice!
There are even in the town of Lawaan, two towns away from San Remigio.
He gave us the payment of Bible because of the Lord Kalupaan.
At dawn, let us go here in the chapel Publishing back that what we are saying is going to be what we have been saying that in the province, I will just call a lot in the mountains because I can just stay in the newspapers so that I'll be able to attend the sidewalks where I want to attend the airports.
Four o'clock in the morning, more than half of these kinds of Circle 'face Arise Theresa can be taken off to me when it comes to us, the local rice Theresa can be discovered, this is a mosquito nets, which is why it's been a mosquitoes here in our country that's why it's been a mosquito; that's why it's a mosquito; that's why it's a mosquito; that's why.
It is delightful to know that we meet new technology, like a disco on this kind of low places, but on the other hand, it is also difficult to think that this is the world as well as the days of those who learn from the coming years.
Change.
