State of terrorism, Betchai Said, Boyet JAG co, Juliet, Loza-Cudia, Jun Nardo, October 21, 2016.
Militant groups called the clear "state of terrorism" under the leadership of President Rodrigo Duterte.
This is after the violent dispersal order and the said police to be included in the group of Moro and Lumad who protested in front of the US Embassy in Kalaw, Manila last Tuesday.
"The Office of the state of the state of the state of the state of the Philippine State terrorism was the police which was to be an ordinary ones," Secretary General of the group, said to only want to state the resentment and opinions of the citizens, but the violent dispersal of the Manila Police District (MPD).
"The group of protesters, hence, the US Embassy in Camp Aguinaldo, the US Embassy in a call for the US Embassy in a call for the cahoots of the US Embassy.
The personnel of the MPD allegedly proved that the small sectors of the Moro and Lumad are still not in space to the Duterte government, who have experienced harm and taking advantage of the government.
"Full of call" of the driver - Lacson.
A senator reacted to the allegation of the police station for the investigation conducted by the police in the protest where the video went viral in social media as well as local and international news.
According to Senator Panfilo Lacson, the former chief of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in the Estrada administration, it is not just possible that the PNP of the police, who was caught in the act of a police caught up for the number of activists.
According to Lacson, what the police personnel did was a call "to a call" because he made it a situation that he might have to be taken to.
9 officials of the MPD were fired.
NCRPO Director, Chief Supt. Oscar Albayalde has fired the nine officials and police of MPD related to the dispersal order.

Included in those removed from his post were Police Senior Superintendent Marcelino Pedrozo, deputy district director for MPD; PSupt. Alberto Barista, Coy Commander Police Officer 3 Senior Police Officer 3 Commander Police Officer 3 Senior Police Officer 3 Senior Police Officer 3 Franklin Bucayu, chief of the protesters, PO 3 Franklin Drilon.
The said officials are in the hospital while they are conducting an investigation.
