Alden and Maine, it is better to be funny as Baby oil and Baby.
Yaya Dub has accomplished more, Era, Allan Diones, September 5, 2016.
At last, the Kalyeserye was finished in Eat Bulaga in Saturday.
Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza, for Lola Nidora, and Wally Bayola, and Lola Tinidora (Jose Manalo), before the two went up to America.
Altareros was busy to prepare, the grandmothers and invited the visitors for the departure of the two old people and of course, Alden and Maine had already left and they will leave, even all of them were born.
But Lola Nidora is confident because the two children are okay, and now they are lovers.
Lola Nidora gave a message to Alden, who promised to take care of Meng.
Grandmother has a message to Meng and said she is happy with what he sees everyday because Meng grew up and good.
Maker is also thankful to his grandmother and she said she also misses it.
Lola Nidora took the hands of Alden and Maine and she said, you will be the two of you if other people would destroy your relationship, believe in each other. "
"You should not be carried away by rumors or what you can believe, the beat of your heart is the beat of your heart the beat of your heart."
When Thea is called Baby Girl, Mabog, she called "Baby Oil" Alden.
Tito Joey de Leon said, Alden will call Meng "Baby Panganiban," anyway, they would be "Pogoy."
It seems that there are many who are happy if Baby Panganiban and Baby wipes are called by two more than Baby Boy and Baby Girl.
"We," Lola Nidora, "said Lola Nidora, before she finally asked permission.
Beware of the passenger van of the grandmothers because it was followed by those walking on the back, so it looked like the funeral procession!
It was the strength of Allan K and the people from the colonizers.
It looks like what will be brought in his final resting place!
Because the Kalyeserye has happened, let us wait for what will be in exchange for its insurance so that they will change at Eat Bulaga.
And because this is a new chapter in the life of Alden and Maine, it can be recalled that AlDub has accomplished more and it is Maine's name that Yaya Dub has been used for a long time.
So, maybe it should be said that even in the daily rainy season the rainy season will be done in Maire of the new start, and Yaya Dub has accomplished more.
