There is the same investigation on narco-the only DILG BE is DILG BE. Nunal, August 8, 2016.
Department of Interior and Local Government secretary (DILG) Ismael Sueno announced that their department is focused on a quick and fair investigation related to the alleged involvement of local officials on illegal drugs.
Sueno said this is the second revelation of President Rodrigo Duterte on the names of the officials of the local government who were involved in illegal drugs.
"We - thank you to the pro-Tropas that the secretary is facing yesterday August 7, 2016 Sunday morning when President Duterte revealed the names of alleged drug personalities including some police and military personnel, judges and local government officials.
Secretary Sueno clarified that if the local officials are provincial elecoxib and city electoral officials who are under the administrative case of the DILG, they will immediately start the investigation after getting rid of the office of the President to investigate.
According to the secretary, DILG is possible to use the report and use the evidence against the local chief executory.
While on the other hand, if there is a suspected narco-politician who was named based on any of the municipal government or barangay government, Sueno said that their council had the administrator of a bird who has the administrator of the Office of the Ombudsman.
"The President,"
Because of this, that is why the secretary added that he ordered the department from the Legal Affairs Office (LLLS) to put the investigation on the narco-5. "
In relation to this, Atty.
"If the president will tell us to make the complainant, we was we Can etiquette, and after the office of the Office of the Ombudsman, we will file the cases in the Office of the Ombudsman," Atty. Orden.
Sueno also said that the public does not need to worry about the abuse of local government service even if the leader of the country needs to undergo investigation.
He clarified that even the local chief executioner is under the investigation, they can still conduct their duties, except if the court will tell them or put them under the third day of investigation in the case.
