We will just open a solution to the people of Tondo with what we are saying that you are with a call within the New Year, of course your room and bank will not lose, Sarah and his / her.
You know, what I see now is small; we can always say that there are no men who are drinking and then we always say that there is no man in the young lady at the same age; I was always doing anything that's why, Ate Raj were always saying what is that.
It was Teresa.
"As well as the amount of election of election, what will be that you have a direct effect, right, why don't you think that you are our sister, we will just remember Mark yes, here in Tondo, we would always remember that when the New Year Rodriguez is always busy.
Then, after one year, aside from her Ate Vi's being annoyed, it is still missing when the things I carried out of those who are going to be liable of what they sold in the market where they know.
I am an economical family.
It's hard to be together in the house of Joanne Raiza Espiritu, a reflection of the various viand, who are all sorts of viand, which is why there is a different witch, I hope that we have no money that we have a lot of money.
"Your mommy, will not be gone to waste; we can't lose interest.
What they are saying is chaotic at night.
You can get money.
Voted in.
"Who will do that," like that, I can't even be able to look at fault; I can't be able to turn around.
So that he / she can be disturbed.
You know, it's almost three years that you already told me inside the house that the Filipinos who are fond of Filipinos are not missing outside.
There, in all of you, we are full-tempered; our hearts, all of the hearts are going to leave a bad and bad elements.
What will go away from what I have done so that I can have a child.
Aside from fireworks, there are still those who are going to look at each other, whose legs are deport; Rayton; and Reynel Andrada; and Calanoga; we are enough; we are enough.
They do not have been missing for a year-in-years; we are really looking forward; they are really looking for a woman's patience for women.
March, in some parts of Tondo, I have not yet found it here but but we were able to talk to that while we were able to talk to each other for a few moments, we were able to talk to each other.
"He is seated, what are the men who called me?
Thank you very much.
