
In the end, DAP, by PNoy?

Because of the desire to happen, it is now that our President is facing the brink of "impeachment."
This is rooted on the wage of the government that he gave to senators and congressmen in relation to the removal of SC Chief Justice Renato Corona.
If the money gave is a type of bribery, gratitude, incentives or corrupt people for the head of Corona, it is up to the Palace to find a clear term.
What is important, is that the money he has given is from the public funds!
Which according to some broken lawyers, it is clear that illegal drugs is clear.
Because there is no law that will give PNoy to his immediate action to do such a huge amount.
If it is true the excuse of DBM Secretary Butch Abad is true, this is from the "savings" of different departments, it should be permission from the Congress before the fund, according to Senator Alan Santiago and Arroyo.
In our shallow thinking, how can the said money be declared dead when it is still in the height of the annual expenses or conduct a project for various departments?
Tangere, judicial system, already known by the lies of inmates, who are trying to scare the inhumane drivers!
We was we.
The billions of money that we are talking about, make sure that the Disbursement Acceleration Program of PNoy has been tainted by the previous Disbursement Acceleration Program.
He has been arresting DAP in the votes of other senators to get fired from Corona.
Which is while the Palace is scattered on the said "Daang Matuwid" in the said DAP, which is why the Satan is from Satan!
The more those who are teasing, make sure that it is okay for PNoy to go ahead and have the interest to pass the blame.
We believe, make sure that the foolishness of GMA are widespread during the time of GMA.
That is why we are happy to be imprisoned and almost died in fear!
Like this, let them pay for his sins.
But again.
Let us admit it and do not pass it to other kinds of DAP!
Langaban, every time we hear the sentences of PNoy, those who are blaming him in this problem will increase our resentment here on the hundreds of muddy!
Because it's as if we want to look like our filipinos with each other.
Which if he / she tells that it is a stout of the sin in DAP, we will immediately believe it!
We were caught in DAP that is why we are still trying to stop it!
