Who is the true Senate President? By Rey Marchil on September 23, 2016.
When the comments on social media "it is much better that there will be more side in Malacañang on the issue involving Senator Leila de Lima; because the legitimate question about what happened to the lawmakers.
Let us not talk about the run of the House hearing on illegal drugs because it is hard to judge, especially if the criminals admit that they have done and always answered, but we did not know what is true and lies in the story of suspects.
What is noticeable in social media - who really is the true Senate President or running in Upper House; there are statements of Senator Alan Cayetano that despite his own knowledge and intelligence because of their own knowledge and intelligence because of their own mind and intelligence.
On the side of Cayetano, no matter how kind of being talkative on the floor against de Lima, isn't it that there is still a need for him to be recognized because his companions are capable of stopping him even if they are not elected Senate President.
"Cayetano might not be able to get the Senate hearing because it's too late, similar to the initial comment of the majority of Tito Sotto before the situation ended in the Senate, but when the situation in the Senate was examined," it is much better to be defeated by the Supreme Court.
If it is true that it is true that there would be a lot who said that "Cayetano's" bark "is being followed and followed by" Koko "in the Senate, why did we not let the position be taken from the Senate; why is it not an insult to the Senate President but it is different from the floor?
No matter who looked at the course of politics, it will surely agree with any political analyst from the flawless, aside from being a "epal" "by Senator Manny Pacquiao, that is why de Lima has not been released so that he will not have been freed from the fight.
On the other hand, I do not want to believe this scenario in the Senate that President Digong has two Senate President because it is also not for the character of some of the senators who are not taking advantage of the neck, aside from those who are taking care of it?
The only problem now of President Digong is, what if Cayetano lost in the Senate and finally make the secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) for the next year; who are the legitimate senators who will defend and will become a little by the PDP-Laban, which is why Koko Pimentel's-Laban has become a little more than three years?
