
Metro Manila traffic is a severe cancer.

Before, the heavy flow of traffic in Metro Manila can be considered as if there is an national occasion only especially in the days of going home to the provinces, Christmas and New Year before, there are traffic that can make you happy.
Now, in the hands of Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) Chairman Attorney Francis Tolentino, it is as if we are regular together with the heavy flow of traffic in Metro Manila, especially in EDSA!
The foreigners said, for the Guinayangan National Bureau of World record, what we are experiencing and experienced traffic everyday, why are many of the students and professionals, who are caught in the entry of their work and classes.
Why MMDA?
Where are the hardworking, MMDA traffic conservation, in the time of former MMDA International Bayani Fernando, why are they removed and replaced by the traffic enforcers from Tagaytay? Is it true, chairman Francis?
Before, we will meet the legitimate traffic constable of primary streets because of big and white motorcycles.
Now, Labo-Labo is the motorcycle.
How will you know, "it is also a trend now that they are wearing jackets and not seeing his name, why are you allowed it, chairman Francis?
Is it true that they have a huge amount that should be brought to MMDA every day?
It is okay to extort and extort your personnel but hopefully they prioritize the fixing of traffic, it can be easy if you want to do it, but if in mind, you can buy it with Max, there is no cure for it!
No matter where you're going crazy with MMDA, there is only one form and do not care about traffic, their attention is focused on "number coding" only.
In the account of the chairman, he is thinking a solution on how to resolve the severe flow of traffic, but only a invention.
Now, instead of resolve, motorists will be buried even more than the severe flow of traffic!
It is not bad, Mister Tolentino, to use the system of the country that is replaced by the MMDA, BF) has a good way of ease the traffic.
The motorists are experiencing no joke in all parts of Metro Manila in the hands of the MMDA now, this is a severe illness due to severe cancer!
