One year after the tragedy of crystal-Tetuan, a scholar of the town.

One year since the life of a 16-year-old scholar of the country has been changed, there is still no change in the policy in the university of the Philippines (UP), there is still a high tuition, which is still not affordable for the poor.
March 15 in the past year has been the arrest of Beata Privacy Law in UP Manila, their own life was not able to go to school because it was not allowed to go to the classes of UP Manila; while his parents were struggling to search for payment for the tuition fee.
"It was very fast that a year has passed since he lost his dreams and dreams for him," according to Christopher Tetuan, father of crystal.
The police continue to investigate.
Despite the tragedy of crystal meth, the repressive policy inside UP did not change until now the students are facing the future.
According to Krista Melhmmmp, who is a member of UP, after the death of crystal meth, the Board of Regulations of UP passed away last April last year, which is said to be an effective student of UP will decline their education because of the financial loss. "
It is said that this is clear in the part of the students for them to lower tuition and perhaps poverty can not be a hindrance to enter UP.
But Melgiddy, said to be observed that it seemed like he was hit by a dump site, only a board exam after the months since it was approved.
"It is still continuing to leave for the leave of our students, even in UP Diliman," our students, when they have not been paid by their student when they have not been paid for by their wedding, "according to Melaquiña.

In the Catholic Church, there is no difference with the controversial Disbursement Acceleration Program (STS) and STS) and the STS) that accepting the increase of tuition in UP, according to Marion Tan, vice-chayrayan, Vice-chaytono.
It will not be taken away by Mount Athos in the history of the high tuition in UP said in 1989 when it was implemented, around 40 per hour the tuition in UP started to be implemented, around 40 per kilo of tuition, which led to cause reform in STS.
In Bracademy A (P1,500 every kilometer unit) and Bracklers (1,000 pesos per unit) are the majority of the students now in UP.
"What was stolen by the students, is because the reforms will be approved by the STS last year, it is not impossible to happen that there will be a case that will be held here in UP," said Melandola.
And even if inside the Board of Regi, there is already an important suggestion of a member of its member to add more than 100 units that are being paid for a higher tuition, which is why the poor students of UP will pay its subsidy "to the poor students of UP.
It appears that this is giving importance to those who are in low pressure, just like your co-1 and because your 2 members of the country are from the administration or funds from the government, nothing comes from the administration or funds from the government.
Taken away by the government.
Meanwhile, according to Production. Judy Taguiwalo, Justice Secretary Judy Taguiwalo, it is in the plan of President Aquino to his budget, last 2011 to lessen the funds of State Universities (SUCs) in the country to gather their own funds before being killed.
"UP just like other SUCs) public Universities (this means that this is the service that the citizens can pay for, but they have no money, but they have the ability to study it)," according to Taguiwalo.
He added that it is not true that the government has no fund due to the revelation of the billion pesos involving the Priority Development Assistance Fund (DAP) that is known as the presidential pork barrel) by the former President.
"The fight of justice for crystal-Tetuan is the fight for justice for the scholar of the country, against the abandonment of the Aquino administration to the public service and it can go to the citizens the treasury of the country," according to Taguiwalo.
If the administration has a true public university, it is said that the administration of the administration should be used to get along with how it will be returned to the administration if the tuition fee should be taken from the administration if the citizens are the real university of the citizens.
Not just propaganda.

Christopher Teysie also denied the accusations being used for the death of his son for propaganda and interest of some groups.
"I am thankful that all that is being used to us is that they do not use of crystal meth, because what we don't want to happen to other people is right," said Tetuan, according to him what they are fighting for because they are fighting for something.
It is not a propaganda but an truth to the death of crystal meth, as Melgiddy, said that the condition of crystal meth, even in a private university who was not able to report to a nap.
"This is a call for us to join our action, in giving yourself to this kind of issue, all of us are against the citizens (Filipinos) who believe in the rights (education)," the end of Tetuan.
