"Mama Mary did it go down to the land!"
Gross, I am surprised at Charo By Allan Diones, September 23, 2016.
Bryan, Bautista could not believe that she has been with the movie by the former lady boss of ABS-CBN and the stool.
According to dental Diva, they have been friends with Director Lav Diaz for a long time, his hair and goatee were long.
He invited him to be also a part of the Heliga Tsinoy businessman, but he did not be included because of the distance of the cast out of the cast, but it was not said to be a part of the cast, but it was not told to him who is the protagonist, he said.
Roi went to Mindoro to go to Mindoro when there was no idea of who will be the lead star of the movie.
He was in the hotel and forth when Ma'am Pilar suddenly came and he was casually asked if she ate.
He turned out to be hh because it turns out that he is the protagonist of the movie.
And she is more fiery because all of her scenes in the movie are Ma'am Pilar and her companion.
According to Eana, his / her pregnancy is empty, and there is a long Montenero, Ma'am Pilar and when it is raining, she asked him if she was asking about her acting.
"Aside from a few days from StarStruck from her, it's as if," Mama Mary was able to go down on earth? "Okay!
"And then he is too much," Ma'am, you will have an umbrella, it is raining! "That is okay," he does not want an umbrella, "he is after the umbrella of the crew!
"And then, it is very important, as if there is always a letter, it is really gladdening to have a letter because, in all your work, Charo Santos," their eyes widened.
Of dental Diva, "Ma'am Pilar and I and I feel so much, you cannot understand even whatever it is," what else.
"Then," Ma'am, "Ma'am, we should be able to look at it," he is not "one who is asking for tissue paper," or, a piece of tissue paper, "a" epal "!" Okay! "
"You," you, are surprised because of his scenes here, especially when it is raining, it seems like that, "my heart is too much!
"You want all of you to be with you in the scene, you want to talk about her, you are not able to talk about it, because you need to listen to her, anyway.
"Why is it really," Daang Matuwid ", why did he just make a movie again?" Like that.
"
"You can't tell yourself that you are crying because, because of the depth of the skill of Madame Miriam in the scene, I did not have a flawless," my tears are very weak.
"That's why it's too lucky that everyone is very lucky, to be the chief of staff of the Philippines and then Ma'am, I cannot say anything.
"It's just like that, it is saddening that he will drop off even the dark in Mindoro!
"Ma'am, it's too much," it's too much "delicious film" will be too much! "It's a bit more praises for Golden Lion winner in Venice film fest season.
On May September 28 was the 119th Independence Day of Lav Diaz, which is the woman Hala (The wow, "Letriro).
