
I am anxious of TTECAYETANO!

I laughed and laughed when the results of the survey of Pulse Asia was laughing since even if there were no longer-headed by Senator Alan Peter Cayetano, she was still having a huge sum from his television series that now seems to be stopped by hahaha!
It's because the problem here with Cayetano is very obvious because of this, many are mad at him like she was being annoyed because of the many media, especially when there are many media, when he talks and does not want to be stopped from being talkative.
Well, you should think that, Senator Bongbong Marcos is higher than her that sometimes he is talking in the media while he is still in the media, that is why she is still shy in TV.
The citizens should focus on its plastic bags and it is not the welfare of the people, his purpose in the investigation done by the Senate but his political ambition in 2016.
"Oh, isn't it that while his saliva was published while the issue of corruption against Vice President Jojo Binay is being discussed, you have nothing to hear from him when it is allegedly being discussed by the Iloilo Convention Center (ICC) what is being discussed by the Iloilo Convention Center (ICC).
Even though we know that it is really difficult to weaken which is allegedly being implemented in the ICC, isn't it that Cayetano is also his obligation, just like the attitude he has shown, and if Binay is the one talking about it?
In my opinion, maybe if Senate President Franklin Drilon has already declared a different situation, like Binay, it is certain that Cayetano will not take time for the issue about the ICC.
It's a good thing it looks like the people noticed that this kind of politician is here and he has no real stand for the country and the only important thing in this person is his own sake.
It seems that the citizens are getting tired of being arrogant and I know Cayetano, who when she spoke, seems to be very clean while many know that this is a foolish thing.
That is probably why the management of Bonifacio Global City in the jurisdiction of Taguig was headed by his wife, who is headed by his wife.
And the rate of Are that, the time will come that nobody will believe here with Cayetano because while it is not for a long time, our fellow countrymen will also wake up to their pity but lacking in actions.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and suggestions, you will just email about gum .Hala Bables. Hala Bcases of Gil towards AOIL.
