Just like Mr. Tourism World in Vigan, the economy of Ilocos Sur is getting stronger.

Block 09, 2016 Imelda C. P.

Vigan City, December 9 (Pia) - the candidates are in the city of Vigan for the very first Mr. Tourism World.

The candidates started to be fervent for the 13 of December for the upcoming grand stingray caught on the 19th of December in Vigan Convention Center.

The husband Tourism World is prepared to be the advocacy for friendship and unity, for the designer, biased or difference, and for the people in the whole world.

According to governor Ryan Luis V. Singson, the acceptance of the province for these special occasions will be more effective so that there will be more visitors.

"It is not only the first day when the candidates are here, but in the coming days, they are trying to convince the families, relatives and acquaintances to visit the province, but because the people are good here," Singson said.

According to Provincial Tourism Officer Ryan Agiom, together with their stay here in a few days, the increase in economy of the province is increasing, especially in parts of service and products in line with tourism.

The internet and vote buying is one of the parts of the competition that will win this will be counted in the Pacific Ocean.

For those who want to vote, they need to visit the official sent to Tourism World Facebook page, to share the picture of the favorite candidate, and share the pictures being chosen by those who are being chosen to be with the number of number of cases in the 2016 elections.

The voting is approaching eight o'clock in the evening, December 9.

The 13 candidates were Luke Administrator Middleweight championship in Australia, Tantangan in Brazil, Archibishment of Indonesia, M Tantos) of Malaysia, Campayungan, Thailand, Camping, Thailand, and Pugo of Thailand, and Pugo of Vietnam.

Some of their activities in the province are the removal of intelligence in Quitago Elementary School in the University of Northern Philippines here in the city, swims and visit to Miami Beach Resort in the capitol, and visit to Balos, and other beautiful places in the province.

Gumba. Singson believes that after the protest, the candidates and their family will comeback here to dismiss the other beautiful parts of the province that can be harvested or a business and economy of the farmers, fishermen, and other sectors that give products and services to tourists.
