Correct to be the privatization of public hospitals, rushed to the legislative chamber.

Not only 26 public hospitals are at stake if it continues to pass by the House Bill 6145 and House Bill 3269, the Senate Bill 3.5 percent, the rights of the Filipino people for health services.
This is the message given by the sector of health from the public hospitals in front of the legislative chamber that aims to protest the said proposed law which aims to suspend the 26 proposed law in the entire Philippines.
"The citizens of the hospitals are going to get more than the hospitals in the entry of private sector which aims to profit from the health services," according to PO 2 cups of Health Organization.
Even if the House Committee on Health is not able to push through the House Bill 6145 last September 4, it still remains a big threat for the health sector and the citizens, according to times.
Albayalde explained, it is important that the fight of health sector and the citizens is important because if it is passed by HB 6145; it will be held up by HB 669) that it has passed, it can be done by HB 669) which have passed through it (HB 6145 and anything else in the Senate.
"These are against poor laws), it is one of the deadly bill for the sectors of health and themselves as Sevidal (Enrique) Ona of the Department of Health that seemed to give way to the program Public Private (Aquino)," says Ebora.
According to PAGASA, it appears that the Congress and DOH is still determined to push the said bill to push the said bill to push through a 26 public hospitals in a private sector to earn.
"If we are not making noise, no one can know about the plans of those in the administration to make it like a business in our public hospitals," Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino, who came out from the legislative chamber to cooperate in the crowded areas outside Batasan Pambansa.
According to casino, on May this year, when the proposed law was quick in the legislative chamber, even if there was no proper hearing held at it, he / she could not be able to go ahead, and even the patients.

"This is approved by just a few minutes, especially that this law is very obvious in this law," according to casino.
The health sector in the whole country is being prepared to fight for public hospitals and fail the Aquino administration.
According to reports, the fight of health sector in different places in the Philippines is growing, like in Baguio, Cebu, Zamboanga, and other hospitals that are affected by the said corporation.
"In this corporation, it will finally be a business service for the health, but as early as now, the services of the government will be paid for free to public hospitals because of the lack of budget allocated by the government, expect that it will not end up in the hospital," according to casino.
According to times, this is not just a fight of health sector but also the entire citizens.
"We will wait for the next hearing of the corporation of the public hospital and expect those who are pushing the anger of the citizens and sectors that we will not allow to go to the private interest of our rights in health services.
