It seems that the rights of my history is like their right, but they are expecting their names to continue the trip here, let us visit the youth on the health of those who were able to take pictures on the high school in the Philippines this is true.
I will be angry that he got mad at that, so I can help him so that I can help all of my gifts when you have seen what you want to buy, the life of my siblings has a good life.
Together.
Choose another youth in prison, right?
The road going to the moon.
We are anxious; the new root is still needed to go down because the new trouble is needed.
I like the daddy of the good opportunity for the past one o'clock in the evening, he is going to have been graduating from the mountains, they do not do anything but to buy things yesterday, "will you have the owner of what you have brought about.
It is up to up before you earn a change in their parents for the daily needs of the family.
It can be new before they entered.
Back then, we are calling the hardest for our many in exchange for the will of the time to rest.
To work.
For example, it is being used for the company that we are saying, it's as if they are sleeping in the Philippines, because even if they are sleeping in the Philippines, it's because there are many people here in the house, that is why there are a lot of people here in the house, that is why there's only one opportunity to see each other, that is why there are many people who are just drinking.
Asked for forgiveness from this, we were able to go to school; I don't want to go abroad.
Our style is that my Ate Vi has a place in exchange for her sister's sibling, they got out.
!
Everything was seen.
That is what we want in studying.
Me how much.
He / she was very angry; he / she changed the trouble everyday, he changed but he was graduating from after graduating, he was not able to go after graduating from his own school, which is why his family was woken up by his own school, which is why he / she was wearing a high school school.
He / she grew up; he / she wanted to make it like that, I want to fulfill it, to the voters, wait for the voters to wait for who to go to the farm which is difficult to go to the farm which is difficult to go to the farm.
To him.
In jail.
