Evacuation centers and help in the Bilibid Prison.

Some say that the Philippines can no longer avoid getting flooded when it flooded in the rainy season and rainy season.
These are nothing but these, Bro, because they have experience.
So, we are thinking a lot of things how we face the problem in flood.
And what will we do if we are being cowards.
Evacuation centers.
One of the things that we are thinking about where we are going to the time of flood that kills and extreme damages.
Kill and damages the flood if the water is too high and even vehicles are submerged in number.
The flood has a different discussion on the second floor of the house or roof of the houses.
But in total, the drowning and destruction, not only the things but also the flow of business and other livelihood.
If this happens, evacuation centers are needed.
Where should the citizens run for these hours?
Especially if the flood is destroying our homes.
Are the authorities already prepared for the evacuation centers?
Help for the people.
The second thing that the government should pay attention to is the condition of the food being thrown by the flood.
There is death, hunger and suffering.
What are the authorities who are thinking about this incident?
Where are the funds, personnel and things of the government to fix the citizens?
With the size of our experiences in the flood problem, the government has no reason for it not to be quick and effective in saved the citizens of these problems.
Rice, medicine, clothes, school.
The problems in the supply of food, including rice, is a very heavy traffic, especially those in evacuation centers and cannot be able to reach.
But there are also a lot of problems with the medicines of those who get sick, the clothes of those who get sick while the flood in their clothes are the heavy problems.
Also the studies of the children.
This means, the studies of the children are being destroyed in making schools as evacuation centers.
What are the authorities preparing now?
Private sector.
The movement of private people and company is invaluable, to support the victims of calamities that are flooded.
It is still common to act quickly compared to the government.
But many people are worried that there will be good feelings about the hardship of life and livelihood at present.
One of those who look contemptuous, these are so very quiet to them by the government for so much and without terror in tax and other bills of the government.
Aside from this, Bro, you can catch criminals.
That's why, our question to the government is still centered on what they are preparing for.
Typhoon Yolanda, war.
While we are writing this, Bro, we are really in the minds of the evacuation centers and set up to the places that are devastated by typhoon Yolanda, earthquake in Bohol and war in Zamboanga City.
How are the government doing these?
When we coordinate with the victims in these places, there is fear in the rainy season and flooding there.
What is painful, it is not yet totally taken away from their fear that they can still bring flood from any form of water level.
They have a lot of affection in the present.
Of course, their primary complaint is the priority of the government to help them in order and build a house.
But her twin is the very amount that they have having a livelihood.
They should listen to what the government is serious and quickly address.
