
MGB, the result.

In a cellphone interview last week, Engineer Rey Cruz, Officer 1-Charge of Mine Management Division of the Mines and Geosciences Bureau (MGB), a group from his office will conduct a follow-up inspection for the operation of Bakar and Natural Transit in Bailbo, Zambales.
March 6 was ordered by Atty. Danilo Kurdi, MGB, MGB, Police Officer 3 Officer 3 Officer 1-Charge, Bandola, the order to stop mining in the area, which was done by the companies of his office, which is the company of the illegal acts of "illegal acts of the illegal acts of" illegal numbers game.
The cist order (CDO) has the address to Clark Zapata, and CEO of the company, and resident of Eddie Dupali, the senior administrative officer.
Although it was initially denied by the Bandola, it was mining and asserted that he was just moving with lahar from Bucao River, identified the reports that the black dog has already shown a long time even though it has been shown a long time ago on the CDO.
According to my spy, the lahar came from an insignificant argument using a white cloth using a magnet to board the Atlanta Hawks which is being used in the Sea gym in Singapore which is also being sold in the Sea gym in Singapore which is also being sold in the Sea Winter Development Assistance Fund) in Singapore.
On the other hand, the company, Chadryl and Tramo, who was reported to have been the owner of the ship, is in contract with sand in Trujillo.
He / she was wearing.
Thousands of members of the Libigan ng mga Bayani (MMFF) in the country will go to Bacolod City starting today.
Now, I will come and other Lahi from Metro Manila are coming from Metro Manila in the so-called City of Sinai and Philippine Airlines who will attend the occasion.
As early as now, I'm greeting the State Council of Governor's office which is headed by Council Chairperson Eve L. Ang, Police District-1-1 Governor Aracadi "RC" Regalado, and the Less of Negros and Panay.
I am expecting that a meaningful agency will have the goal of taking it on humanitarian consideration in our community.
He / she was wearing.
Short of course, Mr. STS is for comments or reactions, text message to email line, folklore giants, folklore giants, or scrub it on the side
