
It is said that the victims are calling on the fight against Aquino's response to the calamity.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 11, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is calling the hundreds of victims of the number of typhoon Pablo to resign from the fight of "Aquino's response to the big disaster that caused the death of a thousand, which caused the death of the people's livelihood to rise and be fully destroyed by the people's livelihood."
Included in those caught in the affected areas are the poor, which are widespread in the town of Cateel, New Bataan and Bagram Airfield in many towns in Compostela Valley, Davao Oriental, Surigao del Sur, Bukidnon, Misamis Oriental, Leyte, not known as part of Negros Occidental and other places which have experienced severe damage.

"The big majority of the victims are poor farmers, Filipino workers, workers in agriculture, fishermen and miners who lost their livelihood," said the KP.

There is no risk and is experiencing the lack of food and other kinds of products and equipment is the hundreds of citizens who almost have no additional medical help for a few hours the straight path of health is not yet passable.

"It is a very slow response of the Aquino administration in front of the situation that he will roll up the image of Aquino's image that we have given little clothes in front of the fully destruction of the livelihood of the people."

"The citizens are expecting a lot from the Aquino administration which contains billions of pesos from big companies in mining which resulted to the huge destruction of the environment that resulted to the huge companies in mining that results in Compostela Valley."

"The citizens are directly disappointed with what the Aquino administration is busy in controlling the price of commodities in the citizens who are facing the immediate death of their livelihood, of lack of ability to rise up again.
To live. "

"In front of the poor situation, the people criticized the failure of the Aquino administration to implement quick action and not your hard work to rise them from accidents."

"It should be recalled that one of the hundreds of victims of several calamities and protest is being discussed, their request for immediate help and long-lasting peace of livelihood is being verified.

"It should be ashamed that each of the hard work to help the revolutionary force, units of Bagong Hala Bayan, government branches of the Liberal Party in order to continue the production of the masses to continue their request for reform the land."

"They can push for the request for the immediate release of the land for thousands of hectares of banana plantation to use the land for planting food and other crops that are beneficial to the people."

"Whatever it is, they can strengthen their insist on the military to stop the campaign to stop the campaign to stop the campaign and widespread violation of human rights in places and which causes severe poverty in the citizens."
