
The fare increase in MRT / LRT was high, many attended the protest.

By Filipino Weeker of January 5, 2015.

Aside from Sitio plate "Standard Lunch Program in different kinds of protests were met by different sectors on the first day of school after the increase in fare increase in the Light Rail Transit (1 and 2) and Metro Rail Transit (MRT) 3.

Other groups brought up with it on Sunday, January 4, on the first day of implementation of price increase this Monday, along with the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and group of youth Anakbayan, in front of the station of MRT and LRT 1 and 2 in the train of MRT and LRT 1 and 2.

"We already spoke to those: We are stopping the treacherous and burden increase in our back and despite the widespread protest and protest, said Sammy Malhes, spokesperson of the railway.

Bayan Patroller has submitted a petition, together with the National Union of People's lawyers and other groups and even the party-list of Buhay, to the Supreme Court to release a temporary restraining order against the price increase ordered by the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) during Christmas season.

"The additional burden to this, dispelled out and implemented, there is no legal basis, and it is an legal basis and criticisms against the government's system, while it is being prepared for the abandonment of the government for responsibility," Renato Reyes Jr., the former secretary of the Bayan.

Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), is also the contestants in the protest, that the government should only be tasted by the government for its height.

The MRT and LRT are in the contract of the MRT and LRT which will be released by the MRT and Metro Pacific in the height of fares within 25 years of the contract.

Llameg, similar to the privatization of the water and electricity, it caused the construction of the train in Metro Manila for a higher case of the train in Metro Manila to be a signal of improvement of the service of the MRT and LRT.

It has been said that this should have been implemented and it is time to cut off the subsidy of the government here.

In the new belief that the government will be saved, the government will be saved from P12-B which is allocated for the MRT and LRT because it will be used for other projects because those from Metro Manila are allegedly benefiting from the MRT and LRT.

But DOTC Sec. Joseph Emilio Abaya also admitted that the P2-B which will profit from the height of fares in the cayao account for private conservation will be held.

There is a huge amount that can be seen, or the amount of income is an amount of income, the contract of the government in big private companies.

According to Ibon Foundation, the implementation was centered on the said increase because the current fare increase is enough because the current fare is enough for the expenses in the operation of Enhanced Defense Cooperation or M) of them.

From January to September to September of this year, about 1.10 were taken from the LRT 1 and 2) in the latest data of the box office or the MRT 3 is about 1.17 in 2012.

The box that was held or a 1.0 pesos will mean that the Honor Code will mean that 100 percent expenses in or and at M.

According to Ibon, as a mass Transportation system, the capital should not be used for passengers, to improve the LRT and MRT from its height of infrastructure for public service, schools, schools, and roads.

The group added that in the case of MRT 3, the value of one part of the contract on the contract of the Anti-ABB) agreement in the Metro Rail Transit (MRTC) last 1997.

Based on the midst of this, the Aquino administration insisted that the Aquino administration is forcing the increase of fare for the privatization of the privatization of the Republic Act 1 and 2) and MRT 3 to be more than 80 percent of the passengers of MRT and LRT are ordinary workers, employees, and students.

Just this September, the LRT1 of the Light Rail Manila Consortium (LRMC) of the Metro Rail Manila Consortium (LRMC), Manny V. Pangilinan and Sevidal of Indonesia (55 percent); and Mackay, a giant tourist based in Australia (10 percent).

It has been earlier said by Ibon with 64.9 billion pesos deal with LRMC), resolution of a 32-year-old Bangsamoro Basic Law, the price increase for LRT 1 is the start of a regular and higher fare under the PPP.

Meanwhile, the LRT 2 in the next year under the PPP of the Aquino administration is lurking on the next year under the PPP of the Aquino administration.

A special session, Bayan Muna Party-list is asking the House Resolution number 11 to investigate the increase in fare increase in MRT and LRT.

"We are not against the improvement of Metro Rail Transit but we are against responsibility in responsibility of the government and to become corrupt, and especially those corrupt activities," according to Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares.

Colmenares also said that the arguments of the government should not be utilized by those from Visayas and LRT and LRT, which is why it is only right that the government should stop the projects of fixing or construction of bridge in Visayas because this is not the price of those from Mindanao.

"It is not bad to give importance to the projects that will be the benefits of a secluded region, that is why it is good for the government of a mass Transportation system for other regions, it is good for the projects to benefit from the regions and provinces and the projects which are benefiting from another region against another, said Colmenares.

Malis also promised that the protest will continue to continue the protest so the "great number game robbery" like garbage in the previous attempt to raise the fare in MRT and LRT.
