
Push the fight to fight the DAP and to cover the Marcos regime.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 15, 2014.

Transmission ation: Press will be focused on the DAP that was held by the Aquino administration.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is one of the Filipino people with garbage in the speech of Benigno Aquino III on July 14 that is defending the public pork barrel which is using the funds under the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP).

"In defending the DAP, Aquino showed one of the more-called-called hornets, after the Supreme Court made his power as the King of pork barrel," said the KP.
Last week, the Supreme Court declared the saving and suspension of the funds under the DAP that the decision of the Supreme Court is not the constitutional process to block the Malacañang against criminal trial and process of impeachment.

"The speech yesterday by Aquino yesterday that he is driving on television is not different but only in his long time of defending the DAP, as a priority to push the advancement of economists like the declaration of the funds from the said project," said the KP.

"The Filipino people were able to deny the honor of Aquino to help the DAP in economists, because they know that their financial status is continued to worsen last three years," said the KP.

"Aquino said that DAP was different when the DAP was tainted by the PDAF, such as pork barrel, like PDAF, and pork barrel which is being used by the President to maintain the public funds for freedom of budget for services," said the KP.

"Aquino made the initiative of defending the DAP in front of the growing call for the fully fight and anti-billions of public funds," the Poverty.

"It is said that Aquino is wrong with the defamation of the Supreme Court and to progress with the citizens and against progress because of his decision against DAP that has given the statement of Aquino, who is calling the" attribute "to his allies in congress.

"The stubbornness of Aquino in DAP is showing how he is afraid to lose the privatization of the public and allocate billions of peso without the initial blessing of congress," said the KP.

"It shows the threat of Aquino against the Supreme Court on how he will do everything in order to defend his elegant and power," said the PKP, "but his post is facing a serious challenge in the middle of the widespread corruption and on the continuous dismay of the citizens in the middle of widespread corruption."

"The strong and strong opponent of Aquino in DAP were included in the DAP said to push their fight against DAP, in the whole system of pork barrel and for the corrupt system the removal of Aquino in the custody of the entire country and in double the sea."
