
It is truly said by General Purisima and General Ronald.

It is also a different kind to be PO 2 Azur of Lubao Police Station in Pampanga, he has almost no vices in service but the act as if his bosses at the PNP almost have no vices.
So, why did you come to our knowledge that he had a girlfriend but he decided to breakup with the woman when she discovered that he already has a family.
Here is the thing.
He persisted in his post to go back to his pitiful woman and this was just recently she showed arrogance, threat and force when he went to the house of the woman while he was still in front of the house of the woman who was drinking alcohol in front of the house of the woman.
Wait, it is certain that PNP Chief General Alan Purisima, PNP-Region 3 director, General Raul Petrasanta and provincial director, Colonel Oscar Agabas were not allowed.
What we know, these three officials don't want to call Mister Apolento.
General Purisima, General Petrasanta and Col. Agaton Bernabe, might be given attention to the poor woman.
We know you are not fool me, proud and abusive, right, sir?
He / she talks.
Dalida, Biazon will live in changes in the BoC.
It is expected that Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will be solid as the new president of President Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III, who is the former Office of Civil Defense (OCD) director and executive director Ariel Nepomuceno, as the new deputy commissioner of Enforcement Group of the agency.
In his statement, Ruru is heartfelt with the President in giving trust to him and he directly promised that Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will be blaming him in implementing the end of the programs that reform the BOC.
"The Reforms, Armas, Arinoli, who is an only cause of climate change, but a charter change (Nalibis, but the Anti-ranking government agency," says Angelica.
He added: "Nayes of the real policy that the one responsible for the one responsible for the responsible operation and the Our Lady of duty stations."
One of the primary attention of Nepomuceno is for the BOC on the International Standard Lunch Program (SC) to ensure that he is called the World First Class Customs services.
"In Our Stars, if we were we," we, "we," we, "according to the new EG deputy commissioners, said that it is not new to the public service because it has already been an official of OCD-Department of National Defense.
In 2003, he was also director of the Office of the Presidential Chief of Staff and General manager of Food Park.
Last 2002, he graduated from the course of Bacon or of Arts in history that a funeral parlor in the University of the Philippines and members of the Philippine Military Academy (1987 Constitution.
Good luck, Congressman Comm.
