
One should look at the authorities.

The allegation of Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago's allegation against Senator Juan Ponce Enrile was heavy for Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, he received reports that Enrile was supposed to increase the attention of the people from the multimillion peso pork barrel scam.
Santiago should not just keep on your shoulders against Enrile, especially since he was hit, the names of the former adversary, 80 and "90.
Enrile is one of those being incriminated with big personalities who are said to have a word from pork barrel.
In relation to this, many were disappointed with Enrile, in relation to the revelation of Santiago, they said that this should not be involved in this kind of issue for Enrile, because this is the start of his good role as a tree of an impeachment court against former Barangay Chairman Renato Corona.
He / she was wearing.
Another thing that should not be ignored is the revelation of Senator Jinggoy Estrada in his final speech that all of them from the Senate are benefiting from the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) which is better known in the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) which is surprising in the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) which is surprising in the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) which is surprising in the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF).
It appears in the departure speech of Estrada that only the division of the administration of B. S. Aquino should take notice that Estrada has not denied the accusations against him.
It's as if he is saying that there is nothing wrong with what they are doing because all of them are doing something that is why they feel like a holy dog, causing the horse... that's why I feel like a hornets.
He / she was wearing.
If the hands of B. S. Aquino should be ashamed of, they should prove that Estrada is wrong with his allegations that this administration will just choose this administration, this is the challenge to those who are in position, to prove that this is not right or what is happening.
He / she was wearing.
For the additional information about the issues of the weather, it is a habit to listen to the casually act of caskets at 9: 00 kilometers per hour (9) up to ten o'clock in the evening.
If you want to take a bath in a private Starex van, fifty-Remontadoses have been observing at the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from here, you are looking forward to the holy mountain.
You can contact Gene Lorenzo in a fineness of a resort to be for additional information.
