
Noynoy in the World Economic Forum at a affectionate host.

By Priscilla Pamintuan, May 27, 2014.

Protest against the World Economic Cooperation (East Asia last May 22) in May 22) from the Philippine National Police, this is clear that the Aquino administration has no basis, even though it is clear that the arrest of the Philippine National Police will be released, and even though it is clear that the arrest of the Philippine National Police is noticeable, and even if it can be considered as the reason for the arrest of the police and politicians in the East Asia last May 21, it is clear that the arrest of the police and politicians in the East Asia last May 21) is noticeable.

But it is really like that, even if the President already has the blessing of the force, the host is just worried about the security of the visitors, including some chief executive and leaders of different companies, members of different groups that are supporting capitalist countries in this part of the world.

As the host of the WEF, Aquino is decided to show his courage to the immune system of the Philippines - because the economy of the Philippines is still far from the Philippines - because there is still no assurance that there will be no basis for the country of foreign abuse.

It has long been proven that the WEF is prudent in the immune system, oligarchy dominates us, and their representative to the government of different countries.

The WEF is recognized as an international institution that promote the development of the world in the name of the citizens of the world, and of fact, all the abuse of the majority of the poor are being discussed, and of fact, all the abuse of the majority of the poor are being discussed, and of fact, all the abuse of the majority of the poor are being discussed, as long as it is giving a rest service to the country.

It is still difficult on January 2014 to the WEF in Davao), which is the mayor of the WEF), "epal" or "Tulay ng Pelikulang Pilipino; but if we analyze the statements from the international economy, the appearance of being" tiktiks "in the advancement of the international economy; the appearance of being" Ipit Gang "

It was even given an example in this article of Social Work and having social missions on the products such as Dove for self-ham by women, as well as the advertisement of Liagerness in order to stop the spread of disease.

It is a scene from the WEF on East Asia that we should not be surprised, but it can still continue to increase the tourists in the country, and despite the intensity of poverty, it is possible that the country will prosper in the country, and despite the severity of severe attacks to the citizens of the world, that is why the current system has not been exhausted.

But Aquino is going to be affectionate as the host of the immune system and those who owns the academics because the citizens of Eastern Visayas, seven months after the typhoon Yolanda, and will continue to raise the rights in Eastern Visayas, seven months after the typhoon Yolanda, and will remain as the host of the Liberal Party and financial aspect.
