Society in the regime?

"What is happening in our country, General?" This is the usual question of the former vice-President Emmanuel Pelicans after he broke down and hurt.
Now, let us ask this to President Benigno Aquino 3rd, what is happening in our country, Mister President? "
The poverty experienced by our fellow countrymen is not a joke or poor, businessmen or boasts, all of them complain.
Buyers and vendors, both of the buyers, almost cannot buy food or things because of the continuous increase in price increase because their products are almost not high.
I do not know if you can see what is happening, Mister Aquino, do not believe in those who have submitted to it by your personnel.
There, "when you face an interview, what you are saying is dangerous because you are all lies!
The criminals are conducting a crime so the crime happening in our society in your hands is ongoing.
Lying to your troops, you are receiving to know you as a result, contagious for truth, even in crimes.
We also believe that the evil police are small, but they are rules in the majority of the national police.
That happens when the leader, like Chief PNP Alan Purisima, does not care about what is happening - crime, criminals and his personnel.
Where is his wealth also?
You are also traversing the management and care of the people, "that's the only victims of calamity, typhoon and earthquake until now there is still no meaning of it.
But in your press Secretary and Scud on, it is almost complete?
The DSWD will be held especially the deceit and lies, "the food and things toppled down, which was destroyed, very broken.
DonetSoliman said, they just want to make sure that the donations are not broken, especially the food.
You became proud of the foreign businessmen who are proud of them, the suspicion that they have been used to have been destroyed?
The truth is, the donations are gone because you was replaced by the local similar products, you are really implementing corruption!
Your term for Mr. Aquino is almost over, before you will be annoyed, make a good project that you can remember, even the people.
Are you not shy with your parents?
