Frankly: I also want to ask the Lord why there is President Duterte.
By Ellen Toribio, September 28, 2016 - President Rodrigo Duterte is full-up.
Before, he fought with the United States, US President Barack Obama, US Ambassador Philip Goldberg, the United Nations (UN) and his leader, Ban Ki-Moon, and the European Union, Sen. Leila de Lima.
Now, it is the Lord that in his speech in Malacañang in expressing the officials of Malacañang Camelamen Association of Presidential Philipines, the death penalty resurfaced in the decision of death penalty.
Duterte said, the people have no fear in the law that's why he is asking the Congress to reinstate death penalty.
It's because before we are in our law to resolve it, the dark crimes did not stop.
Duterte said, "it was not the intention of death penalty since then, he has been killed - one only one was killed - it was only one of those who were killed while he was beheaded by his wife, 10 years old.
Yaya Dub has killed ouch, through it on February 5, 1999.
In the crash site of the catholic Church and the groups who take care of life, he removed his death penalty in 2006, when Gloria Arroyo was the President.
Duterte is irritated with the line of those who do not want to death penalty under "Only God," the church said, the Lord who gave us their lives, that's why he's the only one who has the right to provide for our lives.

Duterte does not agree with that. He said, are you sure that there is God?
"This is what he said:" My problem, thank you, "thank you, if we are our God, thank you, if there is no God, we are we, Are, Taba," Taba, "Taba,"
"Where is God?," Duterte asked.
If there is God, he said why there are many suffering in the world?
He mentioned some incidents like the 18-month-old baby who took his mother, brought it under the jeep, raped and killed him.
"Where is God?," Duterte asked.
He said, he also believes in God but he is always asking me, "you need you when we need you?"
Duterte said, he does not accept what he is saying that when it comes to the end of the world, the Lord will have clarity on what is the reason for the suffering of the people?
I also do not understand many of this in the world, but I believe that everything is happening in the entirety will have a reason.
"I do not understand that I do not understand and I want to understand it just like me," why did President Duterte have the Philippines? "
