"The country is ready for the politics of change.

The town is ready for change.
This is the message of the meeting de avance between the citizens (Makabayan) in different places, including Manila and Davao City, attended by thousands of members and supporters of Teddy Casino in her candidacy for senator.
The campaign period is said to be a huge victory over the international party-list and casino program, and they should just need to ensure that their victory on May 13 is said to be a big success.
From Plaza Miranda, Quiapo, Manila and the Islamic Park in Davao City, where it was held (May 7 and 9, on consecutive), the members of the nine party-list-list-governmental organization (Bayan Muna, ACT-sweat, Atulayan Norte, and Gabriela who are the only candidate in the Senate celebrated.
"Our campaign is already successful," said Nathanael Santiago, general secretary of Alliance.
According to casino, many of the Filipino people have reached the message of the changes of the Alyansang Makabayan, of his campaign and campaign against the proposed party-list.
"Even if the election is still not happening, thousands of thousands have been aware that they have been aware of it, and it is very clear to push the politics of change," said casino.
In the time of this campaign, it is clear that the country's program has not been presented, from the real reforms and the national governments of the workers, the demolition of rights of citizens, women, national establishments, LGBT, and others.
"We are the only candidate who said that the system needs to be changed," said casino.
For the Alyansang Makabayan, casino is showed up and the political parties showed what is true politics is happening which is contrary to the usual politics in the country by winning, and expressing his concrete platform to change the Filipino masses.
However, in spite of this success, Santiago requested his supporters to ensure the success in the election of casino and the approved party-list.
"On this night, we gave our initial success, but this is the ratification of our determination to push the politics of change," said Exur, the president of Alliance.
Admirable is the clean record.
Meanwhile, casino said that they have been prepared for two years to be progressive in the campaign and election.
He also said that rats should not be united like the release of the Social Weather Stations and Pulse Asia, where their ranks is low.
He identified other people who are conducting a huge amount, like the Philippine Star, 7-11, university of the Philippines, and various online jobs, which are said to be classes on top of the candidates for senator.
"If we are going to talk about a survey," do not let us pass the election as a survey, "he said, the citizens need to vote for their opinion as a candidate.
Casino also emphasized that he is not from the clan of politicians and only his long record for activists and the approval of the appointment of him as a senator.
"When it comes to May 13, we can see each other again to celebrate our success: 15 positions in the Congress, a senator, and the common people," the end of it.
Last sudden.
In Manila, members and supporters of the Provincial party-list are gathered in different places, such as Bayan Muna, ACT, Ativan Gang, ACT, Rayton, Adik-lualto, Atulayan Norte, Atulayan Norte, Atulayan Norte, prior to the historic Plaza Miranda.
In the meeting de avance, some famous personalities in music and acting are also expressed support to casino, including Dino Concepcion, Broch, Cabuslay of Datu Puti, Chambers (Preso or Alex Medina), on the internet), and comedian Willie Nepomuceno, and comedian Willie Nepomuceno, and comedian Willie Nepomuceno.
According to Medina, it was a few friends in the industry who talked to him and tried to take his support for other candidates aside from Teddy Casino, but he did not make it back to them.
"I will inspect our sibling Teddy Casino," Medina said.
Meanwhile, in Davao City, supporters and personalities from Teddy Casino (T4S) gathered on May 9), as well as the nine groups-list party-list, Bayan Muna, AOIL, Gabriela, elecoxib and Asciutto are children for the meeting de avance in Bangsamoro Park.
"We are trying to support the hacienda of the citizens for violating the human rights, democracy and their rights to all the weather," said Ariel Casiple, Regional Trial Court.
Before the meeting de avance, the candidates and supporters of the party-list and supporters of the party-list were held together in different activities in different places of the city.
Teddy Casino (Tristan (T4S) from Calinan to Freedom Park.
