Justice for Laude, justice to the people.

Justice for Jennifer Laude is the garbage in the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA).
This is the two call of the members of Justice for Jennifer!
Said network said that it is a big obstacle to achieve justice for the VFA since it is not in favor for protection from the interest of American soldiers like Pemberton.

No.
The members of the network and the members of the network are full of candles to emphasize what they wish for the justice for Laude, according to the government of the Philippines, in the custody of the American soldiers inside Camp Aguinaldo while the public prosecutor is still investigating the crime.
VFA is the agreement between the government of the Philippines and the US that accepting "visit" of American soldiers in the Philippines for different reasons, including the exercises of military as involved with Pemberton and 4,000 other American soldiers in the last week of September.
It is stated in the VFA that the US might have a custody of a American soldier who is a suspect in the crime in the Philippines for the said network and from Gabriela, this is a proof that this is in favor of the US and not in the Philippines.
Malacanang defended the VFA from the call to dismiss this last week, on the 25th year anniversary of Leyte Landing of US General Douglas Cagas in the Philippines in the World War II, President Aquino said that there is no place where there is no crime. "
Fun.
Aquino also denied that he visited the wake of Laude because she did not go to the wake of "he (she) known."
The bandit group is criticized on the lack of human rights and concern for them from the murder of a fellow Filipino, Gabriela who said the true agreement of VFA and the true relationship between the US and the Philippines is an equal agreement between the US and the Philippines.

"It is hard for us to get justice under the VFA since we still need to beg from any country who has respect for himself not to agree with the left abuse shown by the VFA," according to Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.
According to Gabriela Representative Emano de Jesus, the preservation of the "agreement between the government of America and the government of the Philippines is not separated from the case of Laude.

The American soldiers are said to have something wrong when going to the country as giving jobs and livelihood, but this is not the livelihood that the citizens want, according to De Jesus.
"It is not only the heinous crime that happened to the Filipino people, the soldier of America was done by the soldiers of America: The violation of the dignity of the people, the violation of corruption of the people, but this is not end with our desire for justice," the end of Salvador.
