
Vice Ganda like Senator-elect Nancy Binay! (Kris Aquino!

The 2013 May 2013 election in the 2013 May election has been released by Vice Ganda through her Instagram regarding his Instagram account with Nancy Binay.
According to Vice Ganda contemptuous, Nancy said that Nancy will run for a higher position because she does not have any idea in the field of politics.
And along with the call of Vice Ganda, it looks like a horse and it seems that the people would be able to talk to whoever they will vote for and sit in position (Senator).
But Nancy has immediately answered this to her writer who does not care of Kabayo, or Vice Ganda but if he will not vote for Nancy Binay, he will not vote Nancy Binay.
Anyway, Nancy Binay has the right to attack Vice Ganda Kabayo who is not good especially if the kind Senator-elect Duterte knows that he is in the right speech related to his sacrifices, Vice.
Even if your servant is from Makati, it seems that Vice Ganda is alarmed with Nancy Binay.
Because we know that Binay's family is helpful in Makati especially now that Nancy Binay has reached the senate?
We thought it is a big loss of Nancy's vote for Vice President's votes but it is still in number 5 but this is the reason for Vice Ganda to have a taste of whatever he has done or have a taste, it is still wanted by the people to vote the child of our country as vice-President.
Even Kris Aquino, who is a friend of Vice Ganda, has already spoke first that he doesn't take care of Vice and Nancy because she said that they are both friends.
One of the reasons being said by Tetepan is that the reason why he cannot talk to Vice is because of her fear that he might lose weight.
Bakir is going to be afraid, if he has talked to Vice, maybe he / she didn't listen to Vice, maybe aside from his friend, Vice Presidential daughter and Senator-elect, Nancy Binay.
He / she was wearing.
The drama manager of the manager and prostitution is really happy because there is one athlete who owns him for a night going home and he needs a sexy star who became famous in a video scandal.
Because there is no connection or Contact Policy "of the said sexy star, he still made a way so that he can handle the doctor's doctor.
The gift of the manager did not fail because he had an acquaintance who looks like a pet dog who looks like the sexy star who became famous in the video scandal.
Aside from that, he was even brought by a gift of Drew Girl, of a good make as an effective artist and pushed me as if they really looked like the witness Girl, which is why it was made by the said Pacific Ocean.
What is crazy is that, the said prostitution is the price of the said prostitution, along with the impact of the collision that resulted in a collision, 103, which was given to a prostitute, 103, which was given to the said collision, 10, which is why it is far for him to have a bigger profit from there.
The gift of Pastor was really calm because he wins and he was not able to surrender and was not able to give up and the sexy star, which is fake, was fake and was not able to expect what was given to his gift of gift Manager / her.
After one Brigada Eskwela will be held in the said DNA of manager of an actress, whose image has become glamorous.
"I will pay it too much as long as he will just laugh at me!"
Of course, the controversial Queen of prostitution is complete that's why he spoke with who he will do to Darna (I mean that the woman will be Darna's, I mean, the actress's image has been exported.
And here he entered the scene with his pet dog and immediately have the make up on his half-page actress, it seems that the image of actress Amas, which seems to be very familiar with the image of actress Aaahhmm, which is owned by the Pambansang Kamao, hahaha!
It's because we thought, that he already stopped in civic works but it is still not even if he already spoke before that he stopped because he is rich again!
This is the reason why only a month has passed, he was able to build a single-year-old manager, which contains an expensive bag and jewelry, that was why he discovered that he was able to do a lot in the kidnappers and bank robbery.
The residents of Walis bar are ready to be ready for their grand subdivisions when there will be a connection with their 1th year anniversary this May 28.
Because aside from the baptism of the naked grandchildren, they still have a surprise for their avid patrons.
Let's go out! This May 28 have been out this May 28 and for details just to call my mother Greening Program in his cellphone number 8972854 or 090341.
