
One (1) it's a long time loss of justice and more than half a half-up (57 years) is the lack of social justice for the farmers of Hacienda Luisita.

You Maria Banua.
NDF-Bicol.
November 16, 2014.
The National Democratic Front in Bicol Region is applying for a martyr anymore, the family and Filipino workers of Hacienda Luisita, workers and workers of the massacre last November 16, 2004, that the response of the government and the Aquino family to testify for this request for this request.

It has been laid down on one o'clock in the citizens, what happened to the Maguindanao massacre last January 22 1987, where 13 farmers were killed and 39 were wounded in the February 1987 LBC Ronda Pilipinas massacre, 17 farmers, 6, and 2 old and 2 are dead.
A decade have passed when the massacre happened at the seven (7) farmers and Filipino workers who will just blindly agree on November 16, 2004 in Hacienda Luisita, but the justice that the victims want to achieve is unlikely.

Just two months after the massacre, the 20 farmers recklessly shot him again after they were hit and survived the Senate but the case was filed against Cojuangco-Aquino.

This was followed by many cases of successive murders.

It was December 8, 2004, Marcelino Arce who was killed because of an encounter against the massacre last November 16, 2004.

March 3, 200-5401,800 people were killed, hopefully there will be a document at the Senate hearing in the municipal hall of Hacienda Luisita.

March 13, 2005 - Father William Taduran was shot because the witness who was a fellow priest, Father Jun Flores was threatened to have threatened his life, which is why he was hiding in fear for his life.

March 17, 2005 - Victor "Tata Ben" Concepcion was killed because of supporting the farmer's fight.

October 15, 2005 - Deputy Collante said that he was killed by a critics of the family who was stabbed in Cojuangco.

October 3, 2006 - Bishop Alberto Bumolo was brutally killed, to support the farmer and it is expected to support the Aquino family of Cojuangco.

March 17, 2006 - Tirso Cruz was killed as a union leader who led the protest against the construction of Noynoy's construction in the construction of Noynoy Aquino.

In a span of a decade, the victim of different kinds of violation of human rights related to Hacienda Luisita, including the primary case was filed by the family of the victim, Edgardo "Atong" Aquino, and the former chief of Tarlac City PNP Chief Director Alex Sinunuc and the former chief of Tarlac City PNP, were filed with a case.

It has been six (6) decades that the past will be bought by Jose Conejero de Tarlac and Hacienda Luisita, with a total measurement of 6,453 percent of the citizens who have an agreement to share to the farmers after ten years.

Two decades have passed, the farmers have filed a case in 1985 but the farmers have filed a case in 1985, but it did not have been implemented in the middle of the Supreme Court's mother, but a decade have passed in the middle of the farmers in the middle of the said massacre.

A historical fight for salary, work and rights of the farmers and workers in the ranch and they are still not happy, he still bought a huge amount of 83 million pesos for every vehicle that goes out of 20 million pesos in the state of the project, Cefree.

He received funds from the Development Assistance Fund led to the four who responded by Benigno Simeon Aquino, who are Barangay Captain Edgardo Lantoc, Barangay Central, in Hacienda Luisita, 51, and two vice president, 173 congressman, 32, and two vice mayor.

One (one (1) the victims of the massacre in Hacienda Luisita, more than half century (57 years), that the farmers in Hacienda Luisita, said that the land they took away from the land of Cojuangco-Aquino will come out.

The lack of justice to the farmers of Hacienda Luisita and the citizens are going to be thrown away by the quick movement and new armed forces that will be brought up by the Aquino family that will be brought to US President Benigno Simeon Aquino in power.

We call for the brook at the church, she took a nap and intelligence that there is still another left playing with the mouth of the majority in order to see the truth and defend the love of our farmer's eyes and to defend our food.
