All of them is slippery!
By between Dacer-October 17, 2016, President Rodrigo Duterte himself said that there is no one rushing to come from by a number of number in spite of the repeated call for them to surrender together with his intensified campaign against illegal drugs.
Those who are so-called by little by number "are the policemen who are pointing their illegal drugs in different operations and it is as if they are asking the pushers to sell.
There are so many forces that if we will review the number of pushers or drug pushers in different places, they are not losing from by many, especially those who are involved in the operation of illegal drugs due to the knowledge of many, especially those who are not giving up to them, especially those who are not giving up to them.
Does this mean that the continuous force of "tanim-by" is because they can match the P2 million reward that President Duterte will give to anyone who is calling him, "is called by number."
If this situation is really disturbing, the leadership of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and even the other martial law Enforcement body should take action that pat the fight against illegal drugs.
It is needed to be sent out by "by little by number, those who continue to spread terror because it seems that their influence is greater than the good members of the police.
So what is happening with us, it seems that the government needs to dismiss this fight in order to finally sweep the "desaparecidos," that there is still no fear in their illegal operation of pushing illegal drugs.
It seems that it has not been clear to those who have connections with "tiktiks" as the offer of the President to anyone who can point to them so there is no need for a trap due to a trap. "
That's why there is a need to think about the connection of the so-called "by-called number."
It is time for you to think about the welfare of the people like what the President reminded that this syndicate will only destroy the future of our children or the next generation of our society.
