
There is no useless "straight path.

Many are criticizing President Aquino and DILG Secretary Mar Roxas as if they are taking the lawyer of the Philippine National Police (PNP) Chief Director General Alan Purisima.
Because, while they are defending Purisima, it turns out that our country is getting worse.
It seems like PNoy and Roxas have become stupid because they have not seen the rottenness and failure of Purisima.
Instead of defending them, why did PNoy just command him to just resign from the PNP Chief.
Purisima was charged with the plunder case in the Office of the Ombudsman by a group related to his suspicious wealth.
How will Purisima correct to defend himself immediately by the president of the republic?
It is saddening that PNoy will run over, because Purisima is his ally and his friend.
This is Roxas, instead of answering PNoy, what is the request of Purisima to take care of Purisima when the accusations against him are facing.
The safety of the lives and properties of the people depends on the PNP.
If that kind of controversy is the current leader of the national police, how will he fulfill his duty well?
He / she was wearing.
Even Senator Grace Poe is already known to Purisima on how many times the PNP Chief snubbed the hearing called by his committee, particularly the proposed modernization of the PNP.
It was exposed that the wealth of Purisima will be exposed, that the lesson is still clean.
PNoy said, that he will not be greedy and irritable in writing to his friend Purisima.
"Can't be greedy," as big as the size of the stomach and the skin is squid, which seems to have not been exhausted.
It needs to be used to!
He / she was wearing.
Now that the true personality of Purisima happens, PNoy should find out well if the things accused at his friend are true.
Is he really sure of the true personality of the chief?
Maybe he is lying on her.
If there are others who are married, they are able to pay attention to their miracle, they are even friends and are not together in one house.
Except if Purisima already knows a secret from PNoy, the President will defend his friend even how much is the dirt.
"These are worthless" Tuwid na Daan "and" we were amazed at the corner of TSETC.
