Those who give the book and then was replaced by a receipt, everything for a school that is part of the school starts with different ways to make sure the possibility of students has a report.
Global warming which is hard for the students but their books are too much, maybe it is almost done not to be sent to the finals, but it is not necessary for children to be sent to the finals, but they will not be able to go to the finals.
That is what is being done here inside Monday.
It is back to something like toothpaste.
Two thousand pesos is the additional tuition fee for the gadgets that will be the security to be done.
That is their mother who will send me a text message to the Church on the gadgets and stay-in-stay.
We are also studying the sim card Academy at Pasig to use Saturday.
He / she said, he / she said.
Two.
Yes.
There is it.
Yes.
How long is it?
Wearing.
Might be true.
One.
You are still thousands of times when you go home.
Their books are Mica's but if the pakbet.
T-V will have a Wagerness to make the price of students and computers in their laboratory that is wi-fi.
Are they going to be happy with the high-high-high level of guidance when they will just be used to their parents when they say that they are still trying to use their education, but until now, they are still trying to use their education and when they go to school, they are still trying to use their education and when they go to school, they still need to be used to school when they go to school, they are still trying to use their school when they go to school.
It is said that it is still not free to release more than one hundred computers that this is because of the number of students who have not yet been lacking, computers are still lacking; we are things.
You are not right now at Block.
"When we talked about it, we talk about the dogs that are not painful but the child is painful, so that the child is very painful.
For those who have been paying for an hour of Andang here, it's only one point that there would be one point that it is for the number of students being focused on at the Elementary School in the country, my computer, but it is still lacking for the number of students, it is also being studied as the possibility of having a call from the public.
There are those who are radiation.
The Department of Two have five years.
Two people will sell the Filipinos.
It was said that he has a blood pressure.
