Vitangcol, very noisy!

Last May 26, 2014, the general manager of the Metro Rail Transit (Al Vitangcol was fired from his post as the only basis is the only basis of a newspaper.
Does this mean it or in other words, President Benigno Aquino III and not being given a chance to explain the person involved just like what happened to Vitangcol that has been used for a long time but also made an unknown reason?
It cannot be denied that one of the best decision of President Aquino is the best decision of President Aquino as the general manager of MRT because he has done many miracle not only in the agency but also for the passengers riding the said transportation.
Some of the things that Vitangcol was able to remove from what happened in a month of MRT from P93 million which became P53 million in the span of one year, but the MRT reached up to P480 million.
And the decrease of the price of MRT is the cause of his being removed from his post after allegedly being given to the company that included the uncle of his wife, which costs P517.5 million last 2012-13 with no public bidding.
It can't be said, that is why there is no public bidding that happened because the Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) is not ready?
Now, Vitangcol was only deceived so the names of some involved in some anomalies in the government have something to do with the DOTC.
During Vitangcol's time, the income of MRT increased by one million every day when the value of fare is not increasing, it means that the agency he held P365 million in one year is increasing.
The passengers of MRT are having a lot of benefits since he sat with Vitangcol and these are having a unique system, fer, human beings which is not the cause of price hike which is not the cause of fare increase.
MRT and MRT are able to save 50 million in the computer system because of Vitangcol's knowledge in technology.
Everything that Vitangcol was doing is set aside because the palace is going to protect the Palace for other anomalies.
We are not headed by the president, hoping that he will have the truth to what is true and not because of the whispers that he has to arrest.
It seems that this is scary, even if what you have done is good, you can get fired from his position if something whispered to Bira 3?
