Ona, strive to remove them down; Drilon.

If it is true that there are many disclosure of Health Secretary Enrique Ona that is a transaction with the Department of Health, he should finally remove them from his position anymore.
The authorities should also act quickly in order to know the ban or fire in terms of smoke from corruption or abuse from the duty of the DOH.
P3M Riyals.
According to the report, if it is true, it is true that Secretary Petilla wants to be rich from his request to have a public service which is a Toyota Land Cruiser, aside from a Toyota Vios taxi.
It is the child of tofu, owners of his own lives, rather than the welfare of his employees who continue to increase in order to increase their salary and have a corresponding benefits so they will not live in hunger.
They are even the only warnings to the calamities in health.
The DOH is almost hungry for various medicines for those who get sick people, so they neglect the poor until they finally get sick until they get sick towards the cemeteries.
He made sure that the owners are made up in a horseshoe.
Corruption in the vaccine.
The transactions are not clear about the various vaccine bought by DOH.
Against tuberculosis, against tuberculosis is the infection of babies and mothers, against dengue and Mautes who are against measles and any other villain in the health of the citizens?
But the buying of these are allegedly used for corruption, especially the vaccine for babies but how big is the adore of the corrupt government on the contract of the DOH is burning, duh?
In that kind of town.
There are also reports of the building of buildings and other infrastructure for the DOH.
An example is the P1-billion that will be released by the new Jose Fabella Memorial Medical Center inside San Lazaro hospital or to repair the current standing in Santa Cruz, Quiapo area, Manila.
The new regional hospital in Luzon is still being spent on by the government of a huge amount.
P300 million - P600 million!
It is confusing the importance of the proposed construction in the judicial system of-Tropas that is in Muntinlupa.
According to the office of Ona in the media, about P500 to millions but in the letter received by Malacanang, about 600 million pesos.
Even though it was an emergency basis, like the expected struggle of DOH to the disease of Ebola, President Aquino could sell it because of the huge amount that needs.
One more thing, his wish of this kind of budget is running and the government will not be able to solve it.
Even if you are thinking about it, if you think that this hospital is not prepared with the Ebola virus, he is expected to be the first to face the Ebola virus.
Who is not going crazy about the RITM, especially if there is a mixture of doubt on where the P58,000 pesos of P60,000 pesos will go there?
The speculation.
For the people, it is the fact that all that we have written in DOH is just a speculation.
But also because of the force of Malacanang to Ona, it will be temporary or rest, we can say that if there is smoke, there is a fire or it is where it is coming from.
What the authorities should do is already conducting an investigation to know if the accusations of corruption and abuse in service will be true or not be held accountable if it is true that there are strange things or events in the DOH.
"Isn't it, Commission on Audit, Grace Pulido-Tan, hehehe!
Drilon!
If billions of pesos have been discussed, corruption in the projects of Ona, billion pesos is also believed in corruption in the project of Senate President Franklin Drilon.
"Is it the Iloilo International Convention Center.
Drilon allegedly consumed his part on the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
He himself was telling this, but there is a big doubt that P1B money of the citizens will really consumed the project.
P4.8 pesos.
In the estimation of Manuel Mejorada as the former employee or consultant by Drilon in the Senate and former provincial administrator of Iloilo, it is about P480 million worth of the project through the disturbance.
Drilon immediately asked, to ask Public Works and Highways Secretary Rogelio Singson.
Just what Drilon did was to point out that ICC was his project and the DPWH was those who criticized everyone who allegedly passed away from him, hehehe.
But Mejorada insisted that Singson and Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez is included in the alleged corruption in the ICC.
In the Senate.
If the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee is too hard for a billion that will be held in Makati parking building and Hacienda Binay, this should be the same to show them to the ICC's ICC.
It is obvious that the committee is becoming active in the spread of evidence so that Binay will be guarded and just to be fair, it is also needed by Drilon.
Maybe what happens is, Mejorada will only be pitiful in searching and release evidences against the three eggs of PNoy in the Senate.
These are the majority of the majority in the Senate, Drilon and his allies of PNoy.
Mejorada might experience the ghastly experience of UNESCO World Health chairman Tan who complained that Budget Secretary Butch Abad does not want to release Budget Secretary Butch Abad's allies in the corruption of the allies of PNoy while there is flooding on the details or document against the three eggs in the Senate that they are not allies.
