
There was a impeachment against the SAF 44.

This is the celebration of the Aquino government now.
There was a sign that there was a mutiny and the impeachment was also thinking.
Of course, there is a mutiny of military and police who are taking advantage of power from a civilian who has a mutiny.
Politicians are involved in the impeachment.
With the mutiny, the end of the gun is what you are talking to for the impeachment, money, I mean, the votes of the lawmakers are what the lawmakers do to win.
There was a mutiny.
The massacre happened with 44 police who were all members of the Special Action Force.
The people and military are looking for the huge negligence of those who died in the middle of the fight.
The many policemen allegedly offered their lives in order to catch the terrorist Malaysians who were arrested by the terrorist Malaysians who were captured by terrorist Malaysians who were captured by terrorist Malaysians and Abdul Feranil, but the treatment of the leaders of the country was not good.
Instead of making a way for the government to achieve justice, it seems that the rebel group Moro Islamic Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters did not take sides.
And when the corpses of those who were killed in Villamor Airbase High School have already arrived, President Benigno Aquino III wanted to attend and happiness in the building of the vehicle in Laguna.
This and other own reasons of the police and military are the reasons why there is a mutiny.
Or if you are in Malacanang, do not mention that we have shortcomings in the media for what you are worried about.
Impeachment.
Politicians are thinking the impeachment against PNoy.
There is allegedly one reason for a suspended chief of Philippine National Police to be the bosses of Marwan.
Suspended and jailed is suspended and power to lead and supervising in operation.
According to the report, Bro, Purisima thanked the SAF boss Getulio Napenas and Purisima is celebrating PNoy.
Some even said that PNoy is in Mindanao last Sunday in Zamboanga not to take care of the members of the SAF but wait for the reports on the operation of the SAF.
The doctors.
Critics did not think of those who were stupid in the operation.
The Department of Interior and Local Government Mar Roxas and Officer 3-Charge Leonardo Espina.
They were said to be stupid because the SAF operation was secret from them.
Knock on the height because they themselves are the boss of the SAF but they do not have any idea about the incident.
Critics said, it is not a mutiny or impeachment for them because they are not really connotation.
They should just resign if they neglect the officials of the government.
Only the face of the face is the only thing they have if they were able to step down from their position.
Drama!
But some say that Roxas is the only reason for Roxas.
Because if it is said that he is included in the orders of the SAF and this is what happened when they lost the rebels in the fight, his candidacy as President in the election is going.
They are going to be blamed for the fool, useless and failure to treat the Philippines within six-years from 2016.
We do not need a fool, useless and a failure of the President.
CONony Villon!
We have high respect, Bro, of the police.
Everyday we are with them and I feel the security in their hands.
So that is how we should pay attention to them.
We don't pay taxes so that we are making a way, no matter how small, it is so that we can help them during the time of their lack of hunger, disease, fraud and many others.
And we really want to know and see them as if animals are just pretending to be seen as an excuse that they die because of the time that they have died because of the time of the leaders of our country.
Included in the time it is time to show their interest on the reward that is $6-million which is more than 200 million and put the SAF in death just to achieve the reward.
Someone also wants good record in politics in case they succeed.
That is why, this is where we will say what's sad to our heroes policemen.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
