
There are those who are worthless and addicted to people.

I do not know if I will be happy or be annoyed because of the progress of conversations about the alleged planned coup with President Aquino, who seems to be a person who knows this world of his fifth State of the Nation Address (SONA).
Even though we are one of those who do not agree with the actions of PNoy in our country, having a new mutiny is our citizens will not let us go to our country anymore and this is proven that we have proven something from EDSA 1 to the halted EDSA 3.
We have proven that there is a mutiny and the so-called People Power Revolution to bring goodness to our citizens and the people who are benefiting from the people who are benefiting from this kind of politician who will come closer.
The names of people under our country only change but they still have one goal and this is their own life and livelihood and not our poor countrymen.
I am thinking that this is not like this as a country because it has been a long time since we experience the true disease and grief caused by our unity?
It is possible that we need to undergo violence again as a result of our lack of unity, in the end we should think that this is the reason why we do not improve the country?
It is true that our country's illness is true because of our lack of unity, we love the group of groups, we are fond of telling the mistakes of others but we cannot see our own shortcomings in order to improve our country.
These militant groups are almost everyday of the protesters against corruption and almost every day, their leaders are in the media, if we listen to them, it seems that our country is in a good status if they are seated in power of power.
But if these kinds of groups are not even clean, they do not even clean the places where their protests are taking, and tell their followers not to throw the garbage on the road, how can we believe the country's good intention?
Santi'll be the only cause of this game to be caused by a tight traffic instead of the convenience of the citizens.
If it is just like that, they already have red and stick into their lungs because if our current government is worthless, they are sure that they are worthless.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and suggestions, you will just email about gum .Humalig) and gmail! Hala Bables as Gil Bira.
