Hmmmp: No space in terrorism!
July 4, 2016 Kalupaan - the attack of the Islamic State (PNP) to a group of tourists in DBP, Bangladesh, they were not simply shot, as long as they were brutally killed, many of the 20 victims who were forced to slit their liver.
It was too barbarism that they are innocent people whose only mistakes are in the area and they are time to be passed by or caught by the terrorists.
Last week, Gilas Philippines was not able to escape from a shooting incident in IOS in the airport, the team of the Philippines was able to leave the said airport in Turkey and after a 43 people died, 19 of them were foreigners, while more than 300 were wounded.
It is really hard to read the movements of the terrorists first before, they do not have their faces, just like these, they are just going to meet an ordinary ones who are allegedly members of ISIS.
Until now, they are still having a hard time when they will be hit by the most powerful community in spite of the most big and time to be seen by the countries.
If they are able to pass them to America and France, they will go to their "ambil, how can it happen in the Philippines?
Do we have the capacity to prevent them or be caught in case they spread violence here?
There is no doubt that there are some foreigners who are their aim because it seems that they are hardworking that their bomb will be focused on the Americans and to the poor, that is why the Philippines should be careful and set to strengthen the Philippines.
It cannot be denied that tourists will still visit our country because of their natural resources, and for the very beautiful scenery and not even directly to the Philippines, the attack should not be confidence.

First, it is the responsibility of the Philippines to the safety of any foreign contacts in our territory that is why it should be given attention.
Especially if the attacks of tourists in different parts of the world are even more and right, this should serve as a "-up call "for other government, like the Philippines to strengthen the security, and most of your intelligence to catch the terrorists.
The community can also be a big help, of their busybodies and busybodies in order to show up to the suspicious character of "tanim-bala" as they say.
Remember, terrorism should not be given space or any chance of terrorism in our territory.
