Source of livelihood, Magpahanggang Wakas (1).

The citizens or citizenship are traditional as well as the contract of a person and state of this is giving an appropriate right and responsibility to the society.
However, in this time, when the society is already complicated, the owners of capital and people involved in politics, the traditional contract that they have signed, the traditional contract that they have signed, is slowly being experienced by the people who are calling the citizens or economic provisions.
According to the 19th of 18 shouting, the citizens, Jean-Jagues and their own relationship, "the citizens are currently having a vast relationship with the rich and poor, the benefits of the citizens are being given to a proper state in order to become easy in their lives.
Meanwhile, the poor are at the same responsibility because there are many responsibility being brought about by their excessive poverty, their rights are almost limited to vote, because this right is not limited to vote for them because there is a need to give a chance for the stay of "pul-politicians in power.
It cannot be denied that the poor does not have power to decide on things related to the future of the country, especially in the aspect of economy, this duty is decided by some of the owners of capital.
Only the only wish of those who are rich are the ones being followed and the democracy is not a trend for this meeting.
"We are here to make money, not to throw it," what the owner of capital is, the always statement of the owners of capital, while they are defending their own interest and lack of interest to help them.
In fact, if they are suffering from business, they will make a way to pass the flow of electricity, water, food, food and others.
If they are to give donations, it is certain that they will take it back in asking for tax bastions so that they will not give anything in return and often the equivalent in the treasury of the country.
Notice that the majority of society does not have the power even in terms of culture for the poor to pretend to be a few of those who want to send a few meters from the top.
They do not notice that this order is only added to their lack of power.
Following the poor for the rich people who are looking for the rich people who are taking their good condition for the rich, for the poor, the poor are good of stray bullets only for their sale.
