
De Lima has no K to control.

The Department of Justice has no right to control the list of corrupt and corrupt officials involved in P15.B Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
This is related to the order of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee that within two days the DOJ is going to submit his sworn statement of Napoles which is indication of the name of senators, congressmen, and from the Palace who are involved in corruption.
This is also the response of the said committee on the said request of the citizens to show that all the children of traditional corrupt and corrupt politicians are in the soonest time.
Green with experience.
The DOJ should not be hard for him not to submit a list of any reason.
For DOJ, it is said that they should be taken care of.
"Who should not be responsible in expressing their names that will possibly create a" traslacion "or chaos.
The DOJ is asking for enough time to submit said list to show their evidences.
"The job of DOJ.
In our opinion, Bro, the role of De Lima with Napoles is over.
This should not be done but it will be submitted to the most easy time.
He does not have a job with any evidence and he can guess what the Senate will hold on.
The Senate has its own power and strategy to reveal the truth like what we have witnessed for so many times.
Big problem.
There is a big problem in the Senate.
Who among them will support the investigation of the investigation now that the name of the corrupt senators on the list of Napoles is coming out.
According to idol Ping Lacson, it is also involved in Chiz Escudero, Miriam Santiago, Gregorio Honasan, Alan Peter Cayetano and also with Budget Secretary Butch Abad.
Of course, it is also included in the three bruises that are closed because of the defamation of corrupt senators that we have mentioned.
Let us talk, nothing.
To make sure that the discussion here will be clear about the threat of DOJ on the list which is called "Tuwid na Daan," Ma'am Pilar Janet, Mar Roxas, should talk.
Ma'am Pilar Janet said that it is true that the evidence will come out of corruption and not the DOJ.
Of course, DOJ can help a lot in the issue of documents but let the Senate have to release them through "tanim-bala" or order to bring all the role of Napoles and the corrupt and corrupt.
In the farm, there is no paper.
But this is an important thing, in a farm without paper.
"Is it a big possibility that the transaction of Napoles and the officials and allies of PNoy do not use paper or documents, which is why it will spread this evidence if it is called paper canal.
In other words, Bro, along with the ranks of children of abusive corrupt and corrupt, many of them are receiving money and giving protection to Kyoto, or "sources of money, which is why there is no role in paper.
This is where you can see the lack of use of DOJ to keep on doing everything.
Will be a document.
When Napoles spoke again, together with the other who knows the rotten transaction in the government, it will be given to the documents.
Because there will be a record for all the discussion and that is the "f" of the investigation of the Senate.
One more thing, if Napoles is teaching the senators himself, even if there is no paper, you should listen thoroughly.
Why?
Well, if he can tell how he met with the national official of the government and for them to find something realistic and did not invent whatever story, he should believe it.
If DOJ and Office of the Ombudsman managed to believe that there was no evidence and almost all stories, the treatment of Napoles should also be like this.
Especially that the principal of Janet and if what he is saying is true, it is fitting to the law of being a witness.
He is green.
The law said to the evidence, a person is strong when he will tell or tell him that based on what he saw, he heard, felt, smelled and others.
In other words, Bro, strong evidence are personal knowledge and experience of a witness who can tell everything from the start until the end and from small things until the big issue.
If he will tell someone from others, this is no meaning and you can call it as a doctor. "
The meantime, all are worthless and is not acceptable to the court, even in front of ordinary citizens.
That's why you are washing their hands and do not believe that Napoles can do something, that's when you are taking advantage of it.
If you do not want to use and go away from your position, maybe the people will feel like you.
