
Number of SONA2015, 1244; again, Aquino and Kenneth Roland A. Guda were disappointed.

It is likely that at the time that you are reading this, it is in the image that took a nap (even to understand, but it is more expected that the giant protest against the State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Aquino will be expected.

It is likely that at the time that you are reading this, it is in the image that took a nap (even to understand, all the huge protest against the State of the Nation Address (SONA) by President Aquino, that this is the last SONA of Aquino, all of the ordinary Filipinos) under Aquino's condition.

That is why his regime tried to stop them.

He tried it, through the implementation of a war against insurgency which did not make a war against the Filipino people who are fighting against President Gloria Arroyo, Risa Hontiveros, who is fond of AK-47, who is fond of AK-47, who is fond of AK-47, who is fond of AK-47, who is fond of AK-47, and many others).

Last 2010, Aquino made his "tanim-Arroyo" in front of Arroyo, even though almost the entire time of the prevalence of Arroyo in the roof, there was no more active fight against Aquino, aside from the skirt of the late mother.

Meanwhile, the Lefog or the country's movement, which is being insisted by Arroyo, will implement what he promised to the foot of the giant Marison in EDSA last February 2001.

Of course, they will continue their rights even if the new president is seated in power.

The protest against the State of the Nation Address of Aquino last 2014 ends.

Meow, but back then, Aquino closed the Malacanang to the Leflawless, while still remain open to Ayala - Pangilinan, Lopez and Gogh.

This remained open to the Filipino-ranking officials of the United States (this is a common part of the past and current representative of Foreign Affairs that became a representative of Foreign Affairs that became a representative of the American President to give birth to the American president to give birth to the American government in the country.

Because he stayed back to the type and foreigners, because he remained strong system in politics and economy, there is still no violation of human rights compared to the attack of Aquino, and many others) who were killed to be killed by Aquino, 27 years old, and many others) who were involved in the conflict between Aquino and Marcos.

It was revealed by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) that seems to be a disrespect of threats, harassment and threat to activists, which is why there was a mysterious vehicle that has been experienced in the Integrated Bureau of the Philippines due to the actual threats to his life.

The harassment of CDO is severe, before another huge protest on May 1, the All Soul's Day, being transferred to the authorities because the same leader of Health Organization (NGO), was threatened by the said vehicle near Dizon, and many others.

But if it is reading the consulate of this, you are monitoring the news on radio, television or internet, it's likely that you witnessed the failure again of the PNP's threat to protest again the road and box to a corner of the protesters.

The true status of the country will be shown again, not for the followers of the President inside Batasan, but also in the plaza, people's affection, and cry of the people on the streets.
