It was a victim of the storm, it victimizes the government.

Not ordinary victims of the typhoon are the citizens of Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental.
Last December, typhoon Pablo destroyed the two provinces when the witnesses arrived, it was like the bomb thrown at all over six million people were affected by all the trees, and even the small houses were consumed, and even small houses were consumed.
But instead of just wait for the evacuation centers for the help that did not come, they have been carried away by an barbells as last January 15, more than 5,000 people were not allowed to solve the vehicles, until they were not given food.
"We really decided to stay at the forest because there is no other way for us to be heard by the government," Karlos Traia, a farmer Lumad and spokesperson of Barug Katog, a new group of those who survived the storm Pablo.
Instead of being abused, the police filed a case against the seven leaders of the bark at night, the help arrived, but only 10 days were given by the governor that are getting worse rice and rice, some of the residents received rotten rice.
At the bark, Sallayed the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) promised the 10,000 sacks of rice that will come next two days but while writing this article, it is still not coming.
The storm is over but it seems that the storm is just starting now, the government itself is holding the hard work of the victims to rise up as a response, a big movement in the next days that will damage the Barug on top.
Disastrous companies.
We are not only talking about the request of the barricaded for them, they should also ask for justice for them, there is a need to blame for the grave injuries or the big companies of timber, mines, and plantation of nature.
In the data of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), there are almost 3,000 hectares of controversy in the jurisdiction of the Integrated Disaster Risk Reduction Agreement (NGO) in Bagocboc, Cateel, Caraga and Manapon in the said town of Davao Oriental which is currently affected by typhoon Pablo.
Almost 20 percent of the land in the two provinces were financed by the marijuana plantation, from 2000 to 2010.

Meanwhile, there were 30,000 hectares of the farm and forest who stole the marijuana plantation and biased.
Mining is also extensive now in Southern Mindanao, 37,000 hectares of the jurisdiction of the Fallen Production Agreement (MPoverty), and there is one million hectares that will affect the application for MPad in the exploration.
In a statement after the storm Pablo, a group of Lumad are calling the Lumad by President Aquino: "To stop the liberalization and selling of our ancestors against the big companies that caused them to be held accountable!
More than a thousand people died in the storm, said to be the strongest damaged in Mindanao for the last 40 years.
Now, after almost two months, the victims were still on the brink of death because most of them were destroyed by the crops and plantation, that's why they cannot work.
With the size of the damage, the citizens should only rely on the help of the typhoon so that the victims of the storm should be fed a year for them to recover, "according to Francis Morales, executive director of the national group of the masses.
"Where will the help go?"
After all, there is a flood of help for the victims of the Pablo, which gave tons of rice and millions of pesos worth of relief goods, United Nations, and the government of Australia, Canada, and Indonesia and aside from this, P18 billion from the calamity fund of the Aquino government.

The question of Trangia, "SPRONTO, the help goes to the farmers, especially in secluded places," they were also reported twice by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the Lumad by the lumads who are asking about 200 pesos each other.
The victims also questioned the gruesome end of the DSWD that was reported in the newspaper which was made up by the agency of half a million pesos in every house which is only made up by a few piece of wood and galvanized iron fist, they were calling for resignation from Soliman's position because of corruption.
Traia added, "the force of us from the piles of house is a form of the legislative chamber that is against our exclusive laws (laws), why are we not given the materials to make us own house?"
They were accused of the DSWD who is the one colleges "in the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to use those that are going to use relief goods and relief goods.
The soldiers were also seen with the American troops in Bagocboc, according to Barug on Hala, he was allegedly being used by the United States for disaster to interfere in the Internal Affairs issue of the country.
They are also using the situation of the companies of mine, timber, and plantation to sweep their workers, "they are conducting an agreement that they will not join the union before he will work again," said Traia.
If residents of Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental are going to be followed, the companies of monasteries, mines, and plantation are not allowed to run again and destruction of nature to make the farmers their wish.
But in the eyes of the government, it is the rebels who have this kind of wish, "we are accused by the NPA (New People's Army) even in asking for alms and why are we going to join the rally?" Said Traia.
He already knows the answer, because if not, they cannot eat more, especially that they will be victimized by the government, and of the business that they are carrying.
