You have been cut off with a copy of what might be that if you hide you, you will not be able to wait a minute.
Well, with a horse, is it that you have committed suicide in "yes, I will arrive on whatever yes, I called, that I am going to call, who is okay with Edgardo who is okay.
Yes to my godmothers, what if it may lead, I will not have nothing, of course, "of course.
"What's okay, I am okay, but we are able to text me from the Miss International condition after they were brought to the actual condition after they were brought to the actual condition after they were able to be sent to school; we were able to take care; we were able to give way.
There are parents, Pinugay this year.
Oh yes, isn't you that there's an excuse that there will be one lawyer?
Oh, M-M will not be able to sleep.
Very small; he / she can look down; he / she can look at each other; that's why we have been cut off; we have been cut off.
Ah, that is okay?
Yes, but there is no matter that I don't know about that.
Yes, but now, how can you let us go ahead; we will be busy; we are busy with each other; that's why they cannot live there or any Chairman.
Okay, it turns out that I am going to be very good, I thought that we are going to be very lonely; we are going to look pitiful; this is where Christian cannot go, but, Christian said, you were able to get.
So who else was you saying, they were told to have a text message.
Very small; we are asking for you right now, it is the two hundreds of people who also like that yes to Julie, I am RTEL; Bulacan, which needs to be continued.
"Your father is always joking with what I call here," we have no choice so that you will just go to me later or even if you have not yet done it later on, that's why I am just right, that is why I cannot always say it.
Or whatever that is, I don't have yes, does he love him very much.
"Yes, we have a job; we might have a job, maybe for a few months that's why there are several months that we don't even know, that you are okay, that's okay.
They will leave instead of high school.
.
Ah, okay.
"Isn't it?
In the High School that has not yet been the third year-month-high school, there is no second woman PAO, sharp gazes, so we can't understand, we can't understand each other; we can't understand.
