Sunehek!
1: Asutilla.
Ateneo de Zamboanga University.
1: Magistrado.
1: Ah, thank you that it will lead to the act of burial of Sevidal-army, to be a ct-Ro-Ro-dugo-Army, pro Saga when all of them?
Skakel and Angeline was able to talk with the shouting, shouting, and even if we were able to catch up, it was as if we were able to catch up with a pro-ray; and Cambil, Sambi, Sambi, Sevidal, Sambil, Sambi, Sambi, Sambi, Saga, and Natanglement, Abu Sayyaf.
Even if we were able to go to school, that's why we are still shouting, but we are still shouting; we are still shouting, we are still shouting; we are still shouting.
One: Ayso that it will wait for 1: Ayso as a joke?
Hearse, just wait for him to wait for the shouting.
Laughing and shouting, his companions, who were able to pay for a long time with a pro-Saga, IOS, Saga, IOS, Saga, Calanghh, Larang Tanghh), co-asa Parish Church, pro-R), co-asa Parish Church, pro-R), co-R), co-R), pro-Saga.
1: 00, we were able to marry at 1: 00, together with his comrades who are his comrades who were able to shout at, 2: How to be covetous, which can be exalting, or deacadh, to be a cryly, to be a cherh!
1: Sevidal-Flintshire was quick in Dapitan, Sevidal and Natanglement, that we are trying to drive, "Sambi, Sambi, Sambi, Sambi, Saga, Sambi, Sambi, Saga, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal, Sevidal,"
1: Aaahhh hhhhhhu-Fist, the remains of Sevidal-Army; that's why all of us, shrimp, and Turks, were laughing at that while we were laughing at that, while we were shouting.
It was 1: Nawh of the mother shouting, Sevidal-army, who was peeking into a ham, 2: Ah, the suspect who was peeking into a text message, which was shouting at the fragrance of Princess Aryana, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "Sevidal," Sevidal, "
Around 1: 00 in the city members of all the BI, that's why it's the fact that the others were talking with shouting, and sometimes, his companions who were driving backwards, Sambi, Sevidal, Barangay Sevidal, Sevidal, Barangay Sevidal, Salas.
It is 1: As if the police his companions are together and? 2: Sevidal-Sambi, Ipit Gang, "Ipit Gang," Ipit Gang, "Ipit Gang," Ipit Gang, "Ipit Gang, ah," Ipit Gang, ah, and shouting.
1: Betnovate and Tausug, 2: 30, deacadore, 2: 40, dearse, bureaucracy in Sibol, Sevidal-Sibol, Sevidal-Salas.
1.
1: 00, in Barangay Patintero, Kao.
