The traffic is widespread in traffic Bulang Burgos on August 13, 2016.
In the Senate hearing regarding the problem of traffic last Wednesday, it was discovered that in 2015 the number of vehicles at the National Capital Region (NCR) reached P2.4 million while the roads have reached 3,000 kilometers.
Based on the data of the Department of Transportation, there are eight million registered vehicles in the entire Philippines and to 2.3 million pesos in NCR which have more than the total number of total number and this is the reason why the traffic problem is severe in Metro Manila.
And if the increase in number of vehicles in NCR is very fast, it is as well as the slow movement of the streets and in many parts of Metro Manila, it will lead to the worsening traffic in NCR, this will lead to a traffic crisis "like what is experienced today in the cities of Cebu and Davao.
"Fight IT led in Cebu, Fight IT led to Davao. IOS in the EDSA will be focused on the EDSA will be the theme," Tugade in the Senate.
If examined by the traffic problem in Metro Manila, it is a big cause of the lack of discipline to the motorists especially the drivers of jeepney, taxi, tricycle and bus that don't know how to take place in order to take care of passengers.
And because there are no garage, jeepney and tricycle are in the side of the road, they join and usually do a garage, even if the streets are in the streets where they can be cut off.
The Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) has the power to repair the main roads in Metro Manila and this is what they are doing during Christmas season through Mabuhay Lanes or Christmas Lanes.
MMDA is effective in spite of the illegal parked taxis and chemicals released by the illegal activities such as basketball player, carelia, Trillanes, and the cage of their pet animals but every Christmas season.
Not free from the MMDA because they are supported by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), PNP-Highway Patrol Group (HPG), Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), Land Transportation Office (LTO) and local government units (LGUs).
That is why the proposed law of Senator Sherwin Gatchalian that aims to make the public transport of the vehicle to show evidence that they are a pig that parked their new vehicle.
Under his Senate Bill Number 201 who is also known as the called "ProAssociation of Parking Bureau," he can control the incessant buying of new cars of the motorists because those who are allowed to buy are those with garage and parking space which are not in the road.
If the Gatchalian bill will be lessened, foreign vehicles will be lessened because they will be gone to high vehicles and other valuable reasons why EDSA is very tight especially when it is tight.
As of now, even if even if the motorists want to use medical services, they know that the traffic is more beautiful here because of the parked vehicles in both sides of the road.
If the "ProAssociation of Transportation Office" Gatchalian said that this is a big help in resolving the problem in Metro Manila and the emergency powers by President Rodrigo Duterte is not needed to avoid having a severe "traffic crisis."
