How are the LTFRB chairman Ginez himself?

One of the people who does not want to avoid passing by the ero and shameless bus driver and their own operators are not left alone.
If these are not stubborn with traffic rules, which is the cause of severe traffic in Manila, these do not care when it comes to driving their vehicle.
What they do not think is it is a very big vehicle that they are carrying and for sure that its result is a serious disaster every time they will be disappointed, that is why they will be an accident.
The accident that happened last Monday from the skyway which caused almost two dozens of people after jumping the Don Mariano Transit bus from the skyway and fell down and the said passenger van fell down because of the very fast speed of said passenger vehicle.
Almost a week, passenger buses are involved in severe accidents, aside from their construction in a private vehicle because of their lack of etiquette when it comes to driving.
But, what is surprising is why it seems that our government is not doing anything, particularly the Land Transportation and Regulatory Commission and the Land Transportation Office so that the shameless bus operators and evil drivers will lessen.
Every time there is severe disaster, the LTFRB does not do anything but to suspend the franchise of the elected bus companies but just after a few weeks, the caretakers from the streets are back to the streets.
A driver who was involved in intense accident did not hear anything that was sentenced and put in prison because it seems that the fight of the LTFRB is rotten, which is the reason why the drivers and their operators are not afraid to abuse our laws.
I want to believe that the new LTFRB chairman Attorney Winston Ginez himself did not have any difference with what he was replaced and did not do anything but to milk the public utility operators.
Hopefully he can show his courage to show his courage and to take care for the streets the buses that ran by evil drivers and properties of those who seem to have money, operators.
