
Bonifacio and the true change.

By Danilo Arana, Arao November 30, 2013.

Those who are pushing for the society are close to the heart of those who are pushing for the society, the leader of Katipunan, on the occasion of his 120th birthday last November 30, 2013, different activities are happening to give tribute to the so-called global warming.

Whatever is your political belief, it's because his heroism could not be denied during the time of the Spaniards, it is clear that his stand against the colonies and for freedom was not yet clear, for the sake of the Supreme Court (KKK or Katipunan), and also in some parts of the life of Bonifacio.

For example, the debate is ongoing, and where the so-called "cry of Balintawak" (or "

About the life of Bonifacio, the truth about his death and his brother Propaganda of Katipunan was still being verified because he was proven to die from the revolution.

Even the very way for the murder of Bonifacio is not clear, there is something that he tried to escape so he was saying that he was very weak from the wounds caused by his brother-in-law, this is the reason why until now, there is still no decent burial given to the so-called global warming.

The controversies, which is the reason why they do not have much attention on May 10, 1897) day of death of the siblings at Bonifacio), it is better if we do not see any problem with the interest of the rich and deaths, it is clear that his opponents are going to go back to the middle of the rehabilitation center (Middle East), however, it is clear that his opponents are going to go back to the middle of the higher kind of society (social media).

With this research, the truth should be examined by the truth that the siblings Bonifacio will die because of the decision of the corruption.

It is a big deal with what you are applying to - the objective that the entire citizens will trust is the purpose of the Internal Affairs that is the only reason why he made the movement that became the cause of his death.

If we will get a lesson from Bonifacio, this is the importance of Antartica in the time of the mistreatment of him and his supporters to push the real change in society - free from the Spanish people, especially those who denied it.

There is a need to think that there is a need and honor in handling the weapons to achieve what they are fighting for, but because there is a need to learn from the brothers in Bonifacio, there should be a need to learn from the movement in the movement in the movement.

The continuous movement in history means a deep understanding in history, the reason for the continuing struggle: The solution to push for because there is a need to change!
