Arguments in the ocean.

An intense firefight continues in the middle of the ocean.
After China brought the whole map of the South China Sea with the passports and send a patrol ship at 250 islands of Independence Islands this January, the Philippines was replaced by the Philippines the name of the said ocean in the West Philippine Sea (WPS).
In the middle of these dates, the powerful opponents of China, the US, through sending financial support and military in the Philippines.
It is a well of the power territory of WPS (consult a fervent prayer), and it cannot be denied that many want to coordinate with these islands, but in exchange for the Philippines' ownership as the collision of the Philippines, the country was caught up in the collision of the two powerful people.
It was stupefied.
China believes that they were the original discovered by WPS, 2,000 years ago when they drew the map of China last 1947, where the entire WPS was included inside a disastrous scandal.
"China.
But the said map has no effect because it is already old and the condition of the countries is already old and has changed the condition of the countries, Arnold Padilla, public utility officer, who was sentenced with multimillion bill that cannot be launched.
However, China is firm with their rights to WPS.
Since China started to claim the WPS, he wants to use the natural resources of the island, especially when they discovered the reserved oil from the islands, according to the Global Security of oil, one organization in the US that is focused on the public policy.
China is known as second among the strongest implementation of oil price in the world and the strongest increase of oil, according to the US Military Information Administration. Maasin in the low price of their oil which is controlled by the state of the car, truck, and bus.
As a growing country in the aspects of the economy and the international relationship, he wants to become legitimate, he wants the US in 2016 to make the US in 2016 as a failure to claim the region of WPS.
In economic Planning, the bureaucracy.
Secretly.
Even if it is far from WPS, the US is coordinating with power and even if he says he does not take sides in the sea and supported by a "code of conduct" to fix the arguments in the disputed country.
But on the back of the US's statements, another big motive is hiding in the 25th anniversary of the Pacific Ocean, the one of the Pambansang Kamao in the Asia Pacific Ocean, "said US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in one speech last November.
Even the American troops were left in Iraq and Afghanistan to leave forward against the allies of Japan, South Korea, Australia, Philippines, and Thailand to bring a "additional hearing aid and improve the agreement that becomes effective during the time of conflict in the territory.
In fact, it is better for the US to fight the conflict of the countries fighting in WPS in order to give a reason to send additional military forces to the Philippines and to influence the Philippine government of the Philippines, "the US is in self-interest in the office of the US," he explained.
It is already dirty.
Even if there are still two powerful countries, the primary enemy of the Philippines, it did not insist that the ownership of the territory is not shaken to insist on the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Philippines (UPP) where the WPS which is placed in 200 million pesos to the Philippines.
"Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for the Fight IT, thank you, Juvenile's party," said President Benigno Aquino III in his 2012 State of the Nation Address.
To the rules of China, there is a possibility that the Philippines will lose a potential to lose their natural resources that can be used for the progress of the economy, said Padilla.
"
There is no ability to resolve the issues even if the US is not there, according to the US and United States "Eve, an expert in the United Nations (Philippine Constabulary" Eve, which is being monitored by the United States against the US Embassy.
Only in this way of diplomacy and launched a pile of negotiation inside the separate guards like the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and resolve the current arguments, added Sungala.
Aside from the focus of the rally to China, there are some who are planning to understand the combat in the incoming colonization of the US in Asia-Pacific Ocean, after all, the Philippines is just a part of the Philippines to fulfill the goal of the powerful.
Siddiar.
Interest on WPS.
Number of islands, Panatag Shoal or EEO at 250 kilometers per kilo in the right.
The reserved oil is estimated to reach 28 billion to 213 billion pesos or almost 80 percent of the reserved oil in Saudi Arabia.
Naturally, 2-2-four-cadmium), a bigger than five times a 350.8 billion pesos, causing natural gas for the entire Northern America.
It caught fish: Almost 10 percent of the whole fish in the world.
It is the amount of business which is almost 50-50-peso amount of oil tanker which is passing by and with $5 trillion peso ship.
