Let us Pandacan the news about those who have been killed by his girlfriend, Marlon, who were killed in making a bomb in making a bomb and one of his students is one of his students who were one of his students.
For the dead who is already dead, he will be cut off in the corner of the Philippines.
In the International but it was too late.
Live from Quezon City there was a companion in Quezon City.
Jessica has passed that many years have passed, which became a lot of people who became aware, later at the same part of the two, is it not a part of the two.
That is really what we really are, but also in the church, and he said it's still the end, but he does not want to be one.
When we were talking to in spite of this, it was said that her daughter was not clear to spread water.
And on the other hand, most of those who want to go away, I want to go back to me, but I saw that I saw each other beside the P / U: They also wanted to get out of the sudden loss of the sudden.
Those who are against the director; however, it seems that it's the ability to blame it in spite of the liver that should have been done in different parts of Mindanao when I am known that Abdul does not know anything.
But now of PNoy, aside from being.
It can be seen that de Guzman spread out of a business which has been declared by a surprise of a surprise, which was still unknown to him that's why he still didn't have a story, which was being swept up by a piece of paper, which was very popular to the paper.
Joy, I did not know how to express the mark of the mark.
Is Mar really?
Marien is said to bring a Smart of Indonesia like to study how to do something.
Who will be left by the target of little than us.
We narrated the story of September, to your mother what I am beautiful on January to five o'clock; he / she was able to go to school where four bed of them came inside.
In the operation, someone is higher at the operation.
Covetous, fog; and full of sources of dollars, a New Year with a loved one after the one who knows the knowledge in making up.
I said that this will be given to the ID-M A.
If the thick, very handsome, is very handsome for a law that we follow in the last part of a motorcycle.
In the middle of my debut party, in spite of the couple, she just wants to look at the house.
A few kinds of video Iris and a motorcycle collided before the windows.
Covetous, flawless, who went on the sofa in the sofa and covered the interview.
It is said that it is a good thing that he is teaching two times.
In the military, we have talked to the military that there is a huge influence of many.
