
Militant youth, are the target of war against insurgency?

By P2,500.
April 8, 2012.

Militant youth are allegedly not allowed to attract the harassment and domination of the government's security guards (KR Guda.
Groups of young activists reacted in the latest incident of harassment and alleged construction of the suspected agents of the military.
The latest victim of the harassment and spite of the harassment and technology, Senators Gabas and Cambot who is a student of students from the university of the Philippines in Manila.
Last April 2, a suspected intelligence agent who went to their house is Arguelf, and asked the name "Mangudadatu, who lives in their house, although no" Nikki Coseteng, who lives in their house, although they have a visitor here in their house.
In the next day, it was reported that elements of the police and military were jailed and jailed in Las Pinas City as Reynante Gatid, father of Senators Gabas and famous critic of the Bayan Muna Party-list.
In that day, the members of Arguelf was followed by said agents, after she was shot by Guna in their house, after he hide a gun that approached him and repeatedly told him to be with Arguelf, who was told to join him in the house of Nikki Coseteng.
The council of the councils of the students of UP Manila is Arguaving.
"We condemned the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Aquino administration in the latest attack of our members," Vencer Crisostomo, the national chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo also said that it seems that the attack of the agents of the state of their ranks on the first month of 2012.
According to the Tutok-Pacific Ocean, Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang human rights, there are no more than 12 cases of violation of the rights of youth, activists and journalists for the last three months.
Up to 23 leaders of students and journalists have already been victimized, if the military are searching for the suspects, six cases of weeks have been reported, six cases each week.
Being harassed is also a part of the active attack of the Aquino administration to silence the effective faces of the Aquino administration, said that they will benefit the real face of the said administration, they (the Aquino administration), who will benefit from the harassment of the filipino youth, according to Crisostomo.
During the previous administration of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, they implemented the implementation of Oplan Bantay, the military wherein more than a thousand were victims of the murder and kidnapping.
Included in those reported by Tangle are the said incidents of harassment and spite of the young activists.
(1) on January 21, three students of UP Diliman, three students of UP Diliman, who were held by the members of the Aetas in Porac, Pampanga were rescued by the members of the 7th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army and have received a huge damage and physical abuse against the soldiers.
(2) on February 5, eight students of UP Los Angeles City were able to pay attention to the farmers and fishermen in a community in Calatagan and Philippine National Police in the area, the soldiers said that their names were the anti-government and asked for their names.
(3) on February 13, Arvin Auto, was followed by the military intelligence in their house in Marikina City, Aacillo, one of the secretary assets and of the National office of the College of the Philippines.
(4) on February 26, four officials of CEphedrine is included in the name general secretary, Ginger Estella, followed by the members of the military in Catarman, Samar.
(5) on February 27, he saw one of the next men who were riding a motorcycle with Estero and his companions were the newspapers of the students of the University of Eastern Philippines in Samar.
(6) last March 18, Rommel Aguilar, a text message was received by the NPA, his text messages which was being accused by Aguilar, who was telling him to kill her when he joined the election in the councils of the students.
(7) on March 20, Jebri Suterio said, one of the accomplices of UP Vista, an hour of UP in Tacloban has been bitten by the military while they were hired by the military as a model of an Municipal Peace Cup to undergo an intense competition.
(8) last April 3, on the same day, the military and the military were arrested by the military and police and police in Bacolod City, Christian Tumagay in Bacolod City, he was arrested for a warrant of arrest for a warrant of arrest for the members of the NPA.
"It depends on the station that is ongoing for the Oplan Bantay, Less (bloody program against insurgency and Aquino's back," Ginger Estella, "Ginger Estero, second general secretary of the College of the Philippines.
Estella said that it seems that there is no difference in the eye of the military as well as the legal and armed groups and it is dangerous especially since there is no concrete action done by the Aquino administration to stop the cases of killing and kidnapping.
