Jammed prisons!

Can you remember this goes to Admiral's guests at Subic Bay if we have been writing this column because there are a lot of things connected to this column because there are a lot of things that are visible and suspicious?
This is the truth: He was able to get out by the family Gordon and Lorenzana by spreading the Olongapo City Arts Management Council (OCAAP) during the previous administration of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) under Administrator Midas Arenza.
I became the director of the SBMA back then, the son of Veronica who is older than Olongapo ex-mayor Bong Gordon and ex-senator Dick.
A former hospital, became the house of Adosto of the US Navy in Subic, guests of the SBMA after he leave the Americans, which is why they leave the Americans which was standing before the Japanese was standing.
Because the National Historical Commission or fear of its members might not be done until now, it has not been done until now in the destruction of OCACimetidine in Admiral Kuznetsov House which is built in a hotel and restaurant.
This is the truth: Despite the many things that they want to go to Admiral's guests that they want to earn, this will not be given because of "Historical" or historical.
But when Gordon-Lorenzana said, not only given the rent, he was allowed to destroy it, and instead of his monthly pay, Artuz was accompanied to Gordon and Lorenzana, who is only five percent of income to go to the SBMA.
What's worse, there are no activities almost in the built by Gordon-Lorenzana, that's why it was only seven months since he opened up with almost a hectares of land and building which was increased by more than a hectare of land and building, particularly in the previous plazas, Olongapo.
This is the truth: We went back to this because it is still not done in relation to the National Historical Commission.
And here is it, Gordon and Lorenzana really are proud of lightning and rope in front of its construction in front of a parking spots.
After all, it is quick to give a "state of pre-law, who might be the candidate for the candidate, this might be the truth, this is true, Vic Sotto, Jr.
