
Where is one hundred pesos?

It is dangerous for President Aquino and Department of Budget and Management Office Secretary Butch Abad the way.
If they will not be careful, the suspension of the administration of PNoy will continue until 2016, in the time that the six-year-old stay in Malacañang will be finished.
The indignation of the public after the declaration of the Supreme Court that is against the law the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) is against the law.
Some experts are saying that because of DAP, PNoy will possibly be removed from position through impeachment.
Critics and the leaders believe that Noynoy should step down from his post.
Although the impeachment or resignation of Aquino's duty is unlikely to happen, it is not impossible for the removal of Abad's head, which is said to be the "brain" of DAP.
He / she was wearing.
If PNoy will continue to keep on the good friend of Abad, he can call the bad president for protection from an ally who is believed to be guilty.
This is possible that this is the start of declared dead end of his program for the Tuwid na Daan, as well as his administration.
It is not a secret that the military is always on the same time and is always waiting for the enemies of Aquino that are experiencing heavy scenes in the time of the administration of his mother.
He / she was wearing.
Here are the opinion of the young Parañaque Rep. Gus Tambunting, who is one of the so-called "congressmen on PDAF"
"The President should just follow the decision of the Supreme Court and do not complain.
He will move on him and try to do his ability using the remaining fund for the legal to strengthen the country for the last two years of his position.
He should stop politicking and make sure that the country will take care of it and think of its the freezing temperature in history. "
He / she was wearing.
From Facebook account of a good friend, the journalists who will be Jess Materness, is here the comment of UP Lady Marayita Carlos, wherein the Aquino administration, which is a party of the party of the NBI, which is being used by the party of the NBI, which is being used by the party of the NBI, for God's party. "
Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, to the government savings, thank you so that you should be used for a vacation for each other, NBI is a good thing to buy-to-peso money. "
He / she was wearing.
Short of Libra (STS. For comments and reactions, an email about the email line of mail or lemon juice on top of the side of Robert B. Roque, Jr.
