What happens is that, in Nawasa, it's a bit more than thirty people, that's why you would be able to be cut down by all the hearts to be cut off.
It is important to make sure that there will be no call for the country.
Why is it so that the ashes, they are slowly learn how to learn from their term.
After the incident that happened on Jun, all the resentment of the government might be left here, that is why aside from the police, it can be seen that, aside from the police, this is where the soldiers are going to accept the name like that, including the land, including the land there, Dodo, Agawan military.
Flying in English said to buy there before.
Okay.
Nothing here.
He was threatened to catch up; he / she was threatened to be covetousness; he / she was Zombies, Saturday at Barangay Ardiel.
Secret will be secret to Dove.
Meeting was a bit of police Ortigas Olanes, Viceral?
I, on the other hand, the online security guard asked your personal security guard for the ocean and personnel to send him to the country in Pasay City only because there was a total of 60 policemen in the consecutive areas of Metro Manila.
He / she was able to look down; he / her four-four-four-four sons of Two Wives were both wounded.
"Oh Zhmmmp!
It's because of the former's older sister being thrown away from the barbells.
I do not want it to happen.
Me.
Maybe on the month, more than fifty three thousand police are going to attend the mall to be safe from the mall for the highest number of those who have been the highest number of police officer in a police officer, four policemen, four Indonesians, policemen.
At the other hand, Two people, which have been a number of years, have not yet been seen by the police, who can be seen in a condo that's possible to be seen, because there is a lot of those who are going to go to Santa, perhaps, they still do not see any director of a threat in our country, that's why there's a sign that I am going to have a message to our country.
Zurbano family, they are asking what they might have in their past few parts of Mindanao and to be able to monitor porridge and bark in the country, just like what happened to your life, you will not hear.
Four o'clock.
Two others were wounded.
Vincent Peale has a barbell.
Four consecutive wins in August, five four o'clock.
Control here in Rizal.
There is no signal that is also getting there.
Let's just let in putting up when Lloyd Cruz is going to do something like mushrooms.
A fight is five years old and he said that he will do this in the position that I will do.
Whatever it is.
They are studying.
Vi'll be the Philippines!
Lotion about that, that's why I asked the picture of PNoy to tell him that I have seen a very weak man in their area as a public utility vehicles, which can be seen by the breast that can be seen by the breast that's why they have seen it in the right Facebook.
It is possible that you will report it with Cheska Diaz, one of the eight four-four-four-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-
