He snubbed the hearing of Miriam Santiago.

Last Friday, the hearing of the Senate was held on the alleged suspicious activity of former DILG Undersecretary Rico Puno, especially in the buying of the PNP.
It is more sad to think that only Rico Puno is the only one who came and the other government executionaries are not able to take advantage of the hearing that Senator Miriam Santiago and some officials of the PNP did not arrive in the investigation.
According to the first news from Malacanang, the investigation of Santiago is said to have not been submitted by Santiago's investigation and is supposedly needed to be sent by Senadio as a need to be sent by Senadio.
This will attend the meeting.
It is sad to think that this oil that was used by the former President and now Congresswoman Gloria Arroyo is used in the investigation of the Senate hearing in Executive Order 464, it is said that the President has given the President before becoming anemic and speaker of the government executive in a hearing.
For a administration who did not do anything but criticized the former administration and compared to himself, what is frustrating, "the tactic that they criticized was used by Noynoy.
But it seems that nobody is noticing it! The truth is, Noynoy was on his side with his senators and the 11 senators did not arrive in the hearing of Santiago that it would be better if Koko Pimentel and Allan Cayetano have a strong feeling.
This is where you can see the quality of our leaders with no abuse and integrity, they are on their side when they will benefit from it, so that the actions that they are saying will be contrary to what they are saying.
Think, if there is a half-year distance from the election?
The hearing aid was seen but because it was on May, and probably when they were reached, it was quick for four o'clock when they ran away.
Now, Santiago finished the hearing because of her co-years and we will say that Santiago is very annoyed and you do not like her attitude, but to all the senators, she is already over to show up to the International Criminal Court in Hague.
