"We are crying because in a day when we talk to the school students, they will be able to talk with it with a bad effect on my health, especially to children using small children in a call centers, right age, less than fifty.
This is where a six-year-old man went down because after a few more dangerous parts of the body is the advice of these children.
The lawyer station Ariel Quilang said that food was used inside the house in the system of our country that is why you have mentioned that it is going to be permanent.
We are with our household help.
.
Someone received a visitor and then.
Early.
It has not yet been four of Baguio or NJ; so we can go out, and what we say is that we are going to go out, and that is also one of those who loves you, that's why we already know that those who loves someone who loves someone else will really be able to paint it.
Because children are already discovered.
We went through it again in a laboratory that we should know if it is true this December is coming out.
They had a pig fat; he / she was really wild; he fell down.
We are very pitiful; we are calling out that I am being asked by someone else, because it is called out that it is not just a sign that we are going to see that we are getting killed, we can only remember that it is just all ten months to keep the children's use, which is why it will only be that the children will start on their high school.
"We are very pitiful; we are not going to go earlier because of the deceitful clothes, two thousand, and we are four.
They are still affected.
It's really the children who are ill-tempered; as long as the hole of the removed paint there, it is possible that even on the side, it is possible that even on the side wheelchair in the house where you are in basketball again.
Fuck, deport; we have a lot of people.
Made a moment.
According to the story, I do not have a hold-load; he / she is taking advantage; that is why they use paint.
It's as an alternative that he wants to rise because for those who are doing this, they still continue to catch up; we are still calling their things but this is what's needed now, which is why they need to go to school.
How do we do to rush me like this?
It is possible that it is possible to pass by paint to use what kind of vegetables that I do not have a load of human beings which can become stronger to your children who are thick, which can be strong even if there is no need to use.
With no load wait for a minute, I know that we know the effect here in your health, how in the house there is also an effect that will be an effect later on whatever kind of paint it is.
It will be able to take revenge on our school that will just be called up in our school by a little cow with a little bit of food that is why we have the money, which is why we don't have any money.
Those who are possible.
They will add to that, let me look at me so that I can go to me; she said at the back of his friend.
It is easy to use paint.
To my friends.
Paper and that is the right thing, right?
Suddenly.
You are proud.
That is the first time I discovered that this was a secret which has been written in someone's feelings, which is why it turns out that I am also watching a leave.
He / she was the one to be a friend.
However, you will lead today, Tanim-budol; and what we used to be degraded; we are just fooling around four million pesos to four persons after two years of Two people who are both five years old.
How will they continue to continue.
Floor!
I am Tony for us to continue campaigning against these companies.
Children should be used when our projects are going to have a teeth, what is just near us; we are just near the sake of our next health, the sake of the coffee, especially the children, especially the children, especially them everyday.
We have been helping this for a long time with the company that there is no politician who made a child, who can do a child, whose interest might come, maybe no one is coming.
"We are anxious; he said that we are really going to go when we are really in the right time, hopefully, he would be given priority to the welfare of the health of giving mud to both of us.
That can be allowed in an accident that is annoying for that.
