Another question.
Doctor that's a doctor, who should do the right thing to do when you feel that.
Together with the increase in his mouth.
I feel a symptom of menopause every morning.
When I was five years old, I could really be.
This is the disconcerns that the sudden feeling of the sudden heat of the sudden heat, especially the women with menopause, which is why they are saying that they are ill-tempered; the woman.
Before, it was said that even if it was a cat, we also have a lot of men, what we call is what kind of group is, isn't it that they are not really worried that it is not yet done by Jony.
Two worry that we are going to watch there in Chua.
Because you can wait for it because sometimes.
I will ask for others why you are not stupid that they are asking from other ways, natural treatment or a bit of strange things.
So as well.
In a different kind of discussion, it is said that the severe heat that is being felt in accordance with the extreme heat that we feel is to declare a lot of resentment in the bottle that we need to declare a lot of fruits, and then see the fruits that we have entered the body.
!
You will be touched that you are applying at and locked up in between the coming home.
Covetous, full of sweat or Ate Jackie's sweat, while we are.
Along with the heat of the system, Jayson holding a call wooden pincers which also didn't often go home and then, it is also not often brought home.
In English when the heat coming from our bodies will be released because this situation is very hot and we need to push through whatever it is that you are together especially when it's all kinds of things.
You are with you in the hot season so do not forget it.
That is the right time for the wake, it seems that the heat in the body is not a savings, every morning.
After all, a teacher, who is very busy, especially those who are sickly that's why your immunity will get stronger.
We will be afraid of our immune system, it is possible for him to take a bath but in the morning, Golie was in the morning.
"What's okay is what the gay should do to him, I said, to look at the same age; as well as the ones who have sex, I said to know what kind of little Factor.
Aside from the lack of roaming around, those with your food, our food will only be applied at our system that may be eaten by those who have mercy on us.
So what kind of yes is that, as long as long as there is a high blood pressure, the body has not yet been high blood, from fried fish to fried fish, that is why our vegetables are very high.
There are those who are bad or soup, and then there is still no food being thrown in Bulacan, it is only on food in Bulacan who can be filled with soup.
The food of Sally are very black, and fried to the leaves, and let us keep the system together with the sake of the immune system, M Pope Francis too much sweetness and too much alcohol.
We are anxious; we're only deceived; we do not know that we will be put in our place to eat and can help with the food that we will eat.
Heide fought the radiation yes.
Instead of others.
So what?
You are yellow only to give ice cream-ice.
Sack!
But what we can do is not for the sake of the people on Thursday.
Yes, even if we have the school-halo-halo-halo, it is already tired if the heart might be affected if not only one, it can be affected if it's not possible that it can help us, but there are food that will not be affected by PNoy, it is possible that there will be an ice cream-ray; we are not going to help each other, which is why it's not possible that it will give color to the heart (X-ray; and it is not possible that it will give color to the heart (x-ray; and it is not possible that it will give color to the heart disease.
What are going to sleep for the fruit of fruits, so that they are the ones who are weak and are not there?
Grapes are watermelon seeds.
Please call the two hundred people with you there, right?
But
Covetous, deport; similar to money.
The money if we will buy at any kind of pier.
That is why it can be said that it is possible that there will be no number of bullets, it is as if you wash the skin of the money they will eat and you will eat a reserved skin.
And this will be added to the clean skin.
His wife.
What is the call of that?
What's just like that, at the Food Court's ayes; he / she was able to look straight and clean the color orange and coercion.
I have forgotten that it is a name for him to be with the effect of human system that's why he is in a blender.
So short; for snacks; it is for snacks, that's why it's right for you to reach the mind, but you can still find a reserved reward for you to make the vegetables, fruits that you use as well-in-law.
A reserved reward to the skin and other plans that can be brought here.
Very small; fuck, watermelon seeds cannot be the skin of banana skin which is not too bad for the skin of his skin.
A circle of watermelon seeds can be very clean.
What would be the skin of our profession or the Filipino to be the effect of this system.
It can also be able to pay attention.
Very small; we are the ones who are in the near and you can only say that this is the only effect that he will use, it can only be used by a small system, and it can be seen that it is not a small amount for you to make your favorite fruit at all of your favorite.
A favorite snack time, more importantly, isn't it?
Yes, that is right.
Fuck, fur; my favorite.
I have been done there for a lot of people, who are proud of all, all of us.
My favorite is the blurring.
Because it was quick to go through, the dote will be fast, and it is also possible that the skin of the dresses are also reserved for them to do that is to boil it again and end the mind.
The blurring.
Don't you make it as if it's too hot, do you eat while it is very hot, you will drink it like you so that you can drink it so that you can drink it so that you can easily hear the excessive smell of the blurring.
He is really familiar as a foul odor, fog; and covetousness.
It is not a friend, but it is effective to go against you with the dote yes, right?
My answer is delicious.
