HL-HE is Hala BE.

Recently, the report was released regarding the "crime rate" in the province of Batanes, Zero, according to the police blotter, aside from the dogs that hit the street, they did not follow the incident like the socket, killings, theft and other crimes.
Even if they say that the number of their population is very small, all residents (not voters) in the whole province are just too small.
But what they showed is amazing, it is true that they are the peace talks that is why because of that we salute IOS in Ivatan!
Not just like some police station here in Metro Manila just to look effective in their operation and management is forced to be exported in their police blotter.
This is the real purpose to cover their failure!
Don't imitate the residents of Batanes!
Dorina Pentrante, baptisms, because it depends for the rule of the issue, it is the congressman of Batanes, Henedina Abad, his wife DBM Secretary Butch Abad!
Do you know, to make sure that the Batanes and the population are small, it is almost 100 million peso which was released by Secretary Abad, "pork barrel" in his wife on 2011?
Which if all the congressmen have allocations while one of the P40 million every year is the mental problem with Representative Henedina Abad.
Just the two of them, make sure that what I know is the reason why the PDAF just goes on top of PDAF, I mean, the representative of Batanes.
First, because he is the wife of Secretary of the Department of Budget and Management!
He did not even feel ashamed with their skin and those inhumane!
They did not even feel ashamed of PNoy.
They did not even feel ashamed of Ivatan... there was no matter.
They were only embarrassed to the Filipinos.
And he did not even feel ashamed of the Lord God!
A Second, Abad is laid before, haunting, haunting and haunt!
What's more painful, the Disbursement Acceleration Program or DAP are going crazy about the Disbursement Acceleration Program or DAP, which is a product of "atile," said Secretary Butch Abad!
Can you think, while the palace is getting carried away by the Palace, it would be a big thing that is much more than the PDAF just built by PNoy.
A secret will be has a secret even if it is still another signal.
"It is proven that this DAP was published!
They are both living together!
