Certificate of ND's decision is shown to the Duterte administration.
By Fortun, July 4, 2016.
For the very first time, three famous activists for the National Democratic Front (ND) adc was given by the cabinet under the new administration of President Rodrigo Duterte.
Included in the ND) who are in the cabinet of Rafael Mariano of Kilusang Magistrado) as secretary of the Department of Health Organization (NFL), Secretary Judy Taguiwalo was the secretary of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) and former Gabriela Party-list Representative Liza Maza as chairman of the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC).
One day before the 19th of the 16th President Duterte, the National Football Federation assured the National Football Federation of aims to challenge the Duterte administration to implement the Duterte administration who attended the gathering of UP campus in Diliman, which was led by the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan).
Included in the 15 point agenda can be made into the internet, fix the internet, fixing the internet and private sector, the increase of violence in the government and private sectors, particularly the interest of the indigenous people and national establishments, and for sure that our Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) are going to receive true reform.
It is also stated in the People's Agenda in good governance, long-lasting peace and human rights, and policies.
Secretary Judy Taguiwalo was said to have said that it is not new for the People's Agenda because he has been fighting for a long time and will continue to fight for the national government officials.
I will not be surprised if the People's Agenda submitted by Bayan of the Duterte government is under the 15 point program of the National Democratic Front (NDF) that is currently talking with a 48 year rebellion of the Liberal Party of the Philippines (CPP) and military as the New People's Army (NPA).
It is expected by the group that led by Bayan to focus on the administration of Duterte for the first one hundred days.
And it seems that this would be considered by Duterte's priority because in facing the leaders of different groups of ND's in Malacañang last June 30 after the rally in Mendiola.

Many are wondering why the left of Duterte's administration when Senator Grace Poe and Francis "Chiz" Escudero is endorsed by the ND party-list Representative Neri Colmenares because of the candidacy of Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Neri Colmenares because of the candidacy of Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Neri Colmenares.
But it is also not unknown to the knowledge of many of ND by Duterte, they are really original to support the vice president but failed because Digong said that he will not run.
It's a good thing that CPP founding chairman Jose Maria Sison himself has a direct line with Duterte and open its statement that he supports his candidacy for presidency that is why Digong is priority of the peace talks with the CPP-NDF.
And this is the reason why ND has a decision now in the government of President Rodrigo Duterte.
