To whom we have been in our past but I have been cut off, that is why there are three television series that went away and nothing.

"Yes," I said, "I said," I said, "me," I said, "I didn't want you to go to school; I said that you didn't really go to school; he / she said that you didn't want to go.
I said, if you want to go because there is no computer, I might have nothing to pay for it tomorrow but it might not be open to pay, he does not have the internet to pay, even like that in the shop.
It's because he / she was distressed; he / she has no debt, that's why I have no debt of gratitude for me.
I do not have a debt, but I have no debt of gratitude that's why even if you are not able to pay you even if you are not able to pay even if you do not have a debt.
Yes, all of them, are they going to be here now?
Isn't it that you have a different-month-old, isn't it that, like someone who has a fight, just leave before that they have been cut off in the house first before going to their house.
Okay.
Yes.
Yes, you do not have any other ears there like Judy Juvenile.
He / she was able to look down; he / she wasn't able to look down; he / she wasn't able to look straight; he / she grew up; he / she grew up; he / she was on duty, he / she was on duty yes.
You have been broken, Gasper cent; and very fog; what are you early before you get married before you pay.
I said yes, that is why I need to text yes, just like that, I am just like that?
I also told me that she was texting yes, that is the internet yes.
I really want to go back to me.
You can do it?
That is when you have not been cut off.
And something that is already different now.
"There are more words that I will be able to go to school; so as long as you are not the same with what you do not like before or not just one month, we can send it to one month.
Covetous, fur.
He will send a number of a week to send only to a week to send human rights; rather than four o'clock in the span of age; he can be swayed by the number of P-INTEL HQ. "I cannot do it.
Yes.
Yes, that's why they know it is very clear yes, that's why you can really be cut down, that's why you can see that you have been two months old; we can look at each other for two months, they can pay one after each other.
We are very pitiful; we are really like that, right now, who are the ones who are at the same age; we should just leave them now, not anymore.
We are stupid; we are not right now, but many of you are now different now, but many of you are just right now, not just this month or not, not anymore.
It is okay for her mother to be able to pay early so early, because it is still early so that you have to pay early so that you are not able to pay hunger, and now that you have a money to pay, you will really have money to pay.
"It is really like that, let's not be in there right now, right now, there is nothing else to look at, at around eleven o'clock.
Jumarito said that it is not right, no matter who can be broken; as long as they have been cut off; it should have been cut off; it should be ten-M-flown.
I have different things.
"It is already different now, I said," I said, I have a debt; I have a debt, right, "I said that you have a debt that is why he said I have no debt.
"We are very pitiful; I do not know how I am my mother, because I am his mother, I do not have a debt of gratitude; that's why they are the ones who are proud; we are the ones who are proud of.
Yes, what kind of you that you are really a mistress, so there's nothing else that we have no choice but to take care.
There will be an agreement now on how they can make a mistress right now?
You will not pay anything to what you say.
We are very proud; we are just good to me, you are only good for me as the fourth person who has been one of what Jumarito said, what else should I be the only one who gives us.
But yes, but you don't have any idea, to look straight.
"We also have something that I also have, I have a lot of things, I am calling that I am going to call that we are going to call each other.
"Maybe you will call me immediately, right? I have the same so that you can call him / her.
You will call up yesterday that he memorized it with what she said yes.
