
Being an actor.

By Presiding Judge Ferredo, September 2, 2013.

Vilma Santos, in the movie, "an extra."

PO 1: An hour (The BE), Nunber 1244;, Vilma Santos, 58; and Jeffrey Jawooooooo, and Jeffrey Jhmm, Anzon, Jeffrey JO one, Jeffrey Janthem.

Vilma Santos is having fun and will make sure that he is an expert in his First indie film, an expert in the box office in the main cinemas as the 20th floor of the Star Awards for ABS-CBN.

A little cold-sangandila by Vilma Santos is seen in the beach, a common mother of the masses that you might encounter on the street or they are just waiting for someone who just call him as a person who looks like a person who looks like a person who looks like a person who looks like a person who is going to call for the payment for the child's bills.

The life of those who are connected to this way is clear, but despite the thick smoke, the reality is clear that it is still difficult for me to become an expert, instead of putting on a small scene at the young amount that they have worked hard for.

Vilma Santos is very good as Loida Rivas, who is the reason why Ruby Ruiz-or a better actress "Doris" in Bandola, "My Heart) and the prime of Jeffrey Jawantan together with the movie Tuburan, Kuusuela of Minoras and Minsan Lang.

He showed an expert how much the showbiz has been fed up in the industry especially for those who are full of contractual and no certainty in work.

The parents and children have become pitiful, tired, money, money and clothes to cut in a movie but in the end, they are not the requested character in the movie.

"As an excuse that is why even at dawn or late hours of night, it will be left at the middle of the vehicle and will leave even in the middle of the coconut milk or a cellphone, that will be fortunate like Amalia Fuentes or Gloria Romero that started to be recognized and famous like their idol.

But it is not just an extra thing that you can understand in the movie, that is why they have not yet been fed up, but who should not sacrifice their heads so that they should not sacrifice their heads but to the excessive heat of their heads which is why they still have to sacrifice one but the poor.

It is not only the motivation of Loida Rivas and aside from his dream of becoming famous, she is also a good fans when she sees her idol, friends and acquaintances, but just to be seen and replaced by others in his role.

The life of an extra.
