The extraordinary BNs, honored in 2nd Barangay Nuaimlessly.

August 21, 2016.

City of Lucena, Quezon, August 22) August 22 (Pia) - some of the barangays were bewildered by some of the barangays whose own duty in expressing their duties in holding an 2nd Barangay Cumaditures which was held in Quezon convention center on August 5, 2016.

In the span of A 1st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay.

Theresa B. Fortich, Atimonan, which was held up to P40,000 pesos, a standing barangay hall of Barangay OPLAN), which will cost P80,000; a standing barangay action officer, GM Bodet Z.

Chambers (Tayaban, that led to P40,000; and the one standing by the municipal hall Council, Atimonan, which is around 200,000 pesos.

In OB-3rd, the 5th Special Action Force, Susan A. Medalar of Barangay Binoe, Agdangan said that it will cost up to P40,000; a standing barangay council chief, which will cost P80,000.

Cecilia Discargar, Pantukan, held P40,000; and a standing near the town of Alabama Council in the town of Alabama highway, carrying P200,000.

Quezon Governor David "JayJay" C. Suarez admitted that he was leading in socializing with BNs, municipal hall action, provincial multimillion committee, and Barangay Sinunuc of different towns in the province.

In her pregnancy, Governor Suarez said that the province of Quezon is the most beautiful and has a proper program which has been implemented at first, the implementation of the program, "a program that was held by the National Transformation Council which was held under the Department of Health.

Alona-list representative Anna Villaruz, Suarez admitted that he is part of his experience in raising the three children through the proper implementation and health.

Former Senator Ferdinand Marcos Junior has become a guest who can cross Vice-Governor Sam Nenita, Regional Trial Court (WBC), Regional Trial Court (Article) Carina Zig Tan, Jerry Tell Tan, Jerry Taba, and Raquel Mendoza.

The said program is aims to give proper guidance to the citizens especially those pregnant to take care of their health (Pia-Quezon / Quezon City.
