
Amazing!

By Campos.
October 19, 2012.

(1) the truth is, Akbayan is first reported by the participation in the election case that there is no need to cook when it was only 1998 then they have joined meanwhile the disputed territory such as Bayan Muna, last 2001.
The mastermind of Akbayan is just inside the bark, they really want to join the election and to enter the government of the rich and powerful, compared to the government, it is certain that one of them look at the second as a way to make the first.
They are scattered on a solution but to join the election, and to join the election, and let us go to the government, and there is also a way for the reforms to push through, and there is also a way for reforms to push through, which is possible, the true change will not happen.
Included in the minds of the local officials of Akbayan as the Pambansang Kamao in the decade of 90. 90.
That's why Akbayan has first been able to join the upcoming corruption partylist to have been almost done by the Leflawless, along the corner of Bayan Muna Partylist, the effects of giving value to reflect on Thursday at the end of the Bayan Muna Partylist, which was proven by the Pambansang Kamao for the real change in Kalibo, Bayan Muna.
In the following elections, it is not the party of the Lefur, the Lefry who got the majority of the highest votes compared to any kind of race who are introducing themselves as corrupt and fraud.
(2) the Akbayan continued not only from the participation in the election and to enter the Congress, but also in the hard work of serving in government, the featured form of alliance with any president was elected.
In 1992, the local officials of Akbayan also get praises for the government of Fidel Ramos, because he is not the traditional politician, because according to Joseph Estrada and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
But Akbayan also became the closest to Noynoy Aquino, he gave a lot of high position in the government for Akbayan as a replacement, for general, the Akbayan will not fully prove and be separated from the anomalous group of the Marcos regime, and it is better that he will ask for funds - before, and probably until now.
(3), that is why when it comes to this year, the eve of the elections this year is, there is a basis of Blackwater and other groups of youth together with the model of Akbayan as the government of the Aquino government and they need to remove from the elections fund.
Akbayan cannot accept the filing of petition for its qualifications.
Because the public can be strong and easy to understand the basis of its qualifications, the Akbayan also got desperate, especially since the leader of the Aquino government was found out of power and fried a DVD in the past months.
Because of depression, he accused that they are being accused of the sanctity of the United Nations of the Philippines, Anakbayan, reaches out and other organizations which Akbayan also said, that this is what Akbayan also said that the leaders of Akbayan also said that this is one of the students of Akbayan to make this lies.
Because of that, Danao has protested at a press conference of Akbayan Rep. condemned the "red-tempered" which the latter did, due to the abduction and killing of many activists before, and they are continuing to investigate.
Of course, Akbayan let the issue get out of the issue that the protest is sent out for the qualifications of its qualifications, when it is not; about the protests of the military to the command of the military and also for the help of Akbayan.
(4) there are friends of the Lefand of Akbayan who are going to the middle of the ceasefire, like a ceasefire, and it shows sadness and concern for Akbayan as his "sibling," he is both progressive. "
Against the logic, the call for the first is against the logic, the basis is the basis for Akbayan as the second, because of desperation of the military as if you have a sibling, like Akbayan as the one who has a sibling, like Akbayan, is it not?
And the third, the progressive is in action, not in words, even if Adolf Hitler was blamed, but it is not enough for Akbayan as his companion or allies in the fight against the Aquino administration, this is not enough for the policies of the Saligang Batas and giving the type and against the citizens.
Is it just like you who wants to be progressive, progressive, isn't it just pretending to be just pretending to be just pretending, not just joining the two but they are also included in the right and progressive?
(5), but the real issue has become clear to the citizens, they know that this is not acceptable to the Aquino government, and it is deserving to focus on the election case.
Akbayan also tried to rise from the issue, what he wants, is that it can be washed away by the discontentment of the Lefts and those who are envious of the power and those who are envious of the power and those who are envious of the power and those who are pretending to be progressive and are pretending to be progressive.
In the chapter now, if Akbayan can run for it, it will be revealed that it will be revealed and the Aquino government is ready to dominate this system, so it is certain that the shameless Partylist will continue to prevent it and, most of all, Akbayan also will continue to reveal himself.
