May 1, 2013: A huge protest versus the regime of PNoy.

President Aquino said that the sector of working on May 1 is said to celebrate this day of work, because of the "good upbringing by the administration and the said sector, but the answer of the workers: A better protest and condemn.
More or less 30,000 people, from different countries, are trying to negotiate with the Aquinos who have joined the rules headed by Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) in Manila on May 1 when they were together with the refusal to give a raise for the salary of the workers.
"
Last year, Aquino refused the increase, and instead, the administration has allegedly used an additional wage increase this May 1 but according to the law, they cannot add to additional wages, or for an ordinary event that will give additional wage increase in order to give the raise.
"What can this government be looking for, when the salary of the workers is clearly seen, it is very far from the Wage," says Roger Solsona, general secretary.
The salary of the workers said that the salary of the workers in the increase in price of commodities will no longer be wasted, the Aquino's action is added to the formal wage increase in any wage increase.
Malacanang earlier said that he will lose one 1-governmental organization, but the request that will be increased in the salary of the employees and workers will be allowed to be transferred to the hands of the employees and workers, away from the hands of capitalists have.
It will also be implemented by Aquino's refusal to dismiss the defamation and lack of certainty in the work of the workers, it seems that Aquino wants to take advantage of the workers, "said Soleta.
It is also condemned for the use of Aquino to the non-Wage benefits, because the workers are coming from the tax and contribution of the workers in front of the increase in price of goods and services.
"What the workers need, the meaningful salary and security in work, this is what the family of the worker needs because of the increasing number of electricity, water and other bills," Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
Salvador said that the president is using the workers and the day of making her image, "the thickness of his face, the government has not done anything for the workers, he said.
The candidate also said for senator, Teddy Casino that Aquino showed the "lack of concern for the workers."
"Their request is already a little bit, he has not left anything," said casino, about the continued refusal of Aquino for the meaningful wage increase.

Casino also said that it is possible that the government of Aquino will not rely on the interest of the workers, because the position of the president is always in favor of big employers, businessmen and foreign contacts. "
"" The workers, we did not even give recognition and any concern, "said casino, which is the only candidate for senator who came from the ranks of the movement of the workers.
Meanwhile, in the mass held at the Church of the Black Nazarene in Quiapo, the workers, Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle thanked the workers in its construction (workers) of the society.
"Thank you to the workers, if you do not have anything, our society is not there," Tagle said, in the mass led with 25 more priests.
Tagle also announced that the dignity of people, the workers should be given first before the destruction of the pipe.
"Even if it is possible that the worker has changed, the dignity and rights are not change, he added that Tagle is needed to change their rights and is calling on the national institutions to address the issue of workers.
