It has been eaten this day in the Philippines that passengers of jeepney are also coming in S.
There is a movie in Morong and no people.
They were able to be with anyone but nobody is rude.
But for sure, it is as well as well.
Who are positive, does not know how to see.
Hit in the area of operation.
But his eye is already gone and I am still tired.
That is how you are in Mindanao with her Fourth Street Castillo.
Speaker.
We were able to look down; he / she said that there were one more than two years old; there were still two Maestries inside the police inside a span of seven days, I still haven't continue their heads which is why it was not only the members of the blessing.
I caught up with it, it is possible that even if I already have a long time I already went down as well as well as well.
On the road, the road will go up to consecutive days after the arrival of the military troops in a barangay in oneself and not yet.
We add new witnesses to voluntarily surrendered.
In Barangay Hall.
Meanwhile, the motor was broken; as well as a banana, very banana, so they will not lower than forty-eight of those in Morong and five years old; that's why they were full-hearted.
It can be remembered that only half kilos of problems in our location is a huge burden to me and the elderly who is ill-tempered in the place.
How do you know how to collect it to April Pasig.
Two o'clock in the afternoon.
I clear.
Strong after a few minutes.
It was three o'clock in the afternoon when they conducted a Office of the military as the second of the past.
It has not yet confirmed if he has a job with his enemy.
But now, in an official, the Revilla Family, who are low, are fearless and distressed.
I am just a moment I am busy.
Or not a man, what will I call.
You!
Who here in.
These soldiers are able to pay for.
That is why it is still clear now what we are doing to drink how big is.
Who should have listened to each other, who will be swayed by additional pension for the soldiers.
Until past four o'clock in the afternoon, a while ago, the victim might still continue to pass again.
Dog.
My favorite statement of the Philippines is still what you are saying to be cut down earlier this morning.
It took a few months with the eighty of the motorcycle which is believed to be where the tourist believes.
With the emotion of the gun.
I am about thirty members.
The companion of Mac-Mac.
In the operation of the gun.
I repeat, I have two twins who are concerned about to see each other, whose ten people are fond of factories, each other in the barangay, because you were able to watch the color in the land that you have used to have a lot of people.
Every house in the camp has a bank that I am going to be the right place in barangay there.
Material used in making decisions were taken from them.
I told my birthday of a few guns, closed and documents.
There's only four kinds of ty Go of D's girlfriend, but it's still poor, that is why it is hard to get back again.
It has also been a few hours of walk by a gun to get and have a big sister, V: I.
At the point of sing, C-C - the troop is hot because there are still new owners of the surrounding.
The faces of the clothes in-B can be seen in the faces of clothes; that's why when it comes to the T'boli Chief Inspector.
For the long time, the man is asked to let the men immediately drink water.
We saw a soldier earlier who was wounded when we discovered that he had a right taste in the face.
I want to get back with it but we have known that we are currently being accepted but you can be considered illegal; however, while yes, while yes, I will call.
Hundreds of hours have not ended after the First Republic is still not finished.
Carried by two million pesos C-five, which is the cause of the traffic from two five-Break of the airport 'ata in the city hall of Diliman, 85 years old, which caused him to recover the bag.
Let us go.
Metro troops.
What if you get two more than half a kilo of Metro Manila, the soldiers are far away from the time, that's why they do not know what they did, that's why they do not know what they have given, which is why even the residents of the surroundings, which are the residents of the surroundings, that they work hard to sing so that they work hard work.
We were able to look down; because of this, we were forced to meet the former enemy, but before this is not enough, that we still have to pay attention to the second soldier who was given up by a receipt saying that it was with a receipt.
That is just one of the soldiers who showed that they have made it earlier that we were able to say yes, we were able to say yes to the bullet that we have not mentioned in the hands of the soldier because we have not yet mentioned any story because for now we still do not have any form.
If there is an old exchange of gunshots.
There!
In grade that's in grade that's been removed after being beaten-off; he / she is very high-tempered; he / she is really in front of the ten-year-old government and we are really in front of the ten-year-old government and '"x-M / her.
They are looking for someone who are also injured in different kinds of establishments; the soldiers, whose soldiers are right, are not the only ones who is not Gervacio.
Fuck, fuck, fuck, cut off from in front of you.
Jessica has passed by all officials that we are talking to here in Baclaran to good.
Drilling, fur; they are telling the school of Dencio in the same time.
You are using me 'R: C to the person I talk to because of the doctor's doctor.
"It has been a number of-B;" Ate Tess, that is why sometimes, once, we have to take a report to the nooks; Gerry Lopez while we can say that we would have a face-in-law.
We are very proud; we are the voices of the government and that's why I am going to comment on the amount that we showed here at home and for us to just wait for something from it.
But in short; we were able to look at that, in Cubao, that's why, at least in Cubao, they were able to keep on-minded; that's why they just kept on advancing people; we were distressed as well-minded; and covetousness of the soldiers.
Your soldiers, who are at the same age, were able to look for two few minutes and then sing yes, there is no five hours that is going home.
That is nothing.
Ah, for their fellow countrymen, they asked that they are going to go to school; they are the ones who for the candidacy of Robert they are giving up to the enemies to do that in case the motorcycle will be there.
It is controlled by the dresses, that's why they are the students who are like that.
That is where they have seen the gunshot in Jessica Office to what I see in the video that I see in the video of you in the video, that they've been saying that he has a bomb; that is why they have a bomb; that is why there is a ground that we really go to, like that.
They are going to see each other; as long as we know, all of our housemates are going to do that, at the ground, that's why they can see that they are going to go to the ground that is why they can hear that they're going to play a while, we can hear earlier that there are a few who are in the area, that's why we can hear that there are a few who are in the area, that's why we can hear that there are a few who are in the area, that's why we can hear that there are a lot of people who are in the area.
It was used by the thick opponent that there was a lot of joy reported that they were able to leave the house that they have done when they saw a lot of people in Jessica Office 'that we saw each other, which is why they did not just leave all people because it's as if you did not just leave all people.
According to him, it has been an emergency room that has been removed from the emergency room and that is when our countrymen are mad at our fellow countrymen.
Yes, we are full-tempered; Jessica is with us.
They make sure that we are mistaken, before four o'clock in the afternoon, we can say that we are the residents of our fellow countrymen, we can say that we are in a case in the bathroom, Peter Mariano, but it seems that they are there to be the movie that they are there at the back.
I am just looking at the evil people who are true, that there are two princes in the airplane that I will buy four hours.
Covetous, fur.
They immediately say that one thing you say about your back in Bulacan, they know.
Two people who are almost four years old, no matter how it is being used in Jessica, it's like that in our store that we left there, that is where we eat while we are eating what according to them.
The soldiers are stubborn; and deport.
I came closer to the enemy, because they had a lot of people; he / she had a lot.
Well, it has been over again that they have not been afraid of anything.
So many of our fellow countrymen are to be complacent about early.
They were very surprised by this form because they are on the same tone of the gunshot near the near place.
"It's okay that we're only okay the same thing.
Our Cruz.
We were able to point out; we are very angry; we are the ones who look at each other, they are the ones who have been cut off; we have already been cut the drivers back then.
Taking clothes in every night, it continues to be operation in the head.
Yes, we received a text message that, like a official who is with us like that, in how to sing, I am the ones who takes care of them.
"There are no other people who, according to what I know, that to what I know, that is why we still do not know what kind of text; we still do not know what kind of text; we are still waiting for a text message to school, like that.
The troop here in the area said that we have not signed, we have not yet confirmed, but until you are still able to get off, you have already been cut off; so that they are saying that it's the same thing they are saying.
There is something.
"If you are sick, because you do not know where he will come from what he said, he can go to his troop that's why he can take care; that's why it's difficult that we can go ahead; the poor, who are poor.
"We, in the same age, were able to go to school; we need to speak to our friends, those who are not answering, now that they are not able to catch the soldiers now, they are not able to catch up with the soldiers now that they have not caught up with the coffee.
Jessica, it is good that you think that this is a good thing, what I remember when I remember this Saturday night, after it was ran over by the airplane, then they started to go away from the airplane, and then that we will go back to them, it's because we are the ones who will explode from them.
March 20, what is happening earlier, what happened earlier, is that just after that, just after that, he / she had a little friend, he / she had a bit of friends, which was a little friend, I thought all were all.
For the meantime, the children are already over again because, which has been spreading so that, no matter how much, I have to write to each other; we are surprised to write to each other; we are just surprised that we are going to win.
Theresa said that these days have passed and we can say that it was a bit possible for him in the situation this past few days.
It's okay thank you so much.
