It turns out that the government can handle the face of the government.
Do you have a strong rain, why is there in Maker.
What is needed about the sermon about the sermon before four o'clock in the morning, before eight o'clock in the morning, it's the other type of work yesterday that the number of Agency in those who are living in the barangay chairman where they lower.
Who I heard from that is the closed morning there in you.
After all, eight o'clock early morning.
We are proud; we understand each other; we understood that it is really true that we should be the mayor in order to be a mayor.
They should be the ones making a system for them.
In Quezon City he was given me a family.
In the system of constitution, I will not go to gather the students who will run for Taba?
Someone has already given something like that in his house with his own person.
Barangay did not insist on her yes, I think they are really with the faces of the face system of proper words.
Yes, but isn't it so that there will be too thousands of fare, especially if it's already thirteen years that will just be able to talk later.
"You know, that we can't say that we can't say it now, but we think it is not right now, but we are very sweaty, but we should not be confused, but we need to be confused; we need to get married, right?
What time needs for six pesos.
Covetous, fur.
Maybe that's why we need to look at each other.
Maybe that is what Jay is wearing.
Aside from that, Labo is good.
Just leave one of those with my friend or "my friend.
Captain's because it's really scary because it is still here in Manila.
"What will I end?
But in the school barangay, you should have to go to the children, I do not have any idea about it, to the parents of the children, that we are not only able to catch up to the parents of the children, that's why many of our fellow countrymen are only noisy; we need to see each other than a few more than fifteen minutes.
You, C-R, if it is expected that you will just tell all the rains, that is why it should have been done before that, in a school, it's hard to say in a school that will come in a school that will come this Sunday there will be a chance that you will get someone else.
You can be a little bit.
