
The youth asked enough budget for education, on the 25th anniversary of the law.

By Jonathan Cainguitan.
September 22, 2012.

It is a symbol of abandonment of the Aquino administration's education to the coffin of the young students who were pulled by them to Mendiola last September 21, on the 25th anniversary of the martial law (Gregorio Dantes Jr.
Even if there are those who are lined up by Mendiola in a week protest of the young student from different college and university in Metro Manila.
According to him, the thousands of students to protest against them were dismissed by the Aquino administration to protest because they have marched on the very dark part of the history of the country - the 120th anniversary of the law of the Marcos dictatorship.
Students protested because of the plan of the Aquino administration to slowly leave his duty in education, this is already happening through the agricultural sector in the budget of State Universities (SUCs), increasing number of students who are opposing in the implementation of the administration and the so-called Road Meton Public Higher Education).
The content of the said Road, the Aquino administration and Commission on Higher Education were totally removed from the removal of enough budget for SUCs and sectors of education in the year 2016 and being pushed by SUCs) to be self-sufficient aid through technicality.
As early as now, according to them, the effect of the government is already feeling the effect of the government which can be given an analysis, according to the municipal hall of UP Diliman, but some of the students who are said to be part of "Tulay ng Masang Pilipino), according to the municipal hall in UP Diliman, but also a few of the students who are said to be part of" tiktiks "
At the Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP), the students changed the names of their school on the main gate of "People's University of the Philippines." They want to give emphasis that the students from the PUP Diliman were also disappointed to remain a educated barangay hall of Hawaii from their university.
Students from UP Diliman, Manila, as well as PUP Diliman, "Amang" Rodriguez Institute of Science and Technology) Foundry by the University of Santo Tomas, were joined by the University of Santo Tomas to join the so-called Martial Law this past week.
The movement is started through a program to encourage the students from different college to cooperate with the widespread brownout at around 11: 30 in the morning.
Be observant on the protest.

Last September 19, protest continued despite the bad weather.
The delegates received from more than ten schools in Metro Manila are the schools caucuses in De La Salle College of Saint Benilde, to discuss the current state of the youth under the Aquino administration.
Among those who attended to Far Eastern University, University of the East, University of Sto. Tomas, Detoyato, University of Saint Benilde, San Beda College, Philippine Wgens University, Salas Taft, New England, and many others.
Featured on the issues were the non-free tuition fee and being stupid in the government to stop it from a huge protest after the program of the students.
In UP Diliman, the toll fee continues in relation to the campaign to dismiss the financial tuition fee (STS) and which will be a rollback on their tuition fee which is led by CEGP, for the worsening violation of human rights and the privatization of the country.
According to Dr, "the Arroyo administration and Aquino has no difference in the present, many of the students and journalists continue to experience military continues.
The Armed Forces of the Philippines is still continuously leading the violation of human rights according to the data of Karylle, 99 to extrajudicial killings and 11 cases of the kidnap group recorded in more than two years of administration of Aquino.
