Why wasn't her superman?

Emmanuel Jerome L. Tagas.
Is it really true that she is a superman? "Why is he still not going out to defend us from evil?
I also asked myself from myself from me that I am still small until I have grown old and I was still working as a proof that when we were talking to him, I did not understand that even when I had talked to him, I did not understand his answer.
He has been thinking for a long time before he has made it a decision not to inform the people his real character and it is hard to weigh if what he / she is going to help or will make it more or can make it happen to the situation of the person.
His first reason why he did not go out as a superman costume is that the people or the ambulance were not able to respond right away because he will come and bring the victim to the hospital.
He added that after he came out as a superman was the appearance of the people who will have interest on his power, including those in power, I am frustrated at having more power.
A question is, who should be the first to go out, because it can be looked at by other countries as part of a political agenda like this, it is in the consciousness of everyone who are carrying her superman.
But if in the Philippines or in another country, America might think that he is part of a project attempted to choose the side, he needs to make a way to stop the trees, but he will never be hurt with the civilians.
It is said that it does not mean that the world does not need to say that he does not want to meddle with his duty, if he always does not want to meddle with the problems of the world, the people will have no idea to decide and learn from their mistakes.
He said he was amazed by the people because even if they do not have a special ability, they can still be fed up to the voice of one race, and how the small things that they are doing is becoming great, and how the small things that have a great feelings are becoming great.
This is only one challenge that he will give to those who will be able to read this work: The task to perform the duty to be a nuisance to their own way, just like what he did to him, not a superman, but as a journalist.
At the end of our small conversation, my respect for him has increased again for her, she is about to leave her superman.
