Thousands of Baby, mother, are dead.

Larger and larger, Bro, the number of mothers who have a hard time to give birth based on the news coming in our newspaper.
Different reasons, but in the story of the mothers, this has a big connection with the truth that the couple need to work in order to live with their families.
This is there are typhoons or not like Yolanda and Ruby who kill hundreds of thousands of people in the Philippines, in fact, more than a lot of years have died, and a baby in giving birth to the victims of calamities from the typhoons.
Don't take a hurry.
It is said that it is not like before that the father's income is enough for the needs of the family and the mothers who forcibly work, they are having too much exhaustion until they have difficulty in giving birth.
Life is difficult to gain weight and this has become a bad effect for those who are getting pregnant and given birth as a mother.
In other words, the hospital's stories are full of stories about their mother who during their time of giving birth, the wives, who among the mother or baby, they want to live... that is very sad.
Beheaded.
In relation to the real story and experience, Rohaida Salomy and his family were experienced in Buluan District Hospital, Buluan, Maguindanao who were able to recover the experience in the past few days.
Rohaida immediately needed to beat the doctors to save his life.
After being treated, the head of the baby came out but only until there was the life of Rohaida that was why the doctors have decided in favor of his mother.
For sure you will catch you, Bro, if this happens to you.
Death.
How many mothers and baby die during the time of giving birth?
According to the Department of Health last 2011, there are 22 babies who were born as 2 million baby, with 2 million baby, who were born as a year in my love, Philippines, Derit, around 44,000 were killed, or while massaging, like the baby of Rohaida.
Around 221 families are dying due to 100,000 of their mothers to give birth, if there are 2million mother given birth, with 4,420 have died.
There is no change.
If he will be asked first, his condition almost no change about the death of her mother and baby in the Philippines in the past 20 years.
Even if the Philippines has been signed by the Philippines to the Philippines-United Nations for the change in the issue that will be finished in 2015, and of course, the government would say that it will only start the fulfilment of the RH Law or Reproductive Health Law.
But if the RH Law would be studied, "in controlling the increase of the baby and give birth to the number 1 target, especially that we reached 1040M.
He still did not reach the death of the mother and baby during the time of giving birth because poverty remained.
Go against each other.
For example, the lack of aid to the problem is the lack of action of the government of the preservation of the law against the constitutional process.
Due to the lack of enough income from the father and mother who are victims of rewinded, the couple losing readiness to give birth especially the good health of the mother and having enough spend for giving birth.
Then, if there are 10 million victims of illegal detention case and more than a lot of workers who have not yet reached P10 million pesos from the total of 48 million workers, what caused the birth of their mother and the birth of the baby?
Failure on PhilHealth.
Do not say that they are the answer of PhilHealth because there are a lot of people who will let it be used because of the violent protest.
In other words, there are a lot that cannot be implemented in the rules of PhilHealth, which the members need to deposit in a few months before the benefits can be used here.
If a year has passed that you did not have been used by PhilHealth, the news you carry out is that you do not care if you need it when giving birth to the New Year that you have nothing to pay.
This is the story of her crying that PhilHealth did not use their birth.
Explanation.
In the case of Rohaida, the doctors might have a different condition and explanation about this situation that's why his condition is like that.
But the truth will remain and the situation of the majority of the majority is the primary cause of death during the birth.
How will the government act on action to change the deadly disease of Rohaida and other mothers and their children?
