
Charter change and sale of sovereignty.

By Soliman, Santos March 28, 2014.

House de Oro City, Plenary Hall of Batasan Pambansa Complex, Quezon City.

It would be recalled that the local motorcycles used charter change because most of its construction is 100 percent owned by foreign company in business and land in the Philippines.

In the announcement, President Aquino opposed the amendment to the Constitution.

EpiPen, Sonny Belmonte promised that the political provisions in the Constitution to convince the people that Aquino has no plans to prolong its term.

But this is just a deceit or conservation in the real issue.

Although Aquino is saying that he is against the amendment of the Constitution, the change in the Saligang Batas, the change that is being pushed by the administration, which is the primary reason of the government of the US in the Saligang Batas of its country like the Philippines.

According to him, the country is at stake in this issue, but if the Chamber treat it, it seems like a small piece of issue will be taken away by those who are contradicting the provisions in the Constitution by the Philippines for foreign investment.

If this will push through, what will happen?

A good example will be passing by the mining area of 1995 that is already 19 years old when it is existing this year.

Mining in the country is surrounded by said law, the guarantee for the investment of the foreigners and their rights to violate the regulations of mining in the country, which is given a connection to the anomalous corporation to give a connection to the public funds in exchange for alms from the government.

Foreign companies that have been mine in 50 years of hectares of land of the country have rights that they have the right to return to their own country because aside from the tax that they are receiving.

In exchange of this, the natural resources and violation of the national sovereignty and violation of the national sovereignty and violation of the public service and society is not common to have been poisoned by the people from mining so that the exhaustion from mining companies are not needed to be implemented by the foreigners.

It is also not common to disrespect the rights of the indigenous people in their respective ancestors or the guide of the farmers in order to live if they disagree, the rights of the companies that put the military and target forces to protect their beliefs.

This is just in the industry of mining; in the proposed amendment to the Constitution, included in those who want to change the connection with education, conscience, technology, culture and sports and general provisions.

When the industry of oil continues, electricity, water, education, transportation, hospitals and other high service, the result is the increase of prices which made it hard for the citizens.

It can be recalled that this is also the things that President Aquino continues to analysis, now, what the president acts as if he is against the amendment of the Constitution?
