Kaligayahan, August 6th, 2013, Nunber by Philippine Collins.

There is something interesting.

The illusion for the change promised by Benigno Aquino III is finally broken and any deceit has not enough for the real condition of the people.
It can't be denied that the straight path that Aquino is doing is just for a few days and because most of the majority did not experience the president that came before, the current administration has become subservient to me.
In the record of the group of Karylle, 107 to the current 385 prisoners who were arrested under the Aquino administration, it is contrary to the safety of the citizens, danger and danger of the program Oplan Galugad conducted in the program Oplan Bantay, Arroyo.
In relation to the non-ranking cases of human rights are the lack of real reforms to be taken from position, the president was not able to see the sincerity in pushing for immediate and meaningful reforms in the land.
As a result of the lack of own land in the countryside, many Filipinos are forced to go to the hospital to look for jobs.
These past few weeks, the demolition of traffic in Metro Manila to sweep the community projects which is caused by pollution and flooding, the administration is proud of the primary needs such as electricity, water, and drilling their services.
In this way, it is just a proof that the primary goal of Noynoy is not to solve the primary goal of Noynoy Aquino but instead they just settle for giving alms from the caskets, DOLE-asa and improvement of economists, the most rich is benefiting.
With the increase of 7.8 million yuan (GDP), the administration is hoping for the administration to be thankful for his SONA, unlike in his past speech, it is not surprising if he will set aside the things that he gives more opportunities.
In the administration of Aquino as president, the Public Development Assistance Fund) has greatly ignited on the lack of basic services of the government for the high service for the masses, education and health.
Even the university of the Philippines, the first that should be in service for the interest of the poor students, is the victim of this kind of Filipinos, who will continue to meet the financial Assistance Program (STS) to answer to all the needy who are needy.
It is also not saved from the PPP even in the hospitals, as a result of the ability to pay the ability to pay the departments of the facilities, while they are trying to hide the lack of money for the primary services of the Filipino people.
Along with the adventure of the privatization of the privatization of the agricultural sector, the increase in price of goods, petroleum, and services in water and electricity will continue.
In the past month, Aquino showed the revelation of his administration to the US in giving permission for the American soldiers to remain in the countries based on the country, it seems that Aquino implicated the citizens in dangerous places of America in the region.
In the return of Aquino to stage the things that his administration has done, we need to remember that the true state of the country is not going to happen inside Batasang Pambansa.
