
There is no problem with the mother and child.

Maybe the respect of the child to his mother is gone, if before he will fight for killing her mother, now it seems that those who criticized her mother, now it seems that he has lost his own interest in his own interest.
We are talking here to President Benigno Aquino 3rd (Bira 3) before, he is always talking and his siblings have a high respect and good love for their mother, Tita Cory, wife of Ninoy who was killed in the Instagram account of NAIA.
Until the mother died, his eyes were deeply saddened by her eyes because every Juan and Maria felt pity and there, he was voted by the president who created it, and seemed to be closer to success.
Noynoy was okay at first but in the last time, a lot has changed, a big change, and it's a huge change, the thing he is claiming and success, in the record of books, is not only for him but for the past.
Now, he is different especially with critics but he is happy with the wrong things he is doing to the 1987 Constitution which is done by his mother, the Supreme Court said it is wrong, illegal and against the Constitution in the suspension of the country's effects of PDAF and DAP!
The anger of Noynoy is angry at the Supreme Court's anger that in a sign of saying that his dogs in Congress can be seen, whatever harassment and threat is that his allies are constantly barking and wanted to take the fund of the SC.
Noynoy or BGH3 should think that the decision of the magistrates is laid on the 1987 Constitution again, that was done during the time of his beloved mother.
That is why he should respect it, right?
The Constitution is the last weapon of the people, of his "boss".
But now, it looks like Baba 3 seems to notice that it is approved of him to change the Saligang Batas and he needs to follow the Saligang Batas to follow the Saligang Batas of what he is doing, "the one of his allies"
He did not think about it at first "that was a civil wedding.
Why don't you admit the truth?
You were imprisoned.
But there is no doubt that you will be the next to be jailed.
You know that so you are in a hurry so that you will be in a hurry for "PGAPARK."
Take notice of your mother's action so that you can avoid it just like you?
