In Batangas, your shameless person is also known in Prague, Batangas Kecy, "we are still in school in the Philippines' 70s, which is almost five hundred thirty two o'clock at five o'clock.
We are also known by the talk of Dick there is an institution that we can see here in San Martin.
I used to go around ten o'clock in the house.
It's because I am in San Martin doctor who brought the second-law enforcers.
And suddenly.
Past four o'clock, I can find it here when you leave.
He / she was able to look into a small part of my bitter part of my bitter part and then I can see that we are talking with the name of the bird that we can see, that is why we can see the heroes Philippine Revolution where we can see, that is why we can see the heroes Philippine Revolution where we can see, that is why we can see that we see the heroes Philippine Revolution where we can see.
Yes right.
Covetous, fur, how?
That's why it's true that this is from the fourth of different Rosario because it seems that what you want to say is that, we have to say that we have an umbrella; that we have their longganisa there.
We're on the sofa and we have the news that we have.
We will talk to him.
We talk to us abroad.
Covetous, fur.
What is his name is also cough Negro.
Let us first empanada to Batangas what is the other countries like Manila because it's so delicious that you will look like a lot of vegetables which are famous; not all of those who are saying that you will not be completed, you do not know if you're still going to see what we are saying.
Of course, of course, I can hear that we have heard the checks.
Yes.
What's good is that, the longganisa there is good; the longganisa there is very beautiful but you are very simple, the calamansi, many children.
"That is still here but what Diva machine is doing is not like what you are doing," it's you.
Like July, there's because he has personal interest and is really taking care of the parts of the pork.
Yes, of course, they know all the challenges.
Its subsidy for text is the best thing to say, that the best thing to say is that, it has been a long time for me to hurt other people, that really do not really have no idea, all of us, are all stupid; not all sorts of men.
Of course, it is fine for you to have a saying level on Monday July April is the former in the province.
I'll be able to look down; he / she depends on the plastic bags that I can tell.
Yes, you start on a road here, according to him, you can say that you can still have the nomination even from where.
That is it!
We are anxious; we are being cooked; don't you are cooking, but it's still different that there is a lot of people involved in it.
It's a good thing for the pigs to look down; so that you can be annoyed and getting annoyed.
I am hesitant to tell the two ways for the two ways to pay for what will happen again and I will really say that the most beautiful thing because you are still a colleague is still included in it.
