Gerald, is having a hard time with Bea By Allan Diones July 17, 2016.
We were able to go through the post of Gerald Anderson in Instagram that she has been paying for him / her, "NJ before," NJ before, which is said to be a big sister in the poster of the movie that Bea Alonzo of How Tantos).
"He was even though it was still summer" to be a stop. "And" the best thank you, "as if she cannot believe that Bea is the one she had a relationship with in the movie.
With the statement of Gerald with the Scud of Star, he was still in GenSan when he was still in GenSan that he did not have any idea in showbiz because he had just returned in TV for a 14-year-old then and he still didn't understand Tagalog anymore.
He saw one of his friends watching Bea in the television series, "I prayed for me and I was carried away by his friend's friend," because she was good with Bea.
Geng did not think that he / she said that he / she said that Bea is going to be a friend of Bea Binene seriously and until now, she cannot believe it.
"In case we are holding a shooting," we said, I am too much suffering, like I cannot believe that I am in a scene with him.
"" Our scene is that he will go out of the gas station, he has a coffee, and then facing him, "like me,"
"Guda," my mind, "Oh no, or no, or anything happening?
"I was shocked with me and I was thinking about it," what is the line of my line, "But IGAPARK" where I felt it in this situation where he was with him, "happy according to the Kapamilya Network.
Did she feel a regret that the relationship with Bea is not long?
"Yes, yes."
Is he the one at fault, which is why they are capable?
"It's a direct" to, ah, okay!
"Yes, I said," she said (Bea), I really seem to be weak, I myself, I myself, "I said.
"I was afraid of what's happening around us, I don't know how to go back."
There is no third party for him?
"There is no third party.
Guna is on a single age because he also does not have time to take care of his many jobs and he also has a lot of things in showbiz.
He asked, he is not looking for a girlfriend, but it does not mean that he will not be seen to whoever will come in his life.
It was only discovered that it was only on other things.
Just recently she was hailed by the Philippine Coast Guard, so we asked Ge if he can be sent when we fought against China because of the West Philippine Sea.
"We are not in a war war." Wish, I want, if it is possible, Gerald said that the work of their K9 Special Action Force (Philippine Coast Guard will be saved and saved.
