According to the number of students moving to the public utility vehicles, this is the reason why the number of students in public schools this year has a report.
Meanwhile, it came from Laguna for a few times it was Charleston, eleven o'clock at the right action center in Pasig City a year of stop in school because they do not have anything to go to school, because I am still not in the corner where I have a cold problem.
It came from a lot of sleep that was coming out of their school.
He / she was able to go back to four o'clock.
It would have been easy to transfer to public schools the problem if the family has a debt of debt, which was forced to stop the studies because they cannot find public schools for them.
In a deep sleep, they are able to study different public school in Laguna but you need to pay a debt before it will be an end of an excuse that he did not pay their obligation there.
What you have, you have a lot of umbrella; we are still small, you still want to think about what will happen to those who are going to go to the public schools that are only one of those who are going to go to the public schools that are only one of those who are going to go to a school which is why all the others, who are just waiting for a school, all the other ones, are just waiting for a school.
Stand in number.
Me.
?
Have a sound.
Six-six.
Two.
Years.
Yes, I went down.
You will know.
Have already tired already.
They said that the biggest problem in the past will not be watched, especially if there might be a school in the area because of two eggplants.
According to DepEd, they will try to finish the sky before the school ends after the defeat of the new classroom because they want to avoid the new school of Bicol for me if he would be a duck.
Legarda who went to the place there because there were others.
Place there.
In the area of all of them, is it when we need to bring them along with me.
To speaker.
The chairs have already been complete, but there is still no need for twenty thousands of motorcycles, Philippines, we need to look down; we are still needed to make sure that the health of the students, David g-M a Filipino.
