Ah, you have a picture of the one who will replace us here, which is why he / she has to go to school; he / she can take care of Fuels, which seems to be cut off.
What is our primary questions for now, but for the welfare of our youth students that he is not going to increase our sister-in-law, that she is not going to increase our sister-in-law by Secretary Gel-Gel.
That is where we are calling the million pesos program to our youth on our youth who do not go to school if they can go to school, they can go to school.
Two giddy.
Yes, we have four years that they can ask anyone that they can choose from the yellow party.
Open when you go away, we can.
They can see that, are the programs of TESDA?
Even if they are in the internet, they are in the internet.
No matter where they like that, the computer cousin, you can still study.
You are not yet here, you will be able to get it from here that you are from here that we are from here so that we are here and in Manila, there is no problem over the span of six months now.
That's why we are happy to look at each other; we are able to let them know that we are going to be able to study in abroad who are able to study so their black spirits are approved by our evil spirits.
Work in Saudi.
In other countries, they have to study and that is our new party as well as our new party.
Program is called to be called Pogi "
Which is brought by TESDA was to be signed there in Dubai, both of or aunts (meow!
And they have passed.
They will have P100 for their work and there will be more than what he has been saying, but we still don't want us to go home, we are still in the house, that's why we don't want us to go to, that's why we don't want us to go to, that's why we don't want to go to do that, that's why we don't have to go to work, that's why we do not have to go to work, the different sectors.
Yes, ten percent of my students presented.
Dick: M, yes, meanwhile, for a long time.
There is still a cemetery.
They are studying for example.
Think about the signs that they are applying.
For Ate May, they have five-year-old maid, who is very high; "
Let him be followed by him again with him / her, because you have mentioned that they can go to school and to go back to school when you want to go out and go back to school when you want to go back then that is why we want to go back then that is why we have a lot of students.
Which is why they are studying in Lagro, which are now very beautiful; we are also having a good in the house that we can hear; we can just explain to us, we are really interested in the online sites, how can we be able to taste; we still have a choice.
We have been keeping a online training as well as I have to be complacent and how I know they will have a certificate which is okay to sustain, we say that they have a movie.
Brook in the internet where they want the woman to Baguio from the former administration.
They will see that, Miss First Class L.
It is said that they are the only ones they want.
The same in the computer that they can do is not a bit easy, they need to go to school, but if they want it to end, I will be able to leave because they are busy and if they are busy.
It's a time that I just buy every time I study it depends on.
What time they are?
It depends on how many hours.
That is going to give how long will I finish.
On how I can ask him to get a certificate of board, he / she had an appeal; he / she was not able to take care; he / she was not able to send the authorities; but after a Kalawaan, "they said that they want to eat little.
It's been long term for them to learn all of them.
You should not allow them to study and anytime.
They applied.
Even if they are complete with TESDA (TESDA), it's just okay for us to just go to their knowledge about what we really know, what can we say, that we can say that we are included here in the computers that we can say, that we are included here in the computer side of computers that's why it's all that we can say.
Jawford (DOLB) C cellphone number.
Public Year with Calanoga; Taw, computer operation, fuck, computer operation, which is very refreshed; that's why you are pitiful; we are pitiful; we are pitiful; we are pitiful; we are pitiful; we have eaten, but yes.
Are we still some of us who say that we are stupid; our clothes are wearing.
Covetous, fur.
You can wait for anyone to respond to whoever will happen to us.
I can't do anything but you are not busy with those who are not busy in a car in the Holy Spirit; which is open to a car in the Holy Spirit; however, as well as the program TESDA), which is part of the way going to the same way.
Why did we have called out that I have thought of writing.
Different programs that are at the school centers are very different; hence, it is possible that they can go to TESDA Office yes to the school and school.
And if they are already lined up, they want a customer.
They can still spend a scholarship because the TESDA is with TESDA is what kind of hair is mixed with us.
There are several times when the discussion went into a Smart.
Naturally, it is natural because of the beauty complained of TESDA yes, the budget of a resort to church New Year.
Here, we have a lot of youth who can be given a chance to study.
Maybe they should be given attention; we should just catch each other.
You are going to know the witnesses in our school-in-school who are stupid; and our countrymen.
Our school, I will not allow it to be Manila in Metro Manila, but it is already past Metro Manila, but with TESDA was the provincial investigation in the school where they want them to just call them to us and for the eight eight years.
Well, you'll take it as if they are applying for their Facebook, they will only be type with TESDA officials and they will see that, we are going to do something like that, we can do something like that.
So it can be said that they will post a brother's post or ask what they have been cut off, will they not be able to get this summer which is why I am going to be able to get this summer, as if I am an Overseas Filipino people.
He / she should be ashamed of all those who are interested in going to school, but it's okay for him to be alone with him when we heard that there is still a partners in Germany as possible.
Theresa is okay with what he found out that he will continue to go with John-John with someone in Germany on a gimmick.
There will be a assistant named Joan Gomez in the Philippines to improve.
Their own office is the training of a text hair here in the Philippines.
One Brigada Eskwela started the contract, which is why they will give us a cheerish system of Facebook here in the Philippines, we have already known each other with a cake that we are calling for a cake that we have called a cake as well as their godchildren, which gave birth to their own wounds.
And Pad and dinner.
For the system of the farm, he twarming down the Philippines even more.
Beauty.
So, be careful.
You explain what is called up by the system of system which is where study is not in school, is it not in school that is why it is at the Como ies of a path that has been implemented by the system.
Then he / she said that a one-year-old student was about to study at the company, but I studied at the company, I asked to study at the company at the company of the heart, but I was able to go back to the company, but she was very beautiful because I already had a child.
I'll take care; we are still trying to turn our hearts in a companies when I return to school.
It is prohibited so that, he / she has a lot of opportunities, which is why there are many opportunities now that is why I am wondering why I am puzzled; we are puzzled; we are wondering; we are aware; we are all out of school.
There are many opportunities that are open.
With TESDA (TESDA (why is it like I don't have enough to do our wardrobe and Simeon bystanders so that we do not see any child who is there.
The road during the time are the schooling of the students, which he says in the set, should we just have to go there, but we are trying to look at each other.
Lots!
Maybe we will say that I am just lazy, but we cannot study that we are going to be looking for a life because of Employment Opportunity.
There are a lot of lower abdomen, that is why he / she is going to stop and anytime in the office, he will take care of it.
It's as if you think that we are free to go to school; we have something to do as an umbrella; that we do not have an obstacle, it is not a hindrance to you to be able to go to not to be able to go to the poor.
But it is a sin that does not work hard and he is also lazy, to be lazy, that's why I am lying.
On the other hand, my sister-in-law of our Tess "I am graduating from their work here in the Philippines in Navotas, is it okay that there was a huge amount that has been done every year.
Ah, it was around five percent of text that the transaction of the race was huge; we are having a job as a big percentage of our graduating, there is a huge percentage of our ancestors who have a scholarship for a scholarship for a scholarship.
That's why I have a big question here, that's why it's a baby, that's why he / she went to the baby; he / she was very horny; so that I am at the I know I have been able to finish.
Number TESDA Director, is it very handsome for you.
Okay, do I have connections with the government?
The bread was filling, which is the bread for certificate.
Yes, yes to me, he / she could be able to accept that he / she could not accept that I am the one at the end of what else.
Full, thirty-years old, thirty-years old, were I able to force the services of the Commission on service as to now what the Vincent Dizon did they brought as an TESDA (TESDA) for example.
In a point; he / she was asking for his job for a job that was about to work for five pesos every one hour for a gimmick to be regular.
Um, but, but there are a lot of people who get tired; he still needs to get an apology; we still need to get him / her anymore that's why we still need to send money to each other, that's why they still need to enroll for him.
There is still a need to say that, what happened is the Philippine Amusement and political program.
So it would be good to look at the colleges; they called the Sibol, Commission on Human Rights, they called at Sibol, Commission on Human Rights where they put a job in the political party, that's why it's the first time that we are going to buy a job because this is the same way to buy television, which is why.
There are M 33 years old when they say that they are really kind of jobs that are really high school, and what are they not?
What?
When I arrived in Sibol, it is possible.
We are very pitiful; he / she becomes the one to be the one in their folder because it is you who does not know what to do, that is why I do not know about it now.
Because I have been talking for a long time.
They have a case in the first time that the past are already five years already.
"When it's okay to go to this, we are applying to be boastful and you are applying for a hot-hot-tempered; and covetousness.
It is probably a sign that it is not enough because it is not no matter how much it is.
You!
It does not have water to limit it to the programs of the country.
No matter what he is senior citizen, as long as you are to be studying to have a job, it can be our fellow countrymen who have their business, which is why we want us to get a little bit of sleep.
But what is it?
I mentioned it earlier.
Which is the feast!
This is what we are calling today, after he is called.
Yes, Juvenile.
Reporting, Aaahhmmmp!
It will be exported in the Philippines.
I am full-tempered; he / she usually does not have anything.
There is an electric post; that's why we have nothing to say, we have nothing to say.
Fuck, dynasties; Information Technology.
We are full-tempered; as well as four-month of our workers, we said that five are five o'clock.
Only, to get angry or getting angry; we are having jobs and if we go to the whole world.
Even if you go to the restaurant hotel, it is only true that we will say yes to the Filipino worker because of a high worker.
By the whole couple, I was able to look at a very old age, so we can take care of those who have no load for now.
Wherever you get on the world, it is really not the Filipino, let us say that the Filipino type of job is there.
We are really good, we really have a Filipina who is okay?
"Is it only ten o'clock in the ring for the Whole on the chole right, which is a little bit more.
That's why it's not just a bit that, "at first, I said that every month, we still haven't called the Contact Policy center (what's important.
What are these?
And it's only yesterday that we have us.
Tagalog that is said to have been needed by the aircraft Macaraels, a mechanic came to him, a mechanic came to him and the one whom the man is handsome has been fighting for him / her.
They say they are saying that it is time for a day.
That is one.
There are those who resigned; as well as the ones who want to work abroad.
.
Because of what we are saying now, the improvement of the people that the people are going to change are the ones that are happening.
Covetous, deport; isn't it?
Their documents are just a agent for now.
They need children.
Ah, in the Philippines, most of the children are stupid; we are not beautiful; we are not beautiful but because of us.
We, we Filipinos, who are to be a lot of Filipinos, to be able to work abroad, might be able to work abroad, maybe the Filipinos in Times Street, maybe because of the TESDA-T; maybe it's the TESDA (V V, which can be, from April.
Aside from Aline in the first floor, he / she wants to get other people especially when he wants to get other people especially that it is okay with TESDA because we really want to be helpful yes, but if we are stupid, we have a lot of training.
And he has not yet had a job, that's why, I am not in her own hands on March 10, that is why when we encounter with TESDA, there is someone who will call him with TESDA.
Before we give school students, do you find the interest on what you bought.
So, and this will be the time of her lower abdomen, if it is not acceptable to go, it is with TESDA whom he wants to study and do not know what is really important to you.
So we need to see it.
What are the children in your heart before you can give them a gift.
When you have a job that will be asked for a job, but it still can help to look for a job in searching for a job, because we have called Jawbuilding in the middle of the sky, because we have been called Jfour-month or I am writing the success of TESDA?
What we are calling him is that we are just this form of friend.
We help them to have a job whose business has a job, isn't called Industries which called Industrial around seven o'clock in the companies.
So they themselves tell us what is right.
At work, they have a need to point out and there is a need to point out and that's why we themselves have the steps to do, that, for sure, we should be able to make a step to do that, at least, we will not be able to make sure that there are people who say, Jerry, every morning so we can't be seen.
It is my older sister, it is up to the eight eight months that he / she has been fond of, but if he loves the computer, you have Facebook.
Good thing is the TESDA official and we will answer your intelligence yes because there are many people.
