
It's the heart of Bato and there is a heart of Bato.

Malacanang should not disregard a burden to the New People's Army (NPA) not only to the businessmen and politicians but also for soldiers and other citizens.
There are already many who risked their lives and there are also a few lives grabbed by the NPA wherein the last is five soldiers who died in the encounter in Pulilan, Negros Occidental.
Before this incident, the driver and bodyguard of Gingoog City Mayor Ruth Guingona died after being ambushed by the rebels in Barangay Binigan, Gingoog, Misamis Oriental.
The mayor is wounded as the wife of former Vice President Francois Hollande and mother of Senator Migs Guingona.
Even if the palace says that the NPA cannot defeat the forces of the military and police, the threat of Jose Maria Sison will not be ignored, that their group will have a offensive due to the slow peace talks.
Maybe it is time for the government to heal the plague of rebels in our society.
Many civilians jokes about their desire that are not really for the welfare of the majority.
Just like the latest incident of the encounter where 5 soldiers died, the mining companies were burned in Negros Occidental which cannot be denied that the rebels possibly failed to get money, which is why it was possible that the rebels failed to get money.
The case, the small workers are the ones who will be affected if you lose jobs.
I believe that President Benigno Aquino III will not allow to comment on the group of Joma Sison to comment on his honor for service and service to the citizens.
President Noynoy has taken the "heart of stone in his own sake or maybe he can also do it for the welfare of the country he loves and works for.
Along with the preservation of the heart of stone, PNoy should also use the iron fist so that it will be stopped to stop the boastful and threat of NPA in the government and even the citizens.
They are not helping the improvement of the economy of the country, instead they are obstacles in the success of the citizens.
