These are the money of PERA here in the government.

What is happening in the government is a blessing.
It seems that the people in the government are thinking about money, and the people are thinking about this, Bro, when they want the cancellation of the Department of Transportation and communication with all the vehicle plates of the vehicle and threw them before for their proper security of vehicles.
35.5B!
Do you know, Bro, if how much is the target to become famous in the people of DOTC, people who have plate number?
It seems like P4.8 billion from the nine million vehicles that have been registered to the Land Transportation Office in the whole country, there are still different from those who will come from before and are registered.
It can't be saved from all kinds of vehicles from a tricycle to jeepney, taxi, bus, cargo trucks, trailer and other vehicles.
Here is me, "for you.
It's just simple to share people who make money on the plate, Bro.
From the total of P450 pesos worth of plate number, they will get a plate number 780 pesos and 70 of the DOTC.
Nothing will be done before the lepers should be done again but put an old number.
PPEK to the slave.
If you think about it, Bro, this has no effect to the carnapper.
Especially if the carnapper was involved by the authorities that if the vehicle was not able to sell the vehicle, then the part of the part is orderly and there is no idea that it is registered to the LTO.
It is also not that the problem of colorum or those who are colorum to take care of the authorities is the care of the authorities.
There are a lot of officials or personnel of the government that they are taking advantage of their payment for their monthly payment for the new vehicles.
They are removed.
The leaders of the DOTC were thinking about the DOTC and their accomplice in front of the people that the latter cannot do anything but to follow.
The DOTC wanted to let the iron fist be made in this issue so that it will only have a huge sum of money, and will benefit the accomplices of the plate number.
It's good to take a peek at the authorities who have a conscience, if there are still some, how much are the people of DOTC himself on the pictures of the plate, if there is something.
Senator Recto.
This Senator Ralph Recto admitted that he showed high voltage of electricity against the DOTC wanted to happen.
Is it possible, Sen. Recto, that you should make action to any speculation, in the Senate for example, to question the program money of the DOTC and those who have a plate number, since you are the one leading the program.
It's burdensome for the town.
As time passes by the people of DOTC and those who have a plate number on the start of change of plate on the next month, Bro, vehicles will start to experience poverty.
Just imagine what happened when the taxi was forced to have a Filipino hospital.
The child of tofu, do you know that there are many who get hungry inside each other, two and three weeks in the start of the Filipino hospital?
This is also what is said, and worse, what will happen because all the vehicles had a new plate.
Many are not going to travel for a long time and surely, they will not earn much hunger, they will no longer earn, and the DOTC was about to carry a plate number.
Additional Kotong.
Do the people of DOTC already know, especially that the new problem is an additional burden to the abuse of local government and other authorities in the motorists?
The DOTC was not able to do anything but the DOTC was able to do anything against the system of local government and police to make money only.
So that it can be understood well about the local government, Bro, the fine of the motorists is the source of huge money from the motorists even if you look at it in the record.
It is still different, of course, the own strategy of traffic enforcers who are similar to the issues being thrown at the streets of other reasons, there are also many like this in the ranks of policemen, from patrolling until around Highway Patrol Group.
Just ask all the drivers of public utility vehicles, Malaysian trucks and even passengers of petroleum products from fruits to fishes.
Money of PERA to petroleum products.
The citizens of DOTC, and the people of the DOTC were also placed in poverty because of the severe condition of the motorists through a high price of petroleum products.
The government should just allow the abuse of the oil companies on the increase of price of petroleum products because while the price of the petroleum products are high, the Value Added Tax which will increase from the companies of oil is increasing.
What is happening and the government is becoming a burden to the country instead of going through the convenience.
