
Government employees are calling for individuals, worth of tax, lower by Doren.

The salary is no longer increasing, one of the highest number of tax in the entire Asia is getting worse, it is time to lower down, call of Cimetidine.

Ferdinand Galite, chairman of Courage Dumpsite, the employees of the government will ask for their request to lower the amount of tax.

"It seems like the government of this government," said Ferdinand Galite, "national anity of the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Pambansang Kamao) that he refers to the popular culture of count Kacademy.

According to him, it seems that the government is proud of the blood of the workers and the ordinary employees of the government for losing a high tax, even if the salary is not increasing.

"In general, the condition of the employees, for the government and even in the private sector is being paid, but it has not yet reached out," Galite, "said the employees and workers in our country," added to one of the highest tax in Asia, "he added.

In the study, 30 to 32 percent of the suspension of the tax in the Philippines is one of the highest down in the salary of Indonesia (32 percent) and Malaysia (20 percent), while crossing to Singapore (20 percent), which reaches up to 2,000, 2 million and P2 million in the said countries.

"A government is a criminal that will not be able to pay for his workers who are not able to pay for his family, and it seems that the workers are going to fight, for transportation fare, fare, food, and others," said Gaite.

In the statement of Calaguas, he said it is good to compare the treatment of the government for the ordinary people who can be blamed and the owners of big businesses and big businesses that are being given by big tax and tax.

Meanwhile, with the expenses of the public service like health and education, it is being stingy, the Aquino administration had a long time problem, while the Aquino administration had a long time burden to the projects which can be seen or broken by the public.

Galite said that the government should not be taxed by the citizens who are not enough for the salary of the salary.

"He" said to be the captain of the company, "the clan of Wage, up to P32,000 pesos per month.

Multiply by the 12, that is why it reached more or less than 330,000 pesos per year (what is needed by a Filipino family in front of the House of Representatives recently in front of the House of Representatives recently. Darius Valdez and added to him that there is an proposed additional increase in the salary of the government employees.

But the employees of the government also knows why it took place when the election is implemented, "for the minds of the government and workers and they think, they are looking handsome as the candidate in the eyes of the employees, he said.

"Election period," a type of Gens as well.

"They will use the wealth of the country for politicking and improvement of them, he said, but he warned that the government employees are more intelligent.

"It is said that the salary of the employees) from 9,000 pesos worth P16,000 pesos will be increased since it is not bad, he said, but it will last for five years or to 2020 the implementation of this increase.

As stated by the Calaguas, President Aquino is not going to favor from removing the taxes.

"Her allies in the legislative chamber are trying to ask him to take back the cases he was leaning on," said Gaite.

But they also wish to listen to the needs of the citizens, particularly the workers from the government, even in the private sector that the salary is not enough for the workers, this will serve as well.

"It is also not in exchange for a higher tax on our campaign for P120,000 pesos monthly salary for P16,000 pesos, because later on, it will result to a bigger position," the end of Galite.

The call for the private sector was the call for the private sector that was led by Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) from the whole country which is headed by Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent) from the year 2001.

Meanwhile, the P2,000 will also emphasized that the members of the Social Security System (SSS) also insisted.

The group was pleased with the statement of Senator Cynthia Villar that he said that many of his fellow senators are supporting the said proposal to increase in SSS.

The senators are calling out to support the senators on the version of House Bill Number 5842 by Bayan Muna Representative Neri Colmenares who aims to amend Section 12 of Republic Act 861 or the Social Security Act of 1997.
