
VK to Caloocan and the dead target of the BIR.

While the people are under the peak of emotion from the tax of Juan dela Cruz because of the corrupt officials of our country, the Bureau of Internal Revenue, the Bureau of Internal Revenue, was suddenly dismissed by the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
According to BIR Commissioner Kim Jacinto and Henares, the target of his bureau is the target of the members of our dead countrymen!
There are those who will just ask Commissioner Henares' way, right, Madam, and the budget of officials or politicians from the sweat of our streets?
Which is why the dead bodies of the dead were left behind by the dead?
Do you know what kind of illness that we feel like to know that our taxes are being sold, which is why they are just talking about canned goods?
Is it true that you cannot catch the rich and be able to chase the rich and get the influence to fix them that is why we were able to fix their resentment?
The truth is, Madam Henares, does not have any problem even if we know each other every time we know each other every week, we are repeating some of the expanded Value Added Tax.
In my opinion, hopefully you are trying to listen first to you, do not let Juan dela Cruz not to be hot-headed by Juan dela Cruz because of the stolen billions of PDAF!
AIDS is the President.
In the surrounding of the City Hall in Caloocan City the engines of video karera (VK) of Oton ie was in position but the police seem to be blind.
Because of this, we are continuing to determine if there is truth in the true police that is why they cannot be touched by the illegal gambling of OPLAN ie.
According to the Akamai says, Caloocan City Chief of Police Senior Superintendent Bernard Bulatao decided not to pay attention to the machine of Oangie because he was godfather, "he said," the mayor could not refuse.
But there are also those who are saying that the traitor, Oyo, himself is close to Malapitan due to the financial help in the election.
Nevertheless, its real reason is the real reason why the police just allowed the police of Col. Ferdinand Rojas for illegal gambling in Caloocan, maybe he has no debt of gratitude with OPLAN ie, District Director of Nido, Chief Superintendent Joel Alvarez.
That's why you can make them accelerate, General.
Except if your "Iglesia ni Cristo is keeping a secret!
