Editions to wait for the Seal!
July 26, 2016, the people have heard yesterday the first State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Duterte.
The usual comment on the ranks of ordinary people - on the road, in the barism, in the terminal of jeep and tricycle, in the market, to those riding the bus and MRT / LRT-LRT-LRT-LRT-MRT).
Like what is expected, there are also those who are happy, with just a clumsy, there are too much negative comments about what they are saying, there's nothing wrong with what they are saying, there is a few idea to sleep on the "part of the SONA, which was laid out by Communications Sec. Martin Andanar.

Of course, the anti-illegal drugs are still the center of speech, including the anti-crime and anti-corruption case by the Duterte administration and this has a message to some sectors that do not attempt to stop the good they are doing for the welfare of the country.
He also said that it is not his attitude to blame him and blame him, which is why his government hopes to face the burial of the past, especially those who are not important to the problems and for their move on!
It is right, but hopefully, this is not just words, and hopefully the cases being faced by some officials of the government, especially to Napoles' pork scam, he should also face the doubt when he push for the release of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who has happened just recently.
There are many beautiful things exposed by President Duterte on his SONA at first that they will lower down the taxes that the employees are paying for the taxes that the employees and even the companies have to show up.
It seems that the wage increase is not mentioned yet, even the additional P2,000 will be given to the SSS which can be heard by the elderly, it is also not conquered by the SONA.
"The heavy traffic in Metro Manila seems that it would really hope in the emergency powers, it seems that it will take time before the result is felt.
The "Ipit Gang" which was ordered to leave the provinces in Metro Manila was immediately implemented by the unilateral ceasefire, in a close rebels as part of his new peace talks with them.

Including the fate of the West Philippine Sea (WPS), it seems that the Philippines is in the hands of his followers, former President Ramos, because they need to observe a peaceful solution and reconciliation with China in order to be suppressed.
Now, the people cannot do anything, even if they are amazed or not, do not wait for what he said in his SONA.
But because there are people who will benefit or make sure they can do or make sure that they will pray and help everyone to fulfill their programs and promises.
