Control of gun and law, make it as the same.

President Benigno Aquino is known as a gun and usually included in all the competition of a gun, so he knows how important is the gun not only for this sports but for security, especially the businessmen, small or big.
But it is surprising that the restriction of the gun which is owned by the gun is puzzling to your servant, businessmen, businessmen and ordinary citizens, and even the gun or ordinary citizens, which is also strict in giving a gun case, especially the capital of Refervent prayer (PTSETC).
It is only right that controlling the national police, but hopefully they are going to correct the system and means and make sure that the relief and contagious for giving license and PTzipi R is right.
It is not a secret that someone is earning there in the Flintshire and from the office of PNP Chief Alan Purisima.
In the complaints of lily's Calvento Files, in the national headquarters, there are many fiers that are just for the two, three and four letters of the last name that can pay the 150 thousand pesos for their license and permits to pay.
It is said that the data of those who have been given a license is said to have been doubting the documents, but they have different address or their homes, what's worse, is that the people who were given birth will no longer be found.
"Is it a problem," that? "
Sometimes, I was able to talk to some of the officials of PROGUN and those who went to Camp Karingal, and that's also their complaint.
They say they are not able to join the competition because they do not have PCalaguas if they have something to do.
It is said that strict with the long sports has been strict, but it is only now that they felt too strict in the Fotoplay.
This is sad because the PNP cannot hide their data because of the number of crimes that are involved are guns.
Just when it was just this, when we celebrated Christmas and New Year, isn't the number of those who fired a gun and some children died?
If the restriction of PNP Chief Alan and Mister Aquino are true, they will start it in Mindanao, especially in the group of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and those similar groups to push their weapons!
Let us not waste it, Mister Purisima and Mister Noynoy.
If what you want is strict, do the same and true.
"They say," in the law that is being implemented now, "the only daughter will be held!"
