
Thick faced by Bong Revilla.

Even though it is right for his comment that DILG Secretary Mar Roxas is useless, it's too bad for Senator Bong Revilla to call the secretary to resign from his duty.
We do not know it and we are not interested in Roxas but if there is a need to resign, no one is calling Revilla.
Isn't it too bad to be touched by the face that he is being incriminated in the plunder case related to the pork barrel scam, I am still taking care of Revilla?
Plunder is a disgusting case because it is theft in the funds of the country.
So in our opinion, Revilla has no credibility to tell Roxas to resign from being useless.
Like Roxas, Revilla has no delicadeza and the first to be leading in the Senate is a period!
He / she was wearing.
"Many will be angry at me but this is the truth," according to them, Vic Viscocho, Junior, that we should forget the EDSA Revolution.
After 28 years, the true spirit of EDSA 1 is gone.
"Why did this go to Cebu?
The monkeys are only monkeys and how do we convince to convince that the spirit of EDSA 1 will be there if people who have primary role here are all involved in something foolish there.
Isn't he kicked out by Ferdinand Marcos because of corruption?
But the inhumane actors of EDSA, are all corrupt.
And the government of PNoy, is taking advantage of the thieves.
In PNoy's power, according to the survey of SWS, according to the survey of SWS, it is very clean but it is too stinky and there is a distress.
You should ask the youth whatever EDSA is, they do not care what to answer.
Because they were aware, after EDSA 1, a lot of news from the government was read and said that he / she'll read.
The catholic bishops conference of the Philippines (CBCP) is a big challenge to school even in the Catholic Church who is always calling the youth the historical EDSA People Power which became the way to achieve freedom from the Marcos dictatorship.
For me, it seems that they are proud of the new generation on schools that the spirit of EDSA has committed against the corrupt and abusive management but the robbery in the country's treasury is ongoing.
Until now, we still do not have freedom to disapprove the government.
It is really a big joke, just stop it!
