"The government, progress is slow in acknowledging the rights, to the child.

The children were put through different community in Metro Manila and the young Manobo tribe in flying kites and the commemoration of the 25th year declaration of the United Nations Convention on the rights of the United Nations Convention Center (SC).
The children put their request for each kites and they let them go there, according to the subjugators of the activities, through this, the children are going to express their real thoughts, even just in making the kites.
According to the Salominations for the Children's Conro to lead, the government of the Philippines has a big contribution for the protection and rights of the filipino children.
"Many of the children are still submerged in poverty and they still experience hunger and they still lack in service," Madella Santiago, chairman of Salombies and spokesperson of Shuler Edward Schools.
According to the latest survey of the Social Weather Stations (SWS), it is estimated that up to 12 million families are considered to be poor, while 5.5 million children are forced to work, daughter is dangerous and dangerous situations.
Salazza also said that a huge number of children were not able to study and thousands of victims were forcefully brought about by the severe damage caused by the severe intoxication.
"It is very hard to live in our community, usually, our food there, so many children get sick," Divina said, 17, Manobo tribe from Tutok-Davao del Norte.
He also said that their place is lacking in their health which is far from Visayas and its result, many of the children are experiencing in malnutrition and some of them die in a simple illness.
The delegates of a fact that a fact that the two children, who died last May 2014, was the two children who died after they were able to return to the community.

Aside from poverty and hunger, children also complain from the poor community and children Manobo tribe, lack of enough, orderly and quality education.
Ronald, 15, said that the Manobo tribe are lucky to have been lucky because they are able to study for free from the price hike which is built by the Rural Transit in the Philippines.
But in many times, this is the camp of the military.
"We are afraid, because the soldiers are always firing a gun at the back of our school, we cannot talk to each other because they always go to our ancestors," he said.
Both of them are students of Salamongan TIDs, Sumil on Community Learse Center (STTaba), Ronald and Divina.
According to Salazza, part of the Lumad by the Lumad in Mindanao who are being attacked by the military and the camp, while the students and teachers are being harassed.
"The government failed to give the rights and important to the children," said Santiago.
