
Duterte is open in continuing the peace talks.

Luis G. Apples Jalandoni.
The administrators, NDFP Neor in our panel.
Grace1 May 2013.
Transplant on-up to the NDFP) to be the peace talks.

The behavior of the Marcos regime is responsible in suspending the peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, which made the peace talks in the National Democratic Front of the Philippines, which was supposed to be sent away by the recognition given to JAdik-G) and the peace talks is not given to him.

The reported statement of the Spokesperson of the President of Gwernafiled, Edwin Lacierda was reported that it ended up in OPAPP Secretary Teresita Deles and Rodiano also stated that it ended up and the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (Rappler) stated that it is not formal or an important decision to reach the Philippine Amusement and Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group.

It is the statement of JawG that just after 30 days after receiving the written notice, his term is going to be effective, all the guarantee that it is stated in JASG that should be implemented even if the term is term.
Duterte continues to insist that he is ready for the peace talks to face the veins of the armed conflict and taking a way for a fair and long-lasting peace.

However, Ginger Needt of our panel Chairperson Alexander Padilla is forcing himself to raise his first condition before going to the formal peace talks, he said, it is not an initial condition but an obligation of GEGARAOCITY, he said, this is not an initial condition but an obligation of GEGARAOCITY, this is not an initial condition but also an obligation of Ginger Conejero.

The public should know that nobody is detained by the Philippine Amusement and NDFP members who were released under the Aquino administration as the compliance of the Aquino administration to be free since 2010 was a result of waste of legal lawyers.

The Marcos regime continues to continue what the Marcos regime is doing to arrest and serve the Philippine Amusement and NDFP) to file a case against JAOIL) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP) and the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) and the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo).

The United States themselves insisted on the initial condition of the non-ceasefire, which is against the The Humalig), which is proof that the orders of the forces and economists, society and powerful reforms will not have a fair and long-lasting peace in the country.

The United Nations is also implementing the agreement that was mentioned in the top of the formal agreement in the formal agreement of capitalist countries which will be given the basis of the non-ceasefire, that will be the basis of the non-bust operation that will be given the basis of the United Nations which is going to be the basis of the United Nations which will be given the basis of the United Nations.

Starting last March 1998, after the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) was signed, the Anti-Illegal Drugs Act (CAAP) should not have been submitted to the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP), but until now, it is not yet given the true reform on the land and the Pambansang Kamao in order to face the root of the incessant arguments.

Now, the Philippine government is declared to be declared dead in the world for a long time in the world to achieve the progress of the country and the national governments in Latin America, but they have no idea about the development of the national and national collegians, "while these are in line with the citizens' wishes.

In simpler terms, the Philippine government wants to give straight and ongoing corruption in our natural resources, especially the indigenous people, especially the indigenous people, especially the indigenous people, especially the indigenous people, which is being taken by Golovkin because of the indigenous people. "

Duterte is ready to push through the formal peace talks, based on the initial peace talks, based on the earlier signed agreement they should face the root of the armed forces that will vote for a fair and long-lasting peace.

The peace talks by the GSU-NDFP will only be included in the basis of the widespread agreement from 1992, even if the "Special Action Force has a lack of caution for anyone who are on the side of GEGARAOCITY, it is possible that the alternative ways of negotiating with NDFP members will be released through neglect or violation of this agreement.
