
Oplan Tokhang was made by women and groups for rights.

Macky Macasaverted!
March 20, 2012.

Along with the investigation conducted by the United Nations Human Rights Committee in New York, where the rights of human rights in the Philippines were scheduled to be discussed yesterday, a few groups in front of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in Camp Aguinaldo.
According to the groups from Gabriela, Salominations for the Children's Conro, it is being abused and put in a huge danger of women and children in the implementation of the four children, one of them are minors, from the separate incidents that are allegedly used by the members of the AFP.

Despite the Aquino administration's approval, the respect for human rights is the center of human rights that does not have any difference in the implementation of former President Gloria Arroyo in Oplan Galugad.
"
Gabriela who was a number of six women victims were recorded dead in the murder case from January to June of the year 2011, a group of 13 cases of rape, which was allegedly done by the police and soldiers, was recorded.
Meanwhile, the group of Appeals criticized the message of President Aquino at the end of the cadets of the Philippine Military Academy, according to Marie Hao-Enriquez, the chairman of Karylle, that in spite of the warrant of arrest that was released by the court, he said that the warrant of arrest has not been caught, "he said.

Enriquez also said that the President continues to hide in the campaign against anti-corruption, "even if we are in favor from having a good government, PNoy should also advised the newly released roads and it creates an effect which is similar to the bloody Oplan Bantay," Arroyo said.
Gabriela is challenging President Aquino to launch a thorough investigation on the cases being faced by the military.
"The government of Aquino failed to change the destruction of the AFP and even institution that can be used for human rights, if PNoy is serious with human rights, he should use justice to the victims and their families," said Linmei.
