Art of the cell.

Toni Gonzaga-hearted.

In the prison to celebrate his 120th birthday of Erlan Acosta, for her birthday, he will build a poem dedicated to the tasks of a Mister Mabalaca, an element of the military who visited her, it is clear that she is being monitored for Acosta in the prison.
This is only one of the series of songs and songs which can be seen in online gambling and hidden names, which is wrapped in the advancement of political campaigns, which is also not only a way for the advancement of political campaigns, but also serving as a reminder not to burn the imprisonment of spirit and imagination.
Very well!
February 13 last year was when Ermson Acosta, or Ka Eric, was arrested for the elements of the 39th Infantry Brigade of the Philippines Army (PA) in the leadership of 2nd Lieutenant Jacob Madrigal Street, according to 3.5 hectares of the New People's Army (NPA).
Ka Eric is only one of the hundreds of political leaders in the country that whoever was arrested, who is detained or being imprisoned for those who are pushing their political beliefs, and contrary to what the Aquino administration is saying, the illegal acts, if not yet an enemy, is still ongoing.
According to the latest record of the Karl Human Rights Alliance last March 31, a 363-ranking government opponent in the country remains a 363-ranked leader of their prison, where there is lack of space in their prison, where there is lack of space in the primary needs of the prisoners like food.
These are not different when they are experienced by the thousands of prisoners in the country, because there is a limited space for the New Bilibid Prison that has a limited space in a clean water and good food, and usually carry rotten vegetables to the prisoners.
The prisoners have their ways to search for those who are working in order to escape from the inhumane condition of the jails and other inmates, Ka Eric, and other inmates, which caused the rich tradition of spreading arts from the prison.
Life.
Along with the evangelists of the jails, the history of harassment of arts from the prison cell is due to the culture of tissue paper from the prisoners in America, full of tissue paper from the prisoners in America.
A product of the prison is also a product of the history of history and ducks written by Amado V. Hernandez, while the novels he wrote are in the prison, the last piece of Jose Rizal, "Mi'll be sent out of the prison.
Until present, there are still a lot of prisoners who are making arts from the prison because they are waiting for their sentence, and what is waiting for their sentence, and most of its bottom, the art will serve as a way for the prisoners to remain in the consciousness of the society.
For the political opponents like Ka Eric, one way of pushing for the advancement of their call is spreading art from the prison, along with other ways to prove that they are imprisoned in the middle of the state, they are not being jailed.
Even the common prisoners are diligent in making chaos inside the prison, many condemn his masterpieces from their relatives and community, proof that the prisoners will continue the line of communication with their relatives and community, a proof that the prison is not separated from a higher society.
Release.
At first glance, it seems that there are a symptoms of horseshoe, which is very lonely inside the prison and is very lonely in the prison, but also to know the deeper need that we need as a person.
In the prison, the world where the prisoners work is small, they are limited to their imagination and in the metered space of the cell, whether they are imprisoned in prison, their arts is the proof that the spirit of people will never be jailed.
Even though Ka Eric is considered famous in his co-inmates because of the special attention to him by the military, all of them are given peace because of their entry in prison until their entry in prison is proven to be a criminal case, including the inmates, including the prisoner, including the prisoners.
It is considered as the prisoners in danger of society that they are often afraid, they are trying to scare the arts of the prisoners when they are taking advantage of their voices which is full of spirit and imagination of one of the prisoners, instead, it might be at the use of prisoners in his own and in society.
The tradition of misuse of arts from the prison is the testament of the spirit of people from the jail that can be imposed in the jail by the mechanism which causes art is the way of the voice and dignity of the prisoners.
