A little more until now, he / she grew up.
That is not answering the areas affected by the place, what we are afraid of is not for me together with Jordan Balos; we are both talking, we are going to talk first.
It's a good news now.
It's a good afternoon to go to school; but to his remains are laughing at those who are working on the mountains of the Philippines who are annoying for the last night to prove that the suspects are humble from that day in a month.
Last night, you are earning the people from district the things that he is going to go to two twenty-three children who are degraded; and covetousness.
To be able to make it like that, he / she was able to be able to judge him until Paul II, 39 years old when we were far away, I was not able to go to school; he was not able to talk to each other; he was able to talk to each other; the scenes he can watch.
In our barangay, but you are still in a tricycle, you still love the corner of a temporary sudden loss because it is far from him that I am together, right?
Because of what happened last night, most of these were no longer able to get back together here in Zamboanga because it was found out that he was only fooling around 10 thousand pesos, but when it comes to Arquero, he was able to give ten thousand pesos, but when it comes to Arquero, he was able to send ten thousand pesos but when it comes to Arinoli, he was able to send ten thousand pesos to each other day.
According to him, I even said that I even know my siblings last night in the house of the room, why are you still showing-eyed on what you are saying.
Later on the fourth result of the steps, it could no longer be more than thirteen years that William was reported to have been hurt when William was recorded to have been hurt, Tito Paul Paulin, Lot seven, many said, who asked him to ask him.
It was recorded dead while an estimate of Two people were able to catch up, whose legs were cut off.
Yes, then sing so that they will make it up to each other.
That is still what happened to me.
You are not able to stop him.
Yes to our officials, even if we buy fruit, we will buy fruits, shrimp paste, shrimp, and others to think that they will be proud of.
Jess's for a long time with his name.
Let's wait a week for the operators to reach four to four decades.
I know.
Our fellow countrymen can understand that we can't understand each other; we are priority; this is priority.
Of course, of course, of course, self is priority.
Covetousness; we can say that we can say.
We will finish it.
Best.
Let us just go back to those who are looking, he is afraid of what our students are here.
It was on November 4 when our doors are over now.
At dawn.
In spite of that, he / she said that he / she is distressed as he / she goes to the Manpower; he / she can go home in number.
The twelve pesos will be the fourth to support the many of my disappointment, many of the food that he has a lot of food there, all of your needs are here.
Very small; so much as the big amount that we took in our pictures, we can see each other; we can see each other, that's why our lives are okay, which can be seen by our fellow countrymen.
For many years, we have already told us that we are holding the TV 5-Illegal Drugs Act, we seem to be in a report that we can cook this the elementary school of January to four o'clock; we are just right; we are just right.
But the government has not been cut off even more.
Water between the T'boli, I am watching the Zamboanga.
Yes, inside the help of the people, we have a lot of thousands and four call centers here in Pampanga.
