
Marijuana plantation is a plantation of coconut oil, which was owned by our ancestors in Misamis Oriental.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
There was 17, 2012.

It is like a private property of A. Brown by a public land that she did she did to Opol, Misamis Oriental.
"One day, the guards suddenly came, they pointed a lot of guns, they were pointed at a long gun, and they grabbed the caskets at my crops, and they pulled out the caskets, and then their land was filled with oil."
The 66-year-old Amadeo, was filled with anger in Brgy. Tabag, Opol, Misamis Oriental, in this violent way of a peaceful community which is currently in a peaceful community for the native farmers.
In the name of oil.
Bald people are aware of the mountains of Opol, that it is far from the previous forest of Opol, and one of the indigenous people who followed him, which is the real purpose of Carrie Ann, and other Lord who followed him, which is the real purpose of Carrie Ann, and other Lord who followed him.
At the onset of the decade of 60, many of those who were not able to return to the land were not able to return to the land, but it was again made by one of the Lord who has a land named Victor Paras, violence which led to the indigenous people, and the guards did not shoot their houses, and the guards did not stop them.
As time passes, and probably because the trees are already gone, Paras left the soil again, and it was being planted with him again, and it was planted on the cooperation of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR).
The industry of oil companies in the world is growing because of the huge needs for it to be the ingredients in oil price, which is also one of the source of the biuel family, or an alternative that was taken advantage by the big company, especially in the poor countries, especially in the poor country.
Marijuana plantation of A. Brown's plantation in Brgy. Taw, Opol) and Quijano) were plantation.
This is the number of airplanes that Indonesia and Malaysia, wherein millions of hectares, many of the millions of hectares, are still in the middle of the oil plantation in the Philippines, around 46,620 hectares, according to the data of the Philippine Amusement and Development Council last 2009.
The government is priority to widen the plantation of pork oil in the country, even in Mindanao, there will be a source of 914,7hectares that would be used by El oil.
It was a victim of this exploration going to Opol, where the A. Brown was suddenly arrived at 2010.
Included in Kalapati, Kilusang Magbureaucracy in the Philippines (KMP), Preso or Asian Games) in the Pacific Ocean, and Asian PCCO) last May 6-10 to investigate the alleged property of IOS in Opol ID.
Violence in the natives.
In a meeting called by DENR-Community Precint and Natural Resources Office (CENRO) Region 10 last February 2011, the company promised not to force those who do not want to agree, "according to Rubamson Batal, resident of Barangay Tyo, and vice-president of the indigenous people.
But the farmers were not able to pay, many were forcefully grabbed by the guards of A. Brown, "they took the coconut and burned my house," according to 64-year-old Victoria Tablas, resident of Barangay Bagocboc, "according to fear, he did not return to his land.
He / she did not pay attention to she was puzzled while telling one snake for them to be driven out of their tribe-ancestors (establishments, Quijano).
Last March 10, 2011, eight farmers were shot by the guards of A. Brown and members of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) while they were hit by a warrant of arrest, they fired a warrant of arrest, and then they were shot at. "
A farmer was wounded in the incident, while his companion was imprisoned for two weeks and was imprisoned for two weeks, before he was brought to the precinct, he was said to be beaten by the NBI, and why did you not give the land to A. Brown? "
In the dialogue of FM to Opol Mayor Hubbert Yasay, he admitted that he was the one who tried to arrest the farmers who are accused of being accused by the barangay officials who are being accused by the barangay officials who are asking for the entry of the plantation. "Ichambers (Our Lady OPLAN)," said in the interview of Filipino Weeker. "
The dog brought by the plantation.
Since the A. Brown has entered, some of the natives want to farm the former livelihood, the company promised that they will be a regular workers, but most of them are just going to have their regular workers, and is just getting a low level of employees from Bukidnon.
An animal oil is one of the industry who became strong and used to use a chemical, which was used to be used in the plantation of a careltek, a surprise attack that would be used in the plantation of carelongated) because of its bad effects on health and surroundings.
Auto said, that the workers complained about him that they were not given the appropriate information about the cardentist "but when they opened the container, they got dizzy with the strength of the smell," he said.
The indigenous people are getting sick and die since they used a poisonous chemical that hit the plantation. (Some-years Quijano).
Other residents are also feeling the effects of the use of attack, "many of the children always take advantage of the skin, before, they have nothing," according to Consignation.
Even the trees of banana and coconut plantation of the indigenous people died after they were hit by sickness and they are pests and they are pests and started to start a surprise attack from the marijuana plantation.
"Public-Private Conejero.
In a dialogue with the government official in the national office of DENR, it appears that the operation of A. Brown in Opol, which according to Joey Austria, chief of InBrown, which is supposed to be given the rights of the Philippines, which is supposed to be held by the Up Public Affairs Office, which is supposed to be held in the Pacific Ocean.
The application of A. Brown is not approved by the DENR to this, as well as well, the application of a group of farmers (that according to the approval of the indigenous people's interest is not signed, it is contrary to the camp of the DENR-CENRO Region 10.
It was the top of the wake of neighboring areas for those who were abandoned, which was destroyed in the fifth floor for the construction of the road going to the plantation of A. Brown (hectares, Quijano).
"We are being treated like squatters in our own land, but it turns out that they are the real squatters," said Auto.
In spite of this, a Board of Tax is given as a Board of Tax or incentives in taxes according to Antonio Flores, member of the National Bureau of Kibalabag, "shown to the real traits of the Philippine National Bureau of Kibalabag," shown to the welfare of the farmers and indigenous people. "
Hundreds of families who did not want to follow the continuous control of their land, even if they are slowly being surrounded by the plantation of a company, there is no respect for their rights that is sacred, according to the indigenous people, according to the indigenous people where their ritual are taking.
Now, the roads that pass through this wake are going to pass through this wake, and the trucks and vehicles collided with their dignity and human rights violations. "Because if not, our lives will finally be ruined, the land our homes and our ancestors."
On the guards of A. Brown by the members of the International fact, it was a big head head that was supposed to visit in the house of Amadeo, at the left house inside the plantation.
