Pregnant, hurt in the demolition of Carmina Compound, forced to give birth.

By contribution.
July 28, 2013.

(The video of the top is the footage of a few senior citizens from Gabriela and Muntinlupa that they have taken the story of Margie Garcia, 35 years old resident of Carmina Compound in Brgy. Cupang, Muntinlupa City, about his experience last July 18.
The local government of Muntinlupa is headed by local government in Muntinlupa because of the attempted murder of the poor in Carmina Compound, of the urging of a businessman that is said to have owner, one Sonia Lim, since last month, the residents decided to stop the demolition of their houses.

Last July 18, the team team was able to go back again like what other residents did, Margie (that nine months pregnant) from the teams to not destroy their house, while he was talking, her baby was born when his baby was born by Ed.

Supreme Court's narration during his experience.
Margie Versoza, every day of demolition, "says that it is just almost two days ago, two days ago at two o'clock in the afternoon, I am being driven out by the police," they said that you are being driven out of the police, you already told them to go away from that, you have not been driven out. "
I said, "why are we going to sleep where we will sleep, in land, I told him that one of my hands is over, but it's one of my hands, but it's one of my hands, and then my stomach is finished, I went down, I went down.
"I told me when he is making a decision," said that this is just a job because we pity us, because we do not have anything, because what we are, we are just orders. "
Margie Versoza, and her born baby (contribution).
"I said," who among you are the orders of you, "he said," how much did they give to us, "how much did they say that what happened is severe," how much is what he did to us, "how much is what he did to us," how much was that he did to us here, "how much was he made to us here."
What I want to happen is that, what is happening here is that, what is happening here is that it is pitiful that nobody doesn't have to go to, just as long as we are going to go nowhere else.
I gave birth to me, I have money to your wallet, I have no money to give me, I have no money to give me, I have a lot of money, I have mercy, me, you have mercy on us, you have a job.
He said, we can't do anything anymore until I cry for me, I am really not even a cent, but when I gave birth, I have no longer a cent, not even a cent, but because my husband, she was also removed by my wallet!
But no matter what is the result, what is the result of my husband, they say they do not have any money, but instead of getting a job, they are being watched over by their father, but instead of getting a job, it is being monitored by their father, that is why they are monitoring us.
I am pleading, I hope that we can give justice (this situation), because they really do not have mercy, because we do not have mercy, because we do not have mercy on each other, thank you.
He / she was wearing.
That night, that was the effect of me (stone), I can't really be brought to the hospital, I cannot bear to go to the hospital anymore that's why I gave birth when I gave birth without one hour.
"What happened to me is really too much, I am just here at home that I am called a neighbor," I said, what happened to you? "I said, what happened to you," why did I have an effect that my stomach hurts.
