Islands of Ligation: Improvement and danger of Islamic Islands.

Joan C. Cordero.

The Manila-Cavite Expressway or better known as Coastal Road, where vehicles and businesses are delayed and delayed in the foot of the new highway, which will be held up by the scattered sea from Manila and Bacoor Bay.
Just a few steps from the market, you will see the three islands being laid in Manila Bay - the Islamic Islands - houses of different species like the Philippine duck, Chinese dizabal, and Pad Avramovic, who will think that there is a possibility that there is a possibility that there is a part of the islands in the Metro Manila?
However, this is not the only refuge of the animals and trees - a relationship is also a community and there are a community who get closer to them.
"We are one of the seven families who were transferred last 1970, we are living in the seashore Brgy. Manila Bay before doing it to Coastal Road, 75 years old, who is now living in a house which is made of cut off wood, galvanized iron, and cement beside the market.

Back!
Santa Maria is the first call of the three islands, because it allegedly has a blessing from the mountain in the nearby provinces of Laguna, Mang Kepweng Returns of the residents last 80s because of the height of the islands in the land of the neighboring Manila.
In the islands being transferred to the shore of Manila Bay, they went back to their homes after the construction of Coastal Road last 1976, the time of President Ferdinand Marcos.
The residents have built a lot of 77-hectare land jurisdiction of the Islamic Islands, barangay, clinic, and others but in 1995, the agency of the local government of Parañaque, and South Public Market Office (Noni), the islands being sold by the local government of Parañaque, golf, casino, and others.
Although he was offering a new image in the island, this means that the former residents of the Islamic Islands and filed a case against Amagsaki last 1996 in Parañaque Regional Trial Court.
According to Mang Augusto, who is one of those who fought for their residence in the island, it cannot be sold by the Islamic Islands because it is just a public land for the private corporation or association, but it cannot be sold.
He immediately rushed the island in the island, which caused the controversy at the time of former President Fidel Ramos, according to the articles of former President Fidel Ramos, according to the faith of Ramos, Bobby, politicians, and officials of the government involved in the selling of Bangsamoro Islands, according to the PCIJ.
Despite the destruction of the case filed by Mang Augusto, the demolition still conducted the combined forces of the police and the team in Bangsamoro Islands last 2000.

It's natural resources.
Different administrations have already known the natural wealth of the Islamic Islands, which is why there is always some public to do this "ectment area of former President Gloria Arroyo, due to the islands of the local governments of local and cybersex dens which are declared in Las Piñas and Parañaque Stock Exchange.
Meanwhile, it is important to give protection to the bians, call of the residents, hope that the government will notice the needs of the people, hoping that we will also take care of us, "said Mister Alfonso, the President of Shariff Aguak, and former residents of the island.
It is good for the location of the island for business, especially that the construction of the High School which can be destroyed, and near the international airport, will be in danger if animals in the island will push through, and to be in danger of the livelihood of the residents, according to the group Severe Acquired immune system).
As explained by Scalled M, many of the fishermen in the area are hoping the main livelihood of the citizens here at the amount of 50 kilometers per day, that they are carrying a sack of a sack a tree, which is usually being sold in the market of Parañaque, Malabon, and Cavite.
If ever the project of Asibars will push through, the big companies in fishing in the area cannot be shot, how can we stay and live in the ocean, and how we lived in the ocean, and those who were not able to study in the ocean, and those who were not able to study in the ocean, and those who were not able to study in the ocean, "said Mister Alfonso.
Take it back in the island.
Six-years have passed since the case of Mang Augusto regarding the sale of the land is still not over, but until now, the progress of the case will still not be finished, because we also do not always go to Amagsaki, "said Mister Augusto.
A few families who went back in 2000 was transferred to the damaged areas in Naic and Trece Martires, Cavite, but some of those who are living in the Islamic Islands, were transferred to a lack of source of income there, but we were in the ocean, but said Mister Alfonso.
Even if the years passed, the former residents of Islamic Islands will continue to hope that they will go back to their reunion, but we are not hungry there in the island, but we are not hungry here in the island, it is okay, "said Mister Alfonso.
What happened to those who live in the Islamic Islands is not different from the locations they are doing in different parts of the country to give way to the construction of new infrastructure that will become the welfare of the people for the interest of some businessmen who want to raise income.
There is something foolish opportunity for the names of the meeting today, because it is scheduled to be made into a "Elorde center" in Manila, because it is not safe from working for business, even the remaining wealth of the country, even the remaining wealth of the country.

It is the primary livelihood of the residents of whispering among the new ones carrying a stray bullet and the parts of the houses that cannot eat, before putting into a sack a few houses in Manila and Cavite at the amount of 50-70 pesos per kilo.
