
Day of nicotine gum.

Yesterday, on Friday, the 149-year-old birthday of Captain Andres Bonifacio, is the father of the 1896 Revolution and the true President of the country.
It is saddening that I do not see any big celebration for the national government for the daily memories of the local government so that for those in power, they just want to forget about this day.
Take notice that the celebration of your celebration will not be compared to the day of Doctor Jose Rizal every 25th of December, it is clear and directly taking advantage of the status quo in the ranks of heroes.
When you were living together, he was born when he has tons of poverty in order to learn, to go inside the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court to free our country from the Spaniards.
He was betrayed and brought by Emilio Aguinaldo at Bonifacio in Cavite after the former took the leadership of the revolution. After he was killed, his widow was raped, he was raped by his widow when he was raped, he was raped by his widow when he was raped.
This is the bitter fate that the father of the Philippine Revolution became the root of our freedom from now, despite this truth, it seems that there are only a few who take care of his sacrifice and his wife.
I'm sure that at this moment, you can still not bring peace.
We secretly celebrate the day of healing, just through the speed of a candle for one o'clock.

It is really very busy with the new film festival as Mayor Herbert Bautista for the upcoming film festival so it is not able to earn money, this is the reason why he is complicated in his office.
They neglect their duties due to the sleep that Bautista is sleeping without being restless.
The residents of the city are pitiful because it seems that their mayor is more important to their mayor than them who is from the city.

Many believe that the Lina should dismiss the law because this is the reason why they are increasing in number.
Many of them were annoyed because they were brave to ask for money to ask for payment for them to leave the land when they leave the ground that they did not even ask for payment.
Aside from the payment, they also want to give them a job, school, and hospital to where they will transfer the thickness of their faces even if they do not pay taxes, what I am talking to is a high-ranking official.

If you want to take a bath at last spring, you went to the Infines Subdivision, Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba, just near Metro Manila and from this resort he was looking forward to the holy mountain.
