
Capital for victory.

With the help of his good voice, he was able to go to another country and have built his own business with Filipina Calaguas.
In the University of Sto. Tomas in the Philippines, at the course Hotel and Management Council (Caano, although he was able to finish college, not in the office, but he was just a part of the area where he was going to be a part of the area where he was the one who took the way to reach the country of Indonesia.
According to Cimetidine, only six months can be provided with one band in the said country, which is why after six months, a few of his group were forced to go back to the Philippines, but he decided to stay there.
"I was able to stay for a helmet which was a helmet, my daughter-in-law, so that I am going to be a civil wedding." He said.
Cuya was also lucky because the owner of the area noticed that he used to ring his skill in singing which became a way to know his other ability.
When she found out what the course he finished, she immediately offered her a manager of the whole place.
After one year, Cuya and his wife decided to build their own business.
With their hard work and cooperation, he was able to put the ophthalmologist Entertainment Television, a gift agency that sends employees in different countries.
"Our companies that are in a living together with five star hotels in Indonesia; we were able to go to the Philippines, we were able to go to the Philippines, we saw each other in abroad," he added about their company.
He mentioned that what they went through was not a joke before their business became successful because according to him, "he said,"
"What we only have is a long time, your patient, Evy, and we were able to get the First contract," that is also a good timing, which is also a good thing that we can't see too much about what we were talking to, "he said.
According to Cuya, they are having a lot of client who is impressed by the ability of the Filipinos, not only because of our skill in singing but also because of being organized, hardworking, and skill in speaking in English which is said to be full and skill to the music of our countrymen.
It is true that the former-in-law has already been far away but now, his advice for those who like him would like to be an advice to the people like him who wants to be the one to make the message of thank you. "
That's why he / she was able to step down.
In other stories of our fellow countrymen, this will only focus on the sky for PTV Channel 4 every Wednesday, 8: 30 in the evening to visit Facebook fan: 00 in the sky.
