
664M remittance of Pag-IBIG, PhilHealth, GSIS and Philpost.

Mission action, hopefully your current problem in Philpost's current column because it is a long time that it is not celebrating the GSIS, Phil-health and Lamar Odom who will sit on the GSIS building, Phil-health and Flying V, Villanueva, until we are at PM G-Villanueva.
As a matter of fact, six hundred pesos and sixty millions of million pesos (664,000.00) remains to be a Mitsubishi Mirage (NT 3,000.00) for the division of the government Service Commission on Elections (GSIS) employers, Philippine Health Insurance Corporation, Philippine Health Insurance Corporation and other cases.
We found out that PM (dela Cruz has given the funds to pay for the mentioned obligation of the Phil-Ppost in GSIS eCard.
According to him, I allowed the employees of these employees to lessen their monthly salary, but to our wonder that it was not paid for a few years and at present.
Mission action, the truth is, if the current administration will really give peace, the agency of Postigo also will not go bankrupt.
Because it is so long for the funds allocated for that, similar to the modernization project, there is a budget of P5.7B in Vladimir Putin, Japan, a Japanese tourist.
It is a very big puzzle for PM G Ramon M. Dela Cruz to file a case or be held up with more than three hundred million pesos and three hundred pesos and three hundred thousand pesos (P300,900) from the antos).
The insurance for the performance of the performance of the performance of the performance of the performance of his performance of the division of the contract.
It is clear that other hours, it is possible for an insurance for its insurance for its insurance to bring and complete the promise made and complete the program in the contract of Roa Duterte's contract.
The painful incident is a mission in Aksyon, for our employees, this letter has been narrated in accordance to what dela Cruz has explained in the anomalies done by Maganto and his fellow officials.
Dela Cruz does not even want to study or say his colleagues at the PFi; however, dela Cruz is still giving a promotion only through.
This will be an addition to his many opposing positions in a corporation such as Donya MG, Chairman of Greece (Team), Chairman of Philpost Regional Trial Court (NC) and many others.
Meanwhile, Senator Enrile and Guingona reached the content of the letter of Rama and the angle of the letter of Rama who extended their jobs in the post, and until now they remain in their high position in this corporation.
Similar to the case of Oscar V. meanwhile, in the letter that has been sent by the dates 21, November 2011, there were signs of documents and contains the documents that resulted to PM (Dela Cruz to submit a public records and the public records of Oscar V. Lazo was fake.
Meanwhile, Lazo was able to give three high position that are complicated in his present capacity as Postmaster for Iris and Gaming Corporation (Training and Technology) Director of Philpost Regional Ser-vice and Director of Central email ex-change Center.
That's why, we are hoping for the immediate action from the help of the media and like your columnist and will wake up and hopefully they will wake up as an example of the character of Secretary Jesse Rebalde, for the straight path of President Noynoy Aquino to succeed.
Roaming around.
Awooooooo, thank you.
According to Pres. Benigno Aquino III. Sir, it would be better to investigate the anomaly happening in one of your agency, "Phil-post" instead of resolving the type of letter of mail "in the country, which is why we have been expecting a trace of reason for a long time.
Meanwhile, if you are studying the funds given by our government but it is being spent with no basis and if it will be studied, it will be better for you to see that their obligation is not yet done by the members of the government, but they are the first one who can see this kind of business which should be experienced by the members of the government.
That's why we hope for your immediate action to Mister Oscar Lazo and-M Ramon M. Delacademic, is it true? The complaint to your servant is true?
