
2 standard for justice!

There are two standards of justice for Senator Alan Peter Cayetano and it appears that his actions on the complaints being attacked in the Senate are for his own benefit and not for the country.
In the investigation of the Senate Committee of the Whole on the scandal related to the C-5 Road last 2010, Senator Manny Villar, candidate for the president of the Nacionalista Party (WHO), does not want to face.
The topic of investigation are the roads that Villar had done to the subdivisions of Camella Homes in which he is also the owner.
Villar ensured that his allies and party mates are defended by his allies as Cayetano, who said to be a judge who said that his co-senators are supporting the candidate for presidency.
Cayetano said it is clear that a person is not coward with a person if he does not have a coercion.
Aside from that, Cayetano was named by the Liberal Party (LP) and standard bearer Mar Aquino who is behind the defamation of Villar.
In front of the journalists, he is pointing at the blame for the "traditional politicians, being rude and relatives, which is called by Noynoy Aquino" who is called by Noynoy Aquino "the relatives of Aquino and Cojuangco.
Cayetano also mentioned that Budget Secretary Butch Abad also mentioned that he is part of them by Noynoy Aquino and behind the gossip that Villar has a secret candidate for the past President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.
Cayetano only stopped when Aquino won and become president, but PNoy has already forgotten all of this, Cayetano will stop his attacks and destroying the personality of Binay if he won the president in 2016?
He / she was wearing.
What is the difference between Villar in the Senate before, Vice President Jejomar Binay did not attend the hearing on the issues of irregularities being involved?
Binay is the direct judge in Cayetano and Senator Antonio Trillanes even if the investigation is not over.
Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago believes that the Senate has fulfilled his duty and it is enough for the evidences gathered by the senators that are being criticized by the senators in the investigation of the investigation.
According to Santiago, it was a former regional trial court judge, "it was said that the investigation should stop and be filed at the Ombudsman, but in the opinion of Cayetano, they would have had more evidences yet to reveal.
Before, Cayetano repeatedly defended that Villar had sex and was being given reason for him to avoid the Senate.
But if he considers the opponent in politics in the coming election, the involved are involved like Binay, and the view of Cayetano in the justice has changed.
