Jessy Mendiola, led by Derrick By GRTECAYETANO 2 in August 3, 2016.
The sympathies of the millennials and Baby Derrick Monasterio admitted yesterday.
Roselle Jurado, cannot say what is the first movie he will do with Regal but if Derrick is going to choose, he wants to make a episodes of Shake, Rattle and Roll.
If Mother lily will return the said film film, hopefully, he would be also a part of this, "it is famous because that is really a part," I really want to be, "gay.
But Roselle said, what they want, is that the actor is going to be a nuisance to the Kapuso young actor.
It's a bit sexy, because Derrick is saying that it is fine for him to make a movie.
It is okay for Derrick if she is a bit sexy in the movie he will do in Regal.
"That's okay," as long as you do not just see everything, "he is gay.
Project is long and needed in the story, Derrick is okay with that moment.
He knows that he is not guided by Regal and GMA artist Center.
We also asked Derrick, in case a sexy movie will be given to him by Regal, who he wants to live with.
"Jessy Mendiola!" She quickly answered to us.
"I really want Jessy Mendiola."
The Kapuso young actor admits that she is hurting Jessy Mendiola because she maintained her face.
"There was someone to comment that he is type of Jessy Mendiola?" He said, "he defended.
"But it's okay," that is okay because I do not want to be too thin, "is it meant for Derrick.
It's apparently a type of Derrick Monasterio into a bit like the body of Jessy Mendiola.
They saw the FHM's Toyota Innova at the corner of Bench, and good looks at her face that they were not able to speak with Jessy Mendiola.
Due to Derrick called Derrick as a sexy actor, there is a lot who desire to be gay for the sexy performer.
Derrick feels better when she knew that he is fond of gay men.
"For me, it is really gladdening," because, it's as if they can also deny it.
"Like that, what they are doing more than women is higher than me, which is more than me.
"For example, they are saying that a woman is going to be a woman, okay, but the person who is a gay is okay, ah, the Kapuso actress is very delighted with me," the Kapuso actress is very entertained.
It was then that Derrick admitted that she was receiving payment from the rich gay.
She said she is not able to know but he is giving a text message to him if it is okay for him to respond to a rich gay.
"It is not included in me" he is really gay because he will file a gay case.
"It looks like the legends," the amount that he is given, like real, is true, "he is not expecting a story.
When there was a condo unit when it was a condo unit owned by a rich gay who offered her to prostitution.
"I did not allow it to be responded, but it was just a text message, but I did not reply to Derrick.
He tried to deliver it to something like that because he believes he will earn money.
It is said that he / she has a right fans for gay people and where he is, but to answer back, he will really be able to answer.
Aside from being Regal baby by Derrick, he is also busy with the sound of his release.
He frequently goes to the mall show an illusion for his release and it is there that he felt ashamed to be touched by fans but it is fine for him.
Derrick is already preparing for her to be a concert in Philadelphia Mushatch on SSeptember 23, "hey were together with Aljur Abrenica, Rocco Nacino and Jake Vargas.
"
