Juaning is, Wish it with Vilma and Santino with the All Soul's day.
Aiza and Liza, full of rude netizens, Noel Ferrer August 3, 2016.
Noon, we feel the blood pressure in Juvenile's pressure because of joining Cantos now.
Last 2012, he is with Single Entry Approach where your co-za Calzado, Agot Isidro and Janice de Belen and they are together to be the best actress and best supporting Actor.
This year, he / she was able to support the movie kitchen which is Top Rank Promotions to be free to Cantos now. "It's too much from Cantos now, here, all of my debts as a person.
"Here, I thought of being an actor, not contented with me," that's what's going to be.
"A beautiful script of a woman who is in his whole life is written in the kitchen.
"And at first, I found a glimpse and Production which does not need to be vain, naturally, it is natural.
"In my opinion, I just felt it as long as long, we are free to spend every time," said our drama Queen Judy Ann Santos.
In the movie kitchen, someone admitted that Jumarito said that he said, "it turns out that he is Production you, as long as it is possible, it is good that an artist is beautiful, beautiful, with human rights).
"Since Plymouth, it is really different if you have a concern for the people you are doing.
"
"After the child has been renting for a young man, and I just came back with a little weight that is not just in the kitchen, I want to make a lot of movies.
"Isn't it, the last year Year, I did not want to learn from the Work with the Masters, Pega and Lore Reyes?
"That is what I really want to do - Social Work with Ysrael, that I will learn a lot.
"Hopefully, Director Brillante Mendoza and Director Lav Diaz, Jerrick Tarzan, director of General Luna, Iris and Lamasan.
"I hope, even if they want to get a job.
"I will be thankful with stories of stories that will expand the things that will expand the field or art of making movies.
"It is the Social Work with Co who knows that I have been a two-year-old daughter, Ate Vi, and Ma'am, and many others.
"That is what Wish, since they are both Ate Vi and Ma'am Pilar and Ma'am Pilar and Ma'am Pilar, we want to be with me for the All Soul's day!" We thought it is true that the young lady senator stated.
"Here it is, our special movie will be cooked - we have to share the story of Juanita in the kitchen at Camply, which will start to be start until August 17.
"We saw each other at CCP, I will have to repeat the Cantos) and I will really watch the movies at CCP to fully support the indie Productions.
"And then, there are times that we applied for deport in the kitchen," PMC, we can still help to support the movies we worked on - blood, sweat, salt, and various stuff, we can see each other at Camply 2016!
"Those who are famous, Aiza Seguerra and Liza Dialogue, one netizens, who are rude in cowards.
Aiza said, "My Destiny, on Facebook and as well, similar to other people, will be fed up by different kinds of occasions.
"There is no problem that we have different opinions, Bryan Realgo," if that is your true name).
"But for you to be rude to my husband because you do not agree with him, you have shown that you do not have any useless person.
"You are very strong, you are rude.
"You thought, we didn't read you, I will enumerate all of you and all people see what you have been saying to us couple.
"Since now, I will post all the obscenity that you are saying about us, even your pictures, I post it as your name.
"I will enumerate you," Aiza said.
It's because meanwhile, it has a post that is derogatory so that they will be deported in the PTQ.
The moralists, but really rude.
Here is the reaction of Liza, "Tuwid na Daan" by the extrajudicial killings "avoid being swept up by the media.
"And as well, instead of reading the article, their personal commentary about our relationship with our couple and other kinds of words are being thrown at us.
"Well, Fight IT led to the person who has been working for for a point of online.
"Reporting, Bryan Realgo, for someone from Ateneo and the prevalence of Shell, Shell, so you are laughing!
"We applaud him, which contains the face!"
Just like what Aiza and Liza are saying, I will only be able to know the stupid company and employee of a prestigious company, Shell and Holy Week, that they should not be able to pay but this time, they should be exported back to not imitate them.
Exactly!
Hopefully, this will also be a warning to those abusive in social media.
