There was no retreat from the Libingan ng mga Bayani BE, August 16, 2016.
In the midst of the pests launched by groups that are against the burial of the former President and dictator Ferdinand Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, President Rodrigo Duterte was not moved in his decision regarding the Marcos dictatorship.
Included was the Catholic Church Association of the Philippines (CEAP) for those who expressed protest against Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, and he even released an official statement on the issue on the issue: "President Rody, we was impressed by we Sinnott with his head.
The Kuala Lumpur SEAG.
Panelo explained that based on the regulations of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the burial of former soldiers and the President of the country at the Libingan ng mga Bayani has not been an expert if it is good or a former leader of the country.
If I will be asked, it is better for Marcos to be buried in the Libingan ng mga Bayani so that the issue will end up for more important issues of work, housing and free medicines and hospitals.
The position of Malacañang is right to let protest against Marcos in the Libingan but this will not affect the decision of President Rody.
The Malacañang should not retreat from the burial of Marcos in the Libingan because it is not good for the image of the President if he will give in the blood pressure of the pro-left group including the Liberal Party of the Philippines (CPP) and National Democratic Front (NDF) and National Democratic Front (NDF).
The group of Albay Congressman Edcel Lagman is now using the changes in the minds of Duterte on the issue of the Constitutional Convention in giving position to Vice President Leni Robredo as an example that the decision of the President in the Marcos dictatorship will change.
I remember when President Joseph Estrada was just seated in Malacañang in 1998, he decided to allow Marcos to be allowed to bury Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani but he immediately withdrew after being bombarded by criticisms from the group anti-Marcos.
The approval of Erap to the Marcos dictatorship from the weakness of its weakness is that it was followed by the suspension of the execution of Martial Law after it was executed under his administration the child rapist when he was executed under his administration.
That's why it's only right for President Rody to be strong in his decision to raise the remains of Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani so that this issue will end up and move on to the entire Filipino people.
