The teachers are planning things inside and outside the room.

Being Flordeliza Espiritu, and Victor Abarca, or Limited.

The whole class was very listening while the professor Sarah Raymundo, in his class Regional Trial Court (CIS), was only wearing a piece of convulsion because of the paper where the "Quiti Kill was sudden," the tons of cellphone of a couple.
Going to the opinion of all the owner of the rambling cellphone in order to find and kill his bag, but the sound of her bag became stronger, but the couple became pitiful as if afraid to be scolded.
Raymundo just turned around and then the tone of the tons of tons, all laughed.
This is usually a scene in UP if you think about it, but this is an example of how the teachers just want to break down the huge space between a classroom, which usually brings a huge space in front of a classroom.
That is contrary to what is common. "
It is often the "Ipit Gang" because of the style among the teachers of UP, it seems that the Spanish teachers like Raymundo, which are not ordinary, especially that they are considered dangerous to riding the flow.
Even when they were still young, they have started to get up because of their early knowledge and joining the movement and joining the movement of one of those who started to join the League of Filipino Worker (LS), which started to be activists for joining the League of filipinos, last 1995.
"It is a very big thing that I put in LFS. It opened the entrance in order to have a deeper social gathering," said Reynel Andrada, along with a religious scholar of the country, so that their students want to attack the complicated kind of teaching in the classroom.
"It is clear to teachers like us that we are not just entering the classroom, and those who are taking information to the students, there is also a critical understanding for us to get free from colorums in the culture of education in the country," said Reynel Andrada.
Because of this, it has not been difficult for the anomalous teachers of the university who owns the arts of teaching and being activists. "It is a part of my advocacy, part of my advocacy, part of being progressive," said Raymundo.
A theory going to that you will borrow.
From what they learned from their movement and floods in different sectors of the society, the anomalous teachers are unaware that they are only one of the teachers who are only one of their classes.
Even the group of teachers in the whole country like Alliance of a concerned government, (ACT), aside from the call of the wage hike in the society, aside from the call of the wage hike in the society, according to the call of the price of ACT Quezon City Hall, they are already launched in different places so that the teachers became aware of the situation of different sectors.
In fact, the role of being activists for the duty of a teacher was important that he learned how to teach them and his ability to teach them, they will be ready and open to the criticism and debate, he said.
But every class in the university is a challenge, because not all students are started to be progressive and progressive countries like the SONA of the Nation Address of the president, it cannot be denied that there are some students who are not yet ready to celebrate!
"The issues outside will be brought to class, you will understand this in a critical level, and hopefully you convince them not to be imprisoned in four corners of the classroom." Said Tolentino.
The anomalous teachers are trying hard to destroy the idea of the idea that the teachers are on the class of Flores, "the classroom needs to be in the field of beauty, and this is their chance to state, and debate."
The, is, the chance to be approved by the anomalous teachers is very important, especially there are some students who choose to avoid the arguments of ideas and release of what is right, "for the teacher.
"Because of their grades, they realized the teacher, if the teacher is religious, they will give a religious paper, if the teacher is progressive, they will also give political paper," said Tolentino.
So that the students would be able to understand the issues and convince to be critical, an effective way to a closer issue on the experience of the students, says Flores.
Youth, it is possible that there will be four of those who are addicted to classes, "they can be used to explain to the Sports Complex such as salad," said Reynel Andrada.
In this way, teachers will try to understand the students, all things are connected and should not be looked into as separated from the society.
In their field, the anomalous teachers also learned to be humble, a proof of their fight against the students and teachers, this is needed to understand that education is not just about the service of the country, "said Reynel Andrada.
Continuously fighting.
But in spite of having a "academic, even in the university, the anomalous teachers still remain under the Saligang Batas, even if the anomalous teachers still remain under one example, and one of the suspected reasons is his activists.
"The Department of Soccore-term.
However, the challenges of the teachers in the country cannot be measured again to strengthen the rights of their fellow teachers in fact that the rights of their fellow teachers will continue to fight for more than 70,000 members, to support the call for enough salary, which is currently under more than 1,000 pesos only.
It cannot be denied that the students are lucky that these teachers are still lucky that they can avoid passing by the usual sights of classes, teachers who are not ordinary with their ongoing duty not only for school but for the country.
If the principles being focused on and outside of UP will be eaten, the masses might be put to the principle of our teacher, our school, our school is our school, and the action is in front of our teaching. "
