TV Patrol, May 10, 2012.

Discover what you are Thy.

We do not give attention to things, until we have not given our intentions here.

Be an effective treatment to success.
Who are you really?

"It is better for you to waste yourself than to win the suspension of the fight and the success is only one of the angels, even the sky, or smart action; this is about your partners, or intelligent actions; this is about business partners.

According to the observation of Socrates: "The life without terror there is no meaning of living."

What is important to everybody is for your own consciousness, not from what you are planning to do, and if you will not pay your attention to you, you will continue your attention, and what you are concerned about you, and the things that you enjoy, and the things that you enjoy, and the things that would be lost for you.

If you know this, the truth will remain with you, and you will never work in your lifetime.

When there are questions, there are answers.

What do you want to do right now? And how will you do this?

2, what are your traits and ability?

3: How can your exported back to your former work and other activities that you have done?

Which of these will give you happiness and success in your work now?

4 are the activities in your work and even in personal life, you are more interested?

Whatever job you want to do, that even if you do not pay or have a pay, you will still do it?

5-Miss parts of your work will be lively and you can easily do it, even if you are in the house you are doing and you are getting fond of you?

6 what are done will be the most beneficial for you?

7: What can you do for now, in case you are starting?

Your time is limited.

Don't waste the negative comments, without meaning, always agree and make the life of whoever you are.

They are not investigating here where you came from, this is not related to any kind and level of your situation in life, and if you will let it go to the world and if you do not know that you have nothing to do or know about it, your meaningful goal is to get to know who you are going to know.

What do you want?

"The first and best success.

You can do anything to suppress yourself. "

Take care of your self.

If you are always looking outside and there is no time to look at yourself, what others are doing will be admired by others, will be admired by anyone who will give attention to you and will obey you.

Whatever you can see in others, what you want to happen to you is that instead of putting up with your dreams; rather, follow your dreams; so that you can reach your dreams, so that you can reach your desired condition.

To get to know myself and achieve my desires; I should always remember what I want to happen to me, and for me to do this, and for me to do it again, and I need to turn my back again, and I need to turn my back again, and there is a need for a meaningful change for myself.

A true happiness in this world is to escape from the prison to the prison.

The life that are all bluffing and lies, he earns all the fruits, and this is the primary reason why you're planted today, you will also reap you.

The mind is tainted with a sharp mind and will not be able to receive a giant.

The great joy and surprising surprise in life is the sudden outbursts of your amount.

My awareness, I can't see the world as the reality, I can see the world only, according to what I see, I am just waiting for me and the whole world is waiting for me and the whole world is waiting for me and the whole world is waiting for me.

As to how I treat myself, he is the one who took care of my treatment to others if I respect myself with dignity and integrity, he will take care of myself with others.

There is a glory in my depths.

One of the most important wealth is my ability to earn a ability to earn any thing that is needed by other people and to wait for my destiny, time, and to wait for my intentions, and to wait for what I want to do and be happy in my whole life.

My right to prosperity is my right to prosperity, God has made me regret and gave power to be plentiful and no impossible thing to God.

Until I continue to make up, his grace continues that I have saved.

What is only needed is for me to release prosperity in my depths and everything will happen according to him.

Three rules.

First, it is not important where you cause trouble; what is important is where you are going to.

The future is more important than yesterday when the past will not be restored, but you have a chance to change your future if you start to change this today.

Second: For your life until now, you need to pull your life.

If you want to earn more, you need to analyze well what can help you, your knowledge is the primary cause of how much the quality of your life is right, it is just right to fix the quality of your knowledge and skill.

Third, you will study anything that you need to learn to achieve the person you want for you to be your, and achieve what you want for you, and to achieve the foolishness that you have given to yourself, except for your own mind.

In the moment I will start and put yourself in order to fulfill my dreams, all things are going to take care and will come to help me, the events, and the times that you are taking the things, and the opportunities that you are applying for and to be the truth in my actions.

Principles so that the talent and potential of self-discipline will be taken away, 2) patience; 2) principles; 2) movement; 5) movement; 8) movement; 8) movement; 9) faith; 10) faith; 10) faith; 10).

Don't feel simple things.

How will you accept the new companies that will set you free, if your mind is filled with pain?

You are not free and have no ability to reach your destination, if you do not want to accept changes, and then your words are gone.

Each moment and each of the events in the life of each person here in the world, there is always being planted with its awareness, as long as there is a limitation or limit, that if your efforts will be stopped, not that it will not increase, but when they will decrease.

According to the book of 212: The extrajudicial degree, this is what is happening in the water when mixed with the level (degree), 211 is hot-hot, but when it comes to the level of 212, the water is bad.

"If the water is ill-tempered and insisted that this is the one who ran away; and it is unlikely to find a big difference, but instead, it is possible that I will do this, but instead, I do not have a simple question than to avoid," instead of avoiding them, "instead of avoiding them," instead of avoiding them. "

The 1 level of this will strengthen your work; and he is the identities of the people who will go with you, and the people you run for will help you if you need to avoid what you need to avoid.

There was no word: "I did everything I can, I cannot do anything, that I can still do."

"As long as long as there is life, there is hope."

The first is about to escape, no hope, and many request cannot be expected.

Here in the end, it is short, but there is a success.

He regrets more when we are not worried.

About our thoughts, and our minds.

It is time to start thinking for us.

Decision on what is the real goal.

No matter how much your desire is to improve your life and what are the things you want to change, then choose what you want, to change and understand what you want, and understand your natural and real character - from your depths and out of your surroundings.

The great and an ordinary person are ordinary people, but they are doing an ordinary work, but they are doing all the ordinary tasks that are important and making them know the importance of education, spending, discipline, ambition, and faith.

They can control and stop their minds in order to let progress on progress, success, and happiness.

Their foundation is strong and strong in order to succeed in any field they want to enter because they know that they will win a huge trust and faith that they will win a huge trust and faith that they will be a bigger trust and guide, instead, follow the temple of guide.

Your words are powerful.

You will meet in your word because your word is your personality and the words that we read, "at the beginning, the words that we have thought of," and the words that we have thought of, "and the words that we have thought of," that is the start of what we have thought of.

The expensive Kabarming.

1.

Think before speaking.

2.

Be careful, choose the words.

3.

4.

There is nothing compared to the dates that you have promised.

5.

Make sure to avoid hurting the feelings of words.

6.

Take advantage of the microphone is always holding when speaking.

7.

Calm calm and make sure that good and good would be good.

You are thinking, that you are not able to finish this, you are doing this, and this is happening to your life.

We just need to control our words and our integrity, before we control our lives.

The big secret of life has no big secret, whatever you're applying for, you will achieve it if you're going to do this, it depends on it.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
