
Aquino's domination to the victims in places destructed by the calamity, was owned by the PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 09, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (CPP-NPA will lead to the chief of victims who were not able to hold in calamity.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines and the armed forces are taking advantage of the implementation of the rules of domination and other sectors of the calamities and other sectors of the calamity to lessen the dismay of the people with the criminals under the Abaya.

"The intensified use of the domination of the military and police of the Marcos regime is a sign of the failure of the country's budget that will be quick to bring the supply of relief and relief in the middle of the severe calamity, and the numerous negligence in implementing the rehabilitation," said the KP.

"With the cooperation of the Filipino people on the 16th year of 119th Independence Day, they are firm to protest against the Marcos regime, especially to the agricultural sector in the Middle East, in the middle of the mountains, in the coast," said the KP.

"In spite of being a huge support to the human rights against the initial military campaign of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) such as Oplan Galugad of the Philippines (AFP) like the Oplan Galugad conducted by the people, women, women, of the poor people, and the Israelites of the people."

"It should be better for the Marcos regime and the AFP to be blamed for a brutal campaign of domination against the victims of typhoon Pablo in Compostela and Davao Oriental when it has been implemented in the victims of calamities that was implemented now by the typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas Region."

"The direct heart of the Marcos regime is clearly shown by the refusal of the citizens to the places destructed by the typhoon Yolanda (LGJ) last November 8, which declared a ceasefire released by the Bank of the PKP," said the PKP.
"Instead of giving up their attention to the immediate need of the corresponding supply and implementation of the rehabilitation and implementation of the rehabilitation of its activities, after the execution of the operation to bring out supply that are just near the cities and places that are just near the cities and places near the city," said the KP.

"But when there is no camera, the soldiers of the AFP, especially those who are included in the 8th and 3rd Infantry Divinity, who are assigned in Eastern Visayas, the islands of Panay, Negros Occidental, Cebu, and Bohol are extremely busy with the negative activities of their sarcastic pillow and dark places."

"Aquino is using the armed pages in order to calm the citizens in places where the administration of the Marcos regime, which is given enough supply in order to help the people in order to help the people again," said the KP.
