
In the name of the family.

Year-year, many Filipinos, or mother, older brother, sister or even the youngest are making a risk in other countries to find a better future for their families.
With the many stories of our countrymen who have heard and different people who have been known to the countries I have been to, there are almost only one reason for the gambling and violence of one foreign countries to give a better life to their families and relatives.
Lea Cagued is one of the thousands of Filipinos who are hoping for his work in Malaysia to give peace and the life of his loved ones in Manila is small and not enough, so he decided to leave the country and went to Malaysia, even though it was considered that his departure was considered.
With the help of his mother who is also working in the said country, he reached there as a tourist, which is why there is no certain job waiting for him by her mother's friends, she was lucky to work as a office assistant.
But Lea cannot avoid the problem, due to lack of working visa.
"I had a one-year-law there, but the time before is difficult, but the time that I am having a hard time before, China is very difficult," the passports of you, the hardship, "he said.
Because his income is almost enough for him to spend money and to send to his siblings who were left in the Philippines, it cannot be able to fix the documents and documents for her return to the Philippines, a former friend and the office who were working in order to return and be legal in his work in Malaysia.
For the sake of the siblings he is studying, although it is against his feelings because he does not feel the love for his friend, she was able to convince her to get married.
Lea is still lucky, because their relationship with her husband was finally ended up in a relationship and when he returned to Malaysia, he got a job as the secretary of another Filipino there.
At present, there are still many Filipinos like Lea Cagued that in the name of the family, they continue to sympathize with other countries and hope that the family will be given more beautiful life even in exchange of difficulty, danger and extreme sadness and loneliness.
That's why he / she was able to step down.
In other stories of our fellow countrymen, this will only focus on the sky for PTV Channel 4 every Wednesday, 8: 30 in the evening when visiting Facebook-page: 00 to the sky.
