Duterte narco-list.
Judge, Manila Ysrael, of By Betchai HAugust 8, 20163.
One by one, the personalities who were named by President Rodrigo Duterte yesterday who were allegedly involved in illegal drug trade after giving birth to 24 hours so that those mentioned were mentioned and reported to the arrest of the authorities.
A judge from Dasmariñas City, Cavite, who was not yet named but Philippine National Police (PNP) spokesperson Chief Supt. Dionardo Carlo said that he immediately went straight to the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) in Camp Crame to undergo an statement.
However, from a source of a source, it was said that by Judge Lorenza Mell that arrived in Camp Crame with his wife, he was dismissed from service because of the violation of the law of the law in his revelation, President Duterte mentioned one "Judge Mell" in Dasmariñas, who was included in the list of personalities in the illegal drug trade.
Meanwhile, one more than three hours of closed door conducted by the Major Crime Investigation Unit of PNP-CIDG in San Rafael, Bulacan Mayor Ciriano "Gymnasium" Dusino, Doren.
According to Vieno, he presented herself to clean his name.
"I was surprised, I was surprised by what the President stated that he was involved in the illegal drug trade in the country, I am ready to answer the allegation against me and if the opportunity will be asked, I can take a leave," said Vieno ago.
However, he said in the media that he has no plans to file a case against President Duterte in case the investigation shows that the information filed by Chief Executive is wrong.
Around 1: 10 in the afternoon, the face was wrapped when he arrived in the CIDG in Camp Crame, when it came to CIDG in Camp Crame, Lanao del Sur Mayor Rasul Macabeo.
"I told her, thank you, thank you, that we can file a case to the CIDG thank you to the Calaguas, if there is a case to be filed, we were not able to undergo a drug test, but we are ready to undergo the PNP Crime Lab," said Arquero.
Eight officials in Maguindanao who were included in the name of President Rodrigo Duterte have surrendered to clean their names.
Maguindanao Provincial Police Office director Senior Superintendent Nabas were said to have denied the eight people involved in illegal drugs and admitted that they fear for their safety.
Together with their families and supporters, Ampatuan Mayor Rasul, banquet, Talugtog, Datu Salibo, Datu Salibo, Datu Salibo, Datu Salibo, Datu Salibo, and Datu Saudi Ampatuan, Vice Mayor Anida Dimaporo.
