Where will I go to school; we should call yes as a day to go to school.
That's why I also want to contribute and go abroad, no matter how big we are; we are poor.
Angel.
Sorry, I speak but I am really a lot of people.
Nilo is really average.
What?
Just like what I'll take to me when I have to go to school, but we have not yet to discipline the things that I have done to me, but I have not made a lot of promises to me, that is why my life is still difficult for me, which is why my life is still difficult for me.
Yes.
I do not want to hear anything.
That is really where he is strong.
The story of one student.
"He / she was about to see that we were happy that in those kinds of age, he / she said that what we are doing is really good and what we are doing is really the role that you have, that's why you're just like that.
Whatever that is, when you are going up, you can see in her eyes that she is very happy when she entered the school, she even texted her viand.
He's happy that I have heard that I have heard that, I cried because, "of course, I might feel like that, it's also like that, it's as if you feel that it is the same thing that I am happy and happy.
No matter what happened, this is still a child who is still positive.
That is it!
They know that this is an important issue about the beginning of an honor for an honor.
It will explain to them how it is important that I am sleeping for a noodle house; we still want her life to be beautiful than my godchildren, they know that it was okay with my godchildren that sometimes, mother was left behind.
During the first time I caught them, that is why I asked them one of the names that you want, that is why I have not heard that, but I said that I am not being angry at that, because I said that I am not doing anything, but I said that I have not been drinking, that's why I have not seen him in the counter, so I said that I have not been drinking, that's why I have not seen me in the counter, so I said that I have not been drunk; we say that I am not having a little bit of things.
"Is this what I came from the school school that I have a lot of children, that is really clean, but when I arrived here, I said that I did not notice that, in the same time, I thought that he does not notice that he is the one whom I want.
An actor in the afternoon.
I am sad, I hear that I am happy because I am happy, very small; very small; I hope that they would learn to dream in Saudi.
Four.
Okay.
For us, the biggest problem is really the lack of white white vinegar for now and even our children, we really don't want us to go to Chief C-R.
Our place is really standing in our place, and of course, there is no water in the school of course, if you do not really know that we know about it, but what we are doing every rainy days is that the windows of the windows were not yet gone.
Forget the five that have happened in the third time when we come in the third for food that we have gone in the third in the third time, to be able to be able to catch them without doing their school 'things, okay if you do not have a win in the next month that they want.
Because there is no electricity that has no signal, no water, but it is okay with us since we are far from each other, that is why when we go to school, you will go back to the pockets of each other, that is why you will go back to the pocket of your head, that is why you will go back to each other.
I am really a lot of bad vice, of course, those who lend money to dry up and wash your companions there because we still do not have a different place and it seems like we have no different place in place, perhaps for the children.
As long as the beauty is, you are just here who are here who are just here and we saw that there are other children in a different school, you can't see that other children in other school, you cannot see what kind of children here in a different school.
What happened.
I am having a baby in that Philippines.
When it comes to the back, I really do not want to take care of the care that we are talking to, thank you very kind, "Chchu.
He is not really like that, you really say that I am really going to see each other, I really have to see each other, that's why she really gets to join, that's why she has a uncle, but he is not really smart even if he is just being smart.
You're going to like that even if he does not know that he / she does not know that it is over and then you will answer even if it's wrong.
"It's okay that, he / she really did not only do it to Ate Vi that she has no money for you.
.
Sometimes it's four.
We were together with the adviser of the Philippines when you became free for us, second.
Be careful with your orangutans which are going to be open.
Yes.
Around eight o'clock in the clock, he turned around eight o'clock.
Meanwhile, I will be able to give a few thousand pesos in exchange of cellphone in return.
Two.
Yes.
Okay.
Fuck, fog; and fur.
Okay, if I live-in the mountain they are already living in the mountain and he really know his mother.
"It was the record that when I was still a report, I asked him if I was busy with me when I told me that I was really busy with me, my mother-in-law that's why I have not been able to study every moment when she was still not able to study through a little bit.
He arrives in the coming election, but it's okay to look straight; that we will be irritated; we will be annoyed at the morning this coming Thursday.
.
"We are anxious; we just remember that that you are selling the bread they went to, but, of course, he said that this child is okay, but, of course, he / she said that it's okay for me to die; but, of course, he / she's okay to take care of it.
It was gone but she said that it's just okay with the money that I met, but we did not have the same surname as the same age, that's why I did not look at it while I was walking while I was entering the room of Manila.
They think about it a while ago.
You are not having a hard time we are not having a hard time again.
This will be held at gunpoint; that's why it's only a joke that it's only a joke that it's just a joke.
The time is being driven out.
Four.
War!
When you go home, I do it.
We are a tire.
Four of them were on the same time when I was able to go under the rambling due to the house of Sampaloc.
Around seven o'clock in the young girl was the payment for text.
.
Yes to you.
Hmmmp!
What kind of brother of older brother is made up by my family, hmmmp!
You are in a box that is not working on the crops.
Vegetables.
Then.
Ah, he was able to go.
That is why it is not hard for someone to be able to do, you are going to be able to go home when you go home.
