Buhay partylist is not equal, but good.

It is not surprising! You feel the heavy, the way to love!

There are many who are going out and avenging from their lives, according to them, there is no equal effect on the kind and level of our society, there is a rich and there is a poor, someone is accusing and doing something wrong and wrong, fix their lives and make their own lives.

I want to review the big mystery that is currently under our backs, this is just one way to progress.

Life is not equal but life is good.

We are in our ability to think and make the life that we want, if this is our real motive, and you should face the difference between your attention; and whatever you are competing with your attention, and what you need to choose, this is your present situation in life.

Whatever you are in the right now, you are the only ones who have the fares to blame or reprimand the others if they are always looking at the ability of others, instead of looking at the ability of others.

It is better to focus on yourself and develop it.

If there is no ambition, you will start tomorrow if you do not have anything to finish, you will not finish the reward that will not be brought to you.

One reason why most of us are always in trouble or fail in life, but if we need to hear this, it is not right, "if we are complaining about it," this is not right, "but when we are complaining about it," they are complaining about it, "that is why they are complaining about it," that is why they are complaining about it, "that is why they are complaining about it," that is why they are complaining about it, "that is why they are complaining about it!"

But when your needs are coming, there is the danger of illness, and fragrance of various problems, everyone who can approach is only about to request.

And if you cannot get what you want, everyone is blamed and even the heavens will not be given, aside from their shortcomings and negligence.

Actions will not always cause happiness, but there will be no happiness if there is no action.

Many are able to forget these kinds of scenes just because of just a little blessing, that we will be able to help each other, and if we will let others suffer, we will be expecting that we can stay there, and sometimes we will let others remain.

Their mistakes and failure in life are general mistakes and failures that we also feel for the pain of the little body.

If you are a real Filipino and in front of you, there is a foreigner who took off your fellowmen, and somehow, there will be a grudge against your heart, but we can do something for this and we know how to do this.

Our country's improvement depends on our hands as real Filipinos, and those who are destroying the faith of each of us, and even to the integrity of our country, and even to the integrity of our country.

Those who take advantage and that are also the things that can make us brilliant and sweet memories.

The successful in our countrymen from severe poverty and not equal to our society is not an obstacle for you to reach their success, instead, they still have no obstacle to reach their success, instead, it can't be done by others even if others can do it, but it can also be done by others, we can also do it.

If ever since the start, you believe that your dream will not be achieved, you will lose interest to do and fulfill it.

Let us give attention to the child who started to walk, this is owned by the feet to move forward, but as long as they fall down, he remained to stand and walk again, but instead they are not stopping.

They will act on it again and walk, until there is a strong and strong knee, we can easily forget when it comes to us, but even if you want it to go down, it will be easy for you to wake up, but even if you want it to go down, it will be easy to wake up and not get tired.

It is only that patient to be patient and make sure that even if it is hard to do a job, he will improve so that it can easily be done.

This is the quality and capacity that we have.

If you are successful, even your neighbor will think that you have intelligence.

Start, and everything will be easy.
