What is your problem with the two of you, because they also recognized him / her; we also recognized each other; we were able to talk to the stomach, I was able to talk to the stomach when I was talked to and architect; Gulanggani.
How can we really act on the third floor, that's why we can look at the third floor.
Myself, I said, I will not go to my father, that's why he / she was able to go to a point; he / she was ill-tempered; he / she was feeling weak; he / she was feeling weak; he / she was always ill-tempered; what is always on the same age.
What kind of sign is there are no or sure, whoever is with that?
It seems that I went there on Saturday yes to see the money to buy.
Why did something happen to that?
The procession is no longer in school, or whatever we are saying, isn't it that even if it is my father, we have no difference so that there is no difference so you can also see it.
Probably for John Lloyd, what happened was I did not have a plastic bags so I left a lot of men here?
We are very pitiful; we are like Boy, "we are Boy."
It's because Kuya Jojo is lacking and what is lacking is that I do not want to see a architect.
"Why do you not find any person to see, architecture, so I am not telling that there is no way there, Sonny Angara, it's not right that Sonny Coloma has a way to look straight; as if I got angry.
We, we still do not have a problem with me because I am just going back to school just because you have no problem, you have no problem, you have no problem for you to have a load for whoever is far.
Budo, because you can say that you are not there but for him.
"What will I give in his salary that he left married with, they did not know what they were talking about, that's why Boy's signature is very popular; and then he took five thousand pesos.
I do not know if Boyet is not entering me.
Boyet de Lima did not enter me with five years that he was able to pull my money here in Letran as a result of being annoyed by Bolet's as a result when Bolet do, that he / she was also the signature of Boyet.
"What is the right thing that is that, according to me, we have to look at me; we have even took two thousand two thousand for the pension that you rode in the bus.
Boromeo, to have a problem.
You will have debt again.
That is why it is better to face each other in front of you.
"You are okay, I said it's okay for him to go to him, I know that there is no problem for us, we think that we do not have any problem, we think, we thought that we are our name, we thought that we are the ones who get money.
Sure, let us go, we will go to school; we will go ahead.
Or
I should go to our place, right?
Okay, okay, fine, to whatever you have talked to, you were able to talk to him / her to get the checks.
Yes, what's that, I'm like that because we have been deceived by our maid, who are very fond of talking, where you are.
