
Masbate Prime Minister Paje and gambling in Calamba.

On the other day, DENR Sec. Ramon Paje, "looking at the UN conference in Japan, according to Paje, according to Paje, it is just right for its severe effect on the" brain, stone, heart, heart and gastroenteritis.
Sec. Paje: "Of the Philippines, which is being looked up in his eyes are the PGAPAID, which can be seen by our motherland.
It turns out, Secretary Paje Egan, why are you not being fired from the duty of the Mines and Geosciences Bureau Director Leo Magallon?
For your knowledge, Secretary Paje, in Masbate, the use of "mercury" inside the mining area of Filibusterismo are widespread before June that there are many people affected by mercury contamination, Brgy. Olaes, Aroroy, Masbate.
Every time Paje and massaging, it seems that he is just throwing the mind of the public, along with the relocation of the citizens, along with the relocation of Mucal.
Don't just let yourself be talkative, Secretary Paje, about the danger caused by mercury if you can't be able to remove passwords because he allowed it to be taken away by Masinloc!
Let us wait for it first, Secretary Paje, all the things that I gave about a Fil-budol gang before you have ill feelings, it is as if you will not pay attention to the people, especially those who are Masinloc!
Entice the President.
It is also assured that from the hands of Vic Siman, the illegal gambling dens are illegal gambling, boasts and even gambling in the city of Calamba, and now went to "Boy Life."
He stressed that the former is not known to be a famous illustrator after Mayor Justin Marc Chik or, son of 3-year-old mayor Joaquin, Jun "Chik, or.
He tried to escape from the mouth of Boy Life, "he / she was just wearing a Chik!"
That is why we are asking what we are saying, Mayor Justin Alva is the Chik or a boss of Boy Life?
Because in the past month, Calamba City COP Senior Superintendent Marvin Saro also attempted to save the position of Life which is also being implemented by his own wife, Evite.
But a few minutes after, Evite, someone called the chief.
It is all just ten o'clock, yes, sir, the answer is, and the policemen are getting addicted, haunting, haunting, haunting and haunt!
This is like a Colonel!
