Yes, what is happening to the communication, that's why we are okay to look down; he / she is very pitiful.
Are your sister's sister, Gold Rhum Masters, 24, people who have no idea that we do not have any gratitude; we should be thankful that we are all my gratitude that I will support the Pampanga Development Foundation in Cubao and you will meet this last night.
We are thankful is Francis lacking in love.
That is how great you have done and that is a lot of people and there are many people, ah, eggplants.
And for sure, we have to take care of what we can do, so I still don't know that we still don't know that we don't know that we don't know that we have no father, here, which is really the father of the farmers in need of mirror.
Their eyes, they are tired, they are tired of doing their duties which is expected to be a lot of our farmers for the expert doctors.
Thank you very much, Francis i'll look down; we are the ones who are rude or Contact Policy "now.
It was almost seven o'clock and I said that it was delicious and that was the same time.
We are going to follow you, "that's why he really has an operation, which is the only one who asked me," the key to me, whose eyes are really bad, and what's really needed is that their eyes are really needed to be gentle in their eyes.
Are you not Francis to give thanks to PhilHealth.
Okay, when they had an outing, a grader is needed to have a grader.
I don't know, we need to have a church.
I hear a lot of things there or know that there is a house already.
They are still the Church of extra ten million pesos.
But on the t-V-ray; we have no idea, we are innocent; we don't need to live-up; and then if you do not need to live, we should just call them because we are the only one needed by the majority.
What?
We are anxious; he / she is very proud; we can also thank you, many thank you to support me, that if ever there is a lot of people who are at the same age, they are really in good hearts, that's why it's really good that there is a very full heart to pay attention to a friend.
Just like that, he / she said, that Andang should support her but she is not just yes Medical Center with a cellphone, and also yes to the food of our farmers, "what for you.
There was no one who was with him in the room.
Which is the benefits of Chirming, which style of Tanduay but she said, "he said.
I was one o'clock in the past three o'clock in the morning; we were not able to see Carol but, when he arrived, he arrived at a point when he arrived.
They arrived.
For us, there are also those who are also carrying that.
Yes, Francis hopefully, I hope that all my dreams are for me to thank you because we have to thank you, we saw each other in Davao.
We are anxious; we saw each other together with each other; we have seen each other in radio, and started to become a seminar here in radio, because we think that we are a thick peso.
In radio, you will not be free for free everyday, because of course, nothing is giving something.
But yes, we will teach them to go to Bernardino Hospital because you do not have a point; as long as we are very well-tempered; we will be the one to monitor; that is why we are still in the monitor; we are still in monitoring; we are still not beautiful in palm.
I will go there.
Yes, we are very pitiful; we should just walk at you, "I will say to him if it is possible that she will be alone here with us.
Yes, it might be important for the aircraft ring that would be exported and then will be taken to Holy Francis the two when we were able to go to radio.
Before, there is really no ego in that kind of goods that are similar to those who are stupid; we are stupid; that's why they are stupid.
But if we have the interview of Marias, some of the FFF) who will benefit from the Alyssa Agriculture in our interview with Ernie regarding this that there will be a heavy rains, which will be added to four million pesos.
Thank you, if you have a garage, we have a meeting with each other, "in our text message, he / she had a text message; he / she grew up;" he / she was very serious.
Covetousness; the K-FJ, "that is the K-J 80s; and Calanoga; we are very happy, that they are very happy, that they will have a seminar or lazy.
We are very proud; we are planning to go on a month of October because I have not yet been going on a date because I am going to talk to someone else to be with them.
But that is a lot of programs.
Five C D D.
Her daddy said.
For what?
Covetous, deport; why don't we try to send the checks; that we can eat while eating.
So this is not your enemy.
Because there are those who are taking advantage of the education that have a high level.
There are also those who are Arvin Aaahhmm, especially in Bataan, who have a high level of education and then in Tarlac, and which is also a part in Pampanga; and which is also a part in Pampanga and to be a part in Pampanga.
Yes, you know, Francis really is, Aurora, who is still thinking that they have a lot of Coconut Resort.
But we have something like that, there are still no asphalt that's why they really are still with them.
Maybe it is really good to be with those who are lacking.
"It was on duty when I was on duty, he / she was on top of the Indonesian station; he / she stood up to each other, who was alone in the program of FJ C why not Lydia.
He / she was very angry; he / she was really included in the Agency in your opinion that's why I think he was not able to go to Bernardino because they already have a child to go on top.
