Lola EH? "?" Sunshine, is the winner in what's being called EpiPen!
Clarisma, said that Sunshine will not pay attention to it, "tonight!
By Rose, August 12, 2016.
For the first time, after that, Sunshine Dizon will catch her husband Timothy Tan and her alleged mistress, Clarisma Sison, the three of the office of Senior Inspector delos Santos in the DOJ Building of Quezon City Hall.
The three, Timothy, went ahead, Clarisma to went straight to the office and was not able to go straight to the office and did not make any interview since he left and had his own bodyguard.
Sunshine said that she was surprised when she was surprised because of her outfit she was with their lawyers and she was not able to do anything when the media was able to enter a few minutes inside her office in order to find a photo from the three, before the investigation was started.
Sunshine has filed two cases for the two, VAnito and term., but there was no more minutes, Sunshine came out of the office.
The reason, the two pleaded for the two, especially Tim for extension of filing the counter affidavit.
Sunshine's being a fan of Sunshine and her lines are super busy that you think, he is just a line of her biased.
When he asked him what was his reaction was when he saw the two in the office of the prosecutor, she knew that Sunshine Dizon said, "Maritez-asa Parish Church, which is an ordinary person (Her Her, which is an Overseas Filipino Worker (Her."
If Clarisma thought that he had a scene in the hearing, he made a mistake and when Sunshine's lines got worse, he doesn't want to taste her hands if ever he will slap him.
Then, Sunshine was not able to avoid being emotional when he imagined his children.

According to him, "he / she said that he / she was to be the collector of the bait that was given to my children, so he has a child, because I can do it.
"But," the pain that my children passed by, "that is no forgiveness by my children," I might be a person to slap him, but I could not make her hand, but I could not stand up with my hand, maybe I will suffer.
We also asked Sunshine what he feels for the said cause of the destruction of their family?
"Even if we turn the world upside down, he destroyed my family," the owner of the actress.
Before the hearing, there was an agreement that Tim will be sent to Sunshine, but this did not happen.
As of now, Sunshine said that her relationship with her husband is a civil wedding and she does not feel any of anything, he seems to be pity for the father of his children.
Tim was also able to give back to their children that is why it's bad for the children to happen, maybe the time would come that Sunshine's heart softened, that we will not be surprised as the father of Anton and DMC).
But IT led, Fight IT led to Clarisma to Clarisma.
According to Sunshine, "No.
"Epal.
On the other hand, Sunshine has been tainted that he will not give his annulment with his wife and see that it is easy for the two of them to become a legal separation.
Sunshine also denied the allegations to him by others that because he still wants to get along with Tim so he does not want to be annulled.
His reason is, if I am in a hurry, "hopefully, I will not file a case."
