Usually, reasonable.

By Priscilla Mireilles?
July 18, 2013.

Lorna Tolentino (left) as Edith Burgos and Rocco Nacino.
Retiro: Burgos (2013).
Joel Lamangan said it.
The script of Ricardo Lee was about.
Featured on Lorna Tolentino, Rocco Nacino, Allen Dizon, Ina Feleo, Dimples' Garcia, Kerala Zamora and Tirso Cruz.
Heaven of UFC Octagon.

In spite of this circumstance, the Burgos and although they have passed through many challenges, just like an ordinary family, had been deceived by a Marcos dictatorship, an ordinary family, with the old siblings, now has his own mind and resolve.
It is just perfect for Edita to his son, Jonas, who, in a meeting with the farmer, she said goodbye to the movement of the farmers, the movement of the mother's movement, but his respect to the life of each child prevailed.
Joe Burgos; the deep stand for the movement of the farmers of the farmer, Jonas went home, Jonas went home, Jonas went home, Jonas went home in a crowded mall in Quezon City.
Because of the request of Joe Burgos to the freedom of speech of the country, it can be said that Burgos and his reaction will be popular to the public's disappearance, and if he will be able to use any connection with the public, he is usually able to use any connection with the public, being called, as the spokesperson of the people like him who is common people looking for.
This is the theme of the film Burgos by Joel Lamangan: The popular but common mother, Edita Burgos and his search for the Pectment son, Jonas.
On the other hand, we can't tell what happened to Jonas, who was the face of the child named Edita, and afterwards, the face of the child, Ricardo Lee, was not surprising, the point of Edita, the point of Edita, the point of Edita, to search for the child.
(One point when they showed the movie, but not as the center of the story, the point is the point of Jonas's husband and child, Jonas.
On the other hand, there is something different and, in discussion of a famous case of violation of human rights like Amalia Fuentes (Edita), who has no doubt, Jonas left, who has no doubt, Jonas left, but she still needs to speak and look for it.
That's why it's difficult that Tolentino will be held in this movie when viewers feel his hard work to give justice to the difficulty of the mother of Edita, which is why we often see the character of Edita, which is why we often see her mother's character in private and public.
Burgos to the movie "Burgos," Joel Lamangan, said Ricky Lee.
It is possible that this weakness of the movie will also be the lack of giving attention to details: Example, the scene of the scene in a press conference, which is certain that it was not given a chance to talk to Edita, but whoever was able to attend the similar press conference, the scene he was able to attend to the press conference.
However, this is just a small complaint, but because there are many movies in social media, even if it is not the real name of the Chinese, who is a slave, that is not the real name of the Chinese, that is why it will not be noticed in Burgos, but it will not be noticed in Burgos but the danger is there.
There is no need to mention, but we will still say: Admirable is the film Burgos and those who are fighting against the United People's Army and those who are involved in the United People's Army, which is possible to have been involved in the United People's Army, or maybe if the case is being done by the New People's Army and if it is possible, the lives of those who are fighting against the New People's Army are immeasurable.
Now, it is more than that, the citizens who are fighting in Burgos should be given a face again, he looks like a voice fighting for the domination and abuse of this, common, to travel time and chance to face, speak and protest.
(Oct. 24 were the picture of the Filipino Weeker in Premiere of the movie "Burgos" at the Culp Center of the Philippines last August 3.
