Macky is the same with the serious problem of our autasan in the elections.

The experts in Information Technology (DepEd) are the same with the group AOIL) (AOIL): 48 pesos, and not based on the law made by the Dominion bus using the Dominion bus (Commission on Elections (Comelec).
After this was held by the press conference of the COMELEC, after the widespread call of DepEd community and election, to make the questionable election system, which is the system of the vote to be implemented on May 13.
It has not been no use for such a signal number 1 because there are still a lot of people who are not the question in relation to the commandments of the election and the payment code which will be used in the election, according to Fight IT.
They also asked why it was just a few days after the filing of the complaint of some citizens, including the running senator, Senator Richard Gordon, and then the source of a source of a huge code?
Propaganda of Nelson Bibis, spokesperson of Aaahhch, said that the public will be able to express the latest "PR card" which is said by the Comelec.
"
Cellar was also said that the experts should focus on the law that the experts should focus on the payment code Lima because this could not be done before the election on May 13, the COMELEC can still be held accountable for the fulfilment of the law.
It was stated in Sec. 120th of Republic Act 869, or Poll Adik-Martial Law, which is needed to be sure, "a certification of the source of the source of the payment code la."
The COMELEC also has not published the Ph code in which is owned by the Central Bank of the Philippines, as well as the election management (EMG), according to Celia, an expert in Fight of the modern laws in the election last 2007.
"The COMELEC deceived the citizens in 2010 on the topic of payment code Lima, they want us to deceive him," said cellar.
It is said that Ernie del Rosario said that there is no way to confirm the payment of the Comelec released by the COMELEC, which is held up in different parts of the country for the election on Monday.
Pablo Manayes, IT led by the Center for People's Office (Bojo Molina), said that it is not really necessary for the media to be able to beat the media so that it would not be a show that we have just deceived. "
"The victims' or or problems in Tanim-Laban) of 2010 has stayed in the Office of 2010, which will be used in the election on May 13, together with those who are going to be used in the election on May 13, together with those who were held at ARMM) in 2011 which was proven to be tested," said Manipis Ang, who is a teacher in UP and Ateneo.
Manji Mendoza even explained that the version made by the payment code is in the version of the construction of the computer program as long as it was also included here, that there was a little limit, the code Lima used in 2011 ARMM).
"But the criticism given by the COMELEC in Smartmatic should not be fixed as the condition of the buying of human rights under the OTP) of the contract last 2009," Manipis Ang explained.
More than 40 have been asked by the COMELEC to fix everything but the Dominion bus is not able to attend to the Dominion bus because of the legal conflict between Smartmatic and the Dominion Court of Delaware of the US.
Manji Mendoza also said that the COMELEC can fulfill RA 9344, he needs to get a license from the Dominion bus or group the payment code Lima and the proposal to fix the destruction of violence in the Dominion EMs and Dominion bus.
"This is the legal way to review the payment code by the Dominion Filipino people, through the political party," said Manayes.
But what is only in the influential people who are being used today from the Dominion bus is the one involved in 2009, which gives the rights to COMELEC to use the Dominion EMs and Dominion bus terminal for the elections this 2010.
"I believe that our hope (almost gone) is our hope for a clean, honest, perfect and things that are confusing the election this 2013," Manipis Ang said.
