
Ikaw Lamang and CIDs.

The removed from the position of the called "kristo" in the Bureau of Customs is a sign that the Aquino government is serious to reform the agency.
But hopefully, "there will be no end with the removal of the said" three king "in the release of the Senate, instead, continue it and hit what should be hit.
Because, even if we are saying that there is no "kristo" in Aerana, there are still those who were left behind and failed to stop their wrong work.
For example, you can catch some personnel of Enforcement Agency (Customs Intelligence and Investigation Service for example.
Sec. Purisima and Commissioner Ruffy Biazon should take a peek at the nonsense of the two office that are feared by the businessmen there in the Bureau.
On the other hand, the shape of EpiPen and CIIs is a sample of the work of the Intelligence Enforcement Group and Intelligence Group of BOC.
There is no important agreement and brokers who are happy at EpiPen and CIIs because they say that they are asking for alms from each other, even if it is legal.
There are a lot of "Lolong, who is said to have been a lot of actor, who is unemployed and asked to ask a feast and go through the important conference and broker.
The thing is, these are the weekly call of the brokers and the important thing we are dealing with "
Where do they really get hurt with the face of the face because of the harassment of blue waters to make money? General Aliangan, sir.
Corrupt officials.
The management of corruption, an official of the Bureau of Fisheries Code and Zimmer Raz who are also fond of stopping the fishermen.
P15.K to P20K is said to be asked by BFAR official to just call it as alias "Roy" in every boat they catch.
Style of "Roy," the "Ipit Gang" will be caught again in the ocean of Manila Bay because of violation of this system of fishing.
The order of Director Chito Perez of BFAR was able to conduct the seminar, but instead of taking a seminar, he was asked by "Roy." But instead of being looked into by "Roy." He should also take a peek at this task of "Roy."
