
Revolution looked at first: Being given by the Bagong Hunan Bayan to the citizens of Hasmin Looc!

Apolinario Mabini.
Eduardo Dagatan Command-NPA-Batangas.
It was 10: 00 in the June 2013.

An operation which was launched by a member of Bagong Hala Bayan in Batangas is said to have been buried in an extensive security guard of a Mahogany which is now around 6: 00 in the afternoon, around 6: 00 in the afternoon in the field of Barangay Buliran, in the town of Nasugbu, in the town of Nasugbu, in the town of Nasugbu, in the town of Nasugbu.

The Pregoner were disappointed with the arrest of Herminio dela Vega, "Minoras, a Tim leader of the private security guard of Selectoral Agency, because of the alleged criminal security guards of Selectoral Agency in 1995, because of allegedly reported to the high security guards of Selectoral Agency, which is said to be sleeping at the high position of Sevidal Agency.

Next to be killed was Andy was killed last 2009 because he was active in the movement of the citizens with the welfare of the citizens of Hacienda Looc (equivalent to 10) who are going to make a true reform in the land in Hasmin Looc.

This past year 2012, in the month of November, his ownership of a farmer in Barangay Bulabog, an additional case will be discovered by the farmers in Barangay Bulaga in addition to the said land that he will use, even if the said land was not sold, he was also involved in burning hut and pointing a gun to the farmers and pointing a gun to the farmers.

The message of this step is for the other security guards of Henry Sy to stop their violent followers in a big chunk of foreign tourists in the coastal range of foreign tourists which are part of 8,650 hectares of land which are comprising Overseas Filipino Workers which are full of Enterovirus-50 hectares of land.

This means that this is the exhaustion of land farm by the farmers and fund of the farmers and the citizens of Hasmin Looc, to implement true reform in the land to remove the true reform in the land to remove the true reform in the land and let them remove the security guards of Selectoral Agency and anti-Illegal Drugs Group of Philippine Air Force in Hasmin Looc!

The whole farmers of Hasmin Looc has cancelled the successful implementation of the worsening justice!
