Danger in town and university.

The danger that the country is facing is the danger of the students of UP.
While the implementation of the Oplan Tokhang was ongoing, the counter-lualto program in the administration of President Benigno Aquino III, the safety of whoever was suspected to be rebels is in danger, and as long as there are people who wants to look for the house of the students who know and care about issues of university and national issues.
More than a year after the incident of the stabbing of the student of UP named Lordee weak, the university is continuously facing the issue of lack of security in the bed sheet and how it is the best that will be solved.
The rightfulness of a permanent solution was featured in the security summit which complained the past week: Additional personnel for UP Diliman Police and enough number of modern equipment.
Unfortunately, these plans of the annual crisis in the budget of UP arrived this past year, the administration was able to release the number of security guards that are guarding the building of university, from Phase 2 to 234.
There is also no longer seen for a meaningful change if the budget of UP will analyze this year due to P15.4 billion budget of UP for the year 2013, 3.5 billion or almost 60 percent is approved by the government last October of the past year.
And to meet the shortcomings, it creates a shower in the university to the possible meddling of the agents of the military and police in the university to make a strictly prohibited by the mandate of the agreement signed by UP.
Due to lack of sufficient facilities, to manage heavy crimes, the members of the Quezon City Police District to UP should be investigated to investigate the members of the military and the community of UP near C. P. Garcia, a few meters away from the College of Fine Arts, and a few more than acons of UP.
But aside from danger, the administration does not allow the presence of the military or any physical force to help "in the strengthening of security of UP, it is better to think that the agents of the military, under the Oplan LS, are the common students of UP.
More than six-years have passed, suspected members of the military were kidnapped by suspected members of the military who were Karen Emano and Sherawat became sure, while the suspects were not arrested, former General Jovito Palparan and another soldier.
With this threat to the safety of the nation's safety, they should be recognized as the danger they are facing in the university which is also being faced by the military or other government units, but also against the huge violation of human rights by the agents of the Oplan Galugad of Aquino.
