
FOI seems to be a bad and wealthy.

The Senate is ready to be ready for the Islamic State Information bill when they have been released and past the majority of them.
Which is why they promised that on the first part of the year 2014, they will be passed away.
But in the legislative chamber, what is the news?
Only about 16 congressmen are calling for the passing of this proposed bill.
They are members of the House Public Information Committee, they are just starting to convince all about 20 different proposals about this.
But they said, maybe if they will pass the proposal, before they will be the congressman.
Unlikely!
It is unlikely to happen, Bro, the position of the congressmen.
What are the things that they are hiding and they do not have any interest to pass the proposed law?
If they will pass the proposal, their private lives should not be included in the public that are not included in the name of their respective wives and children and some properties.
Exactly then, they do not want to reveal the eyes of the public about their respective Severe Actor, Liang, Net, th or SALN.
It is the son of NJ, when they will be defeated by ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona, the 188 congressmen were united to open their SALN to the public.
After their SALN is what they will open to the public, they do not want to.
Reporting, Bernadette Sembrano reports.
If you look at it, Bro, the SALN of the lawmakers, not even those with their own lives.
All the congressmen and senators quickly get rich.
Of course, there are most powerful people and there is an richest in them.
But the fact that the fact that almost all of them is bigger than they are seated as lawmakers.
Today, there is no doubt.
Now that there is no Priority Development Assistance Fund, Congressional Avenue and other narrowing of the lawmakers, let us see what would be the appearance of the SALN of these next year.
But we should not just believe, Bro, that because the PDAF and other form of their pork barrel is not in the role or national budget in 2014, they will no longer earn or have no choice.
Because they did not lose their rights or power to teach on projects and programs that have a corresponding fund.
The opportunistic people are wise in what they can earn money from.
It is very easy for them to coordinate with Malacanang, its agencies and local government to release documents that they do not have any fight.
Coercion.
It was very clear in the forehead that it was being investigated in the Senate to create a lot of children from the lawmakers who were involved in it.
The documents are complete before which shows legal expenses about P720 million for dizziness.
But when the fertilizers, children of tofu, 10 percent are the real fertilizer and 90 percent of water or water.
All the lawmakers on the attack of the said fund and the attack of the said fund and when they were able to breathe, no one among them was pulled in the Office of the Ombudsman to take responsibility for their crime.
What the bastard criminals are talking to are the lives of the witnesses like the murdered year-year-old man who has been identified as Bonerick Verceles, and an official of the Department of Agriculture in the province of Cagayan, aside from the two found dead in Bulacan.
FOI.
With the number of the lawmakers, from Malacañang, from Malacañang and the local government, those who are going to be attacked and misuse of the pork barrel, and the public funds in total, the law in Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters is needed.
Through the said proposed law that shows the freedom of even the most important citizens, including the SALN of all officials and employees of the government, including the SALN of all officials and employees of the government, it will be reduced or stopped by the public funds and other parts of the government.
It is also included in those who will get along well with the record of donations for the citizens and foreigners to the food being thrown by the people and foreigners.
Philippines!
If the citizens can watch, through the FOI, the money that the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Bureau of Customs, Social Security System (Social Security System (Social Security System (Social Security System (Social Security System (Social Security System (Social Security System (government agencies and even those who have been used for them will not be saved from the hands of the crooks.
The government of the funds will also be saving so that the capital for the construction of programs and projects to improve the lives of the citizens will be too much.
That is if the government will get the citizens to support all the projects and programs of the government.
"It's not" that he will use all the P500 billion pesos to P1 billion pesos in his partner to a few giant companies that are only owned by 47 families in the name of Public Works and Private Schools Administrations).
Um!
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
