
Evict Sir Drilon and Collector Dela.

Senate President Franklin Drilon showed a different kind when he personally attended the Senate hearing regarding the Iloilo Convention Center.
The ICC's ICC, which was implemented by billion pesos from the DAP of Senator Drilon, was reported to be wrapped with corruption such as Makati.
The only difference is, is it considered as the brains of the supreme court in Makati that's why they are trying to face the investigation.
Meanwhile, the person who is believed to have a pig, I mean, is a senator in the ICC was really in front of and always confronted the accused.
We have said that it is really shameless because the right process or "protocol" of the investigation in the senate is not followed.
First, if Senator Drilon came from the said hearing, he voluntarily went inside, why did he let a trace or trace of alcohol there?
"Isn't it just recently, Representative Tiangco is sent out by the Senate to ensure that they were not formal given the invitation?
Are Senator Drilon who are invited?
Second, why didn't it go to the chair of deceitful people against Drilon?
For him to let him see all of his fellow senators that in a social gathering, he is still the king as Senate President? King-mother!
Third, everyone knows that whoever gets invited to be invited through the Senate is just right to be observant and to answer the questions.
Which if this is answered or talking, if not asked, it became more afraid to talk about what happened, why is it that when he is not the one who asks it, there is only one who are asking why he is always the courage of the animal!
Anyway, we can't do anything, pay for it, because the nanny of the Senate, Sen. Nancy Binay, has the same personality.
"What if I am, I will be sent to the said hearing especially if even if he is the Senate President! Hk, hak, hak, haunting and haunt!
Entice the President.
It continues to hold-ib in Bulacan who are introducing themselves as PSOG of Camp Germany, Santos.
All sorts of crooks should be a source of blessing for his boss before it is operated!
That is why it is considered as Maj. Paul who is Bernadita, "Bernadita,"
King-mother, his official, is this official, what he is doing is different than his last name!
Because what I know is a pure "pure intention, honest and useless.
While he is faultless, he is faultless!
We are calling the attention of the leadership of Camp Germany, Santos.
