Pacquiao mobbed her first speech in death penalty.
By Boyet Jumuad, August 9, 2016 - Senator Manny Pacquiao was assigned yesterday by the senators after he gave him his first speech first and push the return of death penalty by strangulation, firing squad or even his severed head to a drug ring.
"It would be better if the implementation of the law will be effective if you will put it to Mars, order to immediately fulfill their mother who is planning to do something wrong," the boxing ring icon.
Just like the hope against then, Pacquiao did not back down when Senate Majority Leader Vicente "Tito" Sotto III, Senators Joel Villanueva, Leila de Lima, Gregorio Honasan, Manny "Pangilinan, who is telling the death penalty of wind, firing squad and lethal injection.
Sotto was asked by Sotto because it is under Section 19, Paragerh 1 of the 1986 Constitution, which is prohibited, "human rights are prohibited."
"This is what pushed us back then to restore the electric post," Sotto said.
Pacquiao got a glimpse of the Bible to defend his proposal for saying that even the Lord is allowed to beheading the people who sinned.
"In the Bible, Marc Logan's head, the head of the head of God bless you, as well as the head of the head, thank you," Pacquiao insisted, he added to the doctors to give false injection.
"For me, the wind or firing squad showed that he will just kick out the chair (to death penalty of the air)," Pacquiao answered to the question of Sotto on what he is favored.
Even the former secretary of the Department of Justice Secretary de Lima, Pacquiao questioned why he has strictly opposed the proposal.
"According to death penalty resurfaced on legal, morale, and human rights," said De Lima.
"Aksyon Ngayon, I was not able to watch the gathering of Fight IT in the committee meeting," Pacquiao responded.
It is said that Senator Pangilinan also raped Pacquiao where he wanted him to find out that the latter knows another thing in his immediate death penalty resurfaced, a thing that Pacquiao accepted his mistake.
Pacquiao was on the side of Pacquiao to give data to those who are asking him by the six senators who are requesting him.

Pacquiao has made up for almost two hours of speech and questioning of the senators.
