Number of those who were caught by the Philippine National Police Officer 3; relative of the victim of the violence of the state, turned to the Pope.

The relatives of the victims are calling the violence of the state of the Pope to help them achieve justice to Macky Oryang.
"I want to ask Pope Francis to help my father to be freed.
This is what happened by 10-year-old Joanna Mae who is writing the letter for Pope Francis who is scheduled to visit the country on January 15 to 19.
In a gathering of the relatives of the victims who were forcefully taken away by the victims who were forcefully taken by the victim, they called to Pope Francis to listen to their complaint for the loved ones who are imprisoned, murdered or missing because of politicians who are imprisoned.
They also appealed to the Pope to help them achieve justice that they have been fighting for for a long time.
In the story of the mother of Joanna, the child was born with his father Cirilo in Camp Bagong Diwa, Bicutan, a farmer in the province of Quezon, where the rebels of the New People's Army were charged with illegal drugs and murder.

"I am happy if I am with Father," Joanna), but her happiness will be complete if her father will be totally free.
Like Joanna who is also wanted by Senators Glamang, son of Renante Glamang, son of Renante Gabas, the workers who were arrested and jailed because of the deed of a case last April 3, 2012.
Gigi, said that Pope Francis is fighting for the same time for their loved ones.
"Every time we hear the words of the Pope about justice, our hope is getting better if we are with him and other leaders of the church that we can achieve justice," said Gotoc.
Geng added, they also want the Pope to be with the Pope.
"We want to tell him the domination and the long time that we have been fighting for for justice, our loved ones are arrested for illegal and imprisoned, killed or not just suddenly because of their beliefs (for the future," he said.
Erlinda Victor Abarca, mother of Sherawat became aware of the victim who forcibly lost their disappearance back in 2006 with his fellow students, Karen Emano, not new to Pope Francis what they are going through.
"What happened in the country of Pope Francis (Argentina) has happened in the country, that's why he knew that this is still ongoing, but here in us, they are still continuing the Pope to go down for the victims," Junrey said.
The political prisoners are scheduled to launch Strike, while their relatives will try to reach the Pope their situation.
