Roxas: "Boy SETC."

It went viral on the internet and on social media the things that the motorcycle of Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas have been the right things.
This happened while pointing at those affected by typhoon Ruby in Samar.
I am not looking at it that Roxas did this in politicking because he wants to become president in 2016.
As the secretary of DILG, it is his duty to make sure that the good condition of our fellow countrymen were given to him and he was ordered by President Aquino to coordinate with the governor and mayor in the province of typhoon Ruby.
While the president has a different task, it is reported that Roxas is managing the preparation of the typhoon and continue to do after it.
This is part of his taking in the towns that Ruby destroyed while it was riding a motorcycle.
"I said, do not make it like Secretary Roxas. Bernadita," there!
He might help him through the fragrance of his name for the election 2016.
He was able to capture a single-year-old grandchild after he was hit on the motor.
Meanwhile, at present, Roxas is just cemented in all surveys against the candidate of opposition, Vice President Jejomar Binay if this will be held in the Presidential elections.
Even if Binay is doing anything anymore, the vice president is still leading the race.
When the damage brought by typhoon Yolanda last year was, Roxas fell down because the help to help the victims of the typhoon in Tacloban has gone down instead of being an ally in politics, aside from the opponent of PNoy, the clan of the mayor of the city.
It is not right for everyone to do with Roxas as secretary of DILG, he is one of those who should be blamed for the high level of the crime, he is also doing the right fighting against illegal gambling.
"His gimmick, from being a" Mr. market, "Mr. Sidecar Boy" and "Mister Venancio," now, he is literally hit on a motorcycle.
He is not able to catch the sound of the masses because he is said to be a "regular" or child.
He was even put in trouble when his wife Korina Sanchez, which is said to be, typhoon Ruby hit all the country of Japan.
Roxas was supposed to be fine, and he was hit!
