
Witnesses: Not corrupt!
August 2, 2016.
The SEA Games, at the Asian Games and Olympics is Mark Vincent Garalde, the cyclists who were shot last July 25 in P. Casal Street in Quiapo, but he is a hero in the eyes of many, especially to his fellow cyclists.
It is also not possible in the SEA Games at the Asian Games and Olympics, Vhon Martin Tanto, the said Army reserved father who shot Garalde after they took a fist fight, because he can join the shooting?
For those who do not know, the game of shooting is not a point, that it is far that Tanto can hit it, and oftentimes, he can't be a member of the Philippine National team because aside from this, he can't be a member of the Philippine National team because this is not possible in boxing team because he does not know how to punches.
Did you see how big was the black eye on his left eye when he was caught in Masbate?
The boxer cannot accept their loss.

But Tanto, after losing to a Job Fair, he went back to his car, took his gun, and Garalde was killed, right?
We saw all of these incidents on how a person can make it if he has a gun.
This is not the first and this will not be the last incident of such shooting until there are people like Tanto.
I am happy with the support of the group of cyclists to the family of Garalde's family now that they need to be a relative.
And I am also happy with the support of the Public Attorney's Office that resulted to the family of Garalde's family.

There is one of a friend who asked how to now his family, Tanto, to ensure that his son will be jailed for a long time and his wife is still pregnant.
According to a report that I have read, Tanto is expecting that his wife will continue to save his wife so that they will get hungry for them.
There is also a friend who wondered why Tanto showed his courage, while he was being shot in Garalde's five times, he surrendered like a sheep and not shot himself.
Saddam Hussein is like the former dictator in Iraq who was caught in a canal after his regime fell down because of the attack of America and other ally countries.
Saddam had a gun when he spotted an American soldier but he was not able to shoot him.
