
It will change the movement of the Commission on Higher Education?

The responsibility is very serious about the pet Officer 3-Charisine of Bureau of Immigration, Associate Immigration Commissioner Serena Mison.
In his State of the Nation Address, he is one of the BI in the agency attacked by President Aquino.
Mison needs to show his courage to finally clean the corruption and corruption in immigration.
The style of former Commissioner Ricardo David will not work here if he did not do anything but to arrest the failures of his agency.
After a very long time of tolerating his position, David will resign when the new shame caused by the BI.
The embassy of America himself complained against him because he refused the release of a American national while the court caught it up?
Before this, the BI has also been involved in the arrest of a Korean national, Park.
Because of this, President Aquino looks very angry but even before he gets fired, it seems that David also got hit with a shame that is why he himself will voluntarily resign.
The good thing that he can do is good but if it happened, he was again divorced after being shot again in front of the SONA of PNoy.
Mison insisted that the president has not given importance to the failures of the BI.
Mison is not just a newbie in the BI, which is why I think he already knows the things that should be done in order to put the BI in order to put it in order.
It was also amazed that Mison has was impressed by the son of the former National Bureau of Investigation Director Mariano Mison.
Before a lawyer, Mison wants to serve as a soldier who graduated from the US Military Academy at West Pembo, New York last 1987.
It took up Law in Ateneo de Manila Universes of Law last 1996 and there was still a Masters of Law degree from the University of Southern California in 2006.
The problem is, it is only now that the syndicate is pounding on him inside the BI.
It is obvious that there are hands that are now moving so that he will not be a permanent rush in President Aquino.
The case was suddenly raised due to the complaint of Felino sent, Immigration Administrative Division Chief of the Bureau of the alleged use of excessive diesel for his office while it was decided by the Ombudsman.
It is a big syndicate running for the foolishness of the BI.
I will only believe that Mison is different from his former boss David, as early as now, she would show her that he has something to protect them from this group.
He needs to implement the pension increase from officials up to the most low ranks of immigration.
Mison needs to fix the media Affairs Office of the BI because it is obvious that the agency is always like a villain.
As of now, I want to believe that Mison is unique and it may be true what Justice Secretary Leila de Lima is true that he is a real adversary.
But as long as I can't see that it is a big challenge and change in the rules of the BI, it is certain that he will be able to read David, who became ashamed to leave the government.
He / she was wearing.
For your comment and complaints, you just send a email to gum.
