
Diplomacy should not be.

The threat of China recently is not a joke that they are ready to build a lot of islands in the jurisdiction of the Philippines, the end is their attempt to claim the municipal hall of Pag-asa Island in the jurisdiction of the province of Palawan, of Spratons of Islands.
They already made it to Recto Reef and Bajo de Masinloc and there is no doubt that they can still do again until the entire South China Sea will do that if President Benigno Aquino III will remain moving.
In my opinion, my advice or final.
The decision of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) Chief of Staff General Gregorio Bautista that we still need to buy a ship between the country, it is true that we need the ships to vote for security and defense but if in China?
Analyze it to Malacañang and AFP the balance of the military forces of China and the Philippines or even China compared to America, Japan, Russia, India, Iran or any other countries that cannot be implemented by the military.
Diplomacy should not be a war in the conflict between the Philippines and China. Diplomacy that will solve the threat and covetousness of our country and China, especially every citizen.
If it is not only for arrogance when we have a second-year-manual voting from America, our country is peaceful, particularly our fishermen there at a peaceful or De Masinloc.
Pag-asa Island Municipal Mayor Bitano said that we will not fight China and they will not fight the country's lead, and they are still living together with the fishermen with other countries in the region of Asia.
What we can take in Malacañang or to PNoy, it would be better to do the airport of Pag-asa Island in order to go home not only by the AFP but for commercial drivers for tourism.
Add to this is the construction of a huge amount that's very popular for the citizens or tourists who can go home to the citizens or tourists.
Or maybe it is said that there is a fence in a big prison that does not have a fence in different colors as well, and there, they can teach them to live like the same, free and productive.
