
Duterte stated in the incident that happened in Barangay Holy Week, La Salle College last 27 January 2013.

Luis Jalandoni.
NDFP National Executive Committee.
February 07, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (NDFP) in the Barangay Independence Day, La Loma, of 27 January 2013.

The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) is what is following, in relation to the incident in Barangay Day, La Libertad, Negros Occidental last January 27, 2013.

The police and the participants of the truck and Barangay Peacing-Special Action Force (BPAT) have responsibilities with the truck and the driver, the civilians and military who were sentenced to the government of the Philippines (GEGA) for saying civilians, even those who want to escape.

The goal of the involved units of Bagong Hunan Bayan (BHB) was the warning that he fired a warning because the truck was not able to stop after the fire started with a gunshot, that's why it was shot by a shot at the BHB).

It is figured out that the Bables as well that proof that the primary suspect and the vehicle is a legitimate target of the Botchok (WHO) that they say it is not being carried away by the authorities of Gatid, 181540, 18397 and 45403.

No passenger who was allegedly shot in the head was wounded after being shot or killed by one by the eight civilians and military in the war war.

There is a responsibility for the laws of Filipino soldiers and the military and military to deliver strong weapons and other guns of the force to force and force them to accept and give an apology to the civilians, ask for apology and give payment to the civilians.

The NDFP members praise the Botchok of inhumane help from the victims and their families in spite of the responsibility of the United Nations against the kidnappers and the police who threatened the military and the police to conduct a vehicle and taking advantage of the civilians.

The president of GUnited Nations on the Office of the Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process (OPAPP) has destroyed the peace talks about the accusation of crime in Filipino and in action of robots of the military and police.
