
Join them in the celebration of the 45th year of the PKP.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 17, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program and other Independence Day of the CPP's 45th Year.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines is calling for the Filipino people and all of their ballots to be included in the celebration of the 120th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the SEA Games that comes back to the upcoming success of the citizens within 45 years.

There will be some of the filipino masses to be held in the side of the girl germs in the entire country, local branches and the local government, Filipino, Filipino workers and other countries are busy in the preparation of the basic commodities in the gathering of the community in December 26.

Most of the who will attend will be expected to walk going to the area where the dancers of the country will be placed in the place where the crooks are going to fix the revolutionary force and may come from the cities or other towns.

The celebration will not be dehydrated because it will be recalled that it will go through the midst of the widespread poverty and grand policies of the Filipino people who are suffering from the widespread lack of livelihood, low wages, and joined the price of goods.

The Filipino activities to commemorate the 45th anniversary of the PKP should be held today to gather funds and other material things that can be held in Eastern Visayas, Cebu and Bohol, which will be held in Eastern Visayas, Cebu and Bohol that will be held in Eastern Visayas, Cebu and Bohol.

However, the gathering will be pleasant to celebrate big success of Filipino people and the leaders of the country, this will serve the gathering of the occasion to celebrate the success in pushing the reforms on the land and the construction of the democratic country.

The social media will serve as an opportunity for the proliferation of the nation's determination to push the struggle to end the struggle and opportunist systems in the country.

The KP warned those who are based in the community of the youth and students, workers, poor workers, poor employees and professionals to attend the celebration held this December 26 on the branches of the PKP, they can reconcile with the branches of the PKP.

The KP has also encourages the other kinds of sweat, pro-American parties, the organizations and movement of anti-governmental organization, even the foreign government budget, especially in the territory of the Philippines under democratic governance.

The journalists, send news and other members of the took place who want to be able to attend the celebration, may be coordinating with local branches of the PKP, or local government which is the BHB).

The PKP has appealed to the Aquino administration to milk the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to back down on December 26 and in the days before this, to let the national celebration of the 25th anniversary of the PKP, to give way to the traditional celebration of the 16th community of Christmas and New Year.
