The source of a source: Filipina, Sambi, was elected by Miss teenagers in Sweden!
By Jojo cabinet, September 5, 2016, one of our countrymen from Severe Actor, Sweden, dimples died, who sent an information that were not a Filipina who won the beauty title in coral-night on August 28 of Miss Universe Sweden.
If Cuya was able to get the Miss Earth Sweden crown, the 13-year-old old and 5 "8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8-8) was chosen to be Miss teenagers in Sweden.
As a proof, Ammie was sent to the picture of Cangie and Saba one who will be together in coral-night of Miss Universe Sweden.
Heart, the first woman in the bags that was hammered in Asia was scheduled to serve as Heart Evangelista-Escudero because his last night last Saturday of Carry Yo Heart by Doctor Marie, his older brother in a Volkswagen BGC in 28th Street, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City.
My Hermes bag was featured in her Hermes bag that Heart had kept her and humiliated her by his client.
Forty-five are the number of different kinds of plastic bags that can be seen in a famous illustrator (SSeptember 4 to SSeptember 9) that is strictly enforced by the security personnel.
For Heart, it is the hardest for the person to put her plastic bags because aside from being the owner, he is also taking care of painting.
"For me, the bag's bag is more difficult because you are careful with the bag's bag that is being used for eagerness," I was considered as a woman in Asia that was considered as a woman in Asia that was considered to be an extraordinary woman in Asia that was considered to be the first woman in Asia that was considered to be the first woman in Asia that was considered to be the first woman in Asia that was considered to be the first woman in the world.
Heart, her pregnancy is planned!
Chiz Escudero and Heart Evangelista.
Heart assured that she will no longer receive a television series, after Juan, happy Love, Pototan because of her plan to be pregnant in 2017.
"Decherness, Tsinelas-year-old television series, rest first to the I will take a way to Tell that's why it's going to be a long time."

"Started on January 2017. I started, that last January because I was having a difficult building in the house which is also having a hard time, that you are carrying a while, move the all of you."
"He / she said that he / she was able to deal with Marc Logan on January, February, like that."
"Noguera, I was on a wake.
The decision of Heart has nothing to change with the decision of Heart's decision, and then it is unlikely that she will have a disadvantage anymore because everything is planned.
"Aaahhmm, not, is really planned, i'll be said to be the third one."
"We - Two), of course, have a house.

You will think about the room where there are only three of the young lady But-I, so that he / she was very young? "
What is faster than Senator Chiz?
"Of course, Chiz is faster than me, she is very lucky to me," Walis.

However, thank you for all your wake?
"In the said place, he / she said that he / she has a job and has five years for me to have a lot of things."
"
"
If Heart is not sure of it, she is her plan to finish studies because of the many things he is doing, according to Heart, he returned to normal the course of her life with Senator Chiz when the election last May 2016 was returned to normal.
"
"It's just that, it seems that there is a lot of stab wounds, as if thank you as a lot of stab wounds, thank you, thank you.
Out of gratitude, we asked the reaction of Heart about the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte in our country.
"Wi'll be sent to the fame that is being asked to be considered to be the co-Illegal Drugs Group (HB) so that I am going to be a good upbringing by the person who is going to be a good and the most majority of the political will."
"That's the only thing" that "and the end of the city of the said, Fight IT.
