
Lucky by Napoles; it is very unlucky.

Congratulations!

Janet Lim-Napoles is so happy when typhoon Yolanda hit the country.
It's because instead of him going to the public's attention, whether it is a politician or ordinary citizens, the attention of the people in the places brought by Yolanda which reached almost 4,000 people were recorded dead.
Even the senators of the country that hit the name of Napoles, might be able to breathe easier especially when Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla, were able to breathe easier.
It's because the three senators recorded the largest fund given to the NG Os of Napoles, where the people's thoughts are in the minds of the people.
If Enrile, Estrada and Revilla are happy, those who want to look good using the issue of pork barrel and Napoles are sad because they lost a chance to board the issue.
There are good lawmakers who have plans in 2016 election, Senator Alan Peter Cayetano and Chiz Escudero.
It's because they understand that if there is an insult to the Senate because as a lawyer, they know what they should ask, especially on the issue of the people who can ask the truth.
"That is now the fortune of Napoles because it went to the Aquino government's attention or even the anger of the people.
Um!
If Napoles is feasting again, PNoy's sadness is too much.
As a President of the country, Philippines, everyone will shoulder the blame because of the strong and failure of their operation to save and to raise our countrymen in the areas of Visayas and Palawan.
With the burden that was caused by Yolanda, maybe even her superman will give up and it can be clearly seen in the footage of different TV network that is why it's still clear that he was able to catch this kind of challenges when it was good that he was going to run in the country especially in the aspect of improvement of the economy.
Even the citizens and the international community are requesting the management of PNoy but because of typhoon Yolanda, the son of Tita Cory, which is good and campaign against corruption, disappeared without a trace.
PNoy has no choice but to face and double the response to said catastrophe, that is why he should avoid blaming other officials of the government, especially in his party because it is not beneficial to his image as President.
