
Ochoa, Dencio because of the owner of the Caloocan.

It seems that the state of Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa will not be able to make it back to the state of Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa, "in spite of those divulged by the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, Palawan, and where it was being revealed by his staff Janet Lim Napoles, which is why the Palace and the senators and congressmen do not have any action.
Aside from being not even explained by Ochoa to the people of the Palace, it seems that there is no anomaly or if it looks like there is no anomaly or maybe it is noticeable that it will be immediately endorsed by the spokesperson of Malacanang.
The issue on where there is a news of Ochoa will also come near Napoles for the presidential campaign of PNoy last 2010 election.
It is clear in the statement of Saint it Solis, a known showbiz writer, who was with Napoles last 2009 when he called the cellphone of the pork barrel queen of Ochoa.
Even the Malhfund that goes under the blessing of PNoy is currently in doubt because it is possible that President Noynoy is not busy with different problems in the country, because if it is possible that President Noynoy will be observant and is tainted by the Palace, he should immediately answer and do it for it.
Number of number.
He should have a big answer to an NGO connected between PDAF (Development Authority)) for the issue of PDAF because it seems that the residents of Caloocan are not feeling it.
Similar to Janet Lim-Napoles, so-called queen of NGO and pork barrel scam, it was also due to the millions of pork barrel of DILG Secretary Mar Roxas, former congressman Asistio and Oca Malapitan returning, currently the mayor of Caloocan.
In the report of the Commission on Audit (COA), Asistio and Malapitan gave up to 50 million while Mar Roxas also gave the said NGO) for P5 million pesos.
According to COA, Cuya was also not contented with the help they received from Oscar, Asistio and Roxas, which is why they consider the transition team.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said that they first filed a case against the Ombudsman that is why the people are still stubborn, especially those from Camping, who did not even feel the help of CI.
