TV Patrol, March 1, 2012.

Peaceful.

If we are full of peaceful, we are happy, let us smile, let us smile that kind of good flowers, and all of our families, and even in a put in our peace.

Peace (Peace), peace and helping are part of nature, but if there is no peace in our environment, we do not have a peace and skill to be peaceful, and we have no right to calm yourself, and we have no ability to put peace in all of our feelings, and we have no courage to solve the challenges coming to us.

Our world is always stupid, there is always a war, terrorism, corruption, which is really happening to our own world, however, we do not know how to make peace in our own world, however, we do not know how to make peace in our own world, however, we do not know how to make peace in our own world, but we do not know how to make peace in our own world.

Calm yourself when you see the truth, peace is possible to achieve, if we know our self.

We can do a peaceful things than using violence while there is peace in your will, the glory is for you.

How will we never have peace, if we, in our self, will not be peaceful?

21 to support the good governance, I am worthless about this: We were born in front of our nose, and what we need to learn is a peaceful life, and what we need to learn is a small hole in front of our nose, and what we need to learn is to know what we need to know, and not those who want to know what we need to know, and not those who want to understand our remains.

Understand what they are, for a peaceful relationship: The love of others is good than being annoyed and asking him to accept his fellow person who is important than taking care of it, good than arguing, revenge and hurt.

The most important thing is that you want to take care of what kind of life that you want to take the travel or death if you only have a short time to fulfill your mind; and do all your ability and your peace will remain to you.

It turns out that you are peaceful, because you can call all the children of God (Mateo 5: 9), you can express peace and peace of mind, fear, and confusion and confusion, peace, peace and peace.
Peace that is in our inner self will only be done if we will open our hearts, and if we want to express peace, peace, and concern to our fellowmen, it will start a peaceful life, and for each of us, you will start a peaceful life, and together with each of us, you will be able to express peace, peace, and concern for each of us.

It would be use to use to continue the trust and union for every day; our families, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, and even the entire islands of our country, and this is starting if we find peace in our feelings.

Sometimes, someone asked me why I am not alone or with a protest against the war against the war. My answer was never done, but if there was a sudden measure to support peace, I will be the first to participate.

Our duty is to find peace, get to know it, and maintain it.

If you can't make a big difference or contribution, but you can do something and do not think that even if you do not think about it, it would be better if you do not think that they are the saints to serve, and let us not think that they will be able to serve, that we will be able to achieve their bad perspective to serve, and peaceful future.

The question, how can you maintain peace in our consciousness, and what is more important is how to achieve peace and confusion being experienced, but if it is possible that you can achieve peace and confusion, we need to avoid it, and make sure that it can be done, and we should be able to do anything that means no meaning, and improvement of self-control.

Discover if the noisy ones on your mind will build on your mind, and how can it be avoided to maintain thinking; depression, pity for self, lack of hope and negative thinking.

Actions to have consciousness when peaceful.
Exercise 1 to study to be calm and Panatag Shoal is in spite of the continuous progress and skill that you hear from you.
2 to be patient and avoid getting angry, and learn to suppress your emotion and consciousness.
3 - learn to be irritated with the things bothering you.
Cultivate the positive awareness in yourself.
Maintain the peace of mind and mind to avoid arguments, poor or not desirable situations.
6 - set no care on whatever you think or what other people are thinking about you.
7 to improve your ability to remain focused on matters, and power to control what you are thinking.
Wait for 8 hours for the peace of mind and what will be cleared.
9-Taqueban will be the happiness and will give peace to yourself.
10 to know the guidance and advice for the growth of the pirates, and can make it wake up to your glory.

Discover the real character - the most intelligent is the most beneficial for you.

This is your real and pure personality.

He has not been able to make a point there in a low level, a virgin woman living in far mountains.

Your life is peaceful, delightful, and without worry, will be the most easy life.

While you have a peace of mind, you can advise your success, your desire to help in having a calm mind is lively just an important ingredients in each other.

You will be able to live peaceful, even if you are active and busy with your tasks, if there is a peace in your feelings, he will wake up your glory that makes yourself happy.

A fervent prayer and hoping that the power of Pag-IBIG will change the power of power and our world will be blessed with peace.

Please let your heart be strong from the depths of your heart, peace, stay here! "

