
The armed fight of the people will get stronger in the end of the administration of Emilio Aguinaldo.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
May 4, 2013.

Transplant on-up to the New People's Armed Forces will be held accountable by the Aquino's noodle house.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) insisted that the armed fight of the Filipino people with President Benigno Aquino as president of the government budget of the republic of the Philippines will be stronger and worse in the end of his service to the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).

"It would be said that the revolutionary force to face each other is the government's budget allocated to the peace talks to solve the root of the armed arguments in order to solve the agreement of the armed conflict and fix the agreement in a fair and long-lasting peace," said the KP.

However, in the start of the posture of the Aquino administration, his stubbornness and supporting the previous agreement is to fulfill their obligation, and in his decision not to go back to the conversation, there will be no remaining parachute but to wait for the current regime. "

According to the KP, general policy of the revolutionary movement, "remain open to the peace talks with any kind of peace talks and continue the negotiation of the serious negotiation and continue the negotiation regarding the necessary reforms to achieve a fair and long-lasting peace."

"In abandonment of the peace talks, the Marcos regime was successful with the thorough investigation of the citizens and armed fight," said the armed forces of the state to implement the campaign of the citizens in order to implement the campaign of the people and local government, "said the KP.

"It is said that the Marcos regime will reap the decision to end the peace talks with Aquino in the second term of Aquino's term for the intensified campaign of the farmer in the midst of the intensified campaign of the farmer in the middle of the intensified offensive of the Bagong Hala Bayan and of the intensified country in the countryside."

"The armed fight of the filipino people will be more stronger in the next year while the filipino masses is under the country's growth," said PKP, "said PKP," said the strengthening of the New HE. "

"You know!

"They are criticized by the Aquino administration in adding to the entry of the companies that can be taken from mining, plantation and electric posts," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP," said PKP, "said PKP."

"Aquino is under the filipino masses to be moved by the more abuse of the foreigner through the imposition of rules in the salary of the laborers, and will be refused to take action in the union leader of the laborers, and will be refused to do anything that will be made in relation to the union leader of the workers and will be refused to do anything in relation to the community's system and will be refused to do anything in his job," said the KP.

"Aquino made the big foreign businesses and their local colleagues in accepting the increase in oil companies, to give way to the projects of oil and gasoline, causing the major businesses to remove the public service," said the KP.

"The Marcos regime is scheduled to intensify the race which was implemented by the armed forces," said PKP, "it is certain that the cases of violation of human rights and rights of the children will increase, and violation of the international law being done by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, while the Marcos regime is becoming desperate to stop the strengthening of the people."
