RTECAYETANO) of the entire Metro Manila.

It was also set to think and the private groups and individuals who are sincere in helping the citizens without thinking in exchange and any time they are ready to serve as well.
Just like the group of Rotter Club of Caloocan Metro East which is headed by Manny Tan, a close friend and head.
Just recently, a huge amount of drinks and 32-year-old TV and DVD was given by this group in two public schools in Bagong Silang, Caloocan, with more than 6,000 students who will benefit from the continuous flow of clean water and drink.
Said water thrown in the said school is deliberately a big help because there is only an hour between the water in Bagong Silang.
The teachers and students are so happy because of the release of the group of Pres. Manny, TV and DVD, because there is a need to use the school for their aucuses.
There are still many projects in Rotter Club of Caloocan Metro East, to the leadership of Pres. Manny and his partner, with his wife, namely Arnel Diangco, Iterax, Iris, Iris, Iris and Salunoy.
On the other hand, the new members of the new members were identified as Donato Lebue of Rommel Anicete, both of Leheals, Ihek in Angeles, both sides of Dante Taduran.
Some of the projects which are under the leadership of Pres. Manny are the Operation that they have shown in Barangay 28 and Barangay 120, First Division, Training and PR) project (GAS), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas), TFR) project (Navotas).
Rotter Club of Caloocan Metro East, which became a charter change in April 12, 2012, is one of the natives of Rotter Club of Caloocan by Daang Cariton Curva, under the District 3800 pesos.
In spite of many challenges that the group went through, there is a strong resolve and happy relationship of Rotter Club of Caloocan Metro East.
In facing the new chapter on the third year, the leadership of President-elect Arnel Dimatulak, in the year 2014-2015, where he formally puts it on July 1, it is still expected that a strong and meaningful service and help to our countrymen is brought by Rotter Club of Caloocan Metro East.
While other platforms have reconciled!
