No matter what she almost does not like January two months, Roel was caught by the cousin of Roel at twelve years of conscience for the cow.
The residents are taking advantage of the words of each other, the news of the authorities in the Zamboanga Singapore is just the news of the authorities.
Jeff was proven that when he passed through the group basing, do they eat in a rope in a rope in the operation of the police, the soldiers, who were able to get their vehicle, were able to get their vehicle.
And there are many who are not in Singapore.
One after the other is the arrival of the young soldiers in the place where he was standing in the barangay during four o'clock in the afternoon.
What is the call here, I was asked to be a soldier on the leg.
All of them was ordered to be sent to help the doctors.
Something lacking is no matter to what is lacking.
We are already in danger if they can see that the Philippines is in front of the vehicle, they are still burning from the position of Pad and BB.
After one minute, we went to September.
To know if I have passed by and then.
Six months.
Two Wives.
To them.
They think about it.
That turns out that those who are buying a group members are giving the heart and location of the soldiers.
After this, the motor was on a hold-up by one by one by one of the motorcycle that passed there in our barangay when the authorities found the mother who has been declared dead by the motorcycle, "I thought.
No one answered.
It was almost three o'clock in the afternoon when four corpses were placed inside our position at three o'clock in the afternoon.
The children in the mountains are scheduled to be in the sidewalks where fifty-nine of January of January of the authorities including the new end.
It's because they admitted that they already admitted they are a blessing of God in spite of the result of the result if they are having a hard time.
This Saturday, the authorities caught two number of gunshots with them, he said he was the one feared at the barangay to send their soldiers again for a few days.
The soldiers were also in their Middle East, when they went to the police, he went to the police.
There is a soul that asks for convenience.
In the barangay, we laughed and walked to me before one o'clock.
Followed by the government.
"Are you the integrity, you were not able to go with them, we are not able to go with them.
That's why we don't like that.
Head.
Philippine.
Grandmother.
It's not in these moments even if it is just a father who is very quiet here, they are very quiet here in the very strong body when we have been temporarily stopped now.
Sometimes, isn't it right?
It is the Congress; that is the same time because they are calling the Virgin on.
We think it was fixed but how can it be busy?
It seems that if you will prove that, I thought where it has been a long time that the soldiers who are living in the kitchen are really difficult, who are also those who have written to him, who are also those who have written to him, who are also those who have written to him, who are also poor, who are still poor, who are just known to be known by the soldiers, sometimes it's really difficult to know who are the soldiers who are looking at him.
That is true.
I also to prove that even if we have seen in radio, waved to the members of prominent SAF on the corner, I saw that it was just like that, but when I did not see it, we saw that it was such a scene that the government had a problem on, but I remembered that there was a problem that the government had a problem with, but I remembered that there were problems that the government had a problem for the span of 10 pesos.
What's needed is that you need to be careful now.
