Trillanes, when it's true?

Admirable is the information shown by Trillanes now since he asked for his resignation from the position of Enrile as the current Senate President.
If examined, there is still no other in the Senate and insisted that what he wants to say to Enrile has no fear done by Trillanes.
Probably, some of our officials in the Senate are taking care of their candidacy for the next election as a wall of a politician right now, there is a need for his candidacy to be not good for their candidacy for the leadership of Enrile.
But despite this, Trillanes was not shaken to release what he wants.
Even if this will affect his fight as a senator, it did not stop his trust to Enrile.
According to the young senator, Enrile is an expert of GMA in supporting the proposed bill that will be held in Camarines Sur wherein Congressman his son Diosdado "Dato" Arroyo.
It is not good that the leader of the Senate has a favor and with sports-Factor when it comes to what is the bill that should be sent to discuss.
Mister Johnny is really confused which is almost under all the administration since Marcos was always given a good position in the government and was elected as officials of the government.
There is no weather condition for him because all the administration can prove it.
It can be recalled that Trillanes became part of the quarrel of Trillanes in the revelation of a sensitive negotiation that the people should not know.
According to Enrile, his statements were not related to the national security.
According to technical issue, maybe it is not a problem, but a misunderstanding between the two officials from what he revealed that what happened may have an effect in making the duty of its members, is it not a part of the national security?
As Senate President, hopefully it is the interest of the Philippines to take care of it and not his personal situation.
At present, Manong Johnny is active now in the campaign of her son who is a candidate for senator while he is also a possible campaign against Trillanes.
