
Hope of the violence of Aquino's garbage in the complaint of abuse.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 26, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP), Benigno Aquino III, is the president of the division of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), because of his non-violation of human rights that is done by the military forces and police. Aquino, this is just a propaganda to the citizens. "

To look down on the complaints of his regime, Guidotti still did everything when he accused the people who are facing the human rights of the military and police when they will fight and fight for the agents of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, who were armed with a gun, live-gas and baton.

In the irresponsible statement, Aquino showed how he is numb and rude to the victims of human rights, even to their families, friends and supporters.

Worse, Aquino ignored the condemnation of the abuse of the military and police that he did a few days after the armed forces of the 24th IB, which was caused by the armed forces of the 24th IB, the massacre, was caused by the armed forces of the 24th IB, but the Special Action Force has been killed here and is spreading the lies in the electric attempt to cover up it.

Like Marcos, Aquino is denying to have the political prisoners in his regime, but more than 100 are trapped in the genitals, that is why more than 100 are trapped in the jurisdiction of the farmers, especially those who are involved in the cities of poor cities in order to give way to the infrastructure projects that are being implemented by the foreigners.

Aquino is asking the culture of tolerating the military forces and police that he is giving all the armed agents of the state to intensify the immediate action of the human rights as "propaganda, and punished those who violate the human rights.

Aquino wants to advise the military and police to protect the farmers, workers, workers, poor cities, students, and other people who are proud and supported by the anti-citizens, who will be guarded and anti-worthy rules of the regime.

The Filipino people, more than the Filipino people, said that he is a victim of abuse of the law, while he is asking Marcos to use the use of the martial law, and this includes a propaganda in the hope that the people will believe this.

Aquino made the hundreds of pesos from the public funds to make salt on his campaign period, hunger, lack of livelihood, lack of livelihood, lack of livelihood, lack of houses, lack of jobs, and lack of jobs, which can't have been sold in the opinion that he has been running for by the country.

Aquino is experiencing the full support of his rival boss in implementing his campaign of fraud and domination.

It is different from his own lies, Aquino becomes more aggressive in front of the criticism and dismay on him, he does not have any concern for those who are against him and the reason why he is a nuisance to them.

The PKP has calls for the huge masses of the public to expose and strongly object to the abuse of human rights and the anti-people and the anti-ranking officials of the Marcos regime, they are urging the legislative chamber to pursue their national and under democratic interests.
