There is still no infection went with what happened in Mindanao after being able to get along with San Miguel, you have been cut off the ingredients that will happen that afternoon.
Uno in the mountain is the electricity investigation of the investigation of the investigation of the death of more than four policemen.
From Cotabato City, who now?
Of course, it's good that even in the Philippines, it would be better for policemen to find policemen who are calling for us to just fight us in a debate in the barangay in their home.
It cannot be stopped that the pet dog of his sibling, whose name, is not stopping.
Then, there are already three thousand, there will be a seven-year-old man who will come to a distant place, but of course on how much early morning.
Should be included here but not.
It is really true.
Really.
That is the only grudge.
Warning.
With what his brother said, who would stop that.
I have seen my birthday.
When will you be drooling!
Out of the news.
Nothing.
I!
The windows to join.
Eating.
What is the way back?
Why did I just accept what happened?
You really are in service.
To me.
Fuck, covetousness; since then.
Past.
We are on Saturday.
There is a wheel that we resign.
The victim was able to do there in a lower camp in Cotabato City.
For a minute, the government of the government will finish the beginning of the government of our God.
Fur.
Believe in November, it was eleven o'clock when he / she will be left to the members of prominent families in the span of two hundred families.
Because that's because he / she didn't look at each other.
Zero.
!
Zailon.
Two Wives are innocent.
According to him, it can be remembered that the authorities could not remember that Marlon was supposed to be in the exam but it was proven that it was not true.
It's a different place where it is compared to the government, not in the government.
Question.
I said it is possible that this is possible for the reason why the operation of the operation is being investigated.
Let us not respond to PNoy, if we have talked to others, let us go to other people in order to go inside the telephone to go to the phone, to look down.
When?
Even more.
That's why, the fare must be distressed; the fare must be needed in the city of Quezon there is already a voice in the city of Quezon where my voice is at the city of Quezon.
You to comment on a big success to what I will tell in Mindanao, to comment; why is it that it is not that that it is not the government, but the government is capable of teaching.
And study during the time of the government, the government does not change.
Love than Mindanao is important to talk about the bank.
Egg is really a lot of watching the government without the iron operation of PNoy.
One!
Two people are fearless.
Two.
!
Fourth, Two people will call to the Philippines to say that it is not good by Red Marinas well as the gravestate of the clothes.
There will be a lot of things about the incident that should be answering, while we are saying that there are still no more thing that we are saying that there are no more things that we are saying that there are still no more thing that we are saying that there are still no more things that we have heard, that there are still no more thing that there are many people who are going to have an operation to each other at around four o'clock in order and even in the streets.
"Who will also use all of them to use it, that is why they have known that there is a high dog that should have known that in the operation, but when he knew this operation, I know this is the operation to answer, but when he knew this operation, they say it's free.
By PNoy, it was the first bait.
They are asking you with his girlfriend, who is being done here in Cotabato City but we can remember that we are surprised at the school that we have been going to go to school, that is why we remember that he is the only one in the school that we have been saying, that is why we remember that it is too late for those who are living here in Mindanao and even four years.
They are in the head with peace that we are talking about this one, but no security guard.
He said, "he said.
Paul said to me that it is impossible for me to look down; he can only earn a way to buy Zambales one official region from him not from the National Police.
This is making a strong operation, which is why there is a lot of money, which is why there is a lot of money, but instead of our knowledge, it's as if we have seen the child, which is why it's not expected that there is a problem at the Quirino Grandstand where we have seen in the Quirino Grandstand.
You are respecting each other, but what I know is that, why were they sent to one thousand nine places like what happened in Mindanao which is a huge fire in Mindanao which is a good thing in Mindanao which is the news of our operation by PNoy?
Alright.
"You are together, Ma'am Doods but you know that this is also the training of Steven if it's also five-training.
"They are also in the sea that they can also be in the ground that's why we are really expecting that it has been an emergency and it was really said that there was an emergency that happened in the death of Sorsogon, which is why there was a military who did it, that's why there was a military who was able to do that, and the military.
He is not in the bar like a male butting or Negro, they are the ones who died while we have died, those who are drinking there, there are training and aside from the other house with birthcertificate.
Very small; we know that they know that it is an called operation here in the area where there is a short time there in a little way there.
It was said that he / she said that he / she was really serious, he / she said, that he / she also misses the military that he turned around in the place.
The enemy of his / her own in his own mind is that, as long as we see that they are not going to go to Mindanao, it's as if they're going to do anything that is why they have something to do to me, which is why they were able to do anything that is why they were able to do something than two o'clock in the place, but it seems that they were able to do this than two o'clock.
He / she just mentioned that I was surprised at EF-M for you to have their own contact numbers, and we also know that there are relatives who are going to transfer me, but sometimes, we have a relative that is why we have been together here with what happened now.
Maybe what we should ask for is what you'll ask for.
Our authorities are also asking the club that is why we also do not have anything to talk with the government now that I am having a child right now, we have a child, who are very young; unciation; unciation; Taucuses; TIDs.
In line with each other; we have seen the siblings of Lotion and you saw that they are going to see that they are going to show that they are going to be double the record; as if you have something to make the record at the evacuation center because it's as if you're double the record.
In our school, it is then that ten people have already been hurt by firecrackers because they have to be followed up by a six-year-old student who died in Sampaloc, perhaps one of their own strategy is their own strategy.
He is a two of those who are trying to catch up in a span of the decades for the two to reach the two decades.
I am also telling the National Police, who is already over to have a chicken, this is a low t-shirt that is why it is a problem, which is why traveling to the streets, he / she is the one of his relatives.
Kathleen, fur, / her flawless; he / she is brimming.
Covetous, dearse; "you didn't.
He is in relation to this that their relatives are going to be the bag of two Filipinas, who are very small, tourists, which is why they are doing this after they are after them.
"Do they not go there in Toribio, M SD) and two.
Are they going to allow them to have a child and we might see each other, that's why when you're going to see each other, it's as if you're going to see each other, that is why when they were asked to continue, it's as if they were going to leave, that's why when they were asked to continue, it's like that they are going to do, that's why when they were going to do it, it's as if they are in the right age, that's why when they are in the right age, he / she was able to continue.
The date for a date, to be deacons, are already taking care of the government.
It would have been finished when it was hit by course, when it was hit by a curved hit, it was then and then.
No one is going to go, they are going to be able to do anything that is common.
Thank you very much to you.
