
Tell out, the public is calling the public to carefully analyze the unusual meat.

November 05, 2016.

The city of Lipa, Batangas, November 4 (Pia) is asking the public to ask the public to be careful in buying meat especially now that Christmas is near.

Teresa Agonas said that the law's protection was said to be strong that consumers are saying that the buyers have the right to complain when they are used to rent a charter change, because this can still be used in danger in the life of whoever is going to eat.

The Pambansang Kamao has a branch of the Department of Regalibis as if they have connections with assurance and protection of the people that use meat and products to not spread and sell meat which may affect the food they will eat.

There are many reasons that the said office will give proper knowledge to those who will give the proper knowledge to those who are going to conduct a seminar, good deeds, and handing for employees of the local government of it.

The movement and movement of Task Force Bantay, is ongoing, so that there will be a way for the movement and selling of meat which are being sold, which should be placed in a proper place, if it is frozen because of meat which should be placed in an aura and where it is placed in an axe.

"The merchandise meat like frozen goods should be at the right place and are not able to go out or were not able to go out or were not able to find the meat that they will buy and hang out in the proper amount of meat which can pass through the right meat.

It also gave an advice that some of the ways to know if the meat that they are buying should be seen, which can be seen in a low price, which is why the hands of the meat should not disappear, which is why the hands of meat should not disappear, which is why the color of pork pork, beef or chicken has not disappear.

Agaton also said that the lives of the meat eight hours will be passed after being treated and if its construction is given an illusion for buyers, the color of blood on the meat should also be avoided, the color of blood in the meat should also be avoided.

Based on Conejers Act of the Philed.if the vendors violate this issue, they may be a fine of 113 million pesos to P1M depending on the weight of their violation.

Last October, the National meat Contingent is celebrated, a lot of cases were held by the PIs to inform the public the steps made by the agency, as well as the rights of buyers.
