It is out of Order (illegal drugs and showbiz.
By Fortun, August 19, 2016 was shocked when the industry of showbiz was shocked in the capture of the radio and Gaming Corporation (WBC) and his partner Emilio Lim, who is suspected to be the suspect to be charged with illegal drugs similar to ecstasy?
Bordberg is also previously an FFist and became famous in ABS-CBN TV to be famous in ABS-CBN, "where his former girlfriend Chris Tan got famous, which also cannot believe in being involved in drugs by his former girlfriend.
Bordatas and Lim were caught in a condominium unit of a suspected high level of drug lord last August 13 and confiscated from the two drug paraphernalia taken and marijuana plantation of Southern Police District (SPD) by the drug paraphernalia taken and marijuana plantation of Southern Police District (SPD) by the drug paraphernalia taken by the Southern Police District (SPD) by the drug paraphernalia taken by the Southern Police District (SPD) by the drug paraphernalia taken by the Southern Police District (SPD).
According to SPD, Lim is the one to be addicted to ecstasy and called party drugs at the High Global City (BGC) and in the City of Makati the information was given by Evan Rebanal Abcede, a Filipino-American who was first caught by the SPD in a buy-bust operation.
Hundreds of cases are now being faced by Borador and Lim including the violation of Section 5 (Salazole, Trailbo, Section 11 (Postanes and Conejero (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002).
We should serve as a hold-up call for actors and members of Mount Athos because the existing war against drugs of President Rodrigo Duterte will be served as a case against drugs.
It is not unknown to the entertainment that a movie and TV personalities are being used by some movie and TV personalities who are usually in the contents of the horrible cases, particularly in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PDI).
Maybe it is also time for the ranks of the showbiz industry to clean the industry of showbiz and it can lead to the Actor which can lead to its members and if positive, he directly went to the rehabilitation of drugs.
One example of this is the endorsement of the actor and now Quezon City Councilor Hero Bautista who voluntarily went into rehabilitation because he wants to change his life.

Hero was older brother of Hero, Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista, who is also a prime actor and the Pambansang Kamao to lead the campaign against illegal drugs in the ranks of showbiz.
The most important is the Philippine National Police (PNP) that those who sell drugs in showbiz said that their co-workers are sure of their lives but are not yet verified because they do not want to be involved in trouble.
