"Is the religion?"

A week before the set day of the Holy Pope, who wants to be called "Lolo Kiko" by the Filipinos, almost more than five million devotees of the Nazareno who attended the church in Quiapo, this year, which is becoming successful in the church of Quiapo, the devotees of the Nazarene have become successful.
If there is a type of institution in the country, which can count every year, with the level of millions of people, this is the church, even the church of Iglesia ni Cristo, which is smaller even though the influence of the Catholic Church is allowed by almost one million members in the celebration of the Catholic church.
At the coming mass of the Pope in Luneta this coming January 18, the case reaches up to four to six million people who will participate in different activities of the Pope in Tacloban, SM Mall of Asia, and the university of Santo Tomas, 4 hours.
That's why if there is an expert in the progressive history of the church, this is the experience of religion as powerful in fact, even the EDSA People Power Revolution was allowed to fight against the Marcos regime, that is why there are only two million force of the country, religion and / church.
But for the progressive people, I am expecting that there is an opposition immediately, even just in a point, what may be the relationship of Marayes and religion? "Isn't it that MarX-ray has said that the religion is" of the country? "
It is true that Karl Marx-ray has said this to an obstacle to one of our fellowmen, which is also being used by someone who often hear from each other and also use the religion of a better life than to protest against a better society this present.
Because we are familiar with the trend of Marayes, we know that, in general, we think that, in general, we are thinking that the church and / her own hardwork has a deep effort to change the religious groups or those who are calling. "
However, in the reopening of the reading and clarification of Pritil, Roger Garaus, it is not true that Marx in religion and capacity to become part of the awareness and growing awareness of the citizens of 7 pesos in fact, will not push forward.
"Anything, he will be the only one to fight for a long-term action, to be a member of the office, which is being taken care of the Social Work and Development Assistance Fund) of the cts of history.
Written IGAPAMORE, Tibagan, Trisha Mostoles.
In the text message was we was able to send a text message from the acadversary, "Dugo-ion.
If in the situation of the Philippines, it is more acceptable to a false physician's initial contribution to the research of religion and / church, it means that this is the church and / sister or religion, it means that this is the church, and reaction or reaction or "Liberation Front, and progress.
On 1850, PO 1 Romer was written, in his The Pad in Germany, with the revolutionary solution of the kingdom of God in the world, he added that, in the same books last 1870, he said that.
"Hara-shirt, which is the name of the Pambansang Kamao in his / her own one-in-law, the attitude of the Pambansang Kamao in the country, the political leader, the religious group, which can be filed by the opposition of the country, the political, the religious group.
That's why, the straight activity of a Filipino in Germany is done, based on Angelita, based on Angelita, to help the show-off of the other issues, so it is true that Marx, which is true in the time, is perfect for the religion, "said to be our religion."
Can it also be that the experience of the Katipuneros and other sweetened bosity are going to be filed against the colonization of Spain on 1896?, aside from Katipunan, 40 to 1910, this is a big part of the movement and abuse of Jesus Christ, in the time, 1840 until 1910, the increase in release of the country, "pro-religious" will increase.
It can also be said that even the EDSA People Power 1 can be said to be exported due to the part of the Catholic Church on the show of the citizens during that time.
However, there is a reminder from the golden-mannered family, Hans Kovalev.
"
In the release of the ATM card that was being taken to the top of the Office of OPLAN), the Fight IT led by an intensive position of Little IOS.
The Pambansang Kamao was able to send the resignation of the race which is being considered as an ally or of the social media.
Postanes and his / her son, Marx, Tibagan, 52, is a member of the funeral parlor that is being taken by a glimpse of his / her co-year-being.
In the visit of Papa Francis to the country, it is known for the progressive leaders of the Catholic Church, it is expected that there will be an avid reader of the church in the Philippines, according to his 10 pounds.
"Paula, Can an actress, the name of the Our Lady OPLAN), the Office of the catholic Church, Poverty. And the center of the Ghanh role."
But for the progressive countries, especially those who remain in faith, not in the Holy Pope if you are not in our hands, it is not in our hands to show that the people who are taking advantage of change are the people who are taking advantage of to change their condition.
