Frankly said that the allies of Duterte are erased the truth that's happening in the statement of Matobato.
By Ellen Toribio, September 21, 2016, I believe that the lies will be ironed out when presented to the truth.
That's why it is not hard to accept what the Senate did, as if the truth will be exported.
Last Monday, Senator Leila de Lima was removed as host of the committee and was replaced by the members as a mutiny.

Richard Gordon is remember that 16 voted for the people to not know the truth about the testimony of Edgar Matobato, the former member of the Davao Death Squad (DDS), that the former member of the Davao Death Squad (DDS) admitted that it was the mayor of Davao City and now President Rodrigo Duterte.
Aside from Gordon, 15 more are Aquilino Pimentel III, Vicente Sotto III, Alan Peter Cayetano, Juan Miguel Zubiri, Panfilo Lacson, Sonny Angara, Manny Pacquiao, Loren Legarda and Grace Poe, Loren Legarda and Grace Poe.
The allegation against De Lima is Franklin Drilon, Senators Risa Hontiveros, Francis Pangilinan, and Paolo Benigno Aquino IV.
Ralph Recto and Sonny Trillanes IV did not vote.
The allies of Duterte in the Senate like Senator Alan Cayetano said that the statement of Matobato is always lies in order to discredit the President in the whole world.
"The revelations of Matobato should not be removed from the lies of Matobato because he can still do other way except for the masking tape test.
With the many stories of Matobato, he was able to take care of what he will eat from others and he is not there for the murder of the owner of the hotel in Boracay, Richard King, whom he joined with the son of Duterte, the vice mayor of Davao City today, Paolo.

One of what Matobato said was the command of Duterte to kill the four-ranking guards of former House Speaker Proseso Nograles in 2010 the election.
Last 2010 was the election, Nograles ran for the mayor against Duterte's son Sara, who won as vice mayor while Rodrigo Duterte run for vice mayor.
Nograles denied it on the story of Matobato, all of his own guards.
There was a post on Facebook account that only the name is not pointing fingers, but I do not know who is no pointing of finger but what he said is supported by the news.
He said, it was not the arrest of Nograles in the kidnapped and killed but the Volunteers Organization in his campaign.
No finger in 2010 was said to be the election, Nograles asked for help from Bantay party-list Representative Jovito Palparan, Jr.
Palparan, Alagan and Martillano Marcelino are against the communists who are close to Duterte by the personnel of the three.
No pointing of pointing of four corpses were found, Friday in different parts of Davao City, Davao del Norte and Davao del Sur last April 2, 2010. "That was the time of the campaign for 2010.

And killing is like the story of Matobato.
There were a lot of questions that no finger was said to be connected to Matobato's statement.
The allies of Duterte in the Senate thought that they have already sold it well because the truth is already erased.
Let's see.
