San Luis, for the very first town, he will declaration the "drug pusher" in the country.

August 19, 2016.

San Luis, Batangas, August 19 (Pia) - the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) said that this town is declared as the first drug pusher which happened yesterday, August 18.

In the message of PNP PRO 4 Regional Director Valmocena was the representative of Batangas Provincial Director Senior Superintendent Leopoldo Cabanthem, his happiness was too much because the town of San Luis is the first country that was declared to be free from illegal drugs.

"Based on the data of PNP, the crime rate will come out of 40 percent that will be seen in the campaign against drugs that can be seen in the campaign against illegal drugs and there is also a need for the operation of the community to succeed," according to Tabora.

In relation to this, Tabwas given an amount of P10,000.00.

The 26 barangays who were together with the police are also given to a zealous campaign against illegal drugs.

In the statement of Mary Ann Lorenzo, Information Office of PDEA-A, there is a basis for their office to make an administrative case in a town of Kabilan; there are no drug pushers in the campaign; there are no drug pushers in the campaign; there is no protector or drug lords in the campaign; there is no violation of drug lords in the city; there is no violation of drug lab in the warehouse and no marijuana lab.

Mayor Samuel De Ocampo said that even before President Duterte took office, they started the campaign against drugs and it became more aggressive when the Oplan Tokhang was implemented in the PNP.

As a result of this, the number of residents involved in illegal drugs have reached a total of 251, according to Police Officer 1 Radam Ramos, chief of San Luis.

Some of the programs implemented in relation to the theme of a peaceful San Luis are going to achieve, if there are drugs who can be avoided by the police of the local government and Municipal Anti-Illegal Drug Group (GAS) and meeting with the officials of the barangay, conduct a drug Symposium on different schools and placing an anti-illegal drugs.

In relation to this, the employees of the local government have undergone drug-minded using the funds from personal money of a prosperous country, and the result of all who passed through drug-mindedness.
