We here in good outcome, this morning, the group of youth, the increase in tuition in more than one hundred college university in the country, because the students have not cancelled that they are the ones who will be with us because we are not in our country.
Let's end here, put in double the speed of 15 pesos later you will be ill-tempered; no one else.
It is said that it's the country's constitution.
Because there is no one who is looking for the Constitution which is your grandchild.
It is not true that he knows about the most important thing that is why it is the most important thing that you are in Fairview, but for example, the person who has a text message has a text message that is why there is no problem without a sabotage of it.
I do not go back to the students of the students.
It is a good thing, that's not true that, he / she is not true, he / her February.
You can see each other; he is a certification in the school; that is why they need to have a meeting here in the school, that is why they need to have a meeting here, which is why they need to have a meeting here, to prove that there are people who are in the heart, to prove that there will be a person here who will explain.
They are students.
Bro.
Some of the people here have been cut off, which is why they did not have country's constitution; hence, it is possible to be liable here.
It's because of course, if you are unaware that what you are doing is nonsense, they will be liable; they will be liable.
Thank you, fine, of course, we say that one of the August, we said, that most of the students live in a strong rain so we would really know.
Can you go to you students and complain that it has not passed through the right Two pesos, like what will be done today, some pieces of here in Nicolas different places and University yes to make a lot to be approved by the jeep.
We were able to look down; he / she was shouting; maybe it was shouting when we had a student going to sleep.
Nearest hospital, Paradise, both of our friends wake up, both of our friends have complaints about them to help the T Vs.
We are the lawmakers' company's companies that are deported while they are at them, because the law is still for a long time.
We are anxious; that our position is not our position; we are not in our position, are not yet united; and not yet.
That isn't it, while the country - Two Wives are not over where these are.
The school had their own tuition in order to take care of them.
"What kind of worry; he / she learned that the price hike for the price hike which goes to the process.
We have heard yes, but now, we can accept that, we can accept it in the office that we can accept but Mommy Lydia to us, we still do not have any complaints about the previous All Soul's Day.
They are going to the car in the market, in case the car is here in the market because this is where I love him, which is why there's a lot of people; that's why, of course, we'll take care; and of course, we can go down; and of course, I am the one who passed the afternoon.
It is easy for us to be the highest official.
I might just go to someone like that.
So what kind of solution will also be done.
Students gave them a surprise gift.
You know that they are the price that we have.
My sister was Quezon City.
Of course gbo in the employee.
They want the treacherous eyes of what they want to ask.
Yes, the politician can't do their other earlier complaints about their hands.
This is where Filipinos will not stop from buying new acquaintances.
It is good for those who are not going to be forced to use students, that's okay with the use of students, but they hear that if you really want to win out of the Lord where we really want to become a threat.
We are stupid; we are full-tempered; we can see that we are only big; we are similar to those who are still big and there are people who really don't take revenge on it, right, and of course.
Because they are being given.
In my year-in-year, their relationship is puzzled on the school, how can you monitor all that you are going on to monitor their education that we are going to monitor their education the result of our education, the result, they are the ones who voted here and we can make it clean.
It is not proven that he really gave it to school.
Their benefits is chaotic.
It was a bit more than the Philippines that they are going to go to a school while eating a school when Jason adviser of the problem has bruises.
I did not lie down just to just give it to the child, Sheryl, four years old when you are going to leave the benefits of the bottle of the pan, but it is not true that she is going to be in the school of the frying pan and room without a criminal-in-law.
Yes, I had a chance to hear what happened.
Yes.
We are very noisy; we have long been playing for a long time there, because they found out that we first went to a school, and then he will be given three years old that is not in this first way, and after that, won't be given three years.
At this way, will you immediately be able to complain or have a complaint, we are going to complain.
In my this situation, the regional Office Regional Office is like this situation that's why he's the same.
The tear is already running, like a guest and on the monitor.
You are concerned; as long as your girlfriend, older sister, look at if there is a school in the way that we buy.
I am not able to go ahead by Walis house, it can go straight to you.
Come out later.
I just let this go.
Two four-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-old; I can go into a hut; I said that there was an accident that was the biscuit for those who are interested here in the company of the elder sister canceled in the program.
Included in there is a scholarship for a scholarship.
There's also a bit of a bit A J J and then, Philippines!
He / she was renting.
The nine of students should be nine.
It means that I want them to look at them; but what should not be, they should not be fooled and generous in the gathering when they reach the High School.
Oh no, your handsome has been cancelled for them to pass through their homes.
Covetous, deport; here are Two Wives.
This will be distributed by everyone that you can lower down the sun that you may show up, you are very much more than the same day, he / she grew up to each other, the person who took care of each other.
But maybe even if you did not push through it, it seems that you are going to file a narrowing of things, but it seems that we are going to serve as well, but it's okay to have a job that is why they do not have a job as well as the students who are in need of life.
Lesley is this.
Yes, but happy.
Maybe it's just too late for fare, especially those who are saying that the one who is saying not going through the right hand is the one who is saying not going through their school whatever we can fall and are not noticed by the regional Office, what can they do?
There are those who are ill-tempered; as long as the one who can go to school; so we can talk to each other; we are going to talk to each other.
The primary things that are similar to that are our fellow countrymen, as well as our fellow countrymen, because they complained that they can go to officials and they can also go here in the office so we are here in Diliman.
I also said that maybe he can also call four four one one.
The events are favorable.
