Tandem PDEA and BoC, Bistek and dela Vega, responded.

Among those affected, they say that the partnership of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) and Bureau of Customs (BOC) and Bureau of Customs (BOC) and the Bureau of Customs (BOC) will not be hit because of them being shown on the campaign against drugs.
According to PDEA Director General Arturo Biazon, Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, they are not going to give a chance to increase the people involved in drug syndicates especially the foreign contacts, shabu, and other prohibited drugs.
That is why the PDEA and BOC strengthened their coordination and operation against those who attempt to take drug smuggling and out of the country.
As a result of this, some foreigners were caught by the combined forces of the two agencies that the leaders and personnel have dedication at work.
That is why for many people, the partnership of the two will win and it is expected that the attempt to raise drugs inside the lives and the future of the citizens, especially the youth, especially the youth.
It can also be said that the partnership of Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista and QC Police District (QCPD) director Chief Superintendent Mario dela Vega, especially on the issue of peace and order, can win.
Isn't it as a proof that their relationship and support for each other to strengthen their office is the recognition of the National Capital Regional Office to QCPD as best district last 11th Police Office (WestMinCom) while the QC government is identified as defending City government.
And how can these be identified?
The QCPD ordered the best police station where the Cubao Police Station of Supt. Ramon Pritil was chosen by the members of the Cubao Police Station, the suspect was caught by the suspect in the murder of a gift of ABS-CBN in Cubao.
The sweating can also be denied by the personnel of the QCPD Homicide Chief Inspector Elmer Monsalve, the case of killing the said gift will also be denied.
That is why in the QC government and QCPD, continue the cooperation between the government and police to continue their order and peace in the city.
