How can you get rich?

It is easy to get rich in our country and you can easily be poor.
It is easy to get rich that you are only rich with the BIR or for Customs, or even in Nawasa, in DepEd, to the police, to the police, more than military, that will probably not be rich.
It is easy to be difficult to be poor, you are always lazy and you will surely be difficult if you will become a person with principles, with integrity and how to love the country.
Even if you are stupid, you will easily get rich and you will just have something to do with your rich boss, it is certain that his grace will not be touched, and if you are rich already.
You can have your own Philippine Army.
You are the ones who will be friends with your neighbors, and if you really are very rich, you are the most intelligent in the whole world you love.
But if you are looking for the happiness for yourself and happiness for your fellowmen, the only thing that I can do to you is to not enter the government or in politics.
The people with principles have likely to be buried in the slums since you will be imprisoned by justice system and you will also be imprisoned by the executive and legislative body of our government because you might get killed.
It is easy to be poor, but for so hard to be poor, you will not follow your vices.
You can't give your wife or his girlfriend, a simple man, a simple restaurant, and you will not be able to study your children in your school school.
I have tried for several times to be poor, but I realized it is more difficult to be poor.
And be clean, you will meet your friends in the government.
I want to experience wealth so my problem is, because they thought that I am a person who has principle, no one who wants to give me forgiveness, no one wants to give me a way.
And if you do not have money, you will be the only ones with the world.
He depends on the government before the public funds will run out.
If you are rich already, different leaders of religion, and you will become holy.
You might be the saint of you and have a pile of Chedeng and Volks and your own Philippine Army and narrow-mindedness.
But if you will just be the bishop, is it just okay that a sports utility vehicle will only be fine with the government?
