We ate the fork so that we can go forward to the fork; she said that he is not the one in the morning.
On the telephone.
He asked for a gift to give you a lesson; ah, that's why when you will go home to Quezon City, how will you go home to Quezon Medical Center; however, we will go home to Quezon City; however, we are okay, but we are okay, but we are okay, but we are okay.
There will be a fulfilment of the profit; the very weak man, who is very weak; we are really two nights ago when it was only two nights ago when it came to us, I do not know.
There is a need to work for five hundred years what we did and what we did is strong.
Because we go to another.
Very short; he / she didn't know much more than penitence, my friend, I thought that he / she thought that he / she thought that he / she thought for two days.
Thank you very much.
Us.
Ah, what I feel is okay, what are complicated now that you know here is a certificate of abuse.
But the adviser?
I have no idea, he / she wasn't able to look at each other, but he / she was on top of the place.
This is the solution in the coming Tuesday and then left.
Tony Gomez.
But it is okay that you are near the pants, are you just here?
Then.
What else would it be dangerous to watch?
One one.
Is there still a fine water?
That is why I am given yes right, right?
Two Wives are innocent.
It was said that two Filipinas, whom I have said to have grown up, are deported; but he / she was distressed as well.
You'll find a model for five decades because there is a shooting.
Lady Gaga, the computer is just quiet which is the same month that looks like a comedy, cravors, "isn't it?
He had a friend from a jeep.
Four kilos of waves in Tito.
What is it?
"We are anxious; we can't do anything in my kingdom, right?" I do not want people like that, "I said," I said, "
I will give a lot of coins, just as long as we do not look for four years that's why we don't want to look like four cases that are not bothering me, instead, we need to know if we show that it is what I showed.
"You are some of those who take advantage of her taking her pictures here, that's why it's okay that what I want to say is that, what I want to say is that, what I want, you can see that you're really going to see, you can see that you are going to see each other.
Yes, as to what your supporters will say on top of his pictures.
Let us talk about it, as long as there are eight people who are going to vote, that is okay to give people who believe in Baguio.
That's getting okay, then he said.
He immediately responded to it.
Okay, maybe it is not included there.
Okay.
It is possible that it will pass by September 24 to 10 pesos, but, as long as I am not being done in Kathy, he is not forcing anyone to watch.
The next to me is the victims of not viewers.
What of them Michael Jackson, you do not want to be staring at a cold with two Two people.
Last Wednesday Entertainment Television.
I wonder why I am really last night, he said, he / she said, that he / she has a product of my conscience, which is the time when she comes home, that's why he / she's not an official.
You are not able to make it anymore that it is not my daughter that they are selling, isn't it?
You are not yet telling you so that you are still not stupid; we are very derogatory so we have vast feelings.
You are applying at a house helper; we are not aware of the volume of children from the proposal to you, my wife Orationist.
Their names were placed inside the room's room, Lady Orena Rodriguez, who was well riding a motorcycle, had a solution on the motorcycle with a solution on the motorcycle that he / she had been a solution for his six-year-old maid.
"Isn't it that we have been broken and have a big income, that's why I need to go to.
"What's just the third woman, to help the old beggars who do not make it as a fruits with me, ah, what do you want to happen until we are together.
Very small; we are thinking that, I am thinking that the actual motorcycle, but what is bitter, is that we will be angry with your children, that is why we believe that we are okay with fried pork.
It's like that, there are a little bit of little things that you can change, but you have not seen any cup of friends even if I have not noticing it.
We already have an illness, we got a lot of people who are calling me as well as the same with our fellow countrymen in the prison; we have not accepted the truth that there are only one of our fellowmen in jail, that's why there are only one of our fellow citizens in prison; that's why it's not true that I am the only one who can say that I am the only one to answer.
Two six-six-four were four.
Just, what is the path of success?
Okay with his eyes if you look at it.
Yes.
But
That's just what he's saying.
PNoy, he will give what we have done about Monday, right here with what he has.
You know this kind of group, but this is his friend.
What is not done before is the Development Corporation of the Philippines.
It may lead to a plate number but we should have their own plate number one o'clock in the afternoon.
Nothing tonight.
Yes, there are times that they are not like that.
Covetous, dearse, might not be, but not.
And then in April Development Corporation (sweet words, it seems that we are busy with what they eat, ah, the amount of lungs.
It's okay.
He is a person but what is he?
He / she was in line with each other, whose legs have no High School, right?
"That's what I said to," I will be ill-tempered for guidance now, thank you very much for the sake of the people; we are very fond of things.
I, in his friend, it turns out that we have heard that we have received any problem; but I have not yet done any problem, that's why I am just going to have a problem, so I could have done nothing to do, that I could have nothing to do, that could have nothing to do, so we could have nothing to do or to have no water.
Very small; as long as Brigada Eskwela will be seen; we can go to our fellow countrymen because it's true that they are almost all small children who are only little by little by our children, they are almost in different kinds of conversation at the time that they have not been cut off.
Wake up later.
"It is possible that I do not know that we are very stupid; we are very stupid; isn't it right now?
We are still the director brimming.
I want to say to him that I do not care about the other things that he is focusing on, here in our fellow number one hundred people, it is a great money for March two hundred pesos in twenty pesos, the best thing for four Indonesians, two consecutive things that are supposed to be done.
You said that he / she said that he / she was pregnant for four years, maybe it's not good for those with Kyoto, that's why he / she wasn't able to make a lot from us about the speed of rice in the country.
For free food, then he said, he / she didn't look straight; he / she wasn't able to look down, Arlene Pineda.
Maybe they still have a text message that he said here.
It is not a burden that it might not show up to a person in deep sleep, according to us.
You are still not doing anything but I will not say it is a big person in his nose, which is why we are going to progress and most of the news that we go with, and most of the good news that we have to pass through, and most of the time, the full of people will pass through.
Ah, it is good that there is a bad elements who is happy to eat while Lady Alex at the airport, so that there is no signal from the window that we have already accepted, but what we do not care about is that we have no regard for the body, but what do you have to accept while you are just a lot of you.
But I went out of his time the conversation of the young lady again this morning.
Here, read you "I like.
Two people who have been renting six to six months, both have been doing to bring their lives in drinking, and what they were given, Jonas went to the mass at the mass.
What should we do but the right operation of the former here?
It is the public's right to watch their money once again, but I cannot blame what happened to the country because we all have their own stand in thinking that you have a lot of feeling that you are calling.
Or what are our countrymen who are our countrymen?
