
2013 / 5.1 / 27.

Orly Marcellular phones, farmer activists.

He is a disturbance for the second issue of leeches.

Christmas is bulging and it is known about the blood of Ka Orly Marketing who are the blood of his companions, and his own wife, who was hesitant on the land that his writings are capable of.

From the ranks of poor farmers, Ka Orly, although there is no formal ability, go as well as his dynasties from a long experience with the masses.

To what I am I am a farmer activists, "Ka Orly introduced the usual condition of the farmers under the long time of the existing Visiting Forces al and order in the Philippines.

It is still a small witness to the violence and bullying of the heart for the desire to improve the farmer who has more much more, but they need to be light and always thrown.

It is clear that Ka Orly clearly stated that whatever food creates, they still do not have anything to eat, but it is not pity for his own situation that it is so good to change the society.

They help the farmers who are fighting for the land they are fighting for, denied the price of products in farm, the wage of products in the farm, which is an additional salary for convenience.

In the recognition given to society, Ka Orly knows that the citizens are the only ones, "grasses and not people.

Even if they will be imprisoned by the leaders and they will be killed, it is not the end of the fight against the Saligang Batas and the plague of the government because they have been aware and fighting for millions.

The movement is not a taste, even if the life of your loved one has a state of state, you are in a state of state the life of your loved one. "

It is painful for a spouse to lose a sharp mother and there are more filipino masses to you who are hoping to defend them against the fight.

But it is painful to play blind if the eye is said to have its own loyalty.

And if ever his own life is the offer of Ka Orly ("if I agree," will go. "

In my death, continue the tasks that I will be left, do not be afraid of the violence of the state to offer life, strength, and intelligence.

To the songs of Ka Orly, she knows that being a farmer activists will be on top of playing basketball, rather than playing basketball, that's why in my opinion, he has more use of misuse of the history of the country.

The ingredients in colorums will be examined, and most of all, the lessons from the long history of the filipino masses, is the inheritance of Ka Orly.

You can read the dates of Ka Orly Marcellular phones here.
