Poeyelid.

"My first favorite writer, Amado Hernandez, Nick Joaquin, and Gelacio Guillermo,"
Jose Maria Sison (BTAC), the wife of Gelacio "Chguavas" Guillermo).

Three books are in my table today: 00 in the table in my table today, Aguan Guillermo Eleazar, and the two copy of the grass hand of Rogelio "Ka Roger" Orcauldron.

The award will be awarded with the recognition that ChadGelf (2009) and Ka Roger) and Ka Roger (2011) came from kilometer 64-INTEL).

Last September 16, the book launched by Chong Gelf is launched, "it is one of the amount of dizziness, but it is one of the amount that we have been writing to for those who have been writing to each other when they have been writing to those who have been writing to each other when they have been writing a letter once again.
I have a copy of if there are some who are allies in Hacienda Luisita, Champelas, a thin book which was published for his 117th birthday last 2010.
But these are different from this, ChadGelf is said to have been with the ground writer, Kris Montalban, one.
It was said by SFO 4: "I am happy that my ophgreetings to Gelotes, in the launch of her book with M" and in his acceptance of her real name and since he / she was authored in the life of the covetousness and of their struggle to be free from the abuse and abuse. "

Last 2010, I was invited by the group artist arrest to give a petition for 43 health workers who were imprisoned then in Camp Bagong Diwa, Binuhe.
I have been together with the nosy actress, who will also conduct a case, including the members of Task Force ST and an actress arrest.
I asked the 8-page-one-page letters that I just used to use as a student in the University of Batangas.

The men and women who are detained in Camp Bagong Diwa. To Women's Month, a piece of suspicion that we will use to be removed after they removed the last pages where the bark was there.
In Men's detention case, after we took off and grew up from the foot, the material things that we have brought up to the feet were flooded, and the whole clan was also able to take care of the decision of the Supreme Court!

"
- Guor Moros.

Identified to be identified as Ermson Acosta, Custodio KD, Talugtog, Chongqing, Pega and many other Filipino culture.
I bought a copy of what they are going to buy because they will use funds for the campaign of Hacienda Luisita, which is also needed by the funds for the 80th anniversary of Hacienda Luisita, (number HLMX) in November 16, 2014.

Last October 2, it was launched last October 2 that happened at the Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Santa Mesa, Manila.
It is also proven that this published this 2014, on the 25th anniversary of the flow of the heat in the desert today, the first signs of life are the source of grass and grass.

Special vinegar for me is special for me because I am writing a letter from Ka Roger, which is a letter for the collection of the United States before and is looking for my use to the country while in a far place.
Together with Ka Roger, we ganged up with Mark Joseph Rafal, Emmanuel Dumlao, Misibis Gonzales, Laurantewa Marvin Castillo, and 'Acuña.

"Mabog, Maker, TIDs, Ubers"
- Daniel 5: 25.

The new books of Chchelf and Ka Roger are in English.
In the time of the ASEAN Expressway), in search for a hundred Filipinos which can be implemented on the native language of the countries outside the Philippines, it is better to choose their patrons.

I was on his way home when I noticed the members of the New People's Army that was found beside the New People's Army who was shocked to see the OP ("bust operation,"), at the side of the dump site and a wall near the house of Apolinario Mabini.
It is surprising that the house of Mabini was very surprised when the house of Mabini was tragic, it was also tragic that the hut was put in a nipa hut but it was a different story.
While the program in front of Ka Roger is moving, there was a new rally inside the bed sheet, I saw the picture on Facebook, Jonathan Cainguitan.

However, it will lead by the Times: I thought that the judicial system is very much alive but we should just say that PUP Diliman, it would be better for PUP instead of "fake UP").

There are students who got angry and why was it destroyed by the beauty of El Nino to a head of PUP.
In the website of the PUP Diliman, the university has a "been standing up as a-standing case as a-standing case against social justice." Even when the PUP did not become very conservative, they might come from the news about the news that they have gone to school or might come from the news.
That is the beauty of its song, it shows paint but there is a rotten body inside what they want or to remind the society inside or outside the bed?

"Soccore, in the state of vandalism of this.
- Banica's.
