DA has a new medicine.

An ID er said to Ombudsman Conchita Carpio Morales said that he is negligent of his duty by Food (Drug Administration Director, Doctor Kenneth HardGo because of the continuous control of the illegal selling of medicines for losing weight, human rights ers which are not approved and effective.
According to Aniban, Reyes, the office of Hardresses are useless until now that it cannot be done to his followers not doing anything but take pictures at their office.
Is it possible that the director of FDA has become suspicious of his personnel? Why are they just waiting for the Pretty Boy to their position, maybe they are just waiting for the coming "status" from the ice cream that continues to be selling drugs?
But it was found out by miracles that Hardatas, who came from a big company of the medicine, was from a big company in different parts of the country, as well as the coldness in Binondo.
The stores of fake medicine are usually in Binondo, Manila, including the owners are foreigners and the medicines being sold especially for losing weight, which is possible to be good for the health.
The government should not favor the sale of fake medicine because they are proud that they are even fed up by businessmen who are paying taxes as well, they will become a nuisance to the health of our fellowmen who want to improve the cheaper amount that's why they think they can be allowed.
When will the office of Hardatas, who should have been taking care of the citizens against fake medicines, maybe it is possible that the authorities do not take action from the income or condition of those involved in the sale of fake medicine.
For the knowledge of many, here are the fake medicine that still continue to be sold in a hornets in Binondo and other places.
Balos and Racing, Bio-Lisson FS-Lisson Fist and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RTEL) and RL) and Rattle.
The Pretty Model Shop is still in a number of horrific act, Qi Xian NJ, Serete Sevidal, Skakel and Lerio Bompat, the beauty of Sevidal and Raving, Xiamen and Management Council.
What is said to be bought until now is the illegal sex star ancers which is such as Feel Atsuko Nunal, African-Australian Sungala, Lailagutan, Lailagutan, Larang Trisha Mosley, Lailbo, Aaahhagat.
