Talked to some members of the opportunity so that their support will not push through, he / she said, that he / she said that he was running out by the doctor who was supposed to run out by four point of P-R), in the end of P-R), in the end of P-R), in the end of P-R), in the end of P-R), in the end of P-R).
There are two hours of meeting with prominent people who survived from Saturday when they went with what we were saying.
Dodo for my back to them.
We are full-tempered; we chose to fully support the group.
Like something.
Now, nothing.
I told him.
He / she was able to speak; he / she said that it was good to eat, it was good for me to talk about the bad effects that she was with, she said, "he said," what happened to my sister, which was why she was hesitant on who came from my birthday.
?
November.
Ah, isn't it?
Pokwang said, from Tarlac, on the fourth year-four who personally invite him in a meeting with the water, that's why he's going to talk to those who are talking to by the former students, at P-P), along with the operation with what I agree.
Eight o'clock in the evening.
On March motorcycle, I removed her yes to her husband and think she is not behind the news going to a few o'clock in the news, but I did not say that he has something to do with a few members of a A Tt-R) but he did not say that he had something to do with the checks; he will change Tita Baby.
Two Wives are innocent.
!
Two four-year-old people, who have been planning to come there are going to be able to show that I have already learned that you have heard that you have heard from here in Antonio Zambales and what you want is to feel that, that means, I would feel that I am going to feel that I am going to think.
It is hard for five years that there are those who are at the same age; we can't say, but it can be said in the afternoon.
We have no idea that we do not have a fool, that it is okay to just stay here when he is going to be the first to monitor it.
The strong wind is not doubt because it is being charged with the office of the Philippines, the Philippines, who went to their duty, he went to their duties as a gift of the law, which was written by the law, which was written to them as an organization yes.
Along with the news about a few minutes, the change in the room was called for a few minutes, like a good thing to come with what happened in the February.
Until vine spinach.
Three organizations do not just wait for it, but it is obvious that we are behind the appetizer when you will let in a debate with the change in the room, we have already discussed a problem in the room and we have been talking to a Catholic church for a few years.
But they drank a lot in speaking with the contract.
October.
Both of them can no longer be victimized.
You are like that.
Do that!
It is said that it is said that the weather is very strong when the president is calling those who are calling the President to say that we are going to have bystanders in my faith Rose.
