
The ceasefire was the declaration of the ceasefire to celebrate the 120th floor of the PKP, and take advantage of the tradition of Christmas.

The committee.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
December 18, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Decongestion Program of said to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the CPP-graft case.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) revealed the declared winner of the ceasefire with all the ceasefire and units of Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB) and his own town.

00: 00 in the 24 year 2013 until 23: 59.

And.

00: 00 in the 31 December 2013 until 23: 59.

At the time mentioned, all the victims of the BHB) and his own town should stop and avoid the launch of the anomalous operation against armed groups and personnel of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), by the Philippine National Police (PNP), and all the other people to force the republic of the republic of the Philippines.

It is strictly warned by the KP, Knapsack is strictly reminding the ingredients and units of the BHB) in front of the armed forces and the armed groups under the territory by the armed forces and the armed groups in the territory by the armed forces and the armed groups of the country's territory by the armed group of the country's territory.

Taking advantage of the declared ceasefire, unity with the traditional celebration of the Filipino people, Christmas and New Year.

In addition to this, the declaration of the ceasefire in order to give way is to share the filipino people and the undiplomatic remarks of the filipino masses to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the filipino masses to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the filipino masses to celebrate the celebration of the filipino masses to join the celebration.

It is more effective for the declared winner of two more days to stop the ceasefire, which is part of the Botchok (Eastern Visayas, island of Panay, Central Visayas, island of Negros, where the forces are assigned to help the masses in the places destructed by the typhoon Yolanda in the national name of typhoon Yolanda.

The PKP has recognized the first released declaration of the ceasefire of the Anti-PIO of the PKP in Eastern Visayas which are suspended for all the anticipated operation by the masses and their armed forces in order to recover from the turmoil caused by the typhoon.

The relentless operation of the AFP in the passing area is very hard to make the people in the launch of the masses and to attack the declaration of the ceasefire, which is why the Putatan, which is expected to block the disputed operation of the AFP will continue to prevent the straight path of the AFP to prevent the rehabilitation conducted by the AFP.
