You know, Papa is still thinking about it and that we are going to sell just to help the location of the accident.
It's only that we are stuck on the severe reason why you don't want to trust four, I have something to give Cormorant in order to find a group.
Please do not just leave Cotabato City with a picture of Jun-Jun-Jun.
Because it is probably not stopped what time he will transfer to, the Americans.
For them, they came from going to the house.
I can find the right timing to see American teenagers in a baby near the house when her father and chicken are the only ones who are living in Bulacan, why are you the strength of communication and other signal number.
According to himself, the youth were able to make it a bit bad for the tree, and fried a lot of profit from a month of the said police, the roof of the office, which is why the people of the Office, who was afraid to have something to include in the street, but was not able to get out of the streets in the barangay.
There is no communication because they do not know where they are.
From the chair.
Ask for help from America for help from America for a tablet for someone to win.
According to him, he saw the third alarm of more than the dead and rocks.
When he was able to be able to be included in the seven o'clock in the evening, the soldiers can be used as if they still haven't resigned from the soldiers who were accompanied by soldiers.
I said, there was only no American entered the area at around eight o'clock in the evening when he saw that we were being rude and I did not approach because I was.
What are two thousand using the flashlight?
Now.
That is the one who answered regarding password, which is open in the morning.
It was four o'clock at dawn when you arrived at the highway.
The person who has been with the gas for each other is to buy one dead, and the one is wounded, there is already seven who are wounded.
In the operation, what they are saying is already dead, which is already hungry.
That is what you are with.
It is all the military who risked a lot of money and it will make up and there will be no percent in the area.
