2015 / 5.1 / 05.

If I am not infidelity.

Fight IT led by the name of Aragon (RES), "The Legal Management Council," First Class "Tsacheva, was chosen to be the leader of the Lower House of the writer, Hungitan which is the decision of the House of the writer, an alternative that was held up by the House of the Propaganda of the Proletarian Army that was held.

Walter Benjamin!

The principal which has been alibis, is the transition to form of Camply object (in-)) to a core-for-for-for-for-for-for-being-conformity that can be provided by the horacademia which was made into the sky.

What happens, the task of the National Democratic oligarchy that's in the Philippines is the person who has been defeated by the Philippines - to make a glimpse of the First Class commit suicide, which is a big sister of the person who takes a trace of practice.

E. San Juan, Junior.

Because it's because you can make sure that they have a huge capital from four or more than two years of training in the university, that you can still live without any looming danger because it is possible that there is no impending danger caused by the poor people who live in and outside the school, of poor people who live in the city, farmers, and workers.

These kinds of speculation is what can be shown by an artist from the society who is bleeding in the Middle East, and even an artist who is part of the art of arts, and bureaucracy.

With what he doesn't want to and what he wants, he / she is going to make an actress's financial status quo, and it will not be easy for an artist who has a long-control of the country, and this is not easy for the change of the country for a limited time, and even the artist who wants to take care of the country, the current order, and even those who want to take action against the country.

An artist who is from the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the two sides, he will be forced to benefit from the two sides that he will benefit from the two sides, he will be forced to approach the two sides, and when he / she is not ready to approach the two sides, he will be forced to approach the two sides, and he will be forced to finish his own principle and passion, together with a kind of system.

It's inevitable that the questions that the artist can accept with his infidelity and suicide is suspicious, which can be accepted by an artist from the same side, which is why he can make sure that he can benefit from the art of political, what is the reason that he can benefit from the alliance between the art of political, what is the reason that he can benefit from the alliance between the art of political, what is the reason that he can benefit from the alliance between the arts of the political administration?

What happens, how can he be affected by the truth that he is also benefiting from the financial situation that the filipino masses wants to change? "

While the arts remains to be the height of the arguments of the production, safety of the rich and legal ways where you need to ask for every ten hours, and how long do you have to ask for the new type of revolution?, and how do you have to leave your own life for more than ten hours, in exchange for a better life for many?
