President Jejomar Binay?

If the election is going to be held, Vice President Jojo Binay will win, this is if we will turn the latest survey as well.
In extreme fame, even President Noynoy Aquino has been predominant in their trap due to Binay's departure in the latest survey.
Why is the rating of PNoy down because of the issue of the Disbursement Acceleration Program which is involved in his administration.
Because of DAP, the burial of the Supreme Court was declared as the antagonist to Mister Juan.
Because of the issue of DAP, the rating of PNoy is not only two but also the Liberal Party which is headed by.
And because of the rating, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas's dream to reach the Palace as a replacement of PNoy is being verified.
For now, the LP is one of those who will choose who they will choose who will be chosen as the presidency in 2016.
Who, according to them, can accommodate and continue the president's programs that they will support for the election.
Secretary Mar is what they are pushing for but it is not that the president will not be the president if his survey results is always fair and?
So it is not surprising that there is truth to Binay's revelation that there are LP official who wants him to support her.
And "will not be the ones who will talk to Binay if there is no signal or payment from President Noynoy, that is certain.
Maybe the next thing you know is that, maybe President Aquino and Binay himself will have a secret talk about this.
"It is not far that we are talking, because if the regulations that the LP will support will continue with the started of PNoy, then it's past Binay.
But it is a big problem with the ranks of LP because there are officials and friends who die hard for Secretary Mar because of the common income and power.
They are those who are involved in the DILG secretary who are suspected by Binay's camp who is behind the defamation to the Vice-President.
But despite the defamation, the rating of Binay would not be moved, instead, it will also be the one to ask.
It just means, the defamation of President Jojo Binay?
That's why you're trying to choose, if you don't have a choice, they would have a choice but during the day of sure, it is certain! CHS-T-T (Bong pattern.
