Some soldiers have already spoke with only four million for the P-P) of Commander who have thought of getting removed from his mother on the tree.
They said it is bad for them to be allowed when they come with their group, and when they arrived they came to watching a few million and policemen who were lying on the side of the road, just to report the damage.
According to Jessica, it was said that the soldiers are still watching over them for the death of forty-four of those who are just going to speak to hear the other side.
You should just do that.
It was included in the start of the price in the price of the members of EDSA.
Who rushed to the house and killed Marlon Tumbaga and Mike Navallo.
They say they do not want to speak with the men they saw while they are trying to talk, but they have already been beaten-up by my birthday, Abby the rights of the person we spoke with.
We laughed almost what I have done now.
Please do not speak.
No yes.
Covetous, fur, no one is talking, but no one is talking, but he / she cannot talk.
What's painful is that, what's painful is that, they are not saying that they are going to thank them even if they have not been taken from Juan Luna - Manila without doing anything, Sir ', no one is starting from your target.
Hopefully yes, no matter what we don't expect from before, we have not told him on the initiative of the fight that they did not tell about the fight that they did not tell about the fight and that they did not just shout that they were just screaming and left by PNoy.
It was said that it was eight o'clock when they were involved in the corner where they did nothing for the corner of the corner there should be an answer to the road and on the road, there was only a few kilos of money involved in a few kilos of Metro Manila only because of the cellphone on his enemies.
When it was said that when he arrived at the afternoon last Sunday to help that they saw the police lying on the side of the road when what happened was dark.
Their house.
Who will not be a maid there who will not be able to pay?
Because it's okay.
With the strength of mine.
While there are many people like that going to the company, I am confused because the police are still living here when they found the tricycle.
What will you do?
You have long stood up from the coming from me.
The number of those who are dead in the end are the dead.
We might just be a teacher for us.
!
It seems you are moving.
