
Give a fist to the units of AFP who are conducting an intensive operation in the middle of the duty in the election "- PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
May 12, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program and AFP units was taken out by OPS of "election on duty" - CPP.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is the Armed Forces of the Philippines (PKP), the Armed Forces of the Philippines in using the scheduled national election tomorrow to intensify the privatization of the community in the middle of the Pambansang Kamao in Oplan Tokhang.

Puri said the successful launch of the Bagong HRO that was held by Kalinga last May 8 in Provident Village, Bagumbayan, Tabuk against the 17th IB, who was wounded after six others were wounded after six others were wounded.
Last May 10, it was also successful in the bus that the National Bureau of the Philippine National Police in Barangay Bato, Bacon District, not less than five armed policemen were wounded in the bus.

"The armed forces and police are using the said duties in the election in order to attack the places that will be received by the candidates and the candidates who are forcing to know that the candidates are leading to the Saligang Batas," said the KP.

"They serving the armed forces of these bastard politicians who take advantage of the threat and buying votes of desperate hard work who are seated in the custody of the country's race which was seated in the custody of the country.

"The Malacañang is saying that the counting machines in the election are being monitored by the judges for the election is a direct lies," said PKP, "said the PKP," said the citizens, who are being accused of supporting the perpetrators who are accused of supporting the armed process. "

"They are taking advantage of the opportunity to enter the Batasang Pambansa," said the PKP, "by the PKP," by the PKP, "in the sidewalks where the people are active against the masses," said the KP.

"It is the responsibility of all the units of Bastes to remain alert and say something that will be able to prevent the masses's units for me to prevent the people who voted for their priority, politicians, those who are addicted to those Commander."

"Why is it always, it will anchor the gigantic offensive of the Botchok (HB) which is giving priority to the care of the unidentified civilians," said the KP.

"It is not even according to the Honor Code of the Bugnay, it seems that there is no reason to do this," the PKP has no reason to do this, "the PKP has enough time to do this," the PKP has enough time to do this.
