PPP, will be worried about the pain "of the sector.

It is said that President Aquino wants to give self-IBIG, health care that means that, all people have a connection to health care because he is pushing the Public-Private (PPP) in the health sector.
It is slowly ongoing as early as now, many poor people who are having a hard time to deal with the health services of the government.
Included here is Lydia Bentres, resident of Payatas, "even if they are saying it is not free for the public hospitals, you still need to pay the medicine that you still need to buy medicine.," according to Aling Lydia.
According to Aling Lydia, year 1983 when his father and three siblings were killed in the hospital.
"Before you release the corpse in the hospital, you need to pay the funeral home because there is still no public service because it is really difficult for our poor," he said.
They have experienced a lot of this, according to Doctor Julie Caeg, six to every 10 people who are sick, who are dying, not even in killing or able to go to the hospital.
Meanwhile, around 80 percent of the young Filipino people get sick of those that can be treated.
The public towards private.
According to PAGASA, it's almost 70 o'clock or in the administration of former President Ferdinand Marcos, the issue of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of each regime, and now, at the PPP of the Aquino administration, it will finally be open to the public service to private.
This May 16, the House Committee on Health is approved by the House Committee on Health (HB 5069) of Bacolod Representative Anthony Golez, which aims to make a corporation, a 26 public public hospital in the country.
Fear of Alliance (Health Organization (March), those who use as well as the interest of the corporation and privatization of social activities will be given to the citizens of health services.
According to him, Rizal Medical Center is the primary place to be held at Pugo of the said hospital, including RMC Director Simagala, Department of Health Sec. Enrique Ona and Manuel V. Pangilinan, a giant businessman and chairman of Makati Medical Center).
In the said agreement, everyone is worried that the health services in the said hospital is feared and more than 583 patients are still received by RMC in a set time and will be held up to 300 kilometers per day in the residents of Pasig, Taguig, Marikina, Mandaluyong, Masbate, Muntinlupa, Muntinlupa and Paranaque.
Dolores is also worried for the patients by the National Center for Mental Health Organization, although it will not be put under the privatization of the proliferation of the privatization of the SEA Games that is scheduled to sell, which can no longer pay for the medium built.
The bidding is set to undergo the bidding this July were Welfareville when they went to a private company, agree with the plan of the government Welfareville and Development (WP) which is pushing by the Department of Social Welfare and Development Secretary Dinky "Soliman.
Meanwhile, the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office is said to be danger to raise the entry of Pangilinan as a business partner in an agreement.
Included in the other who will be under the "corporation" Jose Reyes Memorial Medical Center, Cagayan Valley Medical Center, Baguio General Hospital and Medical Center, Quirino Memorial Medical Center, Quirino Memorial Medical Center, Amang Rodriguez Memorial Medical Center and San Lazaro hospital.
Included here are Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center, Western Visayas Medical Center, Northern Mindanao Medical Center, Southern Philippines Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Caraga City Medical Center, Caraga Regional Hospital, Davao Regional Hospital, Davao Regional Hospital, and others.
The business is not enough.
Because of the pushing of the government to the hospitals that should be self-enough because of the lack of funds, all sorts of reforms are pushing for additional income to the hospitals.
If the budget of DOH is approved by the DOH-53.8 billion pesos for 2013 from P44.4-B this 2012, the budget for PGH was included in the budget of the university of the Philippines.
But according to Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman, it is only about 1.77 percent that is registered by the National Football Development Agency for the third four o'clock in 2013, it is far from the national recommendation of the United Nations Eye Movement (NFL) which is needed for health.
According to Doctor Caguiat, around 3-page of the total expenses for health is only around 3 million pesos.
"In 41,000 community community in the whole country, these are in 17,000 pesos in the whole country, but most of them do not stay long because of the lack of doctor, nurse, medicine, equipment and community health workers because of the lack of budget," according to Doctor Caquiña.
In the Philippine General Hospital, UP Board of Regulatory Commission on June 4 was approved by the Philippine National Bureau of the UP Manila Philippine General Hospital, which was supposed to be filed in 192 services, which is why they are going to be charged right now, aside from the left 12 services, which remains to be free.
At the National Transformation Council of the National Transformation Council, there is a need to deposit of patients even in the emergency before yesterday although there is progress in the facilities of the NKovalev, their services are very expensive and only foreign patients have the ability to be able to pay.
"In 10 establishments, only one Filipino and nine foreigners would be killed," Fernando Uato, an official of the Salisi Gang Association of the Philcoerces, Incorporated (ALS).
Meanwhile, in the Philippine heart Center, the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office went down from 70 percent to 20 percent of its long list that reached 1,600 who are waiting for the operation, it is slowly due to operation, according to times.
In the Philippine Children's Medical Center, the patients were put into their properties such as cellphone, watch, rice cookies, even the title of their land in the hospital in order to go home.
"We, in the Tala.
According to Torres, the private interest on the land was also entered by a private interest in the evening and they are taking advantage of the businessmen such as two cellphones here.
In Western Visayas Medical Center (WVMC) there are only 400 million pesos for 600 patients who are owned by 102 regular employees, all of them have paid payment like alcohol, shrimp, and others, according to Doctor Edwin Olivarez.
It will be removed from removing it.

Along with what they faced with the threats of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of the privatization of their benefits and fear that there will be jobs caused by the PPP) facing the current sector.
January this year, when it was put in front of the members of health from 50 pesos to 30 days, the DOH has not received 10,000 pesos from 150 pesos every month and it was only seven months when it was only on June 25, it was released by DOH to stop giving hazard.
It is estimated that up to P2,000 up to P8,000 a month is hazard that they have not received from January.
According to Robert Mendoza, general secretary of times, the said benefits placed under the Magat Carta of Health) and Joint Task Number 4 or Salaziristan, the DOH and Department of Budget and Management Council are also removed from them.
It is considered that a regular employees of RMC are proud of the fear of removing them from their jobs because of the privatization of the privatization that the employees of the hospital are sure, according to times.
"So that their corporation will become slippery or privatization of the country, they first take the businesses that they have in the union or may be the exchange of those who will follow them," Remy Yo'clock in Tondo Medical Center.
PhilHealth: Serious.
According to Doctor Gene Nacons of Health Organization for Democrats (head), it cannot be fixed on the issue of PhilHealth and privatization of it.
"Sec. Ona himself said that it is okay to give the hospitals because PhilHealth will be the one to pay," according to Nesor.
But he explained, in Top 10 hospitals, there will be an employee in PhilHealth in 2006, only Davao Medical Center is just the public hospital.
DOH expressed the change of Philippine Charity Sweepstakes to PhilHealth, to the hospitals that means, those with PhilHealth failed to have a post in the hospital, according to DOH, around 87 percent are the jurisdiction of PhilHealth.
Meanwhile, according to Ibon Foundation, an interview with false institution research, in the year 2008, around 40 percent of the filipino families are in the jurisdiction of PhilHealth, which is only around 7 percent of the total expenses in the health of the country and leaves the 58 percent expenses in the pocket of the citizens.
PhilHealth is only about 20 percent of the total expenses in the hospital who have been paid by PhilHealth, according to Doctor Cefree.
"My PhilHealth or not, it is the duty of the government to give health services to the people," according to Doctor Emma Manuel, President Emeritus Teodoro Bacani.
According to Nesor, there is no value in the jurisdiction of PhilHealth, the public and PhilHealth failed to have a problem because their total members do not know their 15-year-old operation to cover the lack of funds allocated by the government for health.
PhilHealth can only be used in hospitals that would be used to him, if a place is in the hospital, and cannot be beneficial, it will not be beneficial, it will not be beneficial, according to Nesor.
Most of the names.
According to Aling Lydia, it is possible that his story is not the most dangerous service for the health of the Filipinos but for Aling Lydia, the true health service is not in the name of the program on how to improve it.
In the end, the health of the citizens is for the health of the government to take care of the health of the citizens and members of serving here.
