War in 2015 budget: PARA, politicking.

Will there be an additional budget for 2015?
The approval of the budget, Bro, is the four of old funds or budget for the year with no budget.
This has happened several times during the time of Miss Gloria and because there was no legitimate use of budget, this is where there was a chance to build the national budget.
Dismiss the SC.
A senator and a congressman are firm that the proposed budget is against the constitution.
For Iloilo Cong. Bobby Syjuco, the Supreme Court should declare the said proposal in the time to be approved and be fully implemented.
This is allegedly a tree of pork barrel which has been declared by the SC which is against the Constitution.
His co-workers approved the budget that costs more than P37 billion pesos in pork barrel.
It can be recalled that the SC dismissed the pork barrel of the congressmen on the Priority Development Assistance Fund and the Disbursement Acceleration Program (pork barrel scam of those from the palace.
Stop the Senate.
Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago is pulling his fellow senators to not approved the proposed budget from the legislative chamber.
This is due to the decrease of the P37B fund which is allegedly composed of projects who want to have been built by the congressmen.
Santiago's appeal, Santiago explained, the billions of peso projects which will be held by the Department of Interflour, and Local Government instead of the National Irrigation Administration.
It seems that the Department of Budget Secretary Butch Abad also admitted that for the projects of the congressman, the increase in the budget will increase even though it is not called PDAF, which is also against other names.
Santiago also criticized the P500 billion funds of the Palace in Malacanang.
The P37B and the P58,000 pesos are all not allowed to protect and have a certain use, which is why there will be a lot of use, which can be given money by corrupt and corrupt.
P13B of DILG.
In addition to the conflict in the budget, Senator Bongbong Marcos is saying that the DILG will be given the DILG for more than P13 million to allegedly for the projects in the home or the country.
Marcos explained, when it was the DILG Development Authority (DILG), the construction of the houses is the construction of the houses?
Of course, DILG contradicted this with saying that DILG is really a role in building their homes especially that the local government needs these kinds of projects, but Marcos is not convinced.
For the 2016.
It is the child of tool, one of the point is they welcome the point of critics in the proposed national budget.
The election is already started and the national budget is being made to earn and capital for the election.
Suspected by Inday Miriam, there are those who are hoping that the money will come from the bosses, and they look at that will become a blessing of P37B.
Maybe, it will also come from the P58,000 pesos of PNoy.
Even if Marcos is not telling it, Santiago seems to have cooked the budget in favor of whoever will be the candidate of Malacañang for the presidential election.
Money.
If there will be trouble in the proposed budget for the 2015, and this will not be passed, they will not be passed, to be able to make the budget for 2014.
So we think that we have been used even just half of the said budget, the 2014 budget is more than P2 million MT.
What if there is a P1-governmental organization that is not in the program because the budget will be used for 2015?
That's why it could have been discerned by the national public funds which can be used to use the money that they are going to use.
Like what happened during the time of Gloria, the people can no longer follow the tax of the people to go.
Until the fact that the high robbery is rotten from the help that I received.
Let us watch.
So that our tax will not be a toy to the children, we need to watch.
They should not raise the dead like PDAF and some parts of DAP just to earn money.
It will no longer be sure that the reason for politics is the cause of politics but real public service.
