By the government, we will add up to the alcohol and the elderly, who is already with three videoke songs.
It can be seen for a billion pesos and it is cooking breakfast for the present 5 pesos.
That is why he is a doctor who has been involved in a jeep before you are graduating.
A high school is being followed.
Us.
We are anxious, the Congress; Congress, that I am beautiful with Anthony who is the name of their group's group.
He is helping with a relationship with no idea; as well-fog; of the Philippines Corporation of the Philippines Corporation of the Philippines Corporation.
There are lots of water that are deacious; we can't just talk to each other, we should not talk to each other just to see each other, but we saw that we do not want to save the people.
It is clear that our conversation is very difficult with children, even if he is also a man in Ilocos, he said five o'clock in the morning and then in you in Ilocos, they are asking about it.
Yes, it is also good for you.
Bonifacio.
It was just one o'clock in the afternoon last Tuesday that we need to look at each other; we have no money to take care of what happened, so we have no money to take care of what happened, which is why there is no problem for us to sleep and always support the Constitution, right now, we have no problem, to comment on online in Isabela, now here is three with five Filipinos.
Both of them were joined by Two.
Then, he said that the water budget is open; as long as I am going to be a exercise; it is still possible for me to get along with the cigarette that is there in the cigarettes that is in the doctor to the doctor to the doctor.
To be able to hurt the patient, you should have told him / her and when he arrived.
"We are from the same age; we are really studying in English, the big thing that is hard to understand is the big thing from my sibling, that is why I still do not have money to get along with the doctors in the hospital, but I still have no money to get along with the doctors in the hospital, that's why they still have a high level of cigarettes, which are still high; I said, what I will buy.
Ah, in Maronilla, the stabbing of five pesos to ten people, the Filipinos, who have been able to go down to me, Filipinos, is one of those who are smoking and anything, we are the most.
In the Philippines, it is cheap for cigarettes but our problem is that it is hard for you to go there, especially when you go to a signal that you do not know how much it is that there is no signal here in the Philippines, that is why there is no signal here in the Philippines, that is why there is no signal here in the Philippines, that is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no signal in the Philippines, which is why there is no
One eye is living here.
The one at first.
A four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four; while you were not around.
He / she was here for a 10 pesos for a span of twenty pesos for a span of 10 pesos, and Humalig) for us to live-up; not even more than an eatery and there are still no food that I have been going to go through with them.
Yes.
Your problem, you should study first for a few years.
Third, four years old and with no alcohol, I might think twice.
Maybe there is something else.
Even if.
Being attacked by a very early morning, he / she was cut off.
Yes right.
Yes, many water.
What did you say?
Among these, I thought who is right.
You are concerned that you might die.
Die.
Meanwhile, it is already undressing!
My fat is up to you in being ill-tempered.
They make mistakes there for a few years.
So!
You are talking to someone earlier.
Just yes.
Okay, according to "Kin-ray; he / she didn't hear your children, but you know that you are our children, but you know that the case of oil is increasing in the head that is why the case of oil is also increasing in work.
She tells me it is still good.
What's more beautiful is my fat from you if it continues.
It's good that I cannot see it.
Yes, we have a big fruits, yes to go to the next chapter on board.
Avoid trouble so that it will not push through too much.
Yes, it will be good for those who can be a solution to this kind of solution here, to be the ones who can get the title over the title at cigarettes, ah, what's also happening in the other house that is our problem in your health.
Ah, small things.
Voted in.
Night.
But my question to you, you think you can be a calm solution.
With our difference between the farmers who are hoping that the farmers are hoping on your work on the other side, maybe I do not want to anymore that the government does not want to anymore.
It is our problem here in the health.
Okay.
Maybe the profit is not too big.
Just but
A bit more.
Of Edgardo, we are very cold.
Yes.
We are your eyes.
Yes, let us go out of how much we are being slaughtered in.
Two four sons of Two four who are okay now.
You!
Two soldiers.
Two Wives are innocent.
I said.
Very short; he / she was able to take care; that's why he / she was able to finish school; he / she was already over, being full of debts.
Ha ha ha ha.
Can I say this.
Yes.
Yes, yes.
Isn't it tonight that we will coordinate, but you are still bald people.
To his stubbornness.
"What is that, thank you very much for the hours that we have to know, thank you very much; we thank you very much in Ilocos, so we just want to know now if the government is doing the pain that will come out with cigarettes and spending of problems.
If you are feeling dizzy, it's just like that, that it would be like that, the budget for the Department of oil is only one thousand pesos, but I am one of those who have grown up with no one-year-old person who will be able to sleep in University.
"Who is five years old," I said, that we are still earning a job because I said it's still early because I know you are priority of your head, why don't you know how to say if you do not know if it is not true.
Yes, I am good to look down; as long as he is a president of different pieces; we are still not able to pay attention to your heart, especially now that we are just dreaming, especially now that we are moving in the right place, especially now that we are not moving to your heart, especially now, you are almost over, and it will lead to you.
Just yes, Tanim-Remontadoses have been arrested, but only four men did not answer.
Maybe it is too bad to understand that even if we add to the government, we need to take care of what the president wants to do, that is why we should not take care of what the president wants to do, that is why we don't want to take care of the people who do not want to take care of what the people do not want, to tell the people that they do not want, to tell if this is the person who does not want to talk to, and that is why it's okay to tell the people that he doesn't want, to tell if this is what he doesn't want, to say if he understands this.
I will call the night without the liver.
