Respect and Putatan, DAP, where?

"We received the complaint that we received about the severe traffic which was made by the Iglesia ni Cristo which was held at the Civic with Iglesia ni Cristo in Bocaue, Bulacan.
It's because it has been three days since it has created a social gathering that was attended by millions of members of our Moro brothers.
What we can say is that we should respect them especially that a social gathering is just once more than 100 years.
The INC has been aware of this person and two of the whole days that he cringe at the entire country and a different country with it built a congregations of INC.
Like the catholic.
That's why we say that the respect is needed in the traffic in different parts of other religion.
On the part of the Catholic Church, it is not a joke of serious traffic for the year of the Black Nazarene and other saints like Santo Niño in Tondo, Manila and Cebu.
Just in the coming year, Pope Francis will come and for sure millions will be met in Metro Manila until he goes to the places destructed by typhoon Yolanda.
We will surely end up in heavy traffic.
Bro, Eddie and Bro.
It is also traffic that we are taking over too much, for example, Luneta for the gathering of Bro, Eddie Villanueva of Jesus the Lord, same with Bro, Mike Velarde.
Millions of people have started to gather these years that creates traffic.
Traffic in the government.
The government creates too much traffic in its projects and for sure to solve traffic, especially in Metro Manila.
The traffic made by the government is getting annoyed because many of what are being done now are the source of their children's income.
Even if they do not admit it, what is being done now is being done today to save the corrupt funds for the election 2016.
It is the multimillion peso DAP that is believed to be included in the source of the projects that creates traffic even if at the end it can be seen by those who do not do anything but to get rich in position and prepare for the election 2016.
No one believes that no one is earning money from the money that they are doing with the size of all the projects which are being implemented at present and the people who are in the custody of the current traffic in the Philippines are just doing how to hide from corruption.
It is the child of toil, again, we are forced to follow the respect of respect.
Putatan, DAP, where?
While the veteran senators in defending PNoy and Abad became busy with the controversy of the Disbursement Acceleration Program, the eyes of the two new lady senator took a sharp mind when she felt a mystery.
DBM Secretary Butch Abad and Finance Sec. Cesar Purisima is just looking for a smile while they are being questioned by the veteran and they put out the value of DAP that was assigned for by the people.
And the Supreme Court has even recognized the result of their DAP, including PNoy.
But while this is happening, Bro, Senators Grace Poe and Nancy Binay are talking about the rumors of Abad and Purisima.
In the end, Poe and Binay are asking "where is the P90 billion DAP?
Very clear.
Abad confirmed, that they are saved by the Philippine 37-billion from different agencies of the government and P167B only went to DAP program.
After P15700,000 pesos, the project of DAP was received, but only P1453billion pesos was released by them.
Abad's face is the protagonist and it is good in handling the money that the country is doing and they will inspect them well.
But while saying that Abad is talking, it appears that there is a total of 90-billion fund of DAP that there is no clear explanation for them if they spent or hide.

Included in a useless PCCB is a confusing record in buying the Commission on Elections (Comelec and vote of the Commission on Audit (luxury cars of its officials.
Resign.
There was even a sharp eye for Sen. Serge Osmeña.
This is presented by Abad in the set time of detailed record of Abad about the set time of the DAP that's where the funds of DAP were coming, and where they did it.
We feel, it seems like about P720-million pesos will be the outcome of DAP.
In an electrical post, the children of the Muslim brothers, which is at 90-95 percent, had been made up, or there was a clear list that has been spent on, which is why there is a clear list that has been spent on, but in the examination of the coercion, 10 percent, and around 90 percent, the water is at 90 percent.
This is what you want to find, Mister Senator, sir?
"Is it right, Mister Senator?
Scary.
But do you know what is really scary, that the Palace does not need the Congress and Supreme Court anymore.
The Palace made out that he has the power to create its own law in budget and it is not only the Congress who has the power to defend the law and Constitution but also the Palace.
Only in the palace is all the only consolation for the same with the giving of its respect to the Congress and SC.
Isn't it.
