
It was a report from NDFP-Bicol Information Office.

Information Office.
NDFP-Bicol.
March 22, 2012.


March 19, 2012.
Two soldiers were killed and their other fellow soldiers who are members of Alpha Company of 9th Infantry Battalion and 93rd Infantry Battalion (Dumpsite) were wounded when they were caught in the encounter in Sitti Balangui, Bgy. Rizal, Dimasalang, Masbate this March 19 at around 10: 00 in the morning.

Before the incident, it is a Tim of BHB) waiting for those who are involved in the operations where they found out that the soldiers who were able to approach them were still there before they found out that the soldiers and the soldiers quickly escaped before they got the dead and injured.

March 10 to 14, 2012.

The red hunters were disappointed with the operation of the Jose Rapisora Command of the operation of the three members of the three members of the 93rd Division Reccision (Dumpsite) of the 9th Infantry Division that the Oplan Galugad conducted in the town of Mobo, Masbate.

The red pickpocket was shot with a gun firing at 99th Infantry Battalion in Brgy. Sta. Maria, around 11: 00 in the evening last March 10 and around 4: 00 in the evening last March 10 when the anti-rapist was forced to leave the soldiers and went home to their camp last March 14.

The soldiers are being deceived by the people with the anti-communists, through the proliferation of propaganda, I was able to buy the project Pamana, and clinics of the members of Decimo's members.

March 9, 2012.

One Tim-Santos Binalera Command of the red hunters, which is based in Puro, Legazpi City, at around 8: 30 in the evening, the CAFGU and were abandoned were the ones who were abandoned.

Also in line with this, one of Tim Haramoeba which is owned by Santos Binalera Command of the Community Police Assistance Center or CPAC) at around 8: 30 in the evening on March 9, 2012, a civilian was hit, he sustained gunshot wounds on the arm.

March 5, 2012.

It is owned by one Tim to the red outposts which hit the 31st Lieutenant Shelina Calumay in the town of Magallanes, at around 4: 00 in the afternoon when 9 armed soldiers playing basketball at Barangay Lapinig here at around 4: 00 in the afternoon when the soldiers who were trapped in a high part of the wake was going to go home immediately to their camp.

March 4, 2012.

It is owned by one Tim-Santos Binalera Command of the red hunters, who was based in San Francisco, Legazpi City last March 4, 2012 at around 8: 30 in the evening.

Also in line with this is also being harassed by one Tim Cambac Command of Sorsogon due to the 22nd Infantry Battalion in Mayon, Castilla, Sorsogon last March 4, 2012 at around 8: 00 in the evening.

February 28, 2012.

He was ordered by the command to be caught in a gunpoint was caught in a landmine at gunpoint, a truck filled with a soldier of the 9th Infantry Battalion in Barangay Cabayrayan, Pio V. Corpuz, Masbate last February 28, around 4: 00 in the afternoon.

From their camp in Brgy. Armenia, Uson, the soldiers and going to the town of Pio V. Corpuz to conduct operations when the explosion of the command of the command of the command of the command of the arrest and many soldiers died and many were wounded.

February 25, 2012.

It is owned by one Tim to the red pickpocket who attacked the 22nd Infantry Battalion in the Banaue Rice, last February 25, 2012 at around 8: 00 in the evening.

February 25, 2012.

The national troops of 49th Infantry Battalion are no longer massacred by a family in Pagulangan, Labo, Camarines Norte last noon on February 25, wherein many civilians inside the house of the Mancera and many civilians in the house where most of them were children.

The siblings Michael, 10 years old, and Richard, 7 years old, and Richard, 7 years old, and another daughter of Benjamin, 14 years old, also died in the shooting who was identified as Rafael "Ka Ginger Conejero.

In the statement on the media of Commander of 9th Infantry Division, Maj. General Assignment Section, there is also an encounter that happened, which is contrary to the investigation conducted by the NPA, the members of the media, local government agencies, and even the SOCO of PNP-Labo.

The NDFP-Bicol Regional Training and Camarines Norte emphatically condemned the said massacre to be given to the citizens and was strongly criticized by the people and strongly criticized by the mass media at the crime of 49th Infantry Batallion and 9th Infantry Batallion.

February 23, 2012.

It is owned by one Tim to the red assets of the 31st Infantry Battalion in Brgy. San Juan Daan, Antique, Sorsogon, the soldiers were injured by the soldiers, but they were hidden in the media by the 31st Infantry Batallion in the media, but it was hidden in the media by the 31st Infantry Battalion who had no fight in that place.

The citizens complained about the soldiers because of a nuisance to their livelihood, the soldiers were going to go home with the civilians they are having sex with and taking advantage of the towns of Bulan and Irosin as part of the Oplan Galugad conducted in the town of Bulan, Gabao in town of Irosin.

February 10, 2012.

A farmer was disappointed by the red pickpocket who fought against Celso Mainaga Command of the BHB) Sorsogon the treacherous attack of a group of 31st Infantry Battalion in Barangay Upper Callejon Dos, Juban, Sorsogon last February 10, around 4: 00 in the afternoon.

The red pickpocket was able to escape the high fist fight and was a good fight against the soldiers and one was severely wounded in the military and one was severely injured when he was brought to a truck in Barangay Calitlitan, Bulan with another dead and wounded soldiers.

It pretended to be members of the BHB) 23 soldiers who were wearing a civilian but this is not the belief of the citizens to give them out; hence, the red warriors are ready to sell the war.

Meanwhile, Colonel Torrida immediately reported to the media the same number of six members of the BHB) who was killed in the fight and there was no involvement on the side of the military as a red yacht he was not severely injured in the fight.

February 9, 2012.

Two soldiers of 49th Infantry Battalion were severely injured while one was still unidentified when shot by one Tim with the red yacht he did to help the village soldiers and when they made sure that there was no civilians in the area, he was shot by the red gunmen riding the place.

Even if it is prohibited in the national law of Filipino soldiers and the CAAP), they are just using public facilities for the civilians in the barangays of Dagued, Macabog, Kalsada, Basud, Canila and Cabungaan in the town.
Labo.

January 28, 2012.

He was ordered by the command to be caught in a shoot-out which was caught in a landmine at the hated room of Charlie Company of the 9th Infantry Battalion in Brgy. Pawking, Catalliances, Masbate last January 28, 2012 at around 3: 00 in the morning.

The red pickpocket was able to come closer to the camp, which caused the command of the three soldiers who were guarding the camp who died, which was safe, which was safe for the red warriors are safe to run away.

January 26, 2012.

The red pickpocket was harassed by the Regional Public Services Program of the PNP (former RMG) and CAFGU in Brgy. Poblacion, Batuan, Masbate last January 26, 2012 last night.

January 25, 2012.

It was punished with the red warriors are fighting against the Jose Rapisora, of the Bastos at Masbate, Masbate last January 25, 2012; Armando Malana is active in spite of the action of the citizens in Brgy. Kablon, San Jacinto, Masbate last January 25, 2012.

January 16-19, 2012.

The red warriors are conducting a consecutive operations in the town of Guinobatan, Albay against the famous troops of 2nd Infantry Battalion who were launched by the proliferation of the Oplan Galugad conducted.

The red pickpocket was showered with the kidnapping at around 2: 00 in the afternoon on January 16 in the afternoon last January 16 and was followed by the troops of 2nd IB, Brgy. Balite, Guinobatan last January 19 of the afternoon.

It has been long time that the people make the 2nd Infantry Batallion in the town of Guinobatan because of the very high record of human rights in the launch of Oplan Tokhang in the area.
