The First Class Echs of Maricel Soriano does not matter!

The radio caskets are looking for a long time, actress and businessman Yoyo, Benavidez, who is also known as the call of aunt Mega C, Maricel Soriano.
Why?
Because Yanglement and Maricel had a kind of elementary school in St. Mary's College in Pasay City on the decades of clothes.
Benavidez and Soriano are following each other together with the two friends even until these moments though they do not have a way to attract.
The last meeting with Tita Mega C and Mart. was on the first year of his head to Davao or 2000 where the actress and his former lover, Manny Piñol, have been business partners.
There will be a hearing before, Maricel and Manny are going to tell him but they really closed it for any reason.
After that, Yangie and Soriano did not see each other.

Until the controversial Marty and Benavidez was said to have started sailing again by the rats and selling Vitamin C through Mega C where Boy Abunda is the one he / she got.
Aunt Mega C was able to take care of her publicity, Public Works and Calanoga, which is why he is showbiz in showbiz except for her being an actress in the decades that was sold at Ricky Davao and to Edam Manzano.

Yoko One has been able to see Soriano after many years because of his home in Ayala Alabang, the First Class held at Saint Mary's College where those who graduated from elementary and high school during those moments "will go.
Benavidez was also told me to look for Maricel in all corners of the world, that's why I was texting in all corners of the world, which is why I texted the late actress, who is Obetel Serrano, Danny Vibas, Dennis Auto, Erlinda Ching) and many others.
I also text with the sexy actress Maria Isabel, and to the director of the movie Ammute Reyes.
But his answer was negative.
According to Obetel, in this point of Entertainment Television, Soriano is facing a project, as a mother of a gay comedian.
It might be recalled that's why it's curious about the supervisor Virgin Mary's movie that's why I called him but he is not answering.

"Never mind," Yangne "answered.
He might be seen in another chance to see and see their former classmates.
Aunt Mega C wants to talk to Maricel so that the cases against the household help are being given to the taping of a soap operation on ABS-CBN, with Gerald Anderson.
"That is easy," according to Benavidez.
"We can help in our conversation with our conversation," added Tita Mega C.

A social gathering continues to gather again at Saint Mary's College in Pasay City.
Even if Maricel has not gone, they made a happy and beneficial occasion.
The pregnancy of the Philippine Daily Inquirer's news came from the Philippine Daily Inquirer's news that Margie Quimson-Espino, the sister of the late Joe Burgos Corbena, the candidate for the councilor of Nagcarlan, Laguna, Ammessier and many others who are also a celebrity in their own ways.
"We already called Maricel even if he was only an elementary school in We Wish, good luck in her very quiet way," said Jane.
All of them are praying that they are going to be united!
They hope that next time they will be with Soriano so that the spirit of their relationship will be complete after the formal education in life.
