Yes, Karangalan Village has also a strong earthquake that can be fooled by the church here in Metro Manila, but there are still some who do not have to undergo an initial effect, it is still needed to undergo an initial effect.
It was said that he went to the church for three years and he was hiding in Marikina that he was hiding in Marikina that was why he was still hiding from the earthquake that was said to be in the latest flood when the woman was severe.
Because before, this is the warehouse.
!
Just the storage room of an appetizer in another place, which is why the first one who first took the mass here in the mind is brought here in the mind when he approached him.
There was no.
The church was supposed to be an estimate of his church in Marikina before, all of you were full and because of his behavior, the house was only found out here in the church in front of the church, which was why he became a witness to the first front.
Here in Marikina.
We were together in Sampaloc to look at the integrity of the church.
As early as now, it seems that it did not end up in front of this in his / her mouth in his mouth, but he did not have the strength of it, but it was not due to the strength of the people who can be able to tell if one peso is also important that it is also important that the educated years are also important.
He said there are things that he said.
We were able to look down; we are normal, that it is normal to be double, but there is a huge amount that can be exported; there is a black Standard Lunch Program, that maybe it depends on the airport, that is why it depends on the airport.
There are those who are on the telephone and for a long time, it has been two decades for me to have a text message.
Meanwhile, a few minutes have fought in the church in Marikina that the natural church has been declared here.
"We were surprised by my child because we are more important here, because we, as well as our marriage, but if these churches in Marikina were saved, all different stories of the church of Antipolo who are known for the Saligang Batas and being experienced by the people.
Your church is destroyed by time when it is difficult and experienced strong earthquake.
But the only thing I miss you, you are carrying a bird who is now in Alabang this Antipolo.
Since we arrived at the church, our bones were outside our bones and it is only two years old and it is difficult for you to walk every day with the importance of the church with the bruises of the company of the Lord.
I am just me.
Evil.
They also have a message to our fellow countrymen who have been affected by the earthquake, their church, go straight to what you feel like you are here and church.
What about it?
Until you feel that they are still there properly and take a study first.
Nothing.
It can't be said that he is in the heart that's why he's in the heart.
Ah, isn't it?
When will we do that of the heart to be defeated by Jerry?
