Hmmmp!

How don't the legends of society be relieved if there is a looming love between Kris and Bistek. Dysam cry.
Kris, "Let's," Let's will go to Tibagan, Together "to be a US Our Privacy Law so we can have a Chance and forever."
If this is true, it seems that it is like the same chest that is being experienced in the rainy season because it came from the family of the landlords and a number one villain in life of the poor and workers in the community.
It seems like a famous alliance between each other is a famous alliance with a famous alliance between her being raped.

During this month of April I cannot remember a story.
In the opinion of this column, I will get the capability to share the readers of a short story about those who have been kidnapped by unidentified armed men who were eventually killed by policemen and soldiers.
Even if they are on the brink of death, the stars are trying hard to maintain their status and pay attention to the people they are in.
You might think that this story has been used to think that this is the only way for you to make sure that the scene of interrogation is perfect for hiring the scene of interrogation and shouting.
But according to the story of the new chapter on the audience favorite customers, raising eyebrows, taking advantage of the stories of activists and the jeans recently, there is no one who does not care about them.
It is hard to get angry at this story because you will build a bureaucracy.
The story was hailed by the story, the male kidnapped and robbed by the bandits, and then they hid the three Palestinian from the old Iterax.
Aside from the title, a short discussion is long, we will do a long-called cylinder tube.
Here is the first in the four parts.

The male kidnapped were kidnapped and robbed by the bandits, and then the three Palestinians attacked him in the old IOS.
It was not left behind in a scene of the movie movie when it was five of the personnel who were riding a horseshoe, which is why the form of a teenage boy, who is wearing helmets, and covered by a green-shirt, and that was the leader of the syndicate, which was covered by the syndicate, and that was the leader of the syndicate, and then, the hands of the syndicate, and at the same time, had not been annoyed.
Even if we do not know the script "we were forced to follow the director, I would think that we were able to get out from the back of our car, they would think that they were not able to look down on the back of their car, but it was not true that they were able to look down at the back of their car, but they were not true.
Doctor Love, with the next scene, we were not given a chance to think about inside the van, while I was so noisy with what was given to us: A thrifty person to ask him because there was no joke, but it was not obvious that there was no difference in my mind while waiting for death.
That is what I first had a hole on.
When I am writing to those who are taking advantage of the pain that is being sold in the chest, it can make sure that this is my chance for the sacrifice and death if that is their chance for the sacrifice of the people, which is why she is still alive, which is why he is still alive.
But wait, who are those who kidnapped us? Maybe what my drama in life might do is not a thing for them, I am going to do the scheduled princess.
The trip was long, it is hard to identify the length of thick smoke on the floor while one of my companions had already passed away, but when we were taking a sound of the wild boar, they started to pull the ground that is why when we were shot, we did not hear each other.
Our singing was only stopped when we went to a group Anakbayan, short and only one of my names, home and work, the blindfolded and handcuffs were tightened and were put in a van.
It will use it more than a long time that it is still far away, but it seems that we are not being fed up in the street, but it seems that we are not being comfortable in my seat at a long time, but it seems that it is far.
"Arayyy, fifty!
"Or there is still a gunshot wound on one of them," Commander maybe "in San Juan,"
"He is not fifty-fifty.
I shook his head, I wanted to agree and defend my companion, I am expecting that this kind of phenomenon is going to stop, but the vehicle, which might have been made of a wound, may also be brought about by a debt.
It seems like I wanted to go away from both arms while I got caught in my arms while I was surprised when I was drunk and moving towards my hands, but when I got drunk, I can go back to my hands, and then I can go out of the narrow-coloured house in front of me, that's why I can go back to the narrow-mindedness of my blood.
If it is not yet the main actor who was hit by a lock, I might have not yet put up the truth that the truth will happen in that time, "I need to keep his senses, and I need to keep his thoughts on that scene," I did not have a mark of short. "
Maybe it was already midnight when I went out of the cell and said I just wanted to talk to me, I thought that I could still feel the story of those who passed by those who passed by those who passed away from the cheeks.
