COLLECutud, Ginger Consignation and Senator Alan Peter Cayetano.

Big, squawoy, the possibility that the dreams of re-elecoxib and Senator Alan Peter Cayetano because of its harassment done to their opponents in politics in the city of Taguig.
It can be recalled that in the past few days, Cayetano threw the criticisms thrown at Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile because it was allegedly not fair in the irregularities in the Senate.
Then, it was suddenly discovered that there was an reported harassment of the mines that was only done by the wife of Senator Cayetano, Taguig City Mayor Laarni Cayetano, with his vice mayor George Bueno and some other councilors for them are allies of Representative Ansaruddin Adiong.
Because Robin's group is very suffering that's why it's rare for Mayor Laarni Cayetano to sit in position in 2010, they are being harassed!
And this 2013, the government of Cayetano has not yet provided any peso for the Enhanced Defense Cooperation or Mooooooo for the office of Vice Mayor and city council!
"Mawooooooo is the reason why Senator Cayetano complained to JPE.
But what they are doing in Taguig is worse!
For me, I really cannot vote for Cayetano!

Directly to the office of Region 4-A C / Supt. Isagani Genabe Jr.
Aside from that, from the first million when the bidding won the question of the bidding "as" legitimate "who carries all the illegal activities happening in the whole country.
This is the sweet words uttered by Doong Cave, P3 Violan and SP4 Abcede, while they are arriving at the erosion in Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon for the meantime.
Increase in space, judicial system, if we focus on all the names of the barism that they want to.
Anyway, I am not convinced that General Estipona and from illegal drugs in Region 4-A.
"It's just that, the revelations of General might be destroyed because if there is no high official who are receiving forgiveness, why did they allow the movements of these two police officers?
But if needed, we are ready to listen to the names of these illegal activities for the stupid list of General Estola!
