Editions in the church is brought back at dawn.
August 16, 201,1334, share to the mass was told by the mass yesterday at around two o'clock in the morning, he was allegedly asked by a Mother Butler who has a lot of people in front of the church.
I was able to look straight at Father and she saw that there are many people who are taking care of the people in front of their church.

When he went near to make it go, he saw that the cut off cellphones together with people who are raising down and those who seem to come from the gadgets were from different directions.
Pokemon cards are very horny, while we are talking about it, it is sad that people now have a different reason to go to the church.
It's because a few players of Pokemon) said, as long as there is a church or chapel, it is certain that the church is indebted to GPS-2000-old New York.
Anyway, even if it is raining and floods brought by the southwest monsoon and the rain placed in the middle of the park, and even those waiting for him, the excavation will be seen with Pokemon.
Recently, a judge in Cebu had a warning to all the lawyers and the President to be imprisoned and be penalized.
He said to her favorite warning, "there was no Pokemon in my living room (in English language).
The sentiments of the priest is really legitimate who is really legitimate, who is really thinking that it is two o'clock in the morning when people will leave the church, maybe the priest is still happy in the issue.
Hopefully, the church is going to be visited and visited by the church to look and pray to God who is being mirrored and fried to God, but hopefully there will also be a lot of resentment towards the house of the Lord, "he should not be rude to the churches and pass through with Pokemon.
If they are able to go to the vicinity of the churches at the late hours of night or dawn, hopefully you visit here at the right time to pray.
It is important to remain in your faith in God and respect to his symbol and place of sand.
