It was found out that I was having a text message that I was also texting in Basil while the training of the residents continues to evacuate a hospital which was done by a hospital in order to go back to Quirino for five thousand only now in Zamboanga.
Especially to the children, how much are the residents why in Zamboanga Cathedral.
While we were in the Ro, he was able to run away after they heard firecrackers.
The sudden position of the children in the house of the church was a sudden position in the house of the church, whose preparation is to be buried, that's why they will prepare that they are the defense of why.
In front of the conversation, it's because it's just a while ago.
Now?
The residents of the barangay gathered them.
Bystanders here.
Covetous, fur.
It was your cousin, so when it comes to us now later at the side of Barbara, I hope that those members would be allowed.
You will see that I am with my co-workers in the room of July complained at the side of after I told your father to sell your plans for those who are going to be angry with their money.
In the consecutive truth, he ran for three months to the Cathedral bombing.
You will go fast from the last moments.
Then, he / she was able to look down; he / she was distressed.
That isn't you?
Buy.
How can Adik-Lam the chief?
You are also sleeping.
Within the list of go out at the speed of five thousand.
There are many.
There is a lot of water supply.
Did they reach three hours for a few hours.
He catches her.
Piece of bread.
There is a little so that we can eat nothing.
Just drink lots of water.
There is a need for this.
You are eating.
It took long.
It's hard to say.
They will pay attention to each other; they are hungry; they are hungry because of the stomach such as a bottle.
A little later, the tragedy was experiencing life.
Quick to bring.
The poor are the poor.
Coming out in Google Earth, meow!
Secretary.
He was cleaning the barangay mayor, Isabela.
His lawyer is really different; he / she was able to go to school; that is helping him in Pampanga.
Due to food that are being cooked by students, it will continue with only two thousand pesos and there are only two o'clock in the list if they are going to each other.
Philippines.
Very small; he / she suddenly came out, but there was a sudden amount coming out at work, a hut needs to be bought at work because their long opponent, which is said to have been paying taxes; he / she was still not able to text me, was not able to text.
Two worry about six pesos in Zamboanga.
Do that.
Then, it will take a while to wake up and text.
He / she was able to go out; he / she was brimming.
Why did the two hours for a long time?
One hundred members of September, two soldiers were wounded.
Three missing.
There are those who are still continuously on the taxi about eight o'clock in the morning up to five o'clock in the morning, it seems that he suddenly sees the safety of the residents here in the evening, because he might suddenly go to their house last night here in Zamboanga.
Sure, let us explain so that we will look straight and taste more; for snacks, good luck.
!
"Do we have to happen now that's why there's a lot of people who are at fault;
While it is still early, it can be recalled that there were eight Indonesians, who are alone in some parts of the streets, can you see me what the military is doing.
There was a speaker, elegant; and covetousness.
"It's just like that, as a model, that means that, that means that, we can say that, there are people who are stupid; what are the reasons why people can stop what is happening here, like a military.
This is what you have happened earlier this morning, so we can go to school.
At the other hand, the victims entered the barangay hall in Barangay Barbara, instead of the infant in the Barangay Barbara, instead of the infant in here, he / she went to the infant.
They have a lot of people like that, who are under the speed of speed, there are also those who are pointing at each other; and to the office of RL HQ or at school, they are used to buy-ups; and who are the ones that they used.
That means that the light will be put in the light here later they got the role they were able to save the paper going to other members of January to the barangay.
Intelligence and things like them are slowly watching the places they are in, and some of them are said to have been separated from those who are in Barangay Barbara, but they are saying that it will be a big difference in Barangay Barbara, and then they are saying that it will be a huge difference in Barangay Barbara, and then they say that this is the right start of the fire.
We are anxious; that they are very popular; this is like the most report of General Shuler.
They should forget him until there is front of the politician, but I also know about it.
!
We are worried about this.
"We are anxious; I am sorry but I heard a construction but one of our worries here in our fight that is why we have seen that we are being watched over, that is why we also have money.
Your residents, are really hardworking and attacking the barangays so that they will not reach fire even if we do not have to talk to them, we have seen what we have seen, Kuya Jerry.
A grandmother who goes out from the street already out of the street, you can buy a little bit little; he / she suddenly appeared from a bit of clothes, he wasn't it.
He came from school, happy.
He brought it with each other.
We are very lucky that you are able to go out there, but you really can't take a lot of things that are used on Monday that's why most of the soldiers of the barangay in Barbara, ayes; we are really lucky, that this will be very lucky; we are still lucky in the area to be clean because they are very lucky in the area.
This is just here if the officials of their group are in school that are also being talked to by their colleagues, who are still being talked to by the members of the government who were mentioned to be able to leave, as long as they say that the people are being talked to, like that, "said the mother of those who are holding him.
God agreed to them that he / she gave to the grandmother Secretary Cerro's grandmother.
He got into a fight with Aaahhated in the area and he mentioned it was money.
I was already able to talk to the place where you were able to talk with the benefits of its group, but abnormal sibling, but he / she grew up.
He still says something in their room.
Get to live every Holy Week depending on the straight path that will be transferred by Lor. Chua, but this is why he comes back.
When we talked about it, he himself / she himself / she himself / she himself / she himself / she himself / she himself / she's going to talk to Tita.
I hope that they will be able to talk to this, that's why they should report the interview of the family, to be given to the family, to be given to the Black Nazarene that they are together with the Greening Program.
There are problems with your problem, and it's as well as some of the things that he likes, the authorities are still in danger; we are still not in danger because we know that it is not prohibited for the government to attend the interview of my children in this situation.
Perhaps.
If it's just like that, what the government should talk to is something like that, and sometimes you do not want to talk to anyone because they want to stop.
Do we have to talk to Mane yes.
Their parents.
He was able to talk to the bystanders; who are some of those who know Father, but I have not yet talked to Father, however, he said that the children were not able to talk to each other, that is why it's very important that he / she was not able to talk to each other, which is probably important that he / she was going to live-in.
He is the government here, right?
So much; we should talk to that, you talk to them, with the rain here, we have to talk to them, that's why it is important that there will be rice between the owner.
For the five days of the students to listen to what happened to me, because if I am walking, I will not be able to do this in the past situations that we have seen here in the past situations where I see each other in the past situations where I see each other, they see that we have seen each other.
If in this way, it is okay with your mother that it is okay with your mother because in the fact that they need to school in a place of school, it will not last for you because of your place the heroes are heroes.
For diet, there is a high level of diets; there are people who are fond of dizziness; there are people who are pointing at IGAA.
"Do we like to know where I am going to the crisis where I will stay for a crisis, but will be able to attend to your crisis even if you talk to us along with us," if I talk to something that happened in the present.
That is right, what the truth is, he was able to go to the truth; she was given by Attorney to Luna only to be able to answer whatever she was going to talk in spite of the conversation with something like that.
Covetous, fur.
I think the military is most important.
They will get it in a house for a long time but that's not true that he / she is loyal; he / she really loves her so that she loves her so much.
We can say that when it comes to the actual operation inside the barangay because, as long as there is life, it appears that they are already complete, which will be done in the crooked streets, which are very complete.
To them, it's almost ten o'clock in different places, we really have a hard time when we saw each other here inside a road when we saw that it was just a group of vehicles that came out of the car, but they saw that it was not being involved, but it was just that that he didn't see those who survived a while ago, but they did not see that it was not being involved in that problem.
Yes, even if it is the father of them, he is a Catholic Church here.
A business in a proper way; we can look at the kitchen; like in the kitchen, they will really talk with Chairman.
"He wants to do that, so as long as long as long as I have not yet done anything yet before sleeping at the barangay hall.
All sorts of people are to go to school; he said that it was last night that he / she was the same with our family there in General Ronald "that waits for us.
