After the trial.

By Atty. Remigio D. Saladero.
June 6, 2012.

Many were surprised when they learned the amount spent by the government for the hearing that happened to Chief Justice Renato Corona.
According to the House of Representatives, what they spent for the impeachment trial of CJ Corona is not enough for the impeachment trial of CJ Corona.
In the part of the Senate, they spent 6 million pesos, according to Senator Tito Sotto.
But the government spent not only money in the hearing that happened in the hearing that was held by Chief Justice.
For example, in the Senate, the senators were forced to do the committee and Plenary macaques in the morning so that there will be a time for the impeachment trial, because of the lack of time, there are many proposed law that has been approved by the House of Representatives next day because it has not yet examined.
For example, the "Anti-Illegal Drugs Act" (House Bill Number 196) is approved by the House of Representatives.
The House of Representatives approved the House Bill Number 590 which aims to give compensation to the human rights involved in the time of the Marcos dictatorship, but, unfortunately, the proposed law in the Senate will not be fixed.
It is also like the House Bill 709 ("Penaragad, Calaguas if after a few years, the House of Representatives filed this proposed law about anti-cable, but because of the impeachment trial the Senate, the proposed law has been raised to him.
There is still a pending case in the Senate to express the Revised Rules of "(House Bill Number which aims to make up 5 to 10 years the lives of a passports and only the major schism to take it.
We all know how to get passports now, there is a proposed law that will lead the Lower House here but it is still not taking the necessary action of the Senate.
The House of Representatives is approved by the House of Representatives next month-Anti-Illegal Drugs Act, "however, it still remains in the Senate because the latter is busy with the impeachment trial.
The proposed law approved by the House of Representatives about the legislative chamber is still pending in the Senate, which is why it can be given a case of violation of the internet while there are steps to protect the said crime, however, it is still limited at the Senate.
We will also include the controversial "Bangsamoro Basic Law" that was done by the committee of Senator Gringo Honasan, but until now, it is still not passed on.
After all, it is only a law that will be approved by the Congress from January 16 to March 16 of this year; the Republic Act 10157, who ordered to be a part of our low program in education.
But if there are a lot of tasks that is needed by Lehistick, it should also be a lot of work that the Executive is taking.
The administration of Pres. P-Noy's administration will be noticed because of the said increase in our Moro Islamic Freedom Fighters (GDP) in the first room of this year, according to National Cenes, Statistics Office, 6.4 percent of our GDP from January to March in the present year.
This is a proof, President Noynoy said, that our economy is on the straight path.
But if our economy is in the straight path, why is it not felt by our citizens?
According to Mahathy which was held by the Social Weather Stations (SWS) this first three months of the year, up to 34.4 percent or 13.4 million pesos of Filipinos are at the right age with no job.
According to the said survey, 55.5 percent or 11.1 million families were one of their themselves as poor, last December 2011, at 9.1 million families were only one of them who are poor.
Aside from this, the SWS survey shows that there are families who are experiencing hunger under the new administration, according to the survey, 23.8 percent or 4.8 million families are experiencing hunger last three months but it is higher than 35.million families who are experiencing hunger on December 2011.
Is this what Pres. Noynoy said that our economy is on the right path?
When it comes to the issue of human rights, there is there and it has not yet reached General Jovito Palparan in the poster billing of human rights under the Arroyo administration.
If the Aquino administration was able to spend a huge amount of money just to remove CJ Corona, why did she not do it to immediately arrest General Guerrero?
According to Chief Justice Renato Corona who is only a small part of change that the people want to fulfill, they should stop thinking that the impeachment trial has happened and has a hole on the poverty of the country.
