Hala Boy, all sorts of inmates, who are going to Boney, are at the end of their students the disappearance of money for the benefits of the people.
There are many who suffer.
Because that is the reason why many are so hungry; we don't have something to eat; we have nothing to eat; we are helping each other in selling; so that they can help each other, so that they can see each other.
We once reported that the internet in the heart is painful and painful.
And then, we are different; we are still coming from that, from a little far place.
He is said to be one of the poorest provinces in the whole country, but most of those who are from a pre-C (C-T), for six years, not sure that more than a year have not received a Kalupaan.
It is not only the family in the morning that more than a year is not able to do such as their cases of brook at the latest game of D's last year; we may be the benefits that we will receive from the roof of the ceiling at the roof of the ceiling.
The following day, the game has been implemented on the next time that I reached up, there is already a nine percent meaning to the benefits of the benefits of C-C TT'boli, a doctor who received their Avina.
Earlier stated by the D Division, meow, they are not able to get any form of IGAPARK.
He / she is a part of the casual period, sure, and other province to you to ten years.
Because the GAPARK.
He gives millions of money.
What he works.
So that he will bring that to this place, like that?
We were able to look down; we understand each other; we understand that.
We say that we have a capital for them to get.
"He is made up with the cousin's cousin, which is why he's very proud.
The case there will no longer be carried away from there for more than a year just as long as you have a heart allocated for the budget that is possible to be buried in the budget that's why he is always after four wins.
Your budget is at the same time.
It is not that in the hands of anyone who are in the bank that is why we are in our office so we are really doing a way for a thrifty person in another country when we visit the house where we visit.
To programs that should be guarded, especially that their condo is huge for this.
There are no four-four-year-old but when he went up to sixty five million pesos, he / she was still not able to go to each other in the issue in the afternoon wherein they already talked to each other, but they already talked to each other, but they already talked to each other, they are also looking for a bad address to each other.
You are the topic of cough yes.
Their families are needed.
