
Commissioner David destroyed a dumbbell and the GL in Region 8.

Our country made it wrong with what happened during a day at the BI-NAIA where the 5 staff of Foreign Minister of Malaysia "was dismissed because of the command of a" chist "(chicken?) which is super strong with Commissioner Ricardo David.
According to our payment, Buenacosta was his personal nurse, I mean, the AFP, chief of Staff, David, that's why he took it to the Bureau of Immigration and the CA.
And because he is super part of David, that is why he is not able to take action as Condidentity, but they are looking like a chief and wants to be charged and wanted to be filed against airport Operations Division Chief (ACDC) chief Dong Castillo.
What happened, its distribution, related to the-off of-load, the said staff of Foreign Minister of Malaysia, but for the cannot explain the said staff of Foreign Minister of Malaysia, he did not explain the decision of I.David, which he made the decision of IJ?
As a result, the Prime Minister of Malaysia still needs to call their staff.
Tsk, tsk, tsk, tsk, a very big embarrassment, that's why the said Foreign Minister is in the Philippines as a witness to the Bangsamoro Peace Agreement!
In the failure of "cherness, this is still a different thing for Customs Commissioner David.
"What is that, Commissioner David, are you holding them?
Don't waste it too much, okay, it might lead to things!
Hk, hk, hmmmp!
Entice the President.
A list given to us by a priest has been given to us by a priest in Palo, Leyte, which contains the names of the gambling dens in Region 8, including their possible protectors.
Included were the names of R-2 Col. Towerville, Sitio Cuya and Leyte Provincial Director Pio ManManon what is happening.
The gambling dens are at the top of the gambling Lord, Noli Go, A@-@ jun Binay and Bernie Tacloban, now on the implementation of "Seferies" in Region 8.
We will prioritize the connection of Bernie Tacloban!
Entice the President.
Reaction and reports of 0915-2,03 / 09098992774.
