Fight for the excessive spending of the regime of the Marcos regime.

The town.
7-April 2012.

No matter how much the sake of the Marcos dictatorship from the national freedom of the Philippines, Aquino directly declared that he was able to use the military by the US to use the duster of the Philippines as if it seemed like it was really rights of his pet parrot.

Aquino also stated that the inventor of the American troops will anchor in the legislative chamber's visit "by the American troops, until it can anchor and do all parts of the country the training of the country, the training of the Philippines, which can be seen by American soldiers in the Philippines.

"For the defense of the Philippines" for the defense of the Philippines, the reasoning of Aquino for giving way to my presence was the removal of American troops in the country by the American troops that would declare the national dignity of the Filipino people and leave the Pambansang Kamao in the hands of powerful mosquitoes.

Just like the past administrations of the country, Aquino wants to swallow all the followers of the US and believe that it is good for the military to protect the thousands of American soldiers in the Philippines, "said that it's all good to protect the thousands of American soldiers in the Philippines from the start of the pension and democracy for all the freedom of the Philippines.

Aquino is a good behavior in front of his rival god in exchange for giving up the freedom of the Philippines to be used by the US so that the US will be able to make sure that the US, "modernization" of the AFP but to strengthen the ability to suppress the corrupt and patriotic and patriotic citizens.

The Aquino administration of the US in the Philippines is giving way for giving way to the American troops, launching the infrastructures in the coast of military, and opening of ships and airplanes that are conducting operations in order to break the Asia-Pacific.

Through the rule of the military by the US in the Philippines, the ability of the US to be influenced and filtering the issues of economists, politics and military of the Philippines because Aquino will be easily influenced by whatever his boss wants.

Aquino followed the constricted streets of the US.

Just like in the past administrations that Aquino can support the rules of liberalization in investment and trade, privatization of the Aquino administration to be part of the constitutional solution to be included in the implementation of the Supreme Court to be included in the implementation of the Martial Law in 1987 Constitution so that the economists are open in corruption of foreign basic commodities.

Aquino is following all the policies of the US as well as he is being used by the US against Iran, North Korea, China and other countries that Aquino is considered to choose the desired freedom of the friend or enemy, which is why the Lord of the US will not allow her.

Aquino keeps on following the counter-governmental organization guide of US, that's why it became more intense for the bombing of the citizens, especially against foreign terrorists, especially against foreign terrorists, especially against foreign terrorists, especially against foreign mining and distress.

In the face of capitalist countries in the US and the whole world, the US would rather be able to pay the Philippines as well as they can be able to follow the Philippines as well as if Aquino will be followed, the Philippines will be strengthened even if Aquino will be buried in the destruction and abuse of the US.

The coming days under the services of the Aquino administration should be used by the Filipino people and by their revolutionary force to steal the struggle for defending the national freedom.

The Filipino people should borrow the wide and intensified fight against the military and military and civilians in the Philippines to remove all the attempt to use the American soldiers and civilians in the Philippines to remove all the soldiers and ocean of the Philippines for their investigation and insisting the power.

Revive the spirit of resentment and love for the freedom of the citizens, especially the youth, regarding the history of the filipino people against the colonialism and democracy as the solution to the country of the Filipino people who are able to support the US and its own state.
