
Pacquiao, this should be given a lesson to the Congress.

There is now a call to suspend the Pambansang Kamao and Sarangani representative Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao because of his frequent stopping in the session at the Minority Floor of the Congress.
In the interview with former Senator Rene Sarmiento, it is only right for the Chamber to make action in order to give Pacquiao the suspension of Pacquiao and other congressmen who often join the Congress.
Pacman is one of the six congressmen who often attend the session in Congress so this is one of the reasons why Saguisag's request to the lawmakers to give punishment to the Pambansang Kamao.
According to Saguisag, Pacquiao is doing many things that is why he is always not in the session and part of his busy work is his being a boxer, playing basketball, in TV and others.
Pacman is fourth of the congressmen who are frequently with the session and is included in the list of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo; JoDimaporo; Joseph Stephen Beltran, IV; and Rolando Espinosa.
Based on the record of the low ranks of the Congress in the 16th Congress, starting July 22, 2013 until June 11, 2014, Pacquiao was able to attend a 38 with 69-regular session; Rayton, 36; Leonida Benedicto, 5 and GMA, 0.
Pacman's being busy with his other activities is the reason why it is not in the session so the giving punishment to our Pambansang Kamao will be given a lesson to our Pambansang Kamao in order to give him a lesson.
According to Saguisag's fear that in case Pacman run and win as senator in 2016 election, it will continue to be no with the session that we know who is very important to each other.
We should just focus on our pambansang kamao, just focus on his coming fight, especially the meeting with Floyd Mayweather, Junior in the coming May, 2015.
That is if it will push through.
If Pacquiao really wants to serve the people, end his duty in boxing even in basketball in order to focus on his service to the country.
Please, Hong Kong, Manny Pacquiao, ALNAs Womb of Alvin Feliciano.
