ZAaahhmmmp - the Senate and the man are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones.

The investigation of it is not finished with the committee of the Blue Ribbon of Senate against VP Jejomar Binay until the election in 2016, that is certain.
He will not stop in partner of the Nacionalista Party which also dreams are the President and Vice-President in 2016, senators Alan Peter Cayetano and his allies, that is certain.
Just a month before the investigation, the Blue Ribbon Committee Chairman TG Guingona told the three witnesses that led to the committee of Koko Pimentel, Cayetano Et al.
Until now, all allegations and allegation, and fear that will lead to a national debate?
In the debate between VP Binay in the debate, Senator Panfilo Lacson said that it will be a call to the Philippine International Convention Center (PICC) that will control the Kapisanan ng mga Brodkaster ng Pilipinas and just choose the judges and viewers?
Why?
In the length of the investigation, the senators were not able to do anything but watch the ZARZumballoween. San Juan de Sousa.
On the other hand, millions of people are being spent, thrown at the time, throw the money for renting the helicopter and selling gasoline!
If their debate is true, why is it that it is the PICC's why it cannot be done in front of the public, from Plaza Miranda or Luneta?
Issue of the country, money of the country is involved in the agreement, discredit and rightfulness, why will it be hidden just by little?
And Cayetano also said, after the last survey results, it might have no longer run for President in the election 2016, should not run for President in the election 2016.
Since you sat in the legislative chamber until the Senate, you do not even have any law, but take noise, fight back, accusations and discredit among your fellow politicians.
Maybe if your father is still alive, you will get back to the bank and he was hitting his breath because of your attitude.
If your father will be productive and true love, you will be in a disadvantage.
WBC) and Tell Bira!
Your trouble is.
If all the accusations and allegation against VP Binay is true, in the name of truth and real mission of your revelation, the decision of the Ombudsman to the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman is going to be in the funeral parlor in the Philippines.
And you, do the real work - amendment to make the right law for the country and the people to be enenious?
Save some of the people for us!
If you really want to investigate in the Senate, although you are applying at the National Bureau of Investigation, you are the one!
