
Mrs. Alcantara is a king of NAIA-Eve.

Deputy commissioners of John Sevilla, of the Bureau of Customs, wants reforms to push through all the ports of the country.
Whether the airport is on the map, it is said to be guarded by commissioners.
And the PR is still the PR of Pro-er, Jews as well as the corrupt personnel of BOC.
Because, make sure that they are the rust that gnaw the firm commitment of the right path. "
Husband Keemer, will first take a glimpse of the group Abu, Santi in Adelana, who is calling the "traslacion" in Port of Manila and Camp P.
"It can also be watched over, it is Mang Berto Quinale in X-ray Section, because I am not sure if he is impressed by your President in" Daang Matuwid "every week.
Because it seems like Mister Berto be impatient every time you take a "selfies" to those who are in a noodle house after taking-raising. Har-har-har!
Isn't it?
At Ninoy Aquino International Airport terminal, a bonfire of Customs which is hiding from the skirt of the caser er.
Because he wants to attack her children, Sir, because of the reform being implemented, but he does not want to surface, that's why he said that his complaint to the young media was said to be very big.
It's because some officials and employees of the NAIA-Enforcement Agency) were angry with some officials and employees of the NAIA-Enforcement Agency) that he doesn't want to as Customs, to just call as an actor, Anita and its horns.
That's why he wrote to some famous personalities in the media to destroy her, Sir.
What Mrs. Alcantara does not know, he was caught by the whole terminal 1, 2, 3 and 4 of NAIA.
The people of Epoissess is already known in NAIA, judicial system, including the allegations or patrolling, Mrs. Tallado on his "white paper" he himself is doing.
In English, his term for term for Har-hmmmp!
Sir and Madam Grace, "do not worry because the young media will not be used to all the media to be used by Madame its horns.
But in the hour that there is a proof that there is corruption, or if the reform implemented at NAIA / Eroela, the reforms are implemented at NAIA / Eluvathingal.
Pramis, is a sample of it.
