
Suicide is a mission.

The whole country is mourning in the unexpected death of 44 members of the Special Action Force (SAF) of the Philippine National Police (PNP), who were massacred by the rebels in Mamasapano, Maguindanao, more than a week.
No one of them knows that their mission is to be the type of arrest Zulkifli Bin Hir alias "Marwan, and the Filipinization of Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (BIFF), their mission was too late.
Marwan and Usman, both workers of the bomb being searched for in the whole world, were connected to the feared group of terrorists that was assigned to the United States to catch Marwan and $2 million pesos in the head of Usman.
Marwan was cornered and killed in the attack of SAF, while Usman was still being searched by the police in order to confirm his DNA of the federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
In 392 SAF commandos assigned to the mission, 44 were confirmed dead, 12 are wounded, and the remaining 336 have been returned.
However, there are some controversies that are currently happening in the mission after the massacre, especially after Interior and Local Government Secretary Mar Roxas and PNP officer-in-release Deputy Director General Leonardo Espina, that they do not know.
How can Roxas and Espina hide his mission to be involved with the 392 people of SAF who were sent to Mamasapano, a place which is controlled by the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), the MILF showed their real color when they were treated as a rabbit, with the help of the BIFF.
And what's worse, there are reports that those being swept in the PNP Chief Director General Alan Purisima gave the order in his mission.
Purisima has stayed in the house of PNP Chief within Camp Crame, who was called "white house, while it is giving an illusion for President Aquino or Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa on its course.
Everyone knows that Aquino is close to Purisima, and chose to remain true and honest friends even in the midst of the issues being thrown at PNP Chief, some say that if Purisima would succeed in this issue.
If Aquino considered that "de Lima is considered," Roxas and Espina should resign from his position and is ready for the people's anger when there will be no idea of the sensitive mission under the self-control of the LRT PNP Chief.
Aquino received anger from the public, especially the family of the victims, due to lack of feeling, when he chose to attend the inauguration of a Mitsubishi Montero in Laguna, instead of facing the arrival of the remains of the murdered SAF commandos in Villamor Air Base.
It is clear that the decision not to inform Roxas and Espina is a sensitive operation, that there is also no coordination and support of the military, so our heroes risked their lives.
In a report, Police Director Getulio Napeñas confirmed the fired commander of the SAF after their mission was failed, and the President knows the Mamasapano operation.
The smallest things that can be done here are the MILF to surrender those responsible for the massacre, including Usman.
He / she was wearing.
Short of all comments or reaction to comments or reactions, text message on email line, folklore giants, folklore gize other side
