
Resign or retired, what should be left.

There are many failures of the Land Transportation Office.
But it is only now that we have seen a severe failure in the management of the very important agency of the government.
And now that it is said that LTO chief Virgie continues to resign, he should also leave his office for now.
Meddling with the LTO.
One of those being complained by those from LTO is being complained by many relatives and inmates of Torres for his office.
A question now of those from the people now, are his relatives and co-inmates in the effects of the principle of Co-term?
In Co-term, Bro, all of the personnel will bring along a bosses to his office so that it is time to step down but not really needed by his agency should also go away.
It is also included here are the Utah Jazz and bribes that could have been the way to become a failure in driving his office.
Some failures.
It seems that all the vehicles are complaining about the lack of lack of stealing in the LTO to inspect them.
Months will heal you before you have a video.
Let us go on strolling in the region and use this branch of LTO, well until Number 4-5 still has a sticker.
But not everyone will have this.
Only the motorcycles were not yet known about having a sticker.
For the HPG, the cops!
The bad result of the lack of video is for the Highway Patrol Group and traffic police to the drivers of vehicles.
The people of the HPG and the police are going to release a license, that brought a license, you will also bring crooks to the vehicles and if they are only good with them, they are still in doubt.
They are also in doubt of the receipt who has the mark of "as a sticker by a cauldron."
The residents of HPG said that it is impossible that there is no confirmation after a few months of security released by vehicles.
What's bad about this, many of the HPG and police are very brave and are confusing to talk to the drivers.
This is about to be ill-tempered to the Lord, if you are not irritated with them, you are the one who's bad.
Corruption is the result.
For those who are used to the road and know how to contribute to the actions of the HPG and police, money is the only money in front of them because of the failure of the LTO to the video.
It is the child of tofu, do you know that even the non-minded people, which are usually given the law of smooth because of the food of the people, are currently being attacked by corrupt because of the problem on the video?
Complained by the driver, they were running out of damaged money for their food and other needs for the trip because of the failure on the video.
Their very small income and money that will be taken from the cunning "to the HPG and police who are hardworking with a failure as a sticker.
Drug test.
At first, Virgie declined the fate of the new law against drunk and drug drivers.
Even if the law became effective, Torres continues to rule the drug test of the drivers.
But in the end, we have seen the announcement of the LTO that there is no drug challenge for the drivers.
Thank you if this is gone in the whole country.
Very expensive, Bro, the drug test, and said to be the number of those from the LTO, when the number of those who are from LTO will be seen and make the lives of millions of drivers.
Meanwhile, those with emphasis stayed silent, the charge for them is expensive and there was a complaint of the members here about the big amount that is overflowing with them by the LTO.
Maybe it's good to take a look at the Commission on Audit if there is truth here or not.
New plate.
One of the problems of those who have a vehicle is also the lack of issues of LTO to new vehicles.
One, two, three, four months, no plate number.
Do you know that this is one of the reasons of the widespread carnapping?
Because of the lack of plate, the carnapper took off their vehicle which is being carried away from the people.
There are a lot of reports of us that their vehicle has been sold without license plates.
And it can't be found out for them to be found out because they can already be disturbed by them., "others, legal to be registered in the name of other people?
Plate number.
What will happen to the program of LTO to have a new plate number?
For the many owners of the vehicles, a question is for free or not the new plate number of plate numbers on vehicles.
If not for free, it turns out that money is also the amount of money and it wants the LTO to have additional billions of pesos to the rich family in the chest.
This is because LTO is one of the assigned agencies of the government to file money from the government and the people can see him having a new plate number one way for the sake of the government which can be held in the end.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or comment is that we can give 092163333.
