It is out of Order (karma and justice.
By Fortun, October 18, 2016 was questioned by the supporters of Senator Leila de Lima as well as the Department of Justice (DOJ) Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre as well as the Department of Justice (DOJ) Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre that was not new as Justice Secretary de Lima and some of his former colleagues in the office of Janet Lim Napoles.
It means, if the Senate allowed De Lima to present the witnesses on the Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) scam, the Chamber has the right to allow Secretary Aguirre that he will allow the witnesses to present.

As they say in the English language, "Wu-up for the archipelegup for the PCCA" now is why de Lima is questioning the power of DOJ to conduct a thorough investigation on the drug-trafficking case against the senator last Tuesday of the group Volunteers Organization (Izzy Canillo).
It can be recalled that VAnito Chairman Dante Jimenez and Atty.

Ferdinand Topacio who filed a complaint in the DOJ against De Lima and seven others because of their involvement on the widespread drug lords in the New Bilibid Prison (NBP) when de Lima was still the secretary of DOJ.
Last Thursday, the former National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) Deputy Director of Investigation (NBI) Deputy Director Renato Battaler and Reynaldo Esmilla, both were fired from his position by de Lima because of them allegedly was the association.
Even though it is the Ombudsman that the implementation of the criminal cases against the former secretary of DOJ is said, Aguirre maintained that the DOJ had a connection with the said cases because of his department that was filed against them.
Aguirre is right here in Aguirre because it can be recalled that de Lima was the one held by the plunder complaint against Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and Bong Revilla which resulted in their candidacy even though Enrile was given a right to post bail.
NBI was the primary agency to investigate the PDAF scam, based on the sworn statements of Benhur Luy and his co-witnesses against Napoles, but DOJ was filed with the complaint in the Ombudsman who filed a complaint against the government of the government officials.
It can be considered that Senator De Lima's experience is being experienced now and it seems that he has forgotten what his office did to the PDAF scam and to former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which is why he says the current strategy of Justice Secretary Aguirre is wrong.

Aguirre said that it was said by Aguirre: "The DOJ) (De Lima's), that's why the investigation on the cases on the case, Are covetousness of the Sandiganbayan.

Wanna Bet by Ren E.
And it is more important that de Lima is giving justice to the said crime that he has done as secretary of DOJ, but when the day of justice arrives, but when the sun arrives, it is even worse than karma.
