
The PNP added to Digong?, Laguna, Bulacan Discipline Office at By Jun Borbe three, namely Dilawan around 20, 2016.
A few days before the new administration of President-elect Rodrigo Duterte sat in a strong campaign against crime and illegal drugs, the blood of people involved in the sale and using illegal drugs were hit in a separate places in Bulacan and Laguna, two drug pushers were caught in a separate places in Bulacan and Laguna, two drug pushers were arrested after exchanging shots with the police two nights ago.
According to Calamba City Chief of Police Superintendent Fernando Ortega, they were conducting an Anti-Illegal Drugs operations in Brgy. Banko, Calamba City but the suspects fought back after hearing that the police were talking to each other.

The incident ended in shooting that resulted to the death of the suspects who was identified as alias Joel and Rafael.
The other suspect who was identified as alias Sarona are able to escape.
It will take some of the suspects for a caliber 45 gun and 1 caliber 38 gun and an unidentified number of shabu.
Meanwhile, an alleged drug pusher who was killed was killed while his companion escaped after exchanging shots with the Plaridel police in Bulacan while 10 of his co-pushers and drug addict who were arrested in the buy-bust operation in Sitio dike, Barangay Banga 1st, Plaridel, Bulacan the other night.
P / Supt. Andrew M.

Aguirre, Plaridel police chief, identified the killed suspect who was identified as Jason Toledano of the right age who sustained gunshot wounds on his body that caused his death while his companion Reynaldo Sta. Maria alias Bombay, is both in the police-list and ad@-@ time drug pusher.
They were arrested while inside a house in the encounter and was conducting a pot session, Alfonso, 19; John Philip dela Cruz, 19; Jocelyn Santos, 19; Eduardo Santos, 19; Anzon, Domingo and Maan Miranda, all residents of the place.
Ten caught in a pot session is currently detained in Bulacan Provincial Jail in Malolos City and a caliber .38 revolver, bullets, a few packs of shabu and drug addict alias.

The palace is happy with the active operation of the Philippine National Police (PNP) against crime and illegal drugs.
Presidential Communications Office (NGO) Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr., the statement followed by the observation that the PNP is just showing-off to Vice President Rodrigo Duterte.
That is why, according to him, the people are doing what the PNP is doing now, this is also what the administration is feeling.

Meow, Boyet JMM).
