But the disease is getting worse in South Cotabato.
Government.
A doctor is like that in the cases he said in the province of Cotabato, which is very low; he / she can go to Laguna to Laguna.
To you, provincial government is willing that there will be a direct effect; we should have become very tanned last night in the ocean in the ocean like you.
He read that there is a need for me to be close to Arstay in Wednesday.
This is the rainy season.
Are you just a mechanic relationship with the provincial government?
The month was hit on the call of a puppy of a puppy to a puppy of a puppy to the dogs that they have reached for a little-year-old person who has been known for a dog so that he / she had reached a dog that is very disgusted; and usually fat for too much.
Yes, we are very pitiful; I have not found out that April is still a while ago in April that when it rains, I remember that it is okay with my sibling by people who are t-V, Vila Vicky Webb, two of them in the province.
Where will he make you and dinner again because you are already sleeping in the hospital where you are still young, there is still a child whose liver is there, and it will pass by a dog who has no bra from it.
On the tree, Laguna are at that way to the election and even if he is a bit good in the province of Cotabato.
They do not feel bad.
We have also made a lot of dogs that he needs to be fat from the province to look down; we have been delayed; you have been delayed that there is a fight for those with Delavarse, beautiful and beautiful.
Do you think that one of them is one of those who have one of the dogs in the province, which among those bothering the office of the provincial person, they are able to pay for it easy to the barangay.
It's just like the effect of a dog to be fat from those who want to try.
Very small; he / her aunt, was surprised, just in the age of age, I can no longer get rich or, just like that, it's still dark, that is why it was dark and then at around ten o'clock in the evening.
They have even drink so it is easy to watch out in the middle of the possibility that a bird will immediately resign.
Yes, and that is the time that she has been taking a long time for a very long call, like a delinquent driver, how about it.
Ah, you have also laughed at a dog, deacious; and fog; there in business.
My aunt is confused with them in a complicated situation; he / she is very lonely; that's why it's painful at your age?
To be able to work, that's why we feel pity that's why they will cover the water for the dog to pay for it.
Very small; he / she is always in a month, he / she was always in a month, he / she was always in a month, he / she / she was the only water from the dog because it was gone earlier at night.
One of those that they have been asking for choosing to make a fight for us.
On the lips, there is a cratic.
Adelarse, is it different from the dog that seems to be at 1pm to Buhi and Buhi to those who laughed at me, according to me.
They have been wrapped with something maybe in front of a trial, they are close to sure that there is something bad to dream of the office who is a temptation in Laguna.
Then, he was made to make a bag and bag control at the end of the dogs.
I am also going to the same age!
