
Conditioning the studies of the children of NDFP members who continue to file a violation on the rights of the children.

Congratulations!
Leader, Special Office for the Fire Protection Program.
16 March 2013.

Today, 15 years after the signing of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (Izzy Canillo) of the ongoing violation of the armed forces of the Philippine government (GROs).

1.
After this, he started to show an unusual movement in their house when his relatives brought him to the hospital, and was confirmed to have his penis, which he was really raped.

His family filed a rape and abuse of the child against the three soldiers, who said that there was something bad to happen to them if the family was able to raise the police station in relation to the rape but the family had not done anything for the rape and threat from the culprits.

Because they could not achieve justice for the child, he was approached by some concerned and known individuals on the prosecution's revelation to the police and rape the three soldiers who filed a case against the police and arrest the armed soldiers who filed a criminal case against them.

2.

The data was confirmed in the incident of a fact that an agreement was given by the organization with human rights and by one for defense of the Philippine National Police (PNP) of Tapaz District (PCG), instead, they turned the blame on the Bagong Humalig), instead, they turned the blame on the Bagong HE.

3.

They were brought to the camp of 78th IB in Mulanay, Quezon together with some police arrested by the drunk soldiers in the whole night, but they were arrested by the arrest of Grets who were arrested and was accused of illegal drugs, bullets, and bomb, which was obviously planted.

Early part of December 26 in the morning, those arrested were brought to the Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm - Special intensive care Area (BJMP) that they were charged, including Grets who is a minor, of the actions that were made.

These kinds of incidents are just a few cases of ongoing violation of the rights of the children of the armed forces of the national forces of the country's rights and in the implementation of the Oplan Tokhang, the plan for the Oplan Galugad conducted by the US as to make the revolutionary movement in 2013.

The documents of the Special Office for the Fire Protection (NDFP) continue to investigate the violation of Golovkin because it will release a report to the rights of the Special Office and other agency of NDFP members in relation to the defense and safety of the children.
