Senator Bong Revilla was just smiling at the payment for the cases in number and not.
But the boss, Janet also had four sons.
Remain cloudy with your family.
Jacket and appetizer as a policeman when they brought the court to the court.
For the two, the two are not worried while sitting on both end and I am sitting on both end of the senators on the people around you, which are not confusing.
It was eaten by Tanim-Villa Family for the case of LRO that's why it's just that all his duty are not only on duty; that's why he left you in the case that was why he went to the case of the car, that's why he slept in the case of the car, that's why he slept with his father-in-law.
Aside from them, it is expected that for thirteen years.
I have other Saturday, but I am still hiding, that is why there is a delayed act on the court.
Ten cases are being faced by Revilla and his cases on Saturday on the reading of Standard Lunch Program and this has been shattered and one by one is still trying to catch up in the streets.
July ten will just go to church but there is Revilla.
They would support that we were forced to be moved.
Are you joking?
The number of people who were able to go there were those who were able to go because he was able to go away with an M-month-old man who wants to be with a blanket.
I said that they are going out of it, it turns out that it is Satan so that the people will love you and they are the police who helped him.
They also used it in his position to blood pressure due to the employees of the police to go to the employees of the police.
Very short; we were able to look straight and who Aquino is interested in the law of the law.
There is a big difference with cow's clothes which was being chased by those who are so arrogant about it before they eaten up.
Who are really senators.
They seem to have financial support.
Meanwhile, Ester was okay with Ester, four a Mahogany that would have been a Mahogany that's why they want the workers even more and they want the amendment of Information Agreement on the bamboo store that's why he / she is also having a snack with Tito Mon.
That people will think of that.
She is not thinking about it well.
What the companies said, why is it true that Ruby wants to change now that Ruby is blind to his sister, perhaps.
What is Joey Calatas or that, in a point; he / she was deacious; he / she grew up, whose boss, Joy, has just returned.
Here is a industrious.
He / she grew up; and of course, Bong Revilla, to give a statement but it is said that the position of summer has already been released, but it has been said that there is something like that in order to lessen the opposition of those who are past the hearing of the past.
