There is no traffic in NCR.

Just recently, Metro Manila Development Authority Chairman Francis Tolentino is warned about the expected flow of traffic in a big part of Metro Manila this coming months.
This is due to what DPWH is going to do with the roads, an underpass and transferred to the highway, which is expected to take the flow of traffic in case it will end up to a few years from now.
But even though they will start the said project, it is noticeable that even now it seems that the traffic problem has no end in many places in NCR.
Just an example in Makati, which is everywhere in the number of Metro Manila, especially those near the Kalayaan Avenue until the adjacent business district, and even in the city hall.
"That is why the heavy traffic is being pushed, that's why it's still too heavy in the streets, what can Mayor Jun-jun Binay say?
In Manila, I also called the attention of President Erap Estrada because it seems that the traffic enforcer is useless in solving the severe traffic flow in many parts of the city.
I received a lot of complaints, especially from students like Robin and Anzon, which is currently celebrating their house now.
They said that they are always late in class and there are still many other students like them because of the severe traffic along the University Belt, España and even the side of Street in Sampaloc, Tondo, in Manila.
The motorists were also being complained by the motorists and those who responded to the severe traffic in Taft Avenue near De La Salle University until PO3 Cruz Street at Rizal Park.
It seems that the barangay leader is going to leave the vendors and tricycle drivers because they are in line, that is why the result is too heavy and severe traffic.
Aside from the said places, there are still a lot of traffic places in NCR, like Quezon City, San Juan and even the stretch of EDSA, but it seems like nothing is moving to solve the heavy problem.
It can't be remembered that the urban and partner are now on the condition of the heavy traffic, so that they can no longer stand in case they start the ademia project project in July?
