It is okay how you found out about the news here in my decision on the problem.
Yes, he sold the T'boli, V).
There were also an interview with me.
I found out.
I'll take a way.
Jangenos that he has been looking for a long time, are you going to look straight at the same age, who are the ones who will win.
I can no longer look down; he / she needs to go out in court, I seem to be in meddling of the room and it seems like there is a payment for politics at first to call the National Arts' post, because you know the National Arts' post as well as your voice in life.
Because he received a lot of honor, he / she has received a lot of recognition; this kind of type of hornets; we know that we are stupid; we know that we are stupid;
Too much politics is the event that can be seen in politics; he / she stood on the political; and lay down because the politician should not send it to anyone else.
Uncle does not care about this.
She said she fried foods that is why he is calling for a good friend.
He / she grew up; he / she was on duty; he / she was on duty; he / she said that he / she was able to go to school; he / she was able to take care; he / she could have been calling each other; he / she was calling me no matter what happened, that is why he / she was calling me no matter what happened.
There are already many who are pointing at each other; they know.
Do you know that politics is not what I am saying, that we have been telling that we are loyal; we are very proud; we can be sent back to the right name "is it only a day when you are really wrong in the process.
You don't like me inside.
Their help.
In the process they are calling, I am also not inside the strong area to know the events because we were called by my companions who will just call us an honor, as a man who stood up to us by a priest, 000 SR; we are hoping that we will have an award.
Yes, accept our ability that is similar to those who are like what is similar to those who are going to cover-up; he / she said that he / she was grilling, prostitution; so that you are in Angga, of course, we are just a person.
We will be affected by the incident but we are avoiding what is sad because those who are writing the stories are going to be affected, and what I am saying is not to be very clear.
"I am angry that's why I am angry that many four nights ago to me but what I am saying is that they do not know what they are saying about Bicol.
