The students were very happy because, they have returned their electricity.
Thank you?
What happened to each other; he / she was distressed as well.
I learned from God.
Parents are very happy because they just think that their children will just go together again, we are happy that all kinds of electricity will not go through Manila paper that are scattered at the side of the school.
A new leader of a new opposition will be grateful for the parents who have paid for 15 pesos so they were able to pay one hundred pesos for Saturday to pay for March.
It has been two thousand pesos for two thousand pesos, but there is still a lack of more than four thousand pesos to Alim, school, and it is set to pay the whole world this Sunday to all the call centers to help in the call center when the former teacher explained and explain the former teacher.
There's a breast that has been cut off.
"We need to leave for our office so that we can really leave that with my problem with sir, we really do not want to leave because we see all the documents, but, of course I know a lesson to all the documents, but of course, I know a lesson from the former cities that are of the same city.
Even if we do not have to go to school, you are still not answering by their way over half a kilo of Model Shop for us to be too cold to them because it's too cold to them.
But they are Two people.
Full of people.
When there was a motorcycle who was really given to us, it was really no matter to us that the counter-in school would also give up to school because there were more than a thousand who did not leave the school because there was Mac-Mac came to the two of the air conditioner.
The parents are just depending on the disapproval of his older brother-in-time so that I want to go to him, they can be able to ask him.
Those who are like that, like that.
You know.
Let us look straight; we can look at what we are.
They will give it to me.
They will pay it.
That is a box that should be avoided for a quarrel in school, so we should not look into the fight of old people who just want to enter.
Be careful.
