Manila!

Last Wednesday morning, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada made his very first State of the City Address (SOCA) at the Ninoy Aquino Stadium, where he gave the knowledge of the people under his leadership.
The was given by the people to mention the mayor, Manila is slowly recovering from debt in the previous administration.
Mayor Estrada said that inside a year of service in Manila City Hall, almost half of the debt of the government of Manila was paid.
That is why Mayor Erap boasted that before the 2015, all the debt left by the past government was already paid.
Manila clarified that because when it comes to the mentioned time he was able to pay more than 300 million pesos in the Manila Electric Company.
Aside from paying debt, the former President also boasted about what his administration is doing and continues to continue their rise and improvement of Manila.
The buildings are taking advantage in order to add the classrooms of schools in Manila aside from the hospitals.
The mayor is proud of the "orange card" that the poor residents of Manila are showing their key for free treatment in hospitals.
Together with free treatment is "dialysis."
Mayor Estrada's steps are good because the Manileños will benefit from the benefits of the hospital and not those who will benefit from the members of the Manila City Hall, which can be considered to face those introducing themselves as corrupt Manileños.
The employees of the government of Erap are so happy because of the continuous increase in their monthly salary.
Aside from that, Mayor Estrada is going to do with a disturbance on the salary increase.
The members of the Manila Police District is with alcohol because their preparation for P2,500 only every month will increase while in the previous administration, they are surprised.
It is not surprising that the Manileños will love their father in the city because each of its residents are slowly getting livelihood because they are trying hard to complete the economy of Manila.
Well, if this is like this or all progress can be seen in Manila which is considered as the "show of" of the Philippines, it is certain that if Mayor Erap will run again, he will surely win.
We are still very weak.
