Aquino and Akbayan.

(1) the government of Noynoy Aquino's government is quick to show up and against the citizens by the government of the poor and people, but this is done by the public's attention to the impeachment case against Chief Justice Renato Corona, that is why it is being pushed through with many issues of economy.
Particularly the group Akbayan, who are involved in and out of the country, are those who are concerned about the actual implementation of the poor and citizens in front of the actual implementation of the poor and citizens and in front of the actual implementation of the poor and citizens in front of the actual implementation of the poor and citizens in front of the actual implementation of the poor and citizens in front of the actual implementation of the poor and citizens in front of the actual case of Joel Rocamora.
In this point, it is better to protect himself, "Womb," Wagoy, chairman of Akbayan party Youth, and the response of Akbayan as the supreme court, while it is better to analyze the two to make clarity on the meaning and meaning of the Pambansang Kamao in the country.
(2) for Claudio Aceret, after the Marcos dictatorship from the US-Marcos, it was good that his companions in Akbayan were lost in different meaning of the Aquino administration, and of course, he had different meaning to the Aquino administration, according to the real meaning of Akbayan.
First of all, what was started by Claudio Aceret, the Leflawless, just fought back to the burial of the President-Marcos, not only in the end of the President, which is more often, that is why it is more often, that is the only difference between the President.
According to Vena, if he goes back to the actual meaning of being a pro-flawless, you will discover that the Leflawless, in this kind of honor, "in Cordillera or in Mendiola; and in Cordillera, and in Cordillera or in congress, should be better and should be better."
Too big, at this point, it is not exactly then that the meaning of Chambers (Lefur is wrong and it can be said that all the meaning of all kinds of ideology, even in different kinds of changes, even in different kinds of changes, even for several decades, he is pushing rules in the country for a few decades.
(3) because the economic growth of the society is the same time to change the society, similar to the society, Claudio Aceret, in the right direction where it is not right that 1 percent living in Fort Bonifacio, "Ang pro-dugo Gang... that it is not right to be done by the customers of their mother-Food Park.
Claudio Aceret, on the other hand, had a secret but it is clear that there is no right thing, for example, to the following sentences in the Middle East, if there is no one, the new generation that will be held at Clark and Subic, China, who continue to see the strength of Spratamak. "
It looks like Cinderella is not reading the newspaper so that the statement of the Philippine government from the Middle East is not a secret, that is why many are being followed by the military in Asia-Pacific, which is why the US is being followed, but the US, but the US, which has long been launched by the military in the country, is very important.
Whatever it is, the need to review the secret like Claudio Aceret, but the rules of the Aquino government, in the issue of price of oil and other goods, that is why it is worse in the rules of the local government, that is why it is worse in the rules of the local government, that is why it is worse in the implementation of the demolition of the poor and pushing to the military forces.
(4) in this situation, what is the posture of the Lefts to the Aquino government, it is not the immediate release of the land of Hacienda Luisita, similar to the implementation of the land of Hacienda Luisita, not in favor of defending the poor and the citizens of the government.
First, his posture is the controversial reforms that the poor and the citizens have been asking for, not for the reforms that are safe to maintain the welfare of the poor and the citizens, who are clear to attack the welfare of the poor and citizens.
(5), Claudio Aceret, "I did not want the Martial Law (APEC) explanation that he is against this kind of view, but it is not clear that this kind of attack is important for this kind of system, and in the whole system, and the corresponding use of the people's consciousness is important.
The people like Claudio Aceret has to answer the goal of Joshua Clover in an interview, "as well as the process of triumph in the world, and we need to have any ways to describe it, and I do not want to be an analysis of the world, and I do not want to get an analysis." And I do not want to pay an analysis. "
It is going to be a challenge to happen to Hans Heinz Holz, Marty Go, in an interview with society, "we need to ask for an alternative activity that we have abandoned, and treated like an alternative community which have been abandoned by them, and unfaithful behind this kind of honor.
