
There are those who chose to greet each other even if they have tantrums.

Although the next district director of Manila Police District continues, there are still many policemen and journalists who are waiting to have a miracle in the decision of the newly-elected mayor of Manila, who is former President Joseph Ejercito Estrada.
In the approved of Malacanang and Camp Crame, it is certain that Chief Supnad, Vicente Loot, included in the Philippine Military Academy (PMA) Class 1982, is because he is what Mayor-elect Estrada wants.
However, many still have not lost their feelings to change the mind of the elected mayor in relation to the leadership of Senior Superintendent Robert Po, officer-in charge (MPD) of MPD.
Many want Po for a long time that he served the MPD for a long time and he does not have a decent name especially when the issue is in the name of finances.
You cannot deny that Po has done for the welfare of the police of MPD and safety of the citizens of Manila.
Even during the election, Po has no liability in politics and instead, it depends on politics because his loyalty was on his duty to the Philippine National Police (PNP) and not for the leaders in the government.
That is why even if he knows that he is not the winner of the MPD, his work will continue and the safety of the citizens and the safety of the citizens and the peace of Manila are not being neglected.
As of today, Po is busy for the prepared will of the MPD for "Bback to school because on Monday the school year starts to school in public and private school.
What you are doing is right, Colonel Po, it is just right that the politics is in the heart of a decent official like you.
Um!
One more thing that should be given a chance to be placed in a good position is Chief Inspector Erwin Margjo, chief of Public Information Office of MPD.
It's because the intelligence and hard work of Marchore will be wasted if you will rot in PIO.
The skill in speech and harmony with the journalists of Margboro is not a question, it would be better if she will make a good unit or precinct because she can use his intelligence, skill and hard work.
