
Filipino, was able to die in the Philippines; being abusive for the Palace.

The administration of President Benigno Aquino III is in the right direction in relation to the alliance between the Palace in the White House on the issue of having a huge number of US troops, along with modern weapons and skillful warship.
This is a plan of the government for the modernization of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and long-term goal of having the Philippines with the judicial system of defense. "
According to the experts in diplomacy and foreign policy, the whole agreement will surely be used to the country from the conversation of defending Friends that the US and United States who will be more aggressive in each other.
Even if many people are opposing me and the Philippines, we need to be practical to defend our dignity as a free citizen and show our courage to fight for the country.
It is only right to start the war games between the Philippines and America in Zambales who are not far from the lives of China, Bajo de Masinloc because the fishermen have already done their boat due to the hot situation in the place where the forces of China are taking advantage.
They need to work hard in order to have a life for their family because they still do not expect from the local government and the result of the steps made by the national government in relation to the crisis.
The common people like the fishermen of Masinloc are directly affected by the disrespect of China in our sovereignty and physical jurisdiction of our territory.
That is why the government should continue with the friendship with the Americans.
We are not saying that the: "Will be the one to die because of you!" But we need to imitate what our heroes did for the sake of the country.
Um!
Is work working in Malacanang a person so that his fellow citizens will not have a help to one of the personnel of President Noynoy, should they need to use their influence?
It should be investigated by Secretary Rolando Llameg, Presidential adviser of political Affairs.
Someone introducing themselves as the executive assistant of his undersecretary is using his office in threat to get what he wants.
