Walden!

The Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news, "aims to see the campaign of Fil-Aums in order to see that the propaganda about the Marcos regime of Akbayan Rep. Walden Bello in front of the Americans in the US is all lies.
The reforms are going to succeed and fight against corruption in the current system of politics?
Bello said, "there is a need for a decision to achieve our task as progressive, but it is clear that he surrendered the progressive system of the country, and not only the country's problem is the resolve of the party opposition of those who have seen each other, not the real progressive.
It is still clear on the rays of the sun that Akbayan of the Marcos regime seems to serve as a classic example and one of the system has been made into comments, because it has been made to look progressive in the regime and system.
This is a new level of preparedness to be investigated by Bello, who even introduced themselves as the one who had a type of anti-laws which was being used by the agricultural sector in Asia, "which is being used by the basic commodities in the country in Asia."
Even as a regime, it is not progressive for Aquino.
Let us not wait for Aquino to Lent or Mao. But he is also not a Castro, not also an ally of the citizens and expressed their position in critical condition in the US, and it will also not pass by Aquino in different countries now.
Even back then, it can be expected that Bello will be able to say this kind of readiness to be investigated by Bello, he is focused on the oldest possibility of plunder case, it is noticeable that he is interested in making a decision instead of putting the sharp research and based on its basis, he is more allies.
The colleagues of Akbayan are proud that the the concept of the "Tuwid na Daan" will be a basis for other countries but this is the root of the examination of the international system.
He further sped up the change outside, not that change will be done by Bello in the change identified by Elmer Orcherness, the implementation of Akbayan in the important position of the Aquino government.
Before, they are able to hang out from the national non-local government units that have been suspicious of the national non-governmental organization, which is responsible for the feature, connection in Chile and Indonesia, but when no one was able to return.
Now, they are already at the bottom of those who see each other in the country and for sure, a bigger wealth and those who carry a huge power are going to find a hard time from there.
What they can do is to weaken and have a lot of money!
