
The value of words to the PMA.

It has been a few days from the news and netizens discussed about the cadet of the Philippine Military Academy (PMA).
There was a report that Cadet First Class Aldrin Jeff Cudia was not able to finish the prestigious school because he was late for two minutes in the next class.
Every seconds or minutes have been caught by the cadet for an autopsy is a violation of the regulations of Cadet Corps or Armed Forces of the Philippines (Bojo AFP), and this has a corresponding punishment.
And just like what was reported, "11-year-old which was considered to be the punishment given to him by his Oryong 501 and that was the last time he was in a separate case against the Honor Code.
According to the information, it was not late for 2 minutes by Cudia (he was supposed to be an official of the Philippine Navy) that became the cause of his bitter fate when it was said that he was not directly hit or four from the reason of his being too late, which is why he was considered in the hearing of the Honor Committee.
Because what was lying is a violation of the Honor Code of the PMA and if it is proven that he has violated, he can resign and save his integrity; or remain in the PMA and face the Honor Code for how much is the punishment to violate this?
The Honor Code will be a regulations wherein the Honor Code of the PMA pressuring the scheduled process of the PMA due to the cadets of the PMA due to the cadets of the PMA due to the cadets of the PMA due to the approval of the PMA due to the approval of the PMA due to an identification of an official as Adviser on-Charge of Committee.
The process is written in a book compared to a book placed in a book starting from the PMA due to the PMA due to the PMA due to the PMA due to the PMA due to the PMA which is considered a declaration and accepted by no doubt or doubt.
That's what's right for the people who are taking place and are preparing for the leaders of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (and the government and private sector in the future), and the trust that was given to them.
The Honor Code of the Honor Code was hugged and said that all the cadets of the PMA) did not count because it was proven that almost half of the cadets of the PMA after it was proven that almost half of the Honor Code.
We can no longer pass through this case even if we have information from the PMA), it is clear that this is a challenge in the importance of the Honor Code for a difficult violation of the Honor Code for a difficult violation of the Honor Code for a difficult part of the PMA due to an institution part of the PMA - the Honor Code.
There is nothing wrong if the management of the PMA will determine if there is a violation of power over power over the Honor Code that should have been made into the result if they should accept the corresponding punishment, and if they should accept the corresponding punishment, they should be able to accept the appropriate punishment and return to Cadet Cudia.
We should respect the system that gives importance to the word of the PMA where the lives of the soldiers are submerged in their shoulders; the lives of the soldiers; and the use of weapons of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
(For your reaction or comment at the edad of 90 centimeters.
