BBL will push through and not.

The hairs stood up, Bro, if you hear what the National Football Development Authority is saying about the agriculture and industry of food in the Philippines.
The price of agriculture is only about 11 percent in the entire economy of the country.
The 25 percent of this are in terms of factories, and 65 percent in service.
Everywhere, the sectors are everywhere.
For the National Football Development Authority, the agricultural sector or the industry are reduced and this will only have their own fruits in our whole society.
The NEDA also said that it can be found in the farmers (those who are going to meet the farmers (farmers, the laborers, especially those in Hacienda Luisita, and fishermen, including the agricultural sector, we are those with the biggest rice in the whole world as an example.
Have faith in agriculture.
In total, in the year 2014, around 41.2 million pesos from 100 million Filipinos from 100 million Filipinos from the age of 15 and above.
From 41.2 million pesos, there are 38.5 million pesos.
For those who have work, the farmers and fishermen are already at 11.3; 31M for those who are in factories or ill-tempered; and 20.7M for those who are in service.
As explanation, Bro, example of those who are in service are those who are in service, for telecommunication and transportation, in the mall and banks, businessmen, co-workers, co-workers, co-workers, co-workers, vendors, and Uichico.
In Thailand and Vietnam.
Thailand and Vietnam are the closest countries that can be compared to the agricultural situation in the Philippines.
In Thailand, 39.4million workers and around 46 percent or more than 18M are in agriculture.
The total number of workers in Vietnam and around 64 percent or 33.7M for the agricultural sector was recorded by the World Bank.
If you notice, Bro, you extremely give importance and not neglect the agriculture, that is why my population and fishermen have a huge population.
In other words, they do not neglect the farmers and fishermen.
That is why the farmers are enthusiastic to farm.
It is the opposite in the Philippines that the victims can be found in agriculture and we want to get hungry, in agriculture, the rich and plentiful in the countries Thailand and Vietnam are found.
No.
At present, Vietnam and Thailand are going to fight for the biggest medicine for the whole world.
The Philippines that the agricultural sector in these countries is from the importation of rice and there is still a record for the biggest economic growth in the whole world.
In case the crisis in the food is very slow, there is no hunger in Thailand and Vietnam.
But in my beloved Philippines?
The problem is not just a supply, even the price of food and hunger is needed if there is a crisis.
Nothing or lacking for support.
According to the NEDA, the agricultural damage from the government is not enough.
The government and fishermen are not enough for its subsidy.
There is nothing or lack in help in a house or capital.
There is nothing or lacking in infrastructure like roads, bridge, grasses, and warehouse.
No one is lacking in selling.
There's nothing or lack of research on beautiful decorations, modern farm and fishing.
This is how the situation is, as long as they are being coercion and El Niño.
The government and fishermen also do not have any help in the government after they were caught by typhoon, flood and El Niño.
Too much.
Instead of the help brought by the government to the farmers and fishermen, children of tofu, "it is expected that they are happening.
Those in the government put the mind on how to remove the products they collected so that they can reach the commission of a lot of money, that is not only on rice and other products but the damage caused by the ship between the ship and the truck which is used in transportation.
This is until the National Food Authority continues to undergo 70 billion pesos and will be the financial loss of the National Food Authority.
It is also mixed with the extreme fear on case the importation are still there, there are some who are from the government aside from the private sector.
In filing a private person or company, there is always an accomplice of high-ranking people in the government.
The field of Land conservation will still remain in the farms, with a mixture of number of people in the government, while illegal fishing is being neglected and there is a mix of illegal fishing in the shore.
Enough.
Admit it or not by the government, the abuse and cleaning of the agricultural sector is widespread in the agriculture and extreme hunger and poverty in the ranks of farmers and fishermen.
The NEDA also said the agricultural sector was reduced.
The investigation in the Senate on the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program and other proof is that the agriculture caused by agriculture.
All this is right and should be done in the leadership of the government.
