A big success is happening this year.

Editorial Department.
The country.
January 7, 2012.
What is ongoing is that the crisis being experienced by the crisis in the current US-Aquino and the society and national growth of the Filipino people are pushing them on the path of Antartica the big advancement and success of the filipino masses and the armed revolution.

Let us fix the wide unity of the people against the Marcos US-Aquino and the anti-Filipino people and anti-Filipino people and the price of gasoline and the price of gasoline and for additional wages, they should intensify the struggle for the national rules and fight for the development of Salik and local economists.

We should tighten the broad and strong struggle for reforms on the land of the Filipino farmers in the whole country, to protect the highest unity of the country, to defend their Muslim ancestors and intensify the fight against the mining companies and basic commodities in the mining and major plantation.

Let us expose the huge loss of "straight path," Aquino, and what is being done by the people in their community, especially in the eastern part of the citizens of the Philippine government, especially in the international law, we should focus on the development of the citizens of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the Philippine government, especially in the Saligang Batas of the US.

Let us organize the wide unity of the country against the plan of the Marcos US-Aquino's plan to finally give up the foreigners to face the colonizers.

It has been two years since the House Committee of Liberal Party has initially released the call for the advancement of Filipino people towards the advancement of Filipino people towards the advancement of Filipino nation towards the advancement of Filipino nation towards the Botchok and increase of weapon for more than this year.

Because of the continuous energy of the victims, the farmers are continuously increasing, especially the youth in the countryside, especially the youth in the whole country that will be the initiative of the implementation of the masses in the coming years, and the active participation of the masses to the armed revolution.

Killing the Filipino people and activists will push away from the ranks of the youth, workers and other sectors of the Philippines, we should not be used by the bickering and abuse of the filipino masses, to end the bickering and abuse of the filipino masses, to end the bickering and abuse of the filipino masses, to end the bickering and abuse of the filipino masses, to end the bickering and abuse of the filipino masses.

Let us strengthen our Liberal Party, politics and organization, we need to make a strong Liberal Party and other duties in pushing the masses, and to serve as a big challenge to bring the Filipino nation in a new and higher level in a new future.
