
The horseshoe, TE, TE. "The government of PNoy.

Each has their own excuse that will challenge those who are involved in the P10 billion Janet Lim-Napoles scam.
It is possible that something is right for them but for sure, there are more who have a big hands and pocket.
"Others said," I did not know Janet, "!"
Others are challenging the lower abdomen and Ma'am Pilar himself to speak so we can find out the same thing.
On the list of Benhur Luy.
Around 25 are the number of senators involved in congress.
This is on the list of Ben Hur, based on the diment given by his family in Inquirer's released news.
The incumbent or current senator is at 15 and the former senator is around 10.
It is said that the money brought about by the senators on the Priority Development Assistance Fund is illegal.
Hahaha!
Who would they be, who will be held in a song, who is in the list of Luy?
There is no malice in our ranks to release the record that was taken by Inquirer's record.
Included in the incumbent Senator Juan Ponce Enrile, Ramon Revilla, Jr., Jinggoy Estrada, Vicente "Tito" Sotto, Miriam Defensor-Santiago, Loren Legarda, Franklin Drilon, Franklin Drilon, Franklin Drilon, Ralph Recto, Ralph Recto, Ralph Recto, Ralph Recto, Alan Peter Cayetano.
Also on the list were former senators Edgardo Angara, Manny Villar, with Tessie Reyes, Nene Pimentel, Rodolfo Biazon, Robert Jaworski, Robert Barbers, Ramon Magsaysay, Ramon Magsaysay, Ramon Revilla, Senior.
Hahaha!
Here is the list held by idol Ping Lacson but was submitted to the Senate blue ribbon committee.
Ramon "Bong" Revilla, Jr.
Included in the list are the fervent prayer of PNoy, Budget Secretary Florencio Abad and Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala.
It is Santos City.
Ms. NaiCam also saying that the list of those who have a hold of Guingona if his list would be made.
It is said that the incumbent is 13, aside from the three senators who are facing charges in the Office of the Ombudsman.
The question now, Miss Cam asked to make his list "alle as a source of payment from the source of payment?
Let us wait for the order of the blue ribbon committee of this.
Deadline to watch de Lima.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima also has its own list.
Today is the deadline to submit his list of corrupt and plunderer.
According to the committee of Senator TG Guingona III, to be an official, the command to De Lima will pass in-list.
De Lima does not need to make time to prove if those in the list are involved or not.
It is clear that, the work of the Senate is to investigate while they should guide them as they are investigating.
Senate!
Until this day, Guingona tells that they are still talking about what they will do after getting all the list.
"Is they decided to investigate if they are still investigating or not anymore.
Their reason, the investigation is over and their data or record are enough to amend the laws in corruption and corruption and other laws.
For others, it means that the Senate is a disadvantage anymore in investigating.
We was hesitant because if it is true that up to 15 and more will be involved again, the Senate will not have complete credibility.
How can the people still trust the Senate if all of them are corrupt and corrupt?
He is persistent.
"Others, are determined to have an investigation.
So they will be given a chance to clean their names.
But, the others, especially the majority of those who will be named, are just quiet or not convinced to continue in continuing the investigation.
The question: What is the reason for their silence or taking advantage of the investigation?
"Are they really hiding something and they also take everything in the right path," said.
They want to say in court.
It's closed in the legislative chamber.
In the legislative chamber, the leadership of the proposal to have an investigation on them is closed.
This is after the list has 90 congressmen who were involved in Napoles scam.
We do not know what it means, but what the people know, the congressmen know that they will not open the investigation.
Deawking in the palace.
The people of the Palace are always doing their involvement.
But this is surprising, PNoy has long known the list but he did not do anything.
What they are talking about is the cases against Manong Johnny, Jinggoy and Bong.
Why is it really obvious?
