Free to pull and make the alphabet right away.

Interview with Attorney Jose Maria Sison.
Founding chairman, NPA Party of the Philippines.
By Roselle, AOIL.
Liberation Front.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (the Revolution was set to be free in front of the box that was being taken on - It.
Roselle Lerio Bompat what you immediately say about the arrest of Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria?

Jose Maria Sison (ALS): I thought that the arrest of the two consultant has been said to have been arrested for the murder of Joint Agreement on Human Rights) that they have the documents of the identities of the victim under JAdona, and they should be protected from having an identification, harassment and arrest.
Isn't it true, just like what Alex Padilla said, the military and other human rights violation of Aquino, that they are against the peace talks?, "Tiamzon, and they do not agree with you and the panel when Duterte wants to help you.

The married couple Tiamzon is supported by the peace talks which is why they are the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office of PKP, that they should read the diment of the Negro, PKP, which is owned by the Negro, PKP, which is owned by the Negro, PKP, which should be supported by the Nezahung Masang Pilipino at the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.

119th: How do you know Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria?

The Model Shop is known as well as a good leader of the Manila-Rizal of the Liberal Party of the Philippines on the early part of 1970, after it became a secretary for the highest Bank of the PKP, politics and organization.

Boom: What you know about the involvement and role of Tiamzon in the PKP last 1990, on the second Daang Cariton Curva?

Pedicab driver Tiamzon was hired by the biggest role, which started in 1992, this is the third time of education that resulted in the Saligang Batas and resulted to the legislative chamber's budget that resulted in the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas and the experts and experts of the supreme court.

Boom: What you know about the current role of the couple Tiamzon in the KP, and their activities in Visayas when they were arrested?

JMK: The ones I can trust was the source of information about the current role of the Tiamzon, the PKP, which was released by the PKP, which is given thorough attention on the situation and rehabilitation of the community and the families of the victims of the typhoon "Yolanda) in Visayas.

Boom: What will become the arrest of the couple Tiamzon in the management of the PKP, according to the military, if Tiamzon, the management of the PKP has no hole.

The republic of the Puguiao said that it is not dependent on any leader, no matter how he will be arrested last 1977, I continues to arrest Marcos in spite of his observation that he finished the PKP, for his arrest.

Like our Julie when they were arrested last 1977, Benny Tiamzon and Wilma Austria are preparing to change his companions as if compared to basketball, I can say that the bank has a deep predicament that will be given to the national budget, as well as the Pambansang Kamao in the 17 region.

Boom: What will happen to the New Hala Bayan and to Filipino people?

Dominion bus, it is expected that the Botchok (HB) will meet the Filipino people because of the Filipino people because the government's system is fat from poor people because the country's system has been disconcerting for the rotten system of big poor people who are proud of the poor US.

Boom: What is the status of the peace talks by the NDFP-Gumba before the arrest of the couple Tiamzon, what is the outcome of the peace talks?

The Korean couple Tiamzon was identified to arrest the peace talks by the Marcos family in the prevailing agreement between the Aquino administration with the existing agreement between the NDFP members who is protected by the Philippine Constabulary that is protected by JAG G in the peace talks.

Makes you have a message that we want to convey to Benito Tiamzon, Wilma Austria, and their five other companions?

JMK: Is being done by Luis Jalandoni and the Needitions of our panel when they insist on the release of their fight, I said to be imprisoned for an important form of service to the citizens, which is full of inspiration to the citizens who are thorough to fight for their national and civic works.

What is your message to the Marcos regime?

JMC: Respect the The Humalig) and JAOIL) and free the Philippine Azkals to respect the Comprehensive Final Agreement (Izzy Canillo) and set the Liberal Party on Human Rights (Izzy Canillo) to set a strong basis to continue the peace talks.
