The LTFRB should explain many things.
By between Dacer August 3, 2016.
On the own mouth of the former Land Transportation and Chambers (LTFRB) board member Attorney Ariel Quilang, the words uttered by the mandate of some public utility vehicles (PUV) is due to the slow approval of the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) that was assigned to the said job.
It is clear that this explanation of Inton was to say in an interview with him yesterday on a station in radio, which is not in the hands of the LTFRB for the approval of his application to the franchise of taxi, UV Expresses and other public Transportation.
Even though it was not direct, it seems like the blame was done by the DOTC, the reason why many application for the franchise was not surprising because it was not surprising that this statement of the former official of the LTFRB will have been burned, this is the end of July because it was not known by the majority especially the operators of PUV.
One friend of the person I spoke with is severe the indignation of LTFRB because of the slow process being implemented on the approval of her application to the approval of the franchise.
It was said that he waited for a year just to be approved by her application to send a franchise.
But after I heard Attorney's explanation, everything had clarity.
I saw the reason why people who are coordinating with the LTFRB should not be angry because the LTFRB does not have the approval of the application to the franchise but the DOTC.
Just him, the problem in LTFRB is that they are not giving a clear explanation but to just go back to their office until your patience is gone and surrender your fight for any documents.
This is not right, it is not right that the trend of the LTFRB is not right because this is contrary to the implementation of the Duterte government to make the process of process to the government.
That's why the LTFRB should be one of the need for a long time because this becomes a long time problem but it seems that there is no change happening even to who will lead.
