Just tell the students here in San Isidro Elementary School because of the rising water brought by an ice cream-barya Gang; we can't do anything about it, every time we saw that it is a small amount of garbage from each of the children and teachers here in school.
This pain is being experienced by many students.
This problem might have been an argument for the start applying for a new classroom this March there is only a construction of material things going to the school.
Zailon and Lamar Odom were surprised when we fried rice and now, he received a deep wound that would lead here to my students, especially when he arrived at the same floor of the building for the six-high school, but when he / she was able to reach each other, he / she was able to reach each other every morning when he / she reached for a high school.
In the house that were delayed, they are busy with our students, they are busy with the small rooms because there are many we need to endure first until they do not have the new visitor that I have talked to.
It should be started in number and when it happens, they started when they started a life, Ryan did not hide his eyes.
It was five pesos and had been delayed in things that was why it reached until now.
It is part of the price of public transport to four pesos for the Pts of Project 8.
And involved in this program will be given to two new Philippines schools for the future of this school year.
The problem in the middle of the month is the trouble that there is still a copy of a few decades that they are prohibited to say that they have a big book brought about.
Fried rice is a huge amount to remove its beauty because there is a storm which might reach its beauty.
Even if that is the celebration, it might end up in the celebration, it will not be seen alive; we can no longer be seen because it seems that it would be terrible because it seems that he is terrible because of the water.
Yes.
The ten-year-old Dionesio er was ten years old when her daddy was just close to a thrift shop while entering the school.
Yes, then.
He immediately interview him.
That's why it's like that.
Afraid!
But we cheated.
Monday.
Yes.
He was just going out of their house to reach up to his knee to reach up to his knee.
He still approached the school until they entered their room.
I make a lot of food for eating.
What was called?
Help my parents.
