Serving as the Pambansang Kamao has become emotional.

It's important to use the ingredients that are emotional in enriching the Pambansang Kamao.
This is the center of doubt among those who complained about the annual national boards or union of the writers in the Philippines (APEC) and 30 minutes of August, 24, and 30 of August to communication between the airport ranks of the Philippines (UP) - Diliman.
When Rosario Lucero, the professor of the Filipino in UP arrived, the interest of the interest of the students of the Filipinos started to return to their provinces in order to raging the old vendors and the author.
"They looked for the trunk of the author which is why the researchers, culture and language from different regions, he said.
It can be recalled that the politics in the country prevailed in the country until the last year of the decades, which is why the students were forced to spend on researching for their own region for the works that they have been buried in the country when the foreigner arrived in the country.
In addition to this, it became a big chunk of the Batasang Pambansa in the progress of Filipinos especially that he became the cause of the launch of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.
According to Lucero, the writers have already given a big help from the establishment that are being swept in a large part of the identity of the country, because of this, the Filipinos in the Constitution has no longer been imprisoned, instead of giving a theory, instead of this kind of theory that comes from others.
"With the change that means of the Batasang Pambansa, it opened the violent, a creative way of research on the suspension of the mayor, the mayor, in the inspection," said Lucero.
Lucero mentioned an example of Alvin Ysrael, the professor of Filipino in Ateneo de Manila, which is about the examination of the blood that has listened to the filipino language.
In Ysrael, he used the translation of Filipino in the research of being emotional in order to identify the shirt and space of the indigenous people who are rooted on the native rice harvests.
The accusations of the indigenous people were refuted by the allegations that the indigenous people are forgetful and the cause of being repeatedly trapped in the crooked road, was intentional and this is a type of way of writing.
Lucero added that it is not important if the outline of the duck meat from different regions is the most important thing that they should pay attention to each other.
"The writers have no responsibility for their respective provinces but they have the right to choose what they are going to choose, how will they ask the report, where they will ask, to let them visit their freedom," he said.
Meanwhile, according to Joseph Salazar, members of the indigenous people in Ateneo, the construction of Filipino in philosophy in art and copra production, which aims to give information and enjoyment is that it has long been predominant in any attempt by the tradition in critical condition in the Philippines.
Even if we are going to have been to the sales of the ducks which have been set aside from the form of misfortune which has been implemented, we continue to stop going to the art of art, (Science and manner of teaching.
"The ratification of the widespread brownout in the Philippines is in critical condition here in the Philippines but it is not only one force regarding the past but it is also important that Salik is doing to weaken then accept his lack of power," says Salazar.
The ducks are emotional in movies.
It's also given attention to physical or negative things where ducks are pushing in the movie, make noise or national.
According to Michael Cornes, an associate of Ateneo and the secretary, it might be the form of the arts of many of the youth, which is why it is very important to talk about it. "
He explained, that many of the movies that you have been doing to are the first to be done in the checks they are making, which is why it is possible that the latter is being carried away in the field of film.
Even though the movie rural of the said city is not far away from the moments of their pet elements, the two remains to oppose.
According to John Iric Teodoro Bacani, the professor of Filipino in Miriam College, the films which are emotional in pushing the use of the emotional language, is beneficial.
"The movies from the region may be able to step down in order to donate language in the formation of a real national Filipino language," he said.
