Chappelle, and Lingayen Bayombong, is almost complete.

July 29, 2016 El, Marie B.

City of Dagupan, July 29 (Pia Gutierrez) - Ang Cimetidine) and Lingayen Bayombong, there are two big projects in the provincial government of Pangasinan and the local tourism is almost complete.
According to the list of the members of the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Pangasinan in 2nd District Engineering Office, the chief of Lingayen Bayambang this extension is at 98 percent while the Casa Parish Church is about 85 percent then.
According to Bernardo Caraan, one officer of DPWH-Pangasinan 2nd Deo, the Lingayen Bayug, who looks respectable towards the sea of Barangay San Isidro Norte in the town of Binigan, is almost over and still plans to fix the city of Dagupan and the town of San Fabian.
According to him, along with the cooperation of the Department of Tourism (DOT), Provincial Government of Pangasinan, DPWH and Senior Police District representative Leopoldo Bat@-@ oil, is expected to serve as Kennon Road going to northern Luzon when complete.
According to him, it will be helpful to speed up the trip to northwest part of Luzon because traffic can be avoided by motorists.
Meanwhile, the Chope is true in the town of Lingayen, who will serve as the Provincial Prosecutor's in Pangasinan, it is expected to finish and join together with the celebration of the 80th anniversary of AOIL, Pangasinan in April 5 next year.
Casa or Rodriquez is built last time by the Spaniards as the first capitol of Pangasinan.
According to governor Amado Espino III, Cambot who is real as the Provincial Crime Operatives) in the province, it will serve as the 20th Infantry Batallion of the World Boxing ts and other things related to history and culture of Pangasinan.
According to Espino, the first part of the Cousins will be implemented by the provincial government that was headed by his father, former governor and now the 5th District representative, Amado Espino, Junior.
He added that the fixing of the said building is possible for the cooperation of the DPWH that provided 30 million for the second part; Tourism Sec. NJ) that provided free training for the employees of the provincial government, which will serve as representatives of the provincial government.

(Jony P / EBS Aquino / Pia-1, Pangasinan)
