There are many of the Philippines in the front of a rabbit after it.
Just us, Binay said.
The country is going to share and continue to swim in the Saturday pushed by the President to the situation which is bought as the integrity of the country.
It's because it is better for a yes to be short; rather, to be ready, to be ready for the guidance of some of the Bulaga.
April will be done here in the Philippines.
The police was allegedly falling in order to me by Two six-six-NPA.
Outside Police Officer 3: C) there will also be those who speak.
"We are anxious; we are with Puri Adel, what we can do, that is why we are still ready for him and when we get married, they also need to be a father and then they will be married, and then they are going to be married and then they will be together.
It will be recalled that after the bait will spread again, the next to be the ones who are the ones who are planning to eat the area that we are planning to eat at the colleges, they say that they are still being said in Singapore's beauty.
There is a help how the storm was able to escape from the country.
Here.
Stay here.
Whoever is your opponent in this past, you don't know who is your enemy, sometimes it is an attack that will support the integrity that you have never thought about Saturday afternoon, that's why you didn't expect that you will not have been deceived.
When is your birthday?
And that is what I said earlier while we are looking for no shame that is happening with Concepcion.
We are saying and it is our principle now that we are now in front of our mall because he said it is said that Shanaels, you said that you have nothing to do to you, isn't it right for you to be Jonalyn Viray, right?
Are you in a close restaurant?
So yes, because what happened to a pattern in a pattern in this is one of the things that came out from the Department, because Recruitment and Recruitment and fix it.
That's why they need to pass through a state that is focused on by the motorcycle.
Yes.
I told him.
It seems that they saw these.
According to him, the amount coming out of the video of those he's going to in Alabang is that, according to the province, I still do not care what you want, that is why they still do not care what you want, that is why it is scary that they will go near this morning, because it is scary that she will do something that is why it is scary that he will do it.
This Sunday, it's as if he / she's like his friend, we said that we need to put our country on our country because we have a meeting with each other that is probably in a meeting.
Affected are the ones affected; the Philippines' yes, Divisoria committee, which will also be the children, when it comes to non-Grades after good fortune, it can also be bought by schools.
I am also the police in the room.
According to them, four hundred thirty two consecutive years after we say that it's not really a month to us, we can't say that we don't say that many are annoying for each other.
Talk.
I said that is the one that will change.
"You can live here, because it seems that it is going to rain the bad event in poverty, it seems that what's important is what's important is that what kind of people are in my place.
That you are tired.
Thank you, but there is really a signal of cellphone that is super similar to the Priority Development Assistance Fund, which is the blurring of the ashes, which is very derogatory so that it seems like a trace.
To be annoyed.
I already asked for a limit, I have a lot of co-workers who are going to school because of course, when I woke up, I had a text message that of course, we still have five years if it's okay.
"Are they her Ate Llie on other four victims of Sammy there, which is why you don't know what happened in the alphabet right, that's why you didn't know what happened in the alphabet right, that's why you didn't know what happened next to those who have gone to school, that's why you didn't know what happened next to each other, that's why they didn't know how to go home to the country, that's why they didn't know how to go around six-seven years old, that's why they didn't know that they would not be annoyed.
Very short; we are the ones who will be the one in favor of the former, Scott dio'clock in the afternoon.
You will be angry that you are often the one to watch.
If you are sad, it is exactly what you want to happen that is why you really love to fix the poor.
To push for the war they will say, that I have said.
Already on Thursday.
Yes, he asks that I really miss you, what you want to happen should you just call him up and quickly.
It is good for you to be carried away by what they do, as if they do not want to get out, and what we do not want, we should separate from each other because there are people who have been cut off from each other because there are people who are in good condition, and there are people who are in good condition, which is why there's a former voice who has a former voice.
You really miss you like the entry of you.
Also joined.
What is the problem there in Malate?
You are sure that you can't do it, you are not saying that you can't say that one of them is how you know how to happen.
Just at exactly five o'clock in work, we can work hard to work.
That's why there's too much pity for others to insult.
But this is the reason why this is happening to you, Riza Laak, it can still sleep that there is really a number of guns on April that's why it seems that we are going to sleep with a new generation on April that's why we even know that we are studying.
Is the Republic?
It's because it's because it's right that you are cleaning the barangay to leave the barangay so that I will leave the problem with this because what they are saying yes to those who believe in your studies or for an amount, is here in the classes.
I shooting.
We saw that we heard that we have heard a lot; we have been to a few children who still need to die so that I can only die from those who are far from this, I said that they would be able to make it through a person that you can make on to front of a person in front of a person in front of a person in front of a person in front of a person in front of a person.
The amount that happened will be later on.
Yes.
So what?
You will be buried there because you will make the cooking of your trouble to me.
Say yes.
Even if we are being blamed on Saturday, we will be able to remember this Saturday when we do not remember here on the T-M-B) what they are saying so that it is not possible to show that other countries are not allowed to show.
You are repeating ourselves because there might be someone watching them to know about it.
You are not giving it here in the Philippines to look at the Philippines, whose side are still here.
"I am not able to look like a lot of our fellow countrymen who are living in this column and you know that those who take care of them do not say what they say to me.
Yes, what?
Still!
Also nothing.
That's why we don't understand each other.
And on Facebook, will you not happen?
Mark does not get tired of it.
Sometimes I will wake up from Bacolod.
It was charged by her pictures at him that's why it's better for me to be a better air conditioner because, at that age of 30 pesos was there last night, Cordova when I was taught with Jordan.
Because it is just a bit worse, it is time to force the corner of the revolutionaries to be the state of simple Smart.
He / she was already old, what was the same thing, he / she was able to speak up.
What?
Yes.
We have an advice, because, what does the Americans have, that is why the Americans will only have five steps to six months.
One six-six months.
Four o'clock.
!
Two teenagers.
Zero should not be.
That's okay, that's just okay, they have not yet discussed; we still have no idea that there are still no people who died because of the tricycle drivers who are in good months.
