
The hidden "crocodile" in BOC.

Until now there is a hidden "crocodile" who continues to steal and get rich while rich in the Bureau of Customs (BoC).
They are the reason why the selling of products from rice, fake things can be made up to electronic gadgets and appliances.
Just recently, the authorities confiscated the fake bag that costs more than a billion pesos in a warehouse in Binondo, Manila.
The battle that was abandoned was only one of the products that did not make it because of the hidden crocodiles in the BoC like one alias "Vangal," they allegedly collected money from the broker and connotation.
According to our source, Vangal is the disease of the broker because if they will not agree to the price of 330,000 pesos, which is set by the cargo trucks.
Probably they will not release this because Vir is using the name of a high official of the BOC.
He / she was wearing.
Prior to this, the Customs operatives confiscated some drug smuggling which costs more than 1 million pesos.
Included here are 342 box of "Ipit Gang" which is composed of second-year-old clothes, shoes, toys and things in the office such as the door ajar, "and two 40-foot, which contains garlic, which has no appropriate documents.
The Customs have also caught up for more than 30 minutes which contains different products such as rice, garlic, television, part of computers and a huge vehicle which costs $40-million in Misamis Oriental.
The businessmen behind contraband importation are set to be charged.
He / she was wearing.
The BoC filed a case on smuggling against the representatives of Silent Royalty Marketing who were behind the importation of rice which cost P648 million in the market without appropriate permission.
Rice came from Thailand and Vietnam through the ports of Manila and Cebu from September until November 2013.
The Customs filed a case against the BOld BE.
He / she was wearing.
According to BOC Commissioner John Sevilla, they intensified the campaign against drugs, and it can be seen on the cargo trucks and contraband found in their arrest.
But maybe he should look back when he turned around and get to know his personnel.
The problem is the veins found inside the Customs which can't make its way out if there is no crocodile which makes it in exchange for a huge amount of them to remove them and maybe the name of Sevilla may be used by Sevilla.
