Just coming back.

If an OFW is going to be complacent as passengers of the airplane, but because of the unexpected occasion, there is something happening to our fellowmen whose lives cannot be avoided, that is why our lives cannot be avoided, that is why we do not really hold on it but our present.

So we often hear the dream of having a good future for the family, so they are always focused on the future.

Life abroad is difficult in abroad and it is hard to get along with the people who have not been together with too much cold or too much heat, which is also the reason of the right time to death.

Anyway, death is always timely.

It is hard to plan for our future because we are not holding the tomorrow because for the long time of our countrymen, especially to our countrymen, we have already met many times with their bodies.

They are the former passengers who, before, in the age of their loved ones, but sometimes, the dreams of our OFWs do not end here together with the dreams of our OFW.

That's why we should always be thankful for our life to be temporarily stabbed to us by our Mayapa, ah, to use this meaningful things and become beneficial to what we are thinking of.

Just recently, Irene personally went to Bantay, meow, and narrated the bad experience that she experienced in Saudi, she said that she just stayed out from the room of her employer, who was not able to get out from the room and she was not able to get out of the room and she was not able to get out of the room and he was not able to get out of the room and she was not able to get out of the room and he was not able to get out of the room.

On the fourth day, he was only fed there, but he was transferred to his second boss who is also a teacher.

After that, he was transferred by a second employer for her third employer, who is also a teacher at the first time, but after a long time, she lasted for more than one (1) month on the third time, which she lasted for more than one (1) month on the third time.

When Marilyn Abanggan, Bantay, who was able to talk to the representative of Rayza International Agency, that Irene were not fed up, they said that it was just a part of their employers, the POEA fought against it, which will be held accountable by Irene.

After more than a month, Irene was shocked because she was returned to her second boss, she was beaten, strangled and stabbed by five people, according to him, she was asked to have an envelope with her third employer, she was also not able to receive an envelope from there.

Jealousy is the cause of everything that started when the female boss, whom the male boss, is detained by a male boss, and the one who bought the bread was from the house of his employer.

Irene could have a debt of P7,000 pesos worth of 20,000 pesos because of the pipe he was leaning on to Advincula Road Office of POEA but they assured the case to end the case and immediately release the hearing.
