Right: "Epal."

Atom Araullo.
It is true that the "epal" can't be irritated and see their names and face each other, even if you are hardworking, it can be picked up by themselves - on the roof of the building, even those who spend more packs of the building.
"You will be irritated when they have someone being incriminated in the poster of what kind of human" Congratulations to the town of Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista, which is why there's also a chance to greet Quezon City Mayor Herbert Bautista, which is why there's a good thing that you should thank you, "thank you," thank you, "thank you," thank you.
It seems that the attention given by the politicians is effective now because they are being targeted by the ones who are pointing at him, Facebook-ER, and the comedienyos, Facebook-ER, who will try to put social media for their joke.
The anti-" epal. "Will increase, and I am not sure, but I have read in Twitter or I have read in the news, there are also shouting and it was revealed to the people whose face or names were revealed.
On the other hand, it is possible to treat it as a success if the anti-peso bill will be passed, and even in making things that they should do, the surroundings, but the problem, is to be a shallow way for the people to meet the politicians.
"What is the" epal "?" From the word paper - are meddling and making an honor, even if not in the area.
Every time the country's money is the money of the people for their own progress, "that is what they are applying for and having true reform in the land, because most of them do not want to progress in the Philippines, because most of them, have their own Filipino workers who do not want to give attention to farmers.
But it is not only the politicians who will be in the world of this world, even if the anti-" epal "will be treated at the internet, they can be treated as" epal "in the middle of a quiet place, and they are trying to sign the students for the budget campaign of newspaper (read the backpage).
That's why all of us, "epal" epal "is" epal "in" epal "epal" "in the truth," we are really happy with the reasons why we play in.
