A threat from the fund of Coco is a threat.

It seems that the Aquino government is thinking about everything that can be done for the funds of Coco to y, aside from his true owner.
There is there to allocate funds for the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program (Carper), or in exchange of compensation for the big owners of the land, there will be put in the program Condleweight championship (CCT), or of stealing coins from the poor families.
On the other hand, the small coconut farmers will only want to return to them the fund, and because the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) will go back to the public funds this October 5, the fight of the farmers to recover him.
Still having difficulty in coconut farm.
Some of the coconut farmers who were sent back then by the Marcos dictatorship from the tax which were used by her children or grandchildren, they still have no own land and support from the government.
It was only one of the coconut farmers, Mylene Zanthem, who was opposing in the complaint of Coco to be an fund of Carper hour in 2004 for two hectares of coconut plantation in San Francisco, Quezon - in the 2004 election for two hectares of coconut plantation in San Francisco, Quezon - in his fear, the land would be taken back from them because they cannot handle the land.
If the expenses of production will be made up, it appears that up to 10,000 pesos in every year, aside from roaming around 15 to 20 percent of every year, it is very low if the copra is dried and sometimes, it will only reach P12 per kilo.
Zanthem also did not agree to use Coco, the said program, but he did not feel better because of the absence of five children) aside from being contented with five children) aside from being treated last six months.

Because of the owner of the land, the holiest part of the CoIslamic Liberation Front (CIF) of his grandfather is proof that Zanthem should be used for the House Bill 3443 of Asibars, which needs to be used for the price of copra production, "he said, the price of copra," he said.
Just in the province of Quezon, it is estimated that around 200,000 by small coconut farmers are in need of support by the government.
Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) is pushing for the immediate release of the fund of the fund which according to the group, they are asking how to get their part - a question that the Aquino government has no answer.
For the 2013 election?
Just like a lot of coconut farmers, who is reportedly still holding, Willy Marbella, deputy secretary General of KMP), the typical passenger of his late father, had no use for the long time.
Bronchitis, copra maker, Marbella, since he was in elementary.
A certain Cocoy was the organization of big businessmen who were used by Cojuangco, which is owned by Coco to the name of small coconut farmers, January this year, the Supreme Court dismissed the petition of Cocoy's petition to question the public owned by the funds.
It sets the success of small coconut farmers who fought for funds, inside and outside the court.
It is scheduled to release any hour of recommendation for the use of Coco to fund the Presidential Task Force (NGO), which was held by President Aquino last December 2011, part of the task force, the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC), Department of Transportation and Department of Budget and Management Council.
But it was announced that at NAPC Swift, Joel Rocamora, the fund is going to be used for Carper and CCT, this is the reason why the funds of the farmers and those who rushed to the office of Rocamora in Quezon City were the ones who rushed to the office of Rocamora in Quezon City.

Meanwhile, even if it has not been long in the country's budget, it is being ordered by the Aquino government to cut off the provisions in the 2013 General Appropriations Act, which costs 15 percent of funds, or 8.64-B, who are both under the Office of the President.
It was said that the suspension of the two office of the two office will allegedly be taken back to the expenses of the funds ("
KMP) also suspected that the plan to build the budget for the CCT is related to the coming election because it is possible that the candidates of Aquino will possibly use it to get the votes of Marbella, "the use of a thing that you are not owned by it."
Hundreds of farmers from different provinces have evacuated last October 19 and there were a symbol of a long time waiting for them to recover their funds and they know that they will be given to their fight, especially under the government as if there is another plan.
