After the Independence Day.

What do we celebrated last June 12, Independence Day or Ismol Family Day?
What happened on that day in 1898 is clear, it is clear in Kawit, Cavite the declaration of freedom written in the United States because it can be said that it has been a good use of red, white and blue in the United States but it can still be said that the recognition of the so-called leader of the revolution. "
This year is the 120th anniversary of the Independence Day, there might be arguments in spite of talking in the United States, reading the declaration and improvement of their own flag (inside the own National Anzon) that shows the intention of the Filipinos who left untreated.
There is no debate at this point, but if there is a intention to have his own government before, the departure from foreign control has two opposing ways - it is quiet to ask and actual fight.
For some leaders, peace is needed in the negotiation of colorums in the government so that the public does not need to go back to the first part of the United States and acknowledging the authorities in the first part of the United States and acknowledging all the families of the said leaders of the Philippines during the time of foreign colonization.
Despite their getting away from the armed fight, there are leaders of the revolution that continued the start of Katipunan last 1896.
Not just like those who are coordinating with the foreigners, many have risked their lives because they have chosen a simple life in the mountains, living in different parts of the mountains, planning to be famous or getting rich in different places, planning to be famous or getting rich in the place, use a propaganda in the form of the alphabet right.
It is clear that the armed bandits still continue to catch up now, even if there is no basis, the armed movement and hot-tempered are not given attention to those who continue to handle the weapons until they get old or death, this is mixed with tribute.
There is a basis for this disposition, especially those in power, because they do not want to imitate the majority of people who are working in the time of Spaniards, Americans and Japanese, this is carefully being monitored in the events that happened during those times.
There is no reason for the revolution.
Just like other celebration of Independence Day, the end of the Independence Day means that the return of the citizens to their "normal daily work, working, and taking care of your loved ones, we hope that this is the only time that we will cook your real freedom.
