
Increase in tax to Calapan, plans.

August 16, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, August 16 (Pia) - it is thoroughly preparing for the initial implementation of the general of the real tax "which was held recently at the conference of Calapan City Hal.

Here, the planned increase in tax on the properties of the cities of Calapan City became the primary topic.

In the initial statement of City Police Officer Jelson Massong, he immediately informed that the city of Calapan City will only be second at the lowest as Mimaropa in the Revenue.

This is due to the non-increase of said tax since 1997 and after all, every three years, the increase in the destruction of John Marlon Denillo was about four percent of the destruction of the residential area, 11 percent of the agriculture, 11 percent of the agriculture, 10 percent in the agriculture, 10 percent in the agricultural sector.

It also showed that through a power point, the important content of the issue such as Asqueia was dependent on the Value-Added Tax Reform Program (Priority Development Assistance Fund Island and others, for the belief of the group.

Masanzana clarified that the tax of the city is low compared to the implementation of the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) to expect that the said increase will be implemented if it has been implemented.

Because of this, Mayor Arlooked, C. Panaligan, having a widespread consultation to those who will be guarded, thin ers, more big establishments and businessmen to explain well and be clear in the said tax.

Aside from this, it is possible that a hearing will be done so that the public can understand more, and will be acceptable to the issue.

Meanwhile, Councilor Mylene de Jesus also said that the Enhanced Defense Committee on Wikipedia, which is only appropriate for the full documentary on the private hearing or case, he added that this time, the amount of tax will be held in Manduites.

It is also mentioned by Robin Villas, Program (Taqueban, particularly Puerto Princesa, particularly Puerto Princesa, particularly Puerto Princesa, which is also right to do such as Calapan, which is also a sign that you will be considered a level of progressive cities in the region.

(CIu / LTO), Pia-Mimaropa, Calapan).
