Strong resolve is what the LTFRB needs.
Bailagutan, August 5, 2016, operators and drivers of the UV Express in the released mandate of Land Transportation Office (LTFRB), on the ban for them to pass through EDSA.
Meanwhile, operators and drivers of the UV Express that did not have a consultation to a passenger vehicle which was released by the agency were exposed.
It is being assured by Lino Marable, the drivers of the UV Express in the copy of the LTFRB because that is not just because the group is making the order yet because the order was implemented even if it has not been published in three big cemeteries.
There is a point between the UV Express to complain about the directive of the LTFRB.
But our question to many sectors, is it possible to publish three big newspapers and give you a copy of a tip that you will be silent and next in the order of the agency?
That is what we want to ask, operators and drivers of the UV Express.
The Transport group should accept that the flow of traffic is getting worse, so many of them do not have any franchise and the main roads that can request for the congested traffic flow in Metro Manila.
That's why hopefully the management of LTFRB will be hard to discipline public vehicles.
We are not saying it should be strict but it should still be the welfare of all and not only one sector is listened to.
Aside from the prohibition to travel along EDSA with the UV Express, the LTFRB can also peek at the presence of passenger buses outside EDSA because it is a severe inconvenience they will give in the road.
Particularly along Quezon Avenue, many passenger buses are also submerged in passenger buses aside from the scattered rains, taxi, UV Express that is why the flow of traffic is too tight.
All problems can't be resolved by the agency together with heavy resolve.
We know that many will fight for you to become a clean decision but if it's the people who will prosper and the whole country in total, we should not be hesitant on making decisions.
