TV Patrol, March 08, 2012.

The reality is the basis of this.

Truth is to make sure that your fervent prayer will not be freed.

Truth (Trujillo.

Our ancestors fought back, with two kinds of hunger. "
There is one kind of hunger and there is a simple hunger.
A small hunger is wanted for food for the stomach.
Too much hunger, too much hunger.
The most great hunger for all, is the hunger.
For meaningful, meaningful.
And truth is right.

There are many of our countrymen who are fond of the rights that have been built, and based on the long time that you get used to watch, this is the truth that this will bear a good results; and this is the truth that it will not bear a good results; and this is the truth that it will not bear a good result, and this will never bear a good results.

"Are you true?" If you see it, I will believe that this is not true, and there is no truth in any part of the world, "the truth is that you will get the same answer," that is why you'll get the same answer, that is why it is called the general truth. "

The truth is we are not with the mother of what we want, instead of what they have.

What is the meaning of truth? This is an idea that this is one idea that the reality is happening, and what's important is that the reality is happening, and what's happening is that the truth will happen, and what's important is that the truth will happen, and what's happening is that it is possible that the truth will happen, and what's happening is that it is possible that it is possible to know what is happening in the reality, and what's happening is that it is possible that it is possible to know what is happening in the reality, and what's happening is that it is possible that it is possible to know what is happening in the reality, and what's happening is that it is possible that it is possible to know what is happening in the reality, and what's needed is that it is possible to know what is happening in the reality, and what's needed is that it is possible to know that this is true.

The real truth is a light wrapped in the glory or spiritual reality.

13, truth should set us free, if the truth is being mentioned, most of them are always being punished and neglected when telling the truth, most of them are also killed; like Jesus Christ, 09051090451, and many others who told you, "the truth will free you," the truth will set you free. "

It has a trace of spiritual intention for the back of its words, that you will not be able to leave yourself, but the truth that we will talk to our hearts, the truth that we want to be free and easy to make mistakes.

It is existing, if there is no truth to each of us, each of us has their own problems, and if we can do this, we can understand the truth, and if we can understand the truth, it is to avoid any kind of misunderstanding that will be accepted even if it will worsen.

Ask myself: Am I lazy and chosen to choose what to do?

Do I have a order in life?

Why are the things I am jealous of?

If there is a intention to be bad or want to be bad for others; no matter how we keep it, hide it, it will appear in our words and actions.

"The fish is being caught in the mouth," in your actions, the character of your character, the result to you, the results of this is a direct testimony, reflect to know the big difference.

The practical difference is that we can do anything that we have enough understanding to your real minds or ideas that are the real meaning of truth, and it can be proven that what really happened to you should not experience the true meaning of what really happened to you in order to accept it.

It is possible to answer.
There are times that you need to face a simple truth that we failed.
2 - their explanation is very simple but with truth.
3 - this article shows the truth about international poverty.
4-in his research, he proved that there is truth to the accusations being talkative.
5-in his statement has a few truth, and there are also many who can be washed and fired.
6-if there is no truth, what is the meaning of this time?
Do you look at the whole truth to tell the whole truth, no one else, and all truth?

A good fortune in your stomach, the reality is only a result of your opinions if you cannot stop your mind if you cannot stop what is good and meaningful in your mind if you cannot stop and blame others on what you are in.

We can do it to be strong and decent if we use the goodness, prosperity, and happiness of the truth that we need to live in reality, and the possibility that we need to live in the reality and make sure that the truth is needed in the reality, good treatment of your fellowmen, real interest and harassment of the real personality.

If you are in your life, you will carry on each day, you cannot bear the future, and it will damage the past.

Which is the truth?
- one by one, who has the self-control; your mind or your heart?

- I do not need a friend to pray for me to pray for me and crying when I am crying, because what I admire in the water is it can be better than him.
Even if you are facing a gathering, you will be faced in choosing, a need to guide or a chance, choose those who are bothering you.
Remember, no mistakes, just teaching.
Respect is a foundation of each relationship.

14 are the path to release your emotions well.

Will there be a basis for your feelings.

I am angry or happy?

Know what is bothering your mind, who or whatever it creates?

Is this coming from you or from others, things or situation?

Start that in the depths of your heart, you should follow the flow of your consciousness when you see the truth, 2 do not object to what is happening to your will - the mind is open to what you cannot understand.

- 2 don't control yourself, stop or refuse any feelings of your feelings, 5 years old which are taking care of whatever you are taking care of your hair-up.

Do your own friend, not your worse enemy.

Without any advice to you, if you do not have respect to yourself.

Until you do not have love to yourself, you will not be able to love another thing that you have something to give in to your life the fact that you have a connection with all of each other's life that will prove that I have no enemy.

15 to use truth - you have high goal.

Your relationship is going to be put in a hole of your life, and your consciousness is always open to change and you will be able to give up all the things that you have to give you and you will not be able to give you all your skills and happiness, even if you feel that there is no assurance that whatever change will happen to you.

Those who do not see the most important thing, you can tell this if you can answer this: What is good about your life?

Believing that you are not seeing the things that we have not seen?

Are you proud of your possessed religion, if you have something?

How are you going to implement the truth in what you are thinking?

Do you accept that you are rude and not a real Filipino?

Find out when will you make a move, and know when our actions will not stop, if you don't want to get mad at your mind, it is impossible for you to get mad at your mind, but it is easy for you to get mad at your mind, but this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in the right way, and this is in accordance with what you want to do.

I am the way, the truth, and life is (Juan 14: 6) KJV 16, it is better for us to prepare for an ordinary Dorina Pentrante and any occasion, it is better to prepare and plan our lives.

Whatever mind is being focused on here, he will happen again and this is not just an opportunity, but it is not just an opportunity to reach your minds, but this is the person who will happen to you, and this is the person who will happen to you, and this is the person who will happen to you.

It is not a chance that in our language, the truth is true from the English language, same with a lesson in front of the words, and the pen name.

Truth is true.
What he is seeing is not true.
This should not be given priority or to point out.
Trust is not being harvested without seen.
Be able to understand the gossips or what you say.
The small levels are coming out without knowledge.
For those who want it to be amazed.
We worship Lord who have no care.
The other for different kinds of appearance.
Where is he in spite of it being a burden?
The person who does not know who knows.
Music is not allowed to be received.
What if you will hear this and will be able to respond?
The truth is he will stay in an illusion.

"No matter what I said is that I am in front of my commandments and he is following him that it is not enough for me, and what I love is that it is not enough for the truth, but it is true that the truth will happen," the Lord, "God and God, will be able to notice that the truth is," God and truth.
Truth and God are similar.
Not similar to other holy atrapos.
Truth and God can make you happy.
The truth is, God is on truth.

True proposition will be about God.
In fact, to know the truth is to know the Lord.
The right path is right on truth and truth is God.
That is why, if truth is being investigated, the glory of God prevailed.

Truth is the knowledge of God.

He / she said that he has already explained this.
