Candidate distressed.

The incumbent congresswoman in Batangas is only one of the new candidates who wants to become mayor.
Because aside from the use of their city or towns, they are supported by the money and vote of the drug and gambling Lord.
This is the revelation of the revelation of Chona Ligas who stole a few running "for mayor" in the province of Governor Vilma Santos-Recto in May 2013.
When election is election, expect that the gambling is expected to gather to gather the GL.
In Bauan, the Small Town Lottery has been declared that he supports incumbent Mayor Ryan Dolor.
The STL-illegal jueteng is also a strong game in Bracosta, San Miguel, San Roque, San Roque, San Roque, and other barangay.
This should be known by Col. Marieto Valero.
In Tanauan, one Jun Ocampo is the one who has a boochies in Bagbag, Ka Kmorpant of Lubuero and Mother Constancio Toling.
Dexter and Angel, on the right age and child, Ed Villanueva and Onok Island in Ambulong, Paging, Sonia Torres-Aquino.
In the Sto. Tomas, the STL-dugo Gang, Alex and Jojo, of Barangay San Roque, Mario of San Jose and Lito Lapid of San Miguel, are from the Sto. Tomas.
They said that these have been declared to be supported by Mayor Rolando Pacao, while Mabini Mayor Nilo Villanueva is allegedly supported by the GL.
The boochies in the town of San Jose Mayor Eiffel Tower was also intense, including the GL, KimXi.
In San Juan, GLs who is Kailbo and Flintshire was open to support the incumbent Mayor Rodolfo Manalo.
In the town of San Pacu, the support in the implementation of Mayor Antonio Dialogue, the jueteng operators, Aling Nene, is exposed.
Our question to the voters of the mentioned cities and towns, where are you going to place themselves, of those who have violated the path or righteous path?
Sister V., if it is a move, because of your silence, it is sure that he will be able to know how to sit in vice operations in your area.
You should be accompanied by ARosauro Acio and the Police Officer 3 Alfredo Dangasan in Tanauan City, Chief Inspector. Edward P. Milan at San Jose, C / Insp. Rommel Agawan of San Pascual and Superintendent Elpidio Ramirez of San Juan.
