Yes, we are still not our mother-in-law; we are very proud.
Then she will tell that.
Watching.
Just a moment, the mother of your mother, what?
Yes, why don't you think that, you just work that, so I am okay, what if you feel that you have a challenge that you have a chance, there is a long time that you have seen that there is a long time ago in Quiapo that's why there's already a long time coming in Quiapo that's why there's already a long time coming in Quiapo that's why they go home late.
I do not have a mosquito's reason why they are the owner of the BI-Break of Manila, I am his first child.
Yes right.
Me.
Yes, you have known that you are known as well as your husband, just like you, you have invited me that there is no one who is far from you, but you have not mentioned anything that you are far from the ravine; that's why you have not mentioned that you are still in the ravine; that's why I already finished you, "
Okay.
Okay, we have no idea, Dodo not have anything to do with the people and you are now thinking that it is your card that I am thinking of.
Yes, it's been three years since we are free or school in the bank that we are tired now, Tina how much just go to school just to ask you, you have asked you.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was distressed; the reason why it continued there.
Yes, let us know that you are in grade.
Yes, I thought that we are very tired; we are just tired of putting cigarettes, very clear, we don't just wait for each other for a long time, we have not been deceived; we have been fooling me yes, so we can see that we will get back then.
Later that it is for free food, what do I have returned tomorrow to you.
Ah, it is free.
That is for free.
"I buy you, you are deaf and you know you can wait for you to go home so that you can still wait for you to meet, you can see that you are going to meet, you can see that you are going to have a capital to see each other.
Ah, I am very happy with the door of your clothes not when you are here.
Yes, look at the old, anyway, what you are going to Noguna is that I am always okay with what I am going to, I am not okay with what I go home, that is why I can't go home, ah, I can do the medicines for me.
Your birthday.
Complain about what you did for us.
I am still not stupid; we should not look down; do not just ignore you.
I am still a trend in Vitamin C.
What?
Jesus!
Yes, I have just given someone new, right?
I do not have to sleep anymore that's why I am always thinking that I am always joking; we are okay with the different elderly; we are okay to just call me yes to him / her right yes.
The man is important.
