
The US President Aquino led the peace talks.

The town.
21-2012.

Especially now that the possibility is diminishing, it will go larger under the Marcos US-Aquino in front of the refusal of the armed conflict and solve the initial agreement of the armed conflict and solve the safety of the members who were involved in the negotiation.

In its initial discussion on February 2011, Galindez promised to conduct the steps in order to free the Philippine National Hero of NDFP, including 340-Illegal Drugs Group (NDFP), whose obligation to JASG that should be set aside from JAOIL.

In the end, the Philippine Philippine government will still have an interest in pushing him to be used by JAdik-G that they are only using JAOIG that they can show the original list including their real names and picture.

The United Nations is using the verification of JAdik-G to give straight straight to the Philippine Football Federation of NDFP) to implement the responsibility of the Philippine Azkals in the abduction and disappearance of the leaders of NDFP members in the past.

Gabinite said that JAOIG is a "small topic," contrary to this, JAOIG is one of those who created a favorable condition for them to talk, the negotiator, will become aware and the respect here is very good in continuing the peace talks.

More than 12 cases have already been the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights (WBC) for the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP) which will show its readiness to implement its readiness to implement his readiness to implement the agreement it is just about the agreement it is given, this is an explanation of the agreement.

Instead of fulfilling his obligations and promises, the defamation and taunting of Gwernafiled, Alexander Padilla is showing his extreme disappointment with Padilla, a mysterious dismay with the human rights, because of the abuse shown on the peace talks.

After a year, the peace talks due to those who showed its obligation is clearer and it is clearer that the dialogue with Duterte should not give importance to the peace and human rights.

NDFP and the whole administration knows the preservation of the priority of the Philippine National High School and their repression to armed masses by the people by the armed forces of the people through the drafting of the country of the US as well, the peace talks will be implemented just to cover up the peace talks against the people.

The Marcos regime is getting stronger to set aside the peace talks in front of the meddling of the US government and the advancement of the US government and the approval of the US troops and the possibility of having an agreement to solve the constitution problem of the country.
