
It was found in the third floor.

(This work was published in the issue of 29 of the Philippine Cologne last February last 2012.
Kand Eve.

James Lerio Bompat.

Far from those who have been known as Matt Dr - with no coercion, black, whose name is not familiar to many, he is not familiar to many of the names of Ka Rener and Edward Norton and Edward Norton.
But they had a lot of people when a few scenes of the most new movie - a few scenes in the city were closed to have a space in some scenes in the city in order to have space for the entire cast and crew.
Again, we have been forced to read the Hollywood actress.
Identice.
It is not that Dilawan will win in the primary personnel of Bables as proof, the fourth movie in Bulang Malinao, which based on the books of Robert Lalaurie, however, the story will still continue in the theme of the military and government in America.
The first movie of the series is ordered to be sent out by a series - Bulang Malinao, year 2000, a year after 9 / 11 tragedy, which was almost together with the start of the project Regional Trial Court Terraces of the United States (US), where it was active in the presence of the military in different countries to kill the forces of terrorism.
Many Americans do not supported this step of their government because there are many countries who attacks it because of its primary reasons why it is not true that it is stopping the terrorists.
This is probably the reason why Bira will become popular and can earn more than 214 million in the whole world as long as when Filipino people did not find a meaning, the movie introduced the actor Jason Bandne who wants to get free from the corrupt government of the government.
Strong are the other policies of former US President George Wa businessman and an example, after the movie, the leader of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was the leader of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) who led the illegal operation that was not good to the people.
Even before the primary personnel of the fourth movie, it is expected that the same topic has been expected and there is a lot of action scene from the Hollywood actress, this will be given a moment that some parts of the Philippines to be watched by the whole world.
Accelerate!
The appointment of the Philippines has been a big thing for the Filipinos as one of the location of Bables as story that there are a few days that the flow of traffic worsens and there are many people who temporarily left their tasks in order to keep the artists.
In the past years, the Philippines has visited a lot of times, particularly Manila, to take advantage of the scenes for the Hollywood actress, however, instead of getting known as a different city, he became aware of this in a different city of Liverpool, "Cuya and his father in the biased.
If there is someone like the mentioned countries, this is what they have done in the third world "who seemed to always become chaotic and slow flow of traffic in order to address a few traffic light in exchange of a few more traffic light in exchange of a few APD and needs to climb.
The government is also not in the list of solution to the government which is owned by a state of public vehicles that is why on the other hand, it can be seen that the route of vehicles on the street is already controlled which is why on the other hand, it might be seen in the situation as a result of the rules being implemented by the government.
And these kinds of conflict are what we enjoy like the Hollywood movie, particularly the actions of film - more than other space, in a picture of a chaotic and crowded place, in a picture of a chaotic and crowded place.
Along with the scene of the shooting incident, a chase and explosion of the ten-wheeler truck, the camera was taking the air in the air of violence which resulted in the direction of the road, and in any part of Manila, there was always a threat of stabbing in the side while walking or the explosion of the bus that were riding.
Even a resident, a visitor or foreign, it seems that the mentioned scenes have already accepted the said scene - it seems like a legitimate mark of violence was made by violence.
Congratulations!
Despite all, Filipinos are still happy that the Philippines is going to be imprisoned in the kind of leaders of the poor country which can create the Hollywood actress although they recognize that there is still no intention of the films which is also based on the traits of a poor town.
Some of the places in particular location that were visited by the crew of BPAT, in the market, and Navotas City Fish Port Area were reported that there are some buildings that fixed it so that these would be more old.
For the Americans, what is common to present are the movies that are showing-up "third world," before they look up in their sensibility of the chaos that they are applying to, and aside from this, they look up in the low level of parts of the city; and aside from this, they look up in a low level of places in the poor town.
Even if it shows the show-off of the Philippines, this is not a case for the institution such as Malacañang and Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDBP), "Cbuprofen," Taba, "said to be a great interest in Babe," Can, "according to Fotoplay."
It is announced that the acceptance of our acceptance of the visit of Bables as statement on the roads of the cities like Manila is the root of these roads, and the turmoil of these, and becoming a reason for the increase in the forehead of the Filipinos.
That's why our imprisonment is not going to continue in this awareness, if you are not taking care of the colonizers.
