
Taking revenge to the people.

Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada ordered the officials and members of the Manila Police District (MPD) and even the residents of Manila City Hall and even those from Manila City Hall, when he sat as the new tree of the city.
Many follow but there are some who are confident to make a way to save for money and for them to have money.
Mayor Estrada is trying to clean Manila, Vice-Mayor Francisco "Isko Moreno" Dooley, to progress the city so that the citizens who have put them in position will become successful.
But there are still many who go to the names of the two and included here is a councilor who is formerly in the side of Isko Moreno who were given a chance to fix Divisoria when they are not scattered and will be given a chance to live.
Instead of fixing and follow the order of the mayor, without Kotong, he will send money to those who are selling money and those who are not able to give their positions.
When Mayor Erap learned about this councilor, he was removed from the position that was entrusted to him.
Now, this councilor is going back to destroying the administration of Erap and Isko in giving wrong information to a former general who now supported the City Hall and wants to be in the collection.
Also being destroyed by a councilor who loves to do a role (in simpler terms) is the good treatment of Erap and Isko.
The councilor is trying to make out that he is often put in Tondo that the management of Manila and MPD are not controlled by the administration of Manila and MPD.
Only, in the revenge of this councilor and Isko, police of MPD are caught up, used and compromised that it is not needed.
Just like the siblings Supts. Villamor and Jackson Cusipag, who is one of the committee hearing in the City Council last week.
The councilor tried to beat the siblings who both grew up, were thinking, and until now, the family was able to get in Tondo who was obviously in a way to take revenge because one of them were friends of the "epal."
However, is there a responsible for the shooting of the two officials of the MPD that they entered the bait of a councilor who is thirsty and hungry in taking advantage of the firing of him to the space they spend money from.
And did the councilor also know that the gambling in Manila will not be controlled?
Wait, who among them have a clean hands or are not included in relation to gambling?
