But it is unlikely that the new chief of personal Misibis as Jojo and Eduardo was not saying.
From the troops that became president Remy, the president said one of the challenges that will arrive in terms of print media.
Yes, we are going to worry next year the beauty of our viand for us together with Ellen now.
He gave you the place who's the challenge and "epal" in the Philippines to make sure that this challenge is given by the President here and at Bonifacio in Icherness, he will be transferred to by the president, which is why he won't be able to win.
Ah,
New.
Because it was a bit General Eduardo, what the president did was what the President did for the forces of the forces), which according to the president, the moment it is not going to leave because it is very hard for him to leave the university which is why the President stated that his mother is going to leave the university which the President stated in the program.
In a A piece of party that is known in the Philippines, we are very stupid; we are here like that, there is still more left before we go tomorrow.
The former bag that they have been asking for a long time is that they are just lazy.
In order not to follow us from the country Vietnam, it seems that he is hot and weak.
They are going to help those from him and face what will still be left so that the politician will not send a politician.
It's all.
Let the people go.
What they are doing is for sure, maybe there's something that will be our father clean.
They agreed.
At home, it is on top.
The people.
According to the President, it is fortunate that the president of the country is lucky because all of his care in his position are what they can find out from his service since the defense of their storage, that is why they will go straight to Bautista and former airport to join there.
That is why he does not know Major-Eduardo as well but he will be able to buy what they have done and the general contribution to you two.
Very short; he / she went to the successful operation, according to the successful operation of the departure of you here to Paranan, married a year and a lot of high-ranking officials.
We are the president's confidence in the wide ocean.
That he will continue if the positive change in the whole body is not over, the statements are again released again.
In your house with your relationship, maybe I am not busy.
Last night, Attorney was still passed by.
Continue the solution.
Together to avoid.
In the hands of the Philippines - there are just some of her Ate Belen.
Forty-seven thousand five hundred thirty-five hundred thirty-five hundred pesos are units in hostility Recruitment and two thousand two hundred pesos for four times, Actor, Rom.
Last six o'clock, four o'clock in the eight hundred pesos in the eight hundred years old, being beaten-up, two consecutive years, and fur.
Here, you know how to gain weight, maybe he is sarcastic but needed.
Rest is the rest program.
