What is the content of CLINTECAYETANO?

Perhaps, you have heard that the word "which is very low." But you are still not sure what it means, that is why I opted to ask the experts of Inclapped against you.
According to IMilan, Mobiline for everyone is:
1 is a system of transportation for the poor and might get hurt, like children, elderly, and with disabilities.
2 - a city that is easy to patrol and pleasing for those walking and Racal.
3 - the passengers will be able to take action from the actions of the citizens, not by vehicles.
4's action is safe and orderly.
5 - clean wind, street, vehicles and facilities.
6's good plan and communication to lessen the travel.
7 will share information to improve the improvement of the system of transportation and the action of the citizens.
8 - a good plan for the community is good to avoid everything.
9 - the mind and change are used by the citizens and the authorities.
10's important to solve everything, from everything, and for all.
Just imagine, they even get an expert in the university of the Philippines - an expert from the department of Lingling is just to transfer to Tagalog so many thank you, Junction, Espiritu.
"Maybe, the question is, the question of the majority is to push through," why is there a need "Pogi" against us? "
Do you know that 8 in every 10 people in Metro Manila are riding public transportation, crowding the train or rotten buses or jeepneys?
Do you know that 1 to every 10 Filipinos - or around 10 million people, have disabilities, according to the World Health Organization; but there is still no choice, cheap, and orderly kind of transportation.
Do you know that the poor families who have died or wounded due to accidents on the road, according to the Asian Development Bank, and needs to borrow 7 to each 10 families to get a pillow from the lost income of the said member?
And do you know that last 2011, 10 disaster on the road every time was recorded in the whole country; every day, 5 people died and 79 are wounded in the said disaster?
Now, you have found out that these data are already known because you are the one who says what we need in the Philippines is the Lefancy?
