Does the Kapuso TV management do not have a heart?!

A big protest is being conducted by the journalists against the Kapuso GMA-7 because of the issue of an intensive conversation.
But it is not a simple word that involved the journalists involved in GMA-7 or "the Kapuso network that is called by the Kapuso network.
A few journalists in the Kapuso network is being swept by the management, "epal."
"Talaba," they said that they were not included in the regular employees of GMA-7.
If in a common factory, the call of them is called by them.
In the other hand, they will be paid, based on a job that they have seen.
But in the Kapuso network, the call of them is being called based on the production they bought.
This is the style, because, just because they will be released, they cannot accept a "payment, or they consider as a payment for the Kapuso network until they do not have any salary (AR) or official).
"That is the problem of those so-called" Atong "in the Kapuso network.
Before they send a receipt, they need to undergo the process that caused the dancas to rot.
In this process, they are going to spend for the lowest of P5,000, and when they have permits to spend without less than 10,000 pesos, we also need to spend so that it will not be less than 10,000 pesos in order for us not to receive a small amount, and there will be no one to accept them.
Just imagine, before they collect the amount of P7,000 in the lowest at GMA 7, they need to spend no less than 5,000 pesos!
Walis in fact?
Isn't it clear that the Kapuso network is not clear to their obligation and responsibility to what they are calling for, but the truth is still taking them their duties which is more than a regular employee!
Members of the Talanay Association of GMA (rainy) launched their work this June 5 as protest movement and response to the management by the management of their salary.
Just this past month, the salary of the gift they made was a check, and it will only be shown if the rainy season has been paid, that is why it does not need the issue of AR.
More than 100 percent members have filed a complaint against the National Historical Commission on Audit) last year.
After more than a year, the case has stayed there.
According to Shaor Masaya, rainy vice president, their members of Education were already able to receive a score of Social Weather Center on Wednesday, June 4.
If they are not going to enter, they take their own work.
"Those who do not want to be paid well, are they still going to have the right to repair the employees?
There is a huge support received by the rainy season.
Join the campus and mass businesses in said protest.
Ria Tagle is grateful for the Armed Forces of the University of the Philippines College of mass communication (UP-CMC) during the summer "for the division of the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office of media practitioners."
While Marc Abille, National President of College was condemned, National President of College was Edusma's Office of the Philippines (CEGP) is the repression of the rights of GMA 7.
It was also announced by Michelle Ann Ruiz, Vice chairperson of the World Council of the Philippines College of the Philippines College of communication, the cooperation of PUP students during summer.
The National Union of Jilian is also there in the Philippines (NUJP) to take care of the rainy season.
For us, we hope for the two parties to get along with just a justifiable agreement.
The Kapuso management will not lose anything, if they will face the militant employees to fix the issue that has been utilized by the ranks of journalists.
It is time for the two parties to be united in order to object to the only system of conformity that is currently happening in all the industry in the country.
Isn't it that it is better for the ranks of "interruptible load of the truth to resolve this issue, Kapuso network!
Mayor Fred Lim is already waiting for Manila.
We have received a lot of feedback and they are talking to the return of Mayor Alfredo Lim in Manila.
They said, the wind in Manila did not agree since Mayor Fred Lim lost.
"Because, since Mayor Fred Lim came from Manila, they have not seen a clean road in the city.
Manila is very minced with garbage.
The traffic enforcer of MTPB) has tons of reasons, but it is not so that the traffic flow will be easier but to protect the drivers who are driving on the streets.
Six public hospitals that are former giving free service to the citizens of Manila and some nearby cities and provinces, now even the patient are paid or will buy the patient.
Maybe when it comes to a day, even the patient will be taken back by the patients.
Vendors who work hard to live properly through borrowing money on 5 / 6 to sell only for some corrupt cops and officials of the Manila city hall.
It is also not an end to glancing at the scattered different kinds of propaganda, like gambling and land, consumed, booies, STL-jueteng, different kinds of entertainment, and KTV bar in different district in Manila.
Isn't it that it is not chronic in red tape in the city hall!
Should we still be wondering why the Manileños miss Mayor Fred Lim?!
Kindly answer, Sir.
