It is the amendment to the process of choosing, 000 SR.

Keith Richard D.
The councils of the students will start to suspend the provisions of the Codiets for the provisions of the CoCs) election (CRL), the rules in choosing the only representative of all the students of UP System (Board of Regi, the highest decision of the university.
UP Diliman were filed a separate proposition to the Philosophy Traffic Council (CPSP) and UP Baguio University Provincial Council (UPU-SC) to amend the CRL) in the Office of the 000 SR) on October 1.
The proposed change in CRU RS in General Assembly in General Assembly (SC) in UP Los Baños has been set to talk about the 25th of December.
CPSP) and UP B-SC wants to set a "Tulay ng Masang Pilipino Program for the nominees for the nominees for the nominees for the Jemaah Islamiyah (Nayer, the Diclofenac," Her), according to CPSP), "according to CPSP).
Under the Article 3 (1) of the current CRL), the Filipino students who were assigned to school during the time of his nomination, has a year-old, and the record of service to fellow students.
It is directly stated in Article 3 (2) of CRU RS, which may not be the basis of the academia or standing standing for the qualifications.
The CPSP) and UP B) proposed to give each other votes from the College of the SC) and the SC) of the six sachets of UP System (AU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU) and five regional unit (RU).
In the current CRabies Day, each AU Vs have two votes and each RU Vs have two votes, and there is a need to reach the conformity of the SC in choosing to be victimized.
The UP B (SC) wants to serve as collectors of those who are 000 SR through removing the provisions of CRSRS, who recognize the historical role of Katipunan of the city hall of UP (together in UP), to be strong, 000 SR.
The CPSP) has the proposal to open the amendment to CRTEL every three years.
From 2007, every year, every year, those who are holding 'acklings and "one of the vote buying" system of the election, and the departure from the participation of the people of UP in selecting the SC for the past five years, does not have a proposition to the past five years.
(This news was published about the issue of 15 of the Philippine Cologne last October October, 2012.
Mary Joy Viado.
The acklings did not have enough basis to identify their ability to identify the ability of the students, according to the councilors that did not vote for the proposal in the previous Supreme Court.
If ever the proposal "one of the vote buying," may be given by some AU, who may be given by a few CSC, according to some of the members of UP, they are also recognized by CRL), according to some members of UP.
In choosing, 000 SR.

He is the author as a way to choose.

It might be recalled that any student could be held at CRSRS, before the 25th of October, the proposed change in the first meeting of the SC justices who usually happens at the end of the Supreme Court is going to be passed by more than half of the councilors that attended the Supreme Court.

Nomination.

Any student or group of their CSC or the SC) will pass the nomination and pass the nomination and pass them to the USC, or to Onok Island if their UP unit has no councils.

Accept or refusal of the nomination.

In order to accept the nomination, it needs to file a certificate of homicide because together with their rival, curriculum, and his stubbornness led the scheduled time by the SC or CSC.
The officials who got nominated by their Vista paper and General Assignment Section (GROs), 14 days before the vice-SC) will be given a copy of the copy of the toilet paper, GSU-A, and even the subjugators filed against the nominees for each other.

It is a system that needs to be chosen.

They are going to choose the second meeting of the SC justices who usually do at the end of the second semester breaks before the Supreme Court continues to vote their platforms and who will be the first to ask the Spaniards.
The Supreme Court will choose three envelopes to be placed under the cadmium.
