In the Blue Ribbon, Green in OPLAN).
The Black Nazarene is EJK "BE, Elite, October 2, 2016.
The day before the meeting of the strict rival in La Salle and Ateneo won't be leaving the green-blue but black, as a protest against the extrajudicial killings (EJK) and the planned burial of President Rodrigo Duterte at the Libingan ng mga Bayani.
Ateneo officials encouraged the Blue Echist supporters to wear whatever black in the fight of Ateneo and La Salle College in the Mall of Asia Arena, like Ateneo, there is a memorandum in La Salle University (basketball player, Vice President of poison, to encourage their supporters.
"In the light of Fire Protection was able to step down by the co-mindedness of the company of De La Salle University in Ateneo, the Manila university which was replaced by the Marcos regime, and the Libingan ng mga Bayani," said Bracton's statement.
Green Security System has been clean in six games, that's why they are able to use the Top Center of team Orings while there is an ally in the Second the Blue Eatment with 4-2 card.
But the dog of Green Tapers has not enough, coach Alampton has been suspended while veteran Jeron Teng was suspended because of his injury.
AD by one of the game day after being removed from their fight against the University of the East.
Avisado also trusts that it is possible for other players of the Green Unido.
16.3 points and 3.5% of Teng will be gone from DLiwag.

TIDs Ravena will be guarded in their last game against UP Fukushima Maroons, 79-64 last Wednesday.
Ravena are pointing at the first taste of double-double, 22 points and 10 rebounds, to lead the Blue Eentles of their Two-year-law.
Meanwhile, the National University joined the University of the Philippines, 80-69 yesterday.
Matt Salem Virtus together with a business-high-High School and even added as Natangie JV Ejercito and Rev defended that there were 12 points for 4-2 wins and loss of Bulaga, in going to the mark of the Blue Ribbon Committee.
Digging up to 13 points but UP attacked two points, 59-57 on the fourth period.
Meanwhile, Bulos, at around 11-2 runs, so that those who will be able to talk about will worsen and become mischievous during the win.
Jett Manuel was deceived by 21 points for Maroons which is just cemented to a 1-6 card after getting a taste of a huge game.
