Kailal (last part)

Before the very part of my story, Kris and Bistek was not able to become the new one, the vice actress Heart Evangelista was declared mayor.
And the old, between BS Aquino, is still in Hacienda Luisita, and just one month, the 5-year-old celebration of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Reform Program is over, that they will change the law on the reforms to be made to do this.
And here is the last part of my story.

I chose to be asthmatic even if I was forced to bring me back to the cell, I was forced to go back to my mind when I was driving in my mind when I was driving my feet in front of my mind when I was driving on my mind when I was lying down in front of my own mother!
Every time I wake up, this is after all the fine of hope that I was able to fight back, just like when I was touched by the farmers, just like when he was kissed by the farmers, just like when he was blocked by the farmers, just like when he was touched by the farmers in front of me, that is why when they were able to leave the cage of their house, it was just like that when he was blocked by the farmers in front of me, it was just like that when he was blocked by the farmers in front of me, it was just like that when he was cut off from his ears.
Outside the building, I was stared at by my other companions when we were able to put up with my opinion as a van because it was still not removed with his legs and failure, that is why it was still being carried away with masking tape and failure.
"We are close," from the front of the vehicle, there is a double check on the blindfolded, handcuffs and Gapos Gang when we can get it into a long distance from the roof of the van.
Wanna Bet by writing to myself.
It seems that the night will not be finished but wait for death but I am expecting the same.
Like Pragony!
Lie down!
Umm!
Or convincing these.

We did not sleep in the past night when I was finally killed with asthma because of the cold of the air that was brought to us, perhaps there was no reason to sleep while the movie was tied and tied up in the middle of the movie.
At dawn, maybe the morning of firecrackers does not say anything, even if I have not allowed to wake up, even if I have passed away, I should not be able to wake up when I was shot, that was the last content of my spirit before I was hit.
Not a shot or stab wounds, it is also not a wet season for me to wake up to me a surprise, but because we are against my head-t-shirt, I was replaced by the farmers, right?, "I did not agree to me, my co-shirt," and I could not let myself go to Kuwait anymore!
On the other hand, the scene will also bring hope and it will not surrender to the long Statistics Authority that was murdered and lost in the grave of their lives.

While it was the use of it, we were able to leave the grass hand-off and half of the morning, I was able to see each other in front of my arm, "I was not able to catch up with my feet in front of me, but I was not able to catch up with my feet in front of me," I was not able to catch up with my feet in front of me, "I was not able to catch up with my feet.
"We have a u-turn," even if I asked the police on the stamped visa, "said the Police Regional Office-Calabarzon Region 4.
