You will listen to PNoy?

While we are challenging the typhoon here in the country, Don Benigno Aquino III in Europe and now in Europe, but we should not worry, he knows all the events in our country.
"You, sure, if you know about it, but does he know that while the onslaught of the typhoon, his members of the Cabinet must lead to saved the victims?
Because he also does not want to hear criticism, the question, will you listen to the advice of an ordinary citizen, especially from the media, who is taught by critics and enemies?
A million voice is called to remove his negligent official.
Instead of listening, he defended his lazy and corrupt officials, it's the people who were reprimanded by PNoy, especially the media, his critics.
However, here are the things that can be bought so that somehow he can take it back to the size of his shortcomings to the country.
When you return, Don Benigno, do not look at Laguna Lake at a continuation of the water to remove the flood inside and outside of Metro Manila.
Just give again the management of traffic to PNP Highway Patrol Group because they are experts in the orders of the MMDA who will go back to the streets into the rivers, river, river together with DPWH.
You will leave all the vendors in the going out of the person, together with the strict prohibition of all kinds of vehicles parked on the road.
Ask all kinds of vehicles that have lost a bag in Port Area, in Divisoria, in Calaguas and in the entire Metro Manila, if possible, include all provinces, towns and cities in the whole country.
The PNP-HPG should strictly implement the "number of cases that will be held accountable and all kinds of traffic rules.
DENR was ordered to strengthen the program of the Light Rail Transit and stop them about severe mining in the whole country.
You can mine, but all of us should have done everything and release to the country all if you cooked as a product, not only on the amount of tax but there will be more than the amount of tax but there will be more work!
Remove from the hands of lawmakers, meddling in the projects of the country or national, to give the funds to the identified agencies that are just for Don Benigno.
I hope you will listen!
