
Comedian went wild at a restaurant.

What is happening here to those who are going to him, according to ABS-CBN News, recently she had a scene in a restaurant in Quezon City at dawn last Sunday.
Everything was said to be surprised with the sudden arrival of Archie who was just wearing mud and his body was full of mud and he was saying that there was a person who wanted to kill her, perhaps he was looking for a knife that can be his weapons so he entered the kitchen.
He was asked by staff of a restaurant who wants to kill him but according to the rumors, her eyes were red and red, but it was not mentioned in the news if he was intoxicated with alcohol or other things.
When the police arrived they were handcuffed because of their wild acts, he was brought to the hospital to take his legal medicine but the actor wanted to say what happened to her and he did not want to sign.
In the program in the Buzz ng Tito Boy (Abunda), they found out that the hospital was brought there and around 12: 15 in the morning and left 2: 10 a.m.
The staff of the show to the police station were also rushed to the police station and found out that the official of a restaurant filed a blotter with the actor because he fell down on both sides.
It is possible that there is a possible reason for the fact that there is a continuation of the fact that Krista Miller is going to make him a long time dress.
Well, what can your ex-live-in partner of Archie who is Mabog, FerpiPen.
He / she was wearing.
Jericho Rosales returned with what happened.
After drawing near the The Legal Wife, Jerrick Lee, who went back to ABS-CBN's gift, Star Ngayon after she left the Manila Genuis, the gift of the wife of Gary Valencita, Angelita Pangilinan.
10 years, the gift of Jericho by the Star Ngayon before he went away in order to transfer the care of Gary and his wife due to an illusion that the actor was in an illusion for a famous singer.
Hness in the gift of Angelita, they made a good singer Echo, and a social gathering, she learned to talk in English despite the fact that she did not finish college even if she did not get the money from Gary V. that he didn't get from his studies, I mean, he was on it.
There was no problem in the departure of Echo.
He / she was wearing.
For Netnet to comment, P435.35.35.35.35.35.35.8: 30 kilometers per cent), at 1: 30 to 2: 30 p.m.
