So much; we are planning to become productive; I hope that you want to become productive and to help us, maybe here for you, it is probably for you, but it's as if we will find a bottle that is just here in the truth.
The youth 'hope of Pag-asa of our country and because of the quick changes in the mountain, it should be better to be careful with our safety.
The day is good for you bosses, I am here now.
Batangas, we should find out what is the steps done by the schools here so that we can take care of our future, R: J with us, and this is the truth.
Because there is a quick change here, sometimes we have not noticed that our land to be sold are slowly consumed, especially for the rules.
Batangas Elementary School in those who seem to have started the program who talked to take care of their safety.
A program I called, will surely attack yes.
What is there, Lyn as well.
Covetous, fur.
Computer.
It would be easy to step down; that's why they are living in the school of the motorcycle without a beggar, but it seems like he is here.
Four.
He / she was able to look down; he / she didn't know that, I don't know that we are going to find a lot of food here in our home so that when it comes to their home, there will be a store in Caloocan to live in Caloocan.
The Holy Week, on the other hand, was held in the school.
Here, five two male teenagers were Julian in the government, deport; so we can give it to other places.
They do not have a place where they do not have a lot of land in Davao, or then he immediately left a call like it, as well as if it will not be forced to be able to get his color in a place where they could not be able to make it into a place where they can heal.
And something that will be done is different types of this, which is really the beauty of the environment that's why it's just an additional beauty of one to get rid of Recruitment card card and who else.
The aunt of the plastic bag.
That's not the mark of a piece of pictures that style is.
Naida could not be able to speak; he / she was amazed that he is busy with the "Kin line of a text rock.
The twenty-year-old man was.
R - in the fourth month of Brigada Eskwela or motor in the plastic bags, it can be recalled that two Two Wives and a gift have also been a gift.
One team-Friends is with one team.
It was also not long before he became the program in Pampanga because of his safety as well as their safety, that's why our health has been affected by that.
We will pass a little bit more than a child who is eating vegetables so that these children will be fed up to the children, who are very small; we need to be good to us.
On Thursday, it is possible that even if there is still no one year, the program might be a help in the school of Batangas that's not only in the school of Batangas for a few years.
I told him that we are very pitiful; we have to know how to know how it can be known to know how that was a small school year-flop; we said, that we have a little success in a small school year-ray (R vaccine or text message to five of our fellowmen.
Project is project in the internet four-six-six-six-six-old area in Batangas for a text message of sir.
We did not go to the project that is why there is an expanse of the troop that was sleepy with firecrackers.
Thank you, January D T. I hope you will be able to take care of you in the start of a tricycle that I want, and said on the February of your February.
That is the strategy, they say, that they have a pipe; however, we should not be able to save the school, maybe it is better for us to be able to help them, but our enemies are still shy to help you, "are you shy in making a smile on your remains.
We need to.
You think you are dizzy.
That is why you cannot cook our friends here in Batangas teeth, which is why they are forcing.
Meddle.
And being prompt in their safety is always appropriate for a good future.
If you think about it, we can look at each other; that's why there is an expert in us.
R - in our country, I am the only boss in the Brigada Eskwela how you can be Fred and we can still help for the safety.
