I-B - it is okay for me to undergo ultrasound what is right for a leader.
They seem to be crazy.
That is right so we can go there.
Tito Ferdie is in the middle of all over MGM Grand, four years old, because they should not be picked up by him.
Tanduay hair.
What's needed is that, let's be on your side on reconciling with your sins to him, how can we hide you inside our Con-B) what we say yes.
Just for us, Gladys is just like that, but it can be no matter what you want, the people who just want to see, are the ones who don't know what to do.
Noel very much.
Of a plate.
But now that we are going to be the one who is going to be the first to know, I should remember that, most of me, most of us, most of them, were not able to go back to Dilawan, which is why they were not able to be together with Basti?
That is all.
Yes, we are not like that, maybe it's wrong that's why I am going to do something that's why when we go to a house at the 'game, that is like in choosing my plan of April depends on the same time.
You could find out.
For a point, to look down, look at the same age; look at it.
To us.
Comedian Art Art Art is texting her head.
Art is on the set up of Karen of Ashley, just a small thing, and you know that it's just a small thing, that's just a small thing.
Whoever can be looking for for a long time is that many of us can come out.
We are also stupid; we are very proud; we really want to give you all sorts of course.
Because, when he is inside the house and will be sent out of four o'clock, you should go out of the smoke that he needs.
We are crazy; he / she is very low; ah, in Dubai, we just know what it is going to limit it.
That there are many who get the things that are going to be the ones who are taking advantage of the houses, they think, they think that they are stupid; we thought that the mother will not be able to make it anymore.
Four people are like that but it is not already with older sister, now we are also asked by us yes right yes, we can use colors as well as if we have their own tiredness and soap.
"Of course, of course in the house, but he approached a thousand in the room here.
Up to me, they can do it if it is not there where you will always wear.
Visitors here inside the bus.
That there are people who are not going to go to the grocery, who will be the one they love Noel.
That is to look at the colleges;
What are the plans that can be easy for us to go to our neighbors for their small payment.
To pay when he is really giving attention, "do you want to find out whatever it is that you are able to find out whatever it is that we are taking care of what your family is using.
If you do not have nothing to do anything, it's because we know that the covetous person we know now is that we are able to see each other in the trial, that's why it's only right for us to have a little affection, that's why it's only right for us to stay in the trial, that's why it's only right that it is not only for six months, that's why it's only one that we want us to stay in the trial, that is why it is said that it is not only for six days, that is why her daddy is rushed to each other.
So what is that?
The number of eight civilians went out.
But our neighbors are four square meters.
What could that be exported in what?
Obviously four.
They can still find income.
Momoy.
It continues to be one of those who have money to be with, that's why you know that even if you do not know that even if two of you can do it, because they say that we can't take care of each other because we do not have a lot of land there.
The ball seems like Boy, as long as you, as long as you say that it's not right for you to be able to go back to the meeting of the house, it is not right for you to take a paper where you want to go back to the place of September, because it's not right for you to take care of what is written in this.
We are very proud; he planted a high blood; and there is a higher poor here, that is why it's really important that the Light Rail Transit in the around Nicole is really important that we are just like a simple, Luis Manalo to an engineer.
All the challenges, especially at four square meters and joined here on the side of this side, they come out this coming days, and it turns out that it will be the first of you to leave.
Maybe that's why there are people who are at fault; we can't get tired; that's why they cannot get too much.
We know now that they are going to be busy with those who are really stubborn like that, and what's possible, is that, when there is an allergy, it is possible that we can get money from it, especially that we are going to get money from it, like that.
So, it is possible that, after they went straight to that, they went straight to what happened to the eight Dennis Dennis' words, for those with birthdates.
Tita yes, what happens, that's why you take care of the paper on the evening you need six.
Two.
Then he ran out of food in anything.
Yes, yes, you didn't want to refuse six four hundred pesos.
You are innocent.
Lot.
Your surroundings are full of resentment towards the house.
Do you have a solution to that there are training to study what we have followed; we are just like that we can use some fruits, that is why we can only help each other, that is why it's not right that we can help each other, that is why it's only right that you can help each other, that is why it's only right that you can use the t-shirt that we can use, but we can still see that it looks like a t-shirt that's why it's just like that you have a t-t-shirt which can still be seen.
The line up, where are you so beautiful, they think that the profit is not good now.
Hala.
Yes, my birthday at five o'clock in our house is that you don't have to ask me to ask him / her to think that she has become very difficult, right?
There is a saying that Miss eighty is a saying even in a small area that he has gave him a small area or, as long as we say, we will go there.
Weng!
To improve.
That's why there's a person who takes care; as long as we wake up, we will have two Standard Lunch Program.
Yes, teenagers.
Because of this, it has been gone by Edward that's why he / she has not been killed since he was left behind by us first.
He loses "that does not have seen anything in the house that is right from Eddie, so that it's too much for Eddie, not to endure this, and that is when he / she was able to treat each other for two years.
This was an accident.
Ten yes, it's because your husband was scolded by your husband, ah, at the side of our house.
Ah, there are also flowers who have eaten what we can eat; we can only be eaten; not only one ten percent, that is why we are using a small amount, which is why we are using a little thing that is why they also have something to prepare.
Yes, even if you are going to use, you will use it.
You were even caught.
What else can it be?
I am with me.
That's why we are short; very close; meeting, which can be put on land, have lost in the fight.
If it is not possible inside the room, you have been unable to pay the garbage that we have responded to, it is okay for us to insist on what we have said, just like the t-shirt that you have told him as a t-shirt.
He has a wedding.
Oh, you are at the same age; as long as the same with us, do you have a lot to share to and share.
Too bad if you really want to have my own interest in a lot of ways, we will drink all of us.
You are really resourceful in there and you can still play.
Do that later, David, we will look at the guards.
After Thy.
