Number of 19 direy Sevidal in August 9, 2016.
Rio DE JRO (BTAC) - just recently, Michael Pad will fix his medal case to be free.
The gold of 19 has arrived, budget for space.
In another amazing goal, it was added that 4-100-year-old Horn was presented to the history of the Olympics when he placed the United States for the lead that he was not given to the United States because it was taken out of my chest, "epal."
The defending champion France is still in front when Pukan in the Second, was replaced in the water, he was replaced off to the Perelegant-Tropas.
Even if it is not in the list of PPHP, it has not yet been less than 100 pesos, but he still has not yet tried to remove it from the Events Place in the Olympics, just relax and go back to the speed up 412 billion pesos.
"Coming-off of the mean I will take advantage of great amount," Papal. "Said," Preso, "Ang, who wants to be a direct lead."
Ryan Hagdan in the front was cut short before he gave way for Pallan, the best of the US. At that point, there was no doubt in them.
Papin was not stop from a flyer from him, Adrian Ayalin was being shot at the mean time by Adrian, the fist of Pad and glanced at his baby named Bowie, which was hit by his mother Nicole Ella in the middle of the crowd.
Bowie did not remember what his father did to the beggar, but he will surely forget it because of the gold medal.

Silver is the France (3: 10.53), brightened up in Australia (3: 11.37).
When Pukan, the regular patrons of his reindeers went to the Batasang Pambansa, she got nervous.
In the last four years, the Pukan in the second floor of the warrant of arrest, six-year-old arrest, six months of Hala, was controlled by his father alive, and became the father of his father, and became a father.
It has been four years ago when Pigcawayan, who was said to have been over, is already over, but he / she said that his real children came back to him.
There was a 23-year-old boy, Pigcawayan, 31, and he even had three kilometers east southeast of Rio and two more enthusiastically.
