Hold the failure on Yolanda.

The government has no reason, local and national, in the lack of preparation and failure to address the needs of the victims of the super typhoon Yolanda.
This is the truth: A few days before yesterday, we already know that Yolanda "is super" Yolanda, so there is enough time to prepare and implement appropriate steps to avoid tragedy.
For example in Tacloban, if Mayor Alfred Romualdez has not been arrested, he himself was in the beach house when Yolanda hit.
All the local government units (LGU), "from Barangay, town or city, province, and even in regions, have a branch that is also a warning for accidents and help to the victims.
There is also a national government, like the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC).
There are "Disaster Risk Reduction and barangays who should be bored if right by the local government of the city that should have been focused on" Disaster Risk Reduction "until going up to the level of the province, district, region and national or national or national or national.
What's worse, the "Disaster management" program is usually not right or not enough to save the citizens, just say that there is a program, just it is okay.
Just like what we have said here and even in social media, "the interest of the government should not only be good if the situation is good or normal.
This is the truth: The people need the government is pushing for the time of calamities so if he failed, it is a very big sin.
PNoy is right to investigate the action or loss, not only by Romualdez but all the mayors and governor of the towns, cities and provinces who lost their tremendous fear in the typhoon.
But PNoy should also investigate all the branches of the government of the NDRRMC because it is clear to ensure that there is something done and what the LGUs are doing. "
After all, PNoy should also investigate if what he did is right, if there is something.
The whole truth should be determined and be held responsible for the fault so that this weakness will not happen again in the future!
