
MMDA traffic constable Adriatico, trending.

We do not take sides but it seems that MMDA chairman Francis Tolentino is wrong to take sides that he is a member of the businessman that was punched by a businessman due to an argument.
MMDA Traffic Constantino was able to build a nose after Joseph Russel and who was the one who chased him, was the one driving the sports car because of the traffic enforcer.
While being hit, the Masinloc was being hit that was why the incident was dragged by the incident of a cellphone video, but it was not clear in the video of who started the hurt of the two.
Roger said, Adriatico also hurt him and tried to catch her and tried to disrespect her car, that is when Adriatico would be rude to her face, she said that she is the first one who is hurt and cursed at each other.
Adriatico filed a case against the businessman who also filed charges against who was hurt and he was hurt and he was hurt and abused by Adriatico.
Let us go back to MMDA Chair Tolentino, shouldn't it be calm in speaking about the issue? "Because he still does not know the real root of the incident, but does he still find out if what his person did was right?
It appears that it looks like Adriatico would have an abusive interview in the interview of one station of television to the people around the television which are assigned to catch us, it is supposedly rude and abusive.
Aside from the people around his area of alibis, there is a woman law student who revealed himself, "he cursed himself, and then she cursed himself," then she cursed himself, "according to the woman," according to the woman.
"You said," you might think who are you! "I am mad at me!" I am very angry at the point of a program in TV with and I also heard from Adriatico the word "in the trending news!"
Adriatico is the trending right now. "
It is said that Adriatico would say that every time a motorist is making a motorist, he is starting to step down and when he talks, he gives a video of the cellphone on a companion.
"We pity Adriatico for what she experienced that her nose got broken, but if the allegation against him was true, he is rude and cool, so he is a" public service, "they are always beaten-up.
It is good that she has been able to reach so much so he gives thanks.
Or, Ted Failon, I put in the trending news now! "At the corner of TSETC.
