Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters (CYBira!

There is a online or called libel which can be used by corrupt and corrupt government to silence the people who express their knowledge or beliefs about the actions of these.
The Supreme Court (SC) allowed the release of news about corruption and corruption in saying that libel which is the content of the anti-cybercrime law is in accordance with the Constitution.
They will be jailed because those who are on the piles of charges and fear of them are the police, National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), fiscal and judge who did not follow their desire to send the anti-corrupt and corrupt.
We have proven that this is proven by the libel cases of our siblings in my professor.
FOI is a nuisance.
The people of the palace is very happy until those from the Congress in telling the court to have the legal process of libel.
They are very happy that the citizens or journalists are going to be jailed in attacking corruption and corruption.
Even if they still have evidence in expressing the truth from the rottenness of the government, it is especially if those who show the truth will not get any evidence.
The Palace and Congress did not get any evidence because up to now the Palace and the Congress did not have an interest to pass the Islamic State Information Agreement to suspend the Congress.
Using it!
Hopefully, if the FOI is already law, the citizens and journalists have the right care for all the documents, things, events and others who are destroying the rottenness of the government.
And that is where those who get involved in chaos and those who are involved by the police, fiscal, judge, from the palace and other powerful officials and personnel of the government about the orders.
There will also be known that those who are powerful in the police are going to know that, in the NBI, of the fiscal office in the Office of the Ombudsman, in the Sandiganbayan, to the ordinary court, of Court of Appeals, in the Supreme Court and other institutions to bring themselves to any involvement and responsibility.
Included in those who are going to know are the money that are involved, the money that are involved, the abuse of power and other people, who are involved and behind the massacre, murder of a massacre, rape and disappearance of being coercion.
Fact is a real problem of the people.
When the FOI is already law, Bro, people and citizens of the police, fiscal, judge, from the Palace, from the Palace, from the Sandiganbayan, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court.
It will surely appear that the private individuals and organization will appear and may be a partner or enemy of the government about the truth from corruption in front of the citizens, in the media or in court.
The media will also lay down, including those in online or internet, in their place and research of truth in corruption, corruption, abuse of power, murder of those in government and other crimes.
FOI!
This is the reasons, Bro, why the people from the Palace and the Senate and the Senate are still cold on the ice or nose of cat and the Senate to have a proposal, especially the examination of the information.
Those who are powerful in the government, they are on alert when they have no time when the citizens and journalists are going to have their knowledge about their nonsense, especially if they will be filed in court for sure who will be built from the rottenness of the FOI.
This is why they are taking advantage of the passing of laws in the FOI.
They are the first ones.
Because of the fear of truth and the public to reveal their own corruption, those affected by the government do not do anything but to approval of laws that are in favor of them and not for the citizens and journalists.
The inhumane drivers are not contented, for example, to keep the laws of libel which are allowed to be provided by federalism summit.
In libel here, the those who shows the truth about the rottenness of the newspaper, radio and television series on the internet or online, there is already a looming libel.
There is still there, their ID system is still there for them to know all your homes and personality after you reveal their rotten dogs and cat so that they will not save you and you will finish their pet dog, tortured, murder, and others.
They are unfortunate.
Included in the sample have a sample that the $30 million pesos will be revealed when the supply of coaches in the MRT 3 which is connected to the impeachment using the Priority Development Assistance Fund, which is involving hundreds of senators and many local officials and many local officials and others.
