
Reporting, Mother's Day!

The annual celebration and appreciation of the mothers to celebrate the second Sunday of May. This year is four of May 11, 2014 and Mother's Day.
I just want to share some things about this day because giving importance to a mother is a real sign of acknowledging.
Hana said that we themselves know how hard to give birth, they said, when a woman is currently giving birth to a woman, it is in a pit where a mother gave birth, he might die.
Our mothers have this kind of experience from the garden that until now, together with the hardship they feel for nine months, they brought the baby in their womb up to the set day of their birth.
After falling down the baby, their responsibility does not end there, but that is the start of their sacrifice because they will take care of the baby who was born when it comes to a good person, because of the observation of a blessed mother.
If each one will recall one of his hard work, concern and concern of a mother, we cannot pay all of our own feet and succeed, they are helping each other.
The mother is the first teacher of the child and in the house coming out by children, we got a strong, inspiration, happiness and strength of the whole family.
That's why it's just right for good children to love, respect and give tribute to our mothers, who you need to reach where we are in the earth, if our mothers are involved in the skin of the land, if our mothers are involved in the skin of the land.
Truly admirable is our mothers, as they say, you will not know and will not be totally complete, as long as she is not becoming a mother and a few of her children, she is becoming a mother and a few of his children.
They are there in our side to watch over the advice that they are not tired of helping their children even if they are already married, a big sacrifice is being done by a mother when their children are sick.
If possible, he can accept the illness so that she will get sick and have a difficulty.
There are different sacrifice that's why our mother's love for us is invaluable.
At our point of life now, we are at the right age, and we also have their own children and family, especially to all who have a mother who love them, but to all those who have a mother who will love them, but to all those who have a mother who will love them, but to all those who have a mother who will love them, but to all those who have a mother who will love them, but also to the time that they need our presence.
Wherever we are there, it is far and close to them, let us make a way to make them happy because, we will never really love them if they are gone.
