Hebreor Series 5: You are extremely important that's why he sent her child to be saved.
By Zaykit, September 8, 2016 "what is the person in order for him to remember, or the child of the person to be helpful?
... that through death, it is possible to eradicate the power of death, to correct a fancy, and free them all because of the fear of death in their whole life is under the slave.
"Because it is clear that he is being helped by the angels, but also the other part of the revelation of Abrile," that is why she needs to be understanding and honest the most important thing about God, to make a gift to the sins of the people.
"Because he endured the loneliness, she was able to help him / her teasing," Hebrethren, 2: 6, 14-18).
Why is it that God really loves the person?, that is the question of the Hala David of Israel when he wrote the Abreach of the writers of Hebreach of the first words on top.
Hebrew or a sinful person also clarified that the Lord is repeatedly taking advantage of the feelings of the Lord since the start of history (because of the stubbornness and being stubborn), it is still important in the eyes of God.
And this is the proof of the importance and love that was sent by God, Yo'clock, the only son of Jesus, to be humble as a person, to be humble as a person, "so that he can also help her teasing."
In the middle of the quicksand of sin and death, God did not leave the person.

He sacrificed their own son, so we can have the appropriate payment for our debt to His holiness.
We are not people who can do anything that can be given attention to those sins.

Only the Lord has a perfect way, no one else but Jesus, God who fooled and lived as a person in the name Jesus.

And in his decrease in the land, Jesus was made "low than the angels" (2: 9) long term, in order to bring his many children to the glory, (2: 10).
The founder of our safety was talkative and perfect through "many of suffering" (2: 10) that means Jesus is not perfect then that's why he still needs to pass through many Japanese people?
That is not what the writers have saying Hebrethren.

The person of Jesus needed to be talkative or perfect so that God will pass him in all kinds of temptation and suffering that is being experienced by an ordinary person in order to become a certain person in our sins.
Jesus became talkative, so that you will have a perfect person like me and like you, there will be a fully exchange for accepting the anger of God for our sins.
That instead of us passing away from that anger, Jesus is the one who did it for us in the cross of calvary more than 2,000 years ago.
And now, everyone who will accept him and those who will accept him as their Lord and reporters are calling his siblings "(2: 11).
A friend, you have an assurance that you are part of your family's family, if you have doubts about you, what you are waiting from you, and faith that he is fulfilling his sins to the cross of the calvary.
Do not depend on your own kindness, or your own ability to pay the sin that does not do something for us but God.
Think about it carefully, in the rain showers this Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
