Video 1: In the middle of the rising tension in Hacienda Luisita, farmers asked for support.

Spokesperson, D. Quijano.
March 28, 2012.

The guards of RCBC and members of the PNP who were able to dissolve the camp of the farmers (Consignation.
President Aquino called for support from the public the farmers in Hacienda Luisita, asked for support from the public in the middle of the rising tension inside the hacienda (RCBC) in the construction of the former Filipino workers in 184-hectare land in Brgy. Balete Drive.
Currently detained at the station of the Philippine National Police (PNP) in Macabeo, Tarlac City is the seven farmers arrested around three in the afternoon yesterday.
In that morning, a few farmers and hundreds of families marched towards Mendiola to ask President Aquino to stop the proliferation of the privatization of the hacienda and immediate release of his family.
Meanwhile, inside the hacienda, the 300 forces of Tarlac Provincial Police and six soldiers of Northern Luzon Command are the camp of the farmers in the land of RCBC, according to the alliance with Magbufarm in the Middle Luzon (SWS).
According to Joseph Canlas, the chief of Deputy GL, at the police and military, they tried to ask the farmers based on the order given by Judge Marvin Mangino of Tarlac City Municipal Regional Trial Court Branch 1.
A few of the arresting farmers of Hacienda Luisita (Conejero.
The arrest of the Armed Forces of the Department of Agrarian Reform related to the petition of the farmers to dismiss the issue of the farmers in 1995 was arrested, two minors, two officials of the barangay, and barangay officials of the barangay, and officials of Ammunition) and Filipino officials in the hacienda).
"Conditioning the attack of the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, Aquino, the most brains of the farmers of Hacienda Luisita, Aquino as the symbol of unity of the farmers to fight for their rights on earth," said Joseph Canlas, the chairman of the PDRRMC.
PAGASA also insisted that the court of Tarlac to the case filed by RCBC from the farmers due to the Supreme Court is still waiting for the Supreme Court's decision, which is said to be the notorious drug addict who is said to be sentenced to a farmer "in the supreme court."
In the interview by the Filipino Weeker, the 60-year-old Edgel Baya stated on how last Saturday afternoon they still tried to separate from their camp the farmers built in Camp Crame to watch and stop the fencing of the bank in land.
The direct support for the fight of Hacienda Luisita, shown on the protest on March 27 (months, Quijano, could be revealed.
Last Sunday morning, they started to take a guard of big rocks. "Of course, we are being thrown away, we will not fight," he said.
Being ridiculed and also being threatened by the guards to the youth and talk about your parents, you will not be able to give the land, "instead of being scared, especially this angered the youth.
He also said that some farmers pay for 300 every day to look for the soil and fight them.
There are also criticized by the bickering of oil that has become the rule which is being taken advantage of the poverty of the farmers.
"They are doing this so that the distribution of our land will be delayed," according to Lito Bais, the chairman of the United Kingdom.
He criticized President Aquino the primary issues of the country, like the real reform the land, "hopefully the citizens will support us to continue to share the land in Hacienda Luisita," said Bais.
Bais of the 23-year leader of the farmer with a warrant of arrest was also released by Judge Mangino last week in relation to the case filed by RCBC.
In the protest in Mendiola's protest, those who arrive will arrive in a rape P10-billion pesos as a symbol of their opposition to the government's plan to pay attention by Cojuangco-Aquino as their pet P10-B.
Leaders also spoke in action from the sectors of youth, immigrants, women, workers, and others as support for the farmers in the hacienda.
