
A new violence in Hacienda Luisita.

The country.
March 7, 2012.
He strongly disagreed with the alliance between Filipino Bukid in the hacienda (SWS) and alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle East), they fear that the massacre happened in the 2004 where they were shot by the combined forces of the military, police and guard of the hacienda.

Last February 20, the military and guard of Rizal Commercial Center (RCBC) attacked the 300-fields of RCBC from Barangay Balite, Tarlac City, two trucks of soldiers were sent to Barangay Balete Drive.

From 2005, the forces of the AFP were not able to leave the hacienda, after the massacre of 2004, the force of the military forces around ten pages in its area to continue to monitor and monitor the residents.

Last February 22, more than 200 members of the ceasefire were evacuated to the Supreme Court to insist that the highest court will release the final decision regarding the distribution of 6,435-hectare of the Supreme Court to stop the distribution of the land in 6,296 in the sake of beneficiary.

More than two months have passed since the Supreme Court decided to share the hacienda of farmers and pay the farmers of 1.33 billion for the sale and version of 500 hectares that are used for the controversial objective.

It is said that Cojuangco-Aquino's representative and their representative Benigno Aquino III said that they are ready to follow the decision of the Supreme Court but it cannot be suppressed until the distribution of the hacienda.

The Supreme Court denied the resolution of the Supreme Court that the "justifiable solution" for the distribution of the land in 1989, it is P40,000 every hectares and in spite of the distribution of P173 million for the distribution of 4,335 hectares.

But what is wanted by Cojuangco-Aquino is the basis of the price of the hacienda, the year 2006, where the value built in the area is increased because of the many infrastructure built in the area using the $80 million every year until it is fully paid at P9.8 billion pesos, aside from 6 percent interest.
