Field, tightened in the QC.

Angie dela Cruz.

Manila, Philippines - the field condition in all public schools in Quezon City is now being prepared in all public schools in Quezon City where he should not be brought here, Bacon, Caringal, in the malls and New Year.
This is based on the new approved of the QC field of policy and activities that may be allowed by activities which are too expensive.
Under the approved ordinance by QC Mayor Herbert Bautista, it made the policies of the field hall, it is stated that the field hall will only be done in Metro Manila except for going to Metro Manila except for going to National Historical Commission of the Philippines (NHumalig).
Under the field of legality, all the fields that will be done by the QC public funds should be approved by the city ethics committee.
It was also stated in the approved ordinance which was held by QC Councilor Jularenne Alonte, all of the cases for the field, should be investigated by a committee, which is approved by the division of the city hall.
The documents for condemned will be enary, field of toll fee and representatives of government officials and representatives of school Pharisees, Supreme Court and school library.

Also included in the documents are the copy of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs policy that will be used in the field of LTO, Cerge of Public Conversatment of the public and the parents, which is proof that they are ready for a safe field of their children.
Those who disobeyed him on the first time there is a fine P1,000 to any school official official, teacher, non-Teaching Hospital, to be the approval of the field of no Womb of the 119th Independence Day.
This punishment should be given to the division school superintendent and committee members who won the approval of the field of this form which does not follow what the ordinance aims.
For the second time the P2,000 will be the fine of a fine of P5,000 and suspension on the 3rd division.
The suspension for the implementation of the QC field of legality should be shown on the division of the city hall which is appropriate to the order of the Department of Education (DepEd).
