
Usually blocked and hiding in the dark.

Two faces are seen or seen in Congress.
The Senate has shown something that is different from the legislative chamber.
While the people in the Senate are trying to want to get back again in the hearing of Janet Lim-Napoles scam, this is the people from the Legislative Chamber, which seemed to have completely ignited the door for their own investigation.
Why?
In the Senate.
The senators are angry with their companions in the list of corrupt and corrupt.
That is why, they want to complete Napoles, and others are driving them in corruption and at the end they want their names to be clean.
But what if the truth will come out?
The condition that should be used there is just for them not to abuse from those who will talk.
Continues for impeachment.
In case the Senate will try to investigate again, can the senators ensure that the drama during the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona will not happen again?
It can be recalled that Corona has a lawyer before who said he is being attacked by the senators-judge in investigating to be fired by Corona.
It is the son of NJ, the senators are like a gang in anger at that lawyer and they still wanted to be held in contempt, but in the end, they admitted that they received incentives and bribes.
There are four who received 100 million while the majority are around 50 million.
The congressmen, had a P10-20 million every one.
Blue Ribbon Committee.
Who among the members of the Senate blue ribbon committee will not be named by Napoles' list, Bro, and who will be named?
Many of them are on the list.
Didn't they accept incentives in the impeachment and it is not true that they have an additional benefit from the P10 billion money from the country which is leading the Napoles scam?
In the legislative chamber.
Those from the Legislative Chamber admitted that many of the members of the House Committee on Good Government, in front of the Senate blue ribbon committee, were mentioned in the list of Napoles and Benhur Luy.
There are 150 who are congressmen in the list of Luy in the list of Napoles, which is also on the list of Napoles with the names of many of the members of the said committee.
So they should not investigate.
"No.
According to the leadership of the legislative chamber, even if they investigate, they worry about the reaction of the people: They will not believe any result of their investigation.
One more thing, how can the committee investigate those involved in corruption if they themselves are possessed and should be investigated?
Hehehe!
From the palace.
If the Senate will be pushed in the investigation, the people of the Palace should stop in discontentment that some of the Palace who are implicated in the scam are innocent.
The most good thing to do is to push the Palace boys to attend the hearing.
But the palace is very first doing to show agreement according to the appropriate investigation, it is not right to lead the Senate regarding the innocent thieves.
Documents.
Those saying that Napoles and Luy are forced to go outside, and whoever there are list of corrupt and corrupt, of documents as proof of their allegations of corruption.
They might forget about it because aside from the document, it is acceptable to be given by those who know the corruption.
As long as they see that there is no doubt and only truth is the statement of these, it is also a strong evidence.
After all, they are preparing their statements and they will face the court in case the cases will reach there.
Senate and "Di in the Ombudsman.
So that the people will easily clarify the issues and if not to be named, they should not be brought immediately to the Office of the Ombudsman or to the Department of Justice.
Because if everyone is brought to this agency, we will hear nothing from the door and they are now using other places about it.
That is where the nine-nine wait of the result in the investigation will be experienced again, what if there will be an additional increase in the list and they will bring all the KKK in Malacanang?
What will happen?
The road and martial law.
If all will be brought to the Ombudsman and DOJ and we do not have anything to berate them, it is scary to think that all the entire government will finally lose.
The belief that almost all of the government in the government will worsen.
What if everyone will lead to the streets, do not say that the children of canned goods will not tell the Thailand that declared martial law to stop everything.
Anyway, they will surely do this but in history, martial law is too against the will of the citizens.
It turns out that the citizens are proud and they will still succeed in order to shout and let freedom, truth and true Tuwid na Daan.
Isn't it?
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in an instant, please call 092163333 years.
