
Gatmaitan's, Linaw, Calaguas, INC and the impeachment.

It seems that the impeachment trial of Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona will come out in the Senate.
While I am writing this letter, they talk about the eatery, barbells and parking space of the tricycle here in UP Village, the leader of the Supreme Court, Iglesia ni Cristo and those who belong to the impeachment hearing.
Now, even my friend, Director Brillante Mendoza, said to be involved in the conflict between Malacanang, SC and Iglesia ni Cristo (SC), who allegedly threw the support of Iglesia ni Malonzo.
Part of the end is the release of former Justice Serafin Calaguas as the lead defense of Corona who is the legal counsel of powerful Iglesia ni Cristo.
Even the Presidential political Adviser Roland Liscano, who is part of the scene, is about to go to Iglesia to ask the church to revoke the support of Corona.
Although Calaguas has denied that Malacañang has given a resolution to him, someone told him that this pressure will be true.
Everyone assigned to Malacanang just to be forced to the Corona and remove it from his position.
What hurts, is that he is hoping that the next Chief Justice will probably be left hanging from the air because there is a woman.
The impeachment hearing is already out of the impeachment hearing because the only intention is to be fired from Corona so that Malacanang will control the Supreme Court.
Court.
In this way, the Aquinos will be able to recover the Hacienda Luisita, who was first given by the Supreme Court of Corona from the farmers of Tarlac.
That's why we should not be able to pray on those who are in the side of the side, Malacanang or Corona.
The only purpose of this impeachment hearing that this is a fight in power, whoever is more powerful, is it the Malacañang or the Supreme Court?
And for the final measurement, the biggest question of the free-bust operation and the people are not the truth, but the truth is, but will the drama in the Senate become a rice to the table of the filipino masses?
