
Aquino and the AFP ordered the snatchers, Burgos and those who take advantage of human rights.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
April 1, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Aquino administration and the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in continuing to arrest and increase their ranks of those who kidnapped, Jonas Burgos in 2007, and the defense, who is responsible for violation of human rights and other crimes.

In the decision that was brought out for a few days, the Court of Appeals identified the responsibility of the AFP and the elements of the Philippine Army at the kidnapping last 2007, Burgos and the organization of the human rights but the AFP continues to deny his responsibility.

"The AFP has long been implementing the rules of the kidnapping of Jonas Burgos, even his responsibilities in the kidnapping, illegal students, which is very quiet and disturbed by the blamed forces of their crimes and to the violation of human rights."

The PKP stressed that the primary cause of the kidnapping of Burgos to be responsible in the actual act of the kidnapping of Burgos to be 1Lt. Harry A. Balisacan, which is one of those mentioned in the complaint filed by the family Burgos, the general, and assigned by Aquino last year as a chief of branches of the AFP.

"What's not arrested, that's very quiet and being talkative on famous generals, Jovito Palparan in spite of the criminal cases filed against him, it shows that Aquino is showing a hypocrite for human rights and peace.," said the KP.

"On the continuous arrest of these criminals in the AFP, the Marcos regime continues to support the culture of tolerating the ranks of the military and in its campaign to intensify the disconcerting of the Filipino people and their campaign against the filipino people and their ballots.

"Aquino does not want to make the actual one who might get the one who might get the one who might get the justice of the AFP who is involved in the ongoing race of the AFP who is involved in the ongoing economic growth, and its brain," said the KP.

"In the back of Aquino's illness regarding peace and human rights launched by the AFP, there is no difference in Oplan Galugad conducted by the AFP, there is no difference with the brutal campaign of domination in the past," said the KP.
