
2014 / 5.

The duck are planted.

(An interview that turns out that the Philippines turned out of the Philippines on the 19th of August 2014.

House in a nipa hut, plants are really grateful there, the owner of the earth, farmer is different from the recognition of the harvest, and more.

Accidentally hit, Jola, all of them are not doing anything but are taking advantage.

The day will come, the farmer will be angry at the comfort room, now be buried in mud!

This is usually the small children of Lupang Ramos, in Dasmarinas, Cavite.

In a social gathering, the millions of hectares of farm remains in control of the millions of hectares of farm, they are working hard, but instead, the big percentage of the harvest goes to the Lord Almighty, to him who cannot join any part of production.

There is also a big deal that the US will get into this order in this order, because they are strictly trying to make the interest of the local governments of the Philippines, and a threat that they can use to the Lord of the Lord, they know that they are going to be used by the Lord Nazarene, with the help of their conspirators.

This is the situation of our fellow citizens who are taking advantage of 70 percent of our population (Guerrero, 2009) the, majority of the population of the Filipinos remain in short.

But to farm, most of the children of the farmers have no other choice but to enter the factory, but those who were able to finish school are also in other countries to work there.

Meanwhile, the level of lack of livelihood in the Philippines (PDI, 2014) continues to rise.

While the small amounts of being a bourgeants, like students, which is suffering for the political services given by the government, but this is not enough to address the severe needs for additional teachers and employees, those who have to face the budget for additional teachers and employees, the number of those who cannot be able to study.

The suffering and memory being experienced by the youth, workers and farmers in the Philippines within a long time until now is the common wealth of the country, and even the natural resources of the country, and even the very strong wealth of the country and even their own accomplices.

Those mentioned will be the general basis of the strong movement of the movement of the Pambansang Kamao in the Philippines.

In this financial situation, those who are usually playing with the interest of the masses, these are not different but the national change being referred to by Salvador Lopez (1940).

It will be known for the show that it has to be for more than the three hundred percent of the masses, national, and it can be exported.

What is common is for people who are usual for the masses because it is part of the important role of the masses in the change of society, political, and although it is being considered as the ability of the ordinary citizens, to change their status in life and build a "Sais of the farmer-Tropas.

It is good that strong and strong in the Marcos regime, he became aware that he became aware of the plea to run away from the traitor and the insults of the people.

In the field, you have been able to give time to an inspiration and leader of the new generation that can be heard in the city, Phase at sea, and village.

The state of the country cannot solve the fulfilment of the foreigner in our complaints and asking for justice to the state of state, terrorism and violence.

The enemy tried to silence nine gunshot wounds, for you to be tasted but they have failed to be murdered.

In his twitter account, Ka Orly identified the courage of the fisherman and a leader, Tata Pregoner were identified to be murdered by the author; but for the attempt to fight, and continued to fight back after being shot by the people when he was shot by the military when he was shot by the military in 2004.

There is a national version which is usually mixed with the usual because it has the ability to enumerate the wide citizens against the poorest people who are fighting against the poor people who are fighting and insisted by the people who are fighting in the country, read "a farmer and a farmer," Bart Marcelino in 1994).

The farm is the same with the dizziness.

First is taking care of the foul words.

The preparation of the arteries of the farm is like fixing a typewriters and paper, needs to pass and clean the dike because it is bleeding.

This is not yet finished when it is blown up with a low pressure or taking advantage of the ducks which hit the paper.

Most of these are the ones to monitor and save the plague of grasses, rats; or those who go between evil spirits, hammered, and may have happened.

We should also often take a cauldron so that it will increase or lessen the water, or if needed.

After everything, we are still not sure if they will reap the rice or good trait.

That is why they are looking for something in between, as they say, is not a farmer, he can handle it.

And now that they are looking for the same time, the capital of the farmer is the capital of the farmer, the capital of the farmer, the capital of the farmer's capital to become a lot; while they are applying to rice or reading their viand.

Even if there is a different kind of damage, they encountered Marcelino's kind of farmer and is a kind of person who will rise from them, the capital of the farmer's capital is successful because it is being experienced by the common farmers during harvest and he has no income.

Meanwhile, the person who created a democratic governance is what is usually caused by his opposition to the statue of hornets, which means he has transferred to the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based on the fact that he is based in fact that he is based on solving the truth.

In my opinion, it is the primary reason why the writers have a usual reason why the creator's Creator has to be a part of the political life, and instead of putting his knowledge and skills, which is needed to be part of your room and skill, which is needed to be part of your room and skill, which is needed to be part of the economic growth, and enriching the works that aims to be coercion.

The belief that we are going to, for example, for the countryside, or you are socializing with just fooling us, not only to the highest and experience of the poor people who are benefiting from them and will be returned to ordinary people, who will be brought back to the common people, which is his primary mission.

The writers, usually the usual experience of ordinary people but have not said that the political boat of the foreign contacts is not different from the huge ships of foreign capitalists have, which was caught without permission, and then they were able to go home to their own benefit.

It is hard for the writers to improve his critical mind and political imagination to make the best works on your use.

Just like the product of the workers in the factory, the author is going through thorough control, because before the standard of the masses, because he knows that the masses is not lacking in filing his needs, he should also not be lacking in the filing of quality service that is also needed by the masses.

Most of all, he understands the ducks which are usually mixed with normal, just like the prevailing arts that is degrading and elf, is a model for the highest and best form of it.
