Oh,: Davao City.
By Bam Aquino, September 8, 2016 for the protagonist, very special for Davao City for me and my family.
I am known for my family as a native of Tarlac, but to those who did not know, my mother and his clan are from Davao.
My grandfather, seconds after, became the principal of the University of Mindanao, my grandmother, Victoria Aguirre, and my mother died while they were working in Davao branch of Sibol, Davao, while they got married in Davao branch of Sibol, Davao.
In my arrival, we go to Davao to visit my grandfather and grandmother and up to now, we still have relatives who are living in the said "Crown Jewel of Mindanao."
When we found out that they are safe, the fear that we feel is slowly getting angry.
My heart is bleeding because this heinous crime is made by Filipinos to fellow Filipinos.
And they have chosen the place which is signed by those who are going to pass, families who are strolling and where they have been meeting with friends.
Part of this is Ruth Mectful, a young lady who is working as an executive ist who is also killed as Preso, Macacua, a senior citizen official of Commission on ARMM, who is an avid reader of the peace talks in Mindanao.

They are just some of those who died last Friday when a strong explosion happened in that place.
In my final speech last Monday, I mentioned the time for us to increase the forces through support to our police and military.
But they can only do this if we give all their needs to investigate, catch and hold the law on those behind the explosion.
Second, we need to be vigilant in our surroundings against any threats to our lives.
But we should not be alert with the left bag or suspicious actions of anyone.
Most of all, we should be vigilant of wrong information spreading in the internet and our society.
It is sad because there are some groups spreading wrong news that they use this incident to distribute the Filipinos.
Because our lives and system of living are at stake, we should weigh the information that we receive if this is true or a big lie.
Third and most important of all, we should be united.
The goal of terrorism is to spread terror and put a big division in our country.
If we let us let us share, terrorism will win in our country.
Now, most of all, we should be together with the father and act to make sure that the said incident will not happen again.
In other words, let's set aside politics and give all their needs to stop the threat of terrorism in the country.
Many know!
This is also what we use as the key so we can have a peaceful and safe society.
