They are removed they are slowly talking about what we are talking about in the morning, we are going out of the morning, where are these people who can no longer speak Tagalog so the students can no longer speak Tagalog anymore.
Ten are going to be in the height of the height of gifts, deport; Gulanggani; Zamboanga.
Zamboanga City, on Monday, but a while ago, they were able to go to each other, and what's still happening between the government of what the government wants to say.
The trouble in Batangas City was drinking here in Batangas City when I bought the mistake.
There are barangays in their barangay they lower themselves as well as my state, but are residents there?
Still plans until now.
The Kagitingan reef is this noon.
That he will finish.
All of them are the same.
We wait for the new that will be held at stake, which is why the opposition does not have a mistake on what the opposition is doing, that is why there is a new location that was believed in the house which is believed in the house because of this in the house.
From their small children, they were able to take care of everything.
There is a bit evidence because of it.
Outside.
With the number of employees.
A few of these were in the big cage of the bird, they were not included in spite of the crack on the middle of the establishment.
You will report it to your mother earlier that night.
Pushing to the passengers of the lawmakers.
The people.
Not only in the house.
A week, a few policemen who captures almost two wounded troops of the government one way and generous in a hot topic when he was not a while, he / she was not around.
But they say they are holding something.
As to why?
He said that he brought you the soldiers.
What after the children here in Batangas City was the noise of the top of the top of the fifth floor, which is why it was reported earlier that he went to Batangas City so that they would go to Batangas City when they arrived in Batangas City.
Yes, that's how much we are, whose breakfast, whose breakfast are felt, which was used by Jason us who was used last Sunday to say that he is already preparing, that is why he is preparing that there is another person delivering the bullets of Almeda Garcia.
What is the Intelligence operation conducted by the military, what could be forced to take care of a witness in the house here is just a few months, and what happened, they saw them in Pangasinan, which is why there are some who are really different from the troops that they are saying.
The beach just went to the two roads but it might also be someone who was also taken here before it was in a day.
Whom they are hanging with that in the area.
That's why it has been bought without two roads.
What are they studying, I am being studied too much.
Who just had been used by the 1P-M.
Do that, as a matter of what is still in the operation, its troops are still far away, and what they really do is a lot of things that I have seen, that is why they really have a lot of things that I have to believe in the right place and thank you very much for you.
