For example, when we will be completed, it is as if we will be completed the popular food here, which was erased from the coconuts being erased; the coconuts were erased; we talked to him without Connie.
It means that there was no motorcycle here when Bong-Bong who is said to have been cooking for a long time with Bong-Bong who is said to be part of my family for almost a second generation that is why he / she said that he / she was wearing a Boom-Boom because of the old swelling there.
To my aunt, "my mother saw that it is possible for them to sell.
Where started.
What he said is that he is not just using rice that is not just the first time that he is going to be the one who is going to be the first and not, he's taking care of anyone else because he does not need to put it like a parent.
Where it turns out that Bong and my vegetables come out.
One of the things that he is using is just out of white vinegar that is why they need to lower down the water for one day so that he will leave and be good to send rice, not just like rice, which is why the number of people called to call.
Ten will be soft and it is not difficult to do.
We immediately let them see each other inside a money at night so that your water will not be lost, which is why it is up to the youngest child to make them cut and be cut off.
You need a bit more.
Because you won't play the pick up-up-up; that's why they wills tart again.
It is said that she will be completed that if you do not want to stop being rude to that, "Allen Jessica does not make sure that we have a coconut tree instead of the whole machine I know he has started from her not that sweet yes.
It's as if you are in the right cinema when you seem to be different from the machine, you will have difficulty.
Bong and Bong are very happy.
It is said to be a need.
The after we opened a circle where I picked up, it turns out that I was focused on the bottom of the plane when I playing with a kid using a small amount, and we used it up to the same time.
Of course, I am not calling myself if I will not cook on the roof, a small profit made out of bamboo.
End six PNoy.
The two kids.
After a few minutes, it is already finished in the roof of our administration.
It is okay for him to repeat this, which is what we showed here in the morning so that it would be better that he deceived almost every night that it seems that it is easy for you to take it again and it is as hard for us to have a hard work together now.
As if not answering, I do not look at it, but let us see all the challenges.
"Do not forget six-Two people who are going to buy from Ate Jessica at the amount of half-five pesos, which they are using from a span of five pesos, so they know that it is not like a small amount, which can't be similar to other people.
What is lacking of weight is that the children of May have already reached May.
Both of you are Bom-Bom who were also showered by Pandacan by Project NOAnito.
Played with the pan-mannered of Pandacan, in the middle of Bom.
It is said that it is also here in this way to lessen the father-in-law, especially when he said the truth.
Like Jessica, Allen was still cooking at the roof because I was out of house now.
According to him, he doesn't want something like that, that's why he / she doesn't want to look like that.
Even if there was Independence Day, he was still able to use the ingredients that they have done but he did not have a check-up with the Filipinos store so that he would have been in a check with gunshots with Bong-Bong now that he is the only case that I have not used.
There.
Inside each other.
It was like it was good that when I am in the next number 1, he doesn't want, because of course, he / she didn't like that, he / she did not seem to be good to him but when he said that he is proud of her that it is good for him.
Covetous, fur.
There?
They are really fed up.
To be an hour.
I heard from her friend that it was good to answer.
It turns out that later on those who took the order, what will they say if it's old.
What I will bring is that he is earning more than nothing.
To be an hour.
Only two ghosts.
You can buy.
He said.
It is said that it is really good that she will be brought more than this, but it is still friends there and Jana who will believe that it is better to help a cold topic.
"What is the only thing that I have been counted on in Tondo because I might have been looking for a business management because we are looking for someone else, because we are still in different taste, that is why we still have a different taste, that is why we still have a different taste, that's why we still have a different taste, that's why there's still a lot of different taste, that's why there's still a lot of different taste, that's why there's a lot of different taste, that's why there's still a lot of taste of Kuya Bong-Bong) in front of me.
The roof of what they will buy on the road is the biggest one to give me their child, who will be sent to a mountain in order to leave and threw him in a blender.
It's just a little bit just for a minute using a blender.
As if they are very nervous about it.
Fuck, fog, and taste of money.
I am really looking at five pesos to taste the pain that I have been cut, so that he / she came back to the cunning; and her father-four to look at it, it is good that many are saying that it is really good that we're really good in the whole day.
Here in him, he / she said that he / she said that this is not the common thousand for what they are asking for to serve as a common thousand for what they are asking for.
