
Good and seems not thinking something bad to others.

After the action of Bombo Radyo, he will be put to a sexy series that he is with Ellen Adarna, JC, Coleen Garcia, Daniel Matsunaga and another actress.
It is said that the said series will be cooked in the unit of Director Ruel Bayani, and they will increase in a sign that they will be treated.
Ejay is also asked after a contract that he / she bought in Unisan, what is his reaction to being the adwinner of Daniel Matsunaga and many who are criticizing her.
"It is always like that, because they have their own chicken, who are the fans of Jane (Oangza), who are the fans of Mariz." That is really no longer new, "that's all."
"But when I was watching me, Daniel is nice, but he's very kind to her, as if she is not thinking about bad things with the maid," he declared.
What can he say with the war of his mate Aljur Abrenica who, up to now, all her acting skills are clearly seen since he started in showbiz?
What he went through for several times is that's why he sees his skills in acting acting.
"Because of me, it is said that he does not know how to look at me, that's why he doesn't want to taste me, to prove to the people that I can talk to me, I do not want to waste" the responsibility given by the network that is why I need to wear it.
"There is really a need to listen to all the people in the set, to those who passed away, on your director, I am the one taking advantage, I don't want to be stubborn," he added.
Talaba!
Awooooooo!
Because the procession of Iza Calzado could not bear, Vina Morales is the model of Robin Padilla in his film fest! "Bonifacio."
"Because what happened is not allowed, not together" the publication of Iza, "our Production, you know" the lessons in America, they should not adjust to artists, not for them. "
"They were removed from the cast out of the adStars, I am really saddened, because the adversary, Production, and Production, was not allowed," that's because of the Production we came from America.
"The fight that we came from America is that he will not wait for it, so what happened, I asked Mariel (Rodriguez), when Mariel is getting the one who is taking it., Mariel, will leave from America.
"I asked Mariel, who she said, Vina Araneta will go to the name of Vina.
"I am because I am getting the children, opinion of the child, because I need to ask him to always ask him," Robin said when she went with the taping of the stupid Pinoy "of TV 5 that goes out every Saturday, 7 night.
Mariel is an actor in the relationship of Binoe and Vina even if the two had a relationship before.
"He knows" that, but that is not just him, "according to the action.
OPLAN).
Anne Curativity said that she will not be given to Sam Concepcion who is the one of her sister Jasmine who is wearing her sister Sam, who might be in favor of her, the answer of Anne.
Well, maybe Sam should also talk to the family of Jasmine who should have a chance to become closer to the family of Jasmine.
Awooooooo!
We were also impressed by Anne Curvada and Sam Milk, because they became a FRIENDS and together in work even if they had a relationship.
This has been the only reason why this ended with their breakup.
"Ipit Gang, we was we" young, so our fight is always there, according to Sam, who also reached four years.
Reporting, SETC. Roldan.
