
It is an agreement by PNP-NYsrael, in the midst of the increasing number of the US and abuse of rights under the Marcos regime, PKP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
October 4, 2012.

Guzzle up!
PNP-NYounghusband, the will lead to the US Embassy, human rights to be under Aquino, to be under Aquino.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) attacked the memorandum of agreement (MoA) and the New York Police Office (NYungga) that signed last Wednesday as a part of the advancement of the government budget for the Philippines. "

The Puguiao said that the agreement with the NYsrael of the US is right, one of the most famous organization of the police in the world, will reveal the worsening worsening of the police operatives on the human rights under the Marcos regime, "said the KP.

Moaldin was signed by Nicanor Bartolome, chief of PNP and Lieutenant Gusom Gutierrez, leader of Singapore this is Satan OPLAN), according to the initial information released by the PNP and the NYungga.

"It will only serve as an additional wage hike for the PNP-NYANDEA, this will serve as an additional wage increase in the government fund of the US in the Philippines, this will cause more martial law and a different kind of operation by the agents of the police and military of the US in the country," said the KP.

"Even before MoalA, are already conducting a secret operation against the local police in the Philippines with the cooperation of the local policemen in the PNP Custodial Center in Camp Crame, the presence of the agents of the federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the US, which was revealed by the prisoners in PNP Custodial Center in Camp Crame.

A few Indonesians, which accused "terrorists, and arrested by the agents of the US in Indonesia and Malaysia, were placed under the policies of the US) to give a straight transfer of the Philippines) for the national treasury of the Philippines and to the human rights violations of the Philippine Consulate in Camp Crame.

"Banica's is a famous critic of the American citizens," said PKP, "recently, the Nadal City" recently, the NYPD and ordinary citizens are used to waste protests in Zobel, Park near Wall Souls Day against the major policies of the US government. "

"In the investigation of the group of human rights and those who survived, it is proven to have been used by the police to force the NYsrael, and it should be responsible for the hundreds of other violations, including the non-abuse of the protesters, and in the top of the protesters, and everywhere in peaceful activists.," said the KP.

"If it will be followed by a new partner, the PNP will be brutally murdered in facing protests, anti-budol Gang and other meaningful masses," said the KP.
