
TRIric ACH.

The House Committee on Justice massacred the three cases filed against President Benigno Aquino III.
54 people have a vote for the impeachment while only four votes were taken by the pro-impeachment.
But the cases have no nutrients, the anti-impeachment, said that President Noynoy did not violate the law for the impeachment that was appointed by the Constitution.
PNoy did not do anything to file a violation of the 1987 Constitution or guidance of the Constitution and infidelity to the people's trust or to be given public trust, the 54 lawmaker said.
Of course, contrary to this is what the four lawmakers are saying and they insisted that PNoy has a direct violation on the Constitution and he also cheated on the trust of the people.
The anti-impeachment, the 54 votes, is just a proof that the accusations are slow.
It seems like they have forgotten the belief of being feathers, Together "
The basis for the impeachment.
Before we finally get the fight for the impeachment, Bro, it is good to clarify first the basis of the impeachment.
Here.
The criticisms and other crimes that are not included here are not enough basis for the impeachment.
DAP and EDCA.
The pro-impeachment pulled out their reason for the removal of PNoy from the problem of the Disbursement Acceleration Program and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement between America and the Philippines.
They say, the impeachment case has sufficient basis based on DAP that was declared to be the burial of the Supreme Court on the vote of 13-0.
First, it was allegedly used by the congressmen and senators to be impeached, the former SC Chief Justice Renato Corona and spent the other funds of DAP in the 116th project that has no clarity on where to go and if they have been to it, it is clear that it is clear in corruption.
This EDCA is completed without relation to the people, especially the Congress and particularly the Senate.
The Senate needs to be the approval of the Senate in EDCA as a form of existing treaty but instead he is after getting after it comes to the Philippines of President Barack Obama to be happy that the Philippines is ready to give a need to the military based on the country.
"Epal."
Aside from insisting the anti-impeachment against the impeachment, there is still no final discussion on DAP and EDCA to make the basis of a certain case.
We will listen to the anti-impeachment while the hearing in the committee is being done.
For them, there is a motion to scrutinize the Palace in DAP that is why there is no final decision on this.
The SC has not yet any decision regarding the EDCA that was filed by those who are against him and it will be better to determine if there is a wrong basis for the impeachment case.
In other words, Bro, it will not be proven that PNoy was accused of his infidelity to the country.
He is dead-on-headed.
Just like what everyone knows, the impeachment was declared dead-on-spot.
After four hours, he is surrounded and without any argument, the head of the neck and was hanged up by the anti-impeachment was hanged on the impeachment against the impeachment.
They also ignored the request of the pro-impeachment that will be raised and widen the discourse in the issue.
The discussion here does not need to wait for too long because there is really no assurance for the accusations even though at first, the lawsuit or complaint is declared enough in the form.
The impeachment was not able to commit suicide when he was buried immediately.
Steven before Sotloff was beheaded.
It's only been more than a week after the Islamic State of Iraq is Syria, American journalist James Flintshire was beheaded, he was already beheaded, another journalist for the time of Magazine.
As a revenge of the incessant bombing of the Americans in their forces and citizens of their jurisdiction in Iraq at present.
Sotloff was first paraded in front of Flaris, which is expected that they were decapitated by ISIS to target the former if the Americans will not stop in the bombing of them.
And because the Americans continued their bombing, they are living in it.
A British journalist is said to target next if the help in America to help America in the bombing continues.
What happened to Peter Theo Chavez was different, which was released by the Nihonggo, who is allies of Al Qaeda in Syria.
We salute them.
We continue, Bro, the exchange of life of our fellow journalists just to have news on the citizens and the world about what happens.
We are also being guided by our siblings for their dedication at work even if their lives are done.
It is just here in the Philippines, there have been more than 170 who are only asked to return since the rights are coming back in 1986.
And it is ongoing that the life of our colleagues is ongoing, one of the last among the victims is Nilo Bacon, Senior of Hala M Radyo Mindoro.
The court did not listen to his request for the government to give up until the people who will die have arrived in order to fully stop the discussion of corruption and other criminality in his surroundings.
Election 2016.
We have a worry while the election is fast coming.
It is not just to discredit the politicians who are happening but they insisted that they will be imprisoned each other that is why he is fierce.
For sure we will be put in the middle of the fight in the country, they are talking to and blame the politicians until it led to the media killings.
Hopefully, our worry is wrong and hope that the politicians will be happy and they should not take the heat in their entertainment in politics.
Um!
Other complaints or criticism, it can be shown in a while, please call 710-33333-1090451.
