
Fighting for the women under the Marcos regime.

Editorial Department.
The country.
March 7, 2013.

On the occasion of the 16th Independence Day of the Philippines, AOIL, the Liberal Party of the Philippines and the Diocesan of women are going to ruin the national democracy as activists, Putok-ukay because of the major movement of women in the crispiness of the powerful society.

Half of the Filipino people are women as well! They are carrying the most important trait of the race of the society and state of various types of sweat, number of people who are taking advantage of their regime, and to give birth to the new generation inside the right generation inside the country.

Contrary to the revelation of the Marcos US-Aquino, the condition of the women under its program is to be more intense, which caused the programs and policies of the masses, especially to the women, Aquino should not only continue the pro-ranking rules of the state, he still insisted that it's protruding from the first presidential candidates.

There remains a big difference in the participation of the women with the strength of the women and those who are part of the forces of work, compared to 80 percent of men, those who are working in the community where half or 68 percent are women and majority (85 percent of those who have been used to be double, double the excavation of capitalists have from them.

The Marcos regime continues to go to another country as a solution for the lack of work of women, according to the group of women who are defending their rights, seven in the private service, the sectors that are known to the country and for employees in private houses, are increasing in number.

Just like the farmers, who are taking advantage and being oppressed by the farmers due to the lack of rice grains in a piece of land that they are renting around 12-14 per kilo, while around 30 pesos per kilo, and the price of rice in the market will almost be taken away.

It is being experienced by women who are experiencing the most important effect of the widespread typhoons and landslides happening in the surroundings of foreign companies and their local workers and their local business, that they are experiencing hunger, pain and violence of the state of time that they stand for their rights.

Added to the lack of sufficient time and work, many women have been locked in severe hunger and poverty caused by a pro-graft rules of the liberalization, privatization of the consecutive regime.

Because of the widespread privatization of the hospitals and what happened to the schools' system, it has become a burden to them to take care of the health and rights of the Aquino administration to take care of the health and rights of the Aquino administration in front of the public hospitals and the human rights in the budget for medical services.

As manager of the house, the women are directly hit by the successive increase in fare increase in public funds, and many of the families of the family have no proper houses, they are forced to lessen the increase of food, many of their families are almost not eating to give importance to their children.

The women are experiencing the most brutal appearance of violence in society and state that reached 5,180 cases of rape, recorded by the agencies of the state last year, seven in every ten cases were done against the children.

The Oplan Galugad conducted in the Oplan Galugad conducted by the Marcos regime, the women and the children were killed by the brutal campaign against the slow movement and taking advantage of women by the soldiers of the AFP while the elements of the terrorist group were reported by the elements of the terrorist group that was recorded last 2012.

It is the responsibility of the revolutionary movement that will let our women look down for their rights and proper service, it is not enough for them to give them a limited rights and decent jobs, for the equal salary of society and for their families, and for their own children.

The release of women depends on their participation at the wide movement of the masses for the impending change in the other side, it depends on the success of the national revolution because it will be the strongest influence of the culture of the culture of the culture of Filipinos.

It should be certain that the improvement of the revolution is more effective in the participation of more women so that they should do the huge campaign in education in their ranks to increase their skills and awareness and urge them to prepare for the higher position in the form of the new society.

The struggle of women for their release will be they are going to make the goal of Liberal and national under democratic movement that will take the power of the state and will lead to the laws and men that you will borrow from, inside the families, in the state and in society.
