Defending the Palace for pork barrel, DAP was criticized by employees, teachers.

The employees of the government criticized the defense of Malacanang to Asayes or pork barrel, including the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), including the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP), which was allegedly used to "bribery" by some lawmakers for the impeachment of former Chief Justice Renato Corona last year.
Ferdinand Galite, the national president of the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of Health Organization (Cimetidine) that the Palace assured by President Aquino on the pork barrel, whatever the Palace call for funds of the President has control and discretion.
"PDAF (Priority Development Assistance Fund), Special Action Force, and now DAP - it should be stopped by all the pork and (all of this) like the same wrong corruption," said Guna.
Meanwhile, the teachers are also criticized under the Alliance of a concerned Lord (ACT-list and ACT-list of DAP, which proves that the teachers are suffering due to the appropriate salary and benefits because of the low funds of the government. "
The employees of the government expressed the distribution of the Palace to the lawmakers of the DAP, while it was denied that the funds given by the employees are similar to the employees and government funds which should be extended to additional wages and benefits of its employees.

"Budget Secretary Florencio Abad stated that it is said that it is just being used as a part of DAP for the bonus of the government and now it is allocated for a few programs and important programs of Malacanang to follow the order of Malacanang?" Asked Gaite.
He also said that the Aquino administration made a criminal case to take the funds for the very small salary of the employees of the government.
The employees were said to be angry when they found out what they said through the lawmakers, while the administration has long controlled their benefits.
Cousins will agree with the statement of the popular victim, Father Joaquin Bernas, who said that only the agency from the budget that he does not have the right to use said funds for its employees.
Against the pork barrel day of the teachers.
In the interview by the Department of education - National Capital Region (DepEd-NCR) in the City of Quezon last October 2, the ACT-Remontadoses have registered to the DAP, and for defending the Aquino administration on pork barrel.
"The reason why it is called for anger is what is happening in the government, from the PhP10 billion pork barrel scam (Janet Lim Napoles, and now it turns out through the appearance of DAP," according to Benjie Valbuena, chairman of ACT party.

ACT, representative Antonio Tinio explained the source of DAP was the National Budget Circus in 2012, it was stated that the DBM and the funds which were not being spent by the agency from its budget will not be spent.
"The purpose of this, the Middle of the Year or June 30, if an agency is not used or made a fund, it will be taken by DBM and order to be given to other government agencies.
It should have been said that the agency should just take advantage of the budget that they have not used here but in the actions of DBM, the funds that they are going to get is happening even in other agencies.
"Even if it is not approved by the Congress, the president can fund and decide for the president of the power of Congress (this event) that the 50 million pesos of the senators are not in the budget," according to Tinio.
The group announced the resignation of Sec. Abad and Senator Franklin Drilon because of this anomaly in DAP.
The teachers and employees are angry after a deliberation in the legislative chamber of the budget for 2014 because there is no need to be given to them.
The teachers also did not allocate funds for the additional benefits given by the teachers, an additional offer of the teachers, additional wage increase in the pork barrel of the congressmen, senators and president.
"Pork barrel scam.
Meanwhile, the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) and Kilusang Mayo Uno (BTAC) was criticized by Aquino about his reaction against the words "pork barrel scam, which were reported by the said group on protests and in social media.
"It's just a thing for Aquino to have the title of pork barrel King for not to be amish, but also a part of the institution, to step down to support the political political age and control of Lehisticated," said Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.
Elmer Liscano, chairman of reaches out, "something" to Aquino, said name, in spite of the President said that he was given the opportunity to send the pork barrel he and the lawmakers.
Aquino allegedly mentioned this during the time that he was directly involved in corruption, particularly the allegation that the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) ordered the senators through DAP last year.
"Aquino said that he is different from former President Gloria Arroyo) and because of this, his use of pork barrel is fair but what is really the difference with pork barrel,"
