
The fund near now is the fund.

President Benigno Simeon Aquino III said that the government needs money from the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) to make the economy and meet the other expenses of the government especially if there is a calamity.
He added that the current constitution should be allowed by the current Constitution by the government to call for DAP, but this money may be expenses for other needs of the government and they do not need to be the ones in the Congress.
One more use of the defense to maintain the DAP was the needs of Chuwariwa-chan of the president so that he can move forward to the Commission on Audit, which can no longer be seen by the Commission on Audit.
If we will follow the logic of President B. S. Aquino III, it appears that the Congress does not need a need for the sake of the expenses of the government.
The budget of DAP should be held for President B. S. Aquino III to decide where he will spend millions of money from DAP, after he decides to remove the former Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona who was revealed by Senator Jinggoy Estrada in his immediate speech in the Senate.
It is clear that there is no disturbance or control on how to spend money from this money because this is open to the chance that those who take advantage of the government are open, this is the reason why many are calling for the DAP and other kinds of pork barrel.
There is no saying that President B. S. Aquino III stole the money from the public funds that he will put in a situation with the country's money which is easy to rob and abuse it dangerous especially since our "pul-politicians and people who are in power have no responsibility or culture of exist.
Because it is difficult for B. S. Aquino III, the only problem that he is seeing is the theft of thieves.
He does not see the status quo in the conditions such as PDAF and DAP, where the president can't see that there is a problem on the continuing proliferation of the economy, politics, and Hio, culture and non-control of the wealth of the country by just a few.
He does not see a problem which is continuously visited by our loved ones in another country to find a job to give a decent salary.
Many cannot be seen by President B. S. Aquino III, haunting).
He / she was wearing.
For the additional information about the issues of the police, it would be a habit to listen to the casually act of caskets at 9: 00 kilometers per hour (9) up to ten o'clock (10) in the evening.
