As a result of hard work, loyalty, 2, would be sent home to Manila.

Again the campaign of "Tuwid na Daan" by President Benigno Aquino III also increased because of the loyalty and diligence of the assigned chief of the Bureau of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon and his good personnel.
It is said that the officials who are from the Customs are almost going to sneak if not in the perseverance of those who are from the Customs which resulted to the arrest and confiscated by P40 million worth of Peking duck and pigeons.
That is why, aside from the BOC on the new chapter on the leadership of Biazon to be sacrificed their business in politics, just to help PNoy in order to fix the economy of the country.
Peking duck and pigeons were able to get up because of the two kilos and halo-halo because of the empty trees, they tried to just let the HEXA Traura from the country China.
The important benefit is prohibited, selling and food of Peking down because of the possible disease brought by it.
It was a notice of BOC on the contraband due to the mandate of Biazon to be alert within 24 hours within seven days.
Biazon also warned those who are going to continue their illegal activities that will continue in their illegal activities, which is more acceptable for his agency to excuse the contraband at the coming Christmas.
According to Biazon, it was not only confiscated by those who allegedly confiscated drugs inside the case but a case will be filed in court but they will file a case in court.
Well, those who are making illegal and stubborn ones are not afraid because the government of PNoy is not joking with their campaign against people who take advantage of the economy of the country.
Perhaps, Cris Aquino does not need to do it as the cousin of the President and he is now a big challenge to the Aquino family aside from the blessing they are receiving from the Customs.
Hopefully, it would be said that two former Ninni Cristo of Manila will stop using an establishments that the owner filed a case at the National Capital Region.
Against them because of the search and harassment from the personnel of the complainant.
The police should not wait for this now who are assigned to Eastern Police District to complain again.
They gave too much resentment towards the owner of the business that they got up, they are still being threatened by their going to the place and monitoring the vehicle of EPD.
