Rizal waited for the new time.

At the age of ripe 27 years old, I wrote to Gat Jose Rizal the most important lesson he learned.

He asked this to be written by Marcelo H. del Pilar on February 1889, who has a position, according to the women of Malolos, "related to his rights and education, this is one of the reasons why it was shot in Bagumbayan (Luneta Park), in the order of the Spaniards.

A good memory and appreciation of the 117th anniversary of the hero of Gat Jose Rizal about what he did before for the Filipino people.

When it was stated by the questions.

The worst is the cheating of a few to be considered cowardice and negligence of others.

The second: What is being asked by one is about the lack of love for himself and in the too much light because she is asking him.

The third, the third: Hanglement, because what is the mind is that the people are like that; the person who does not have their own mind is the person who does not have their own mind; the blind followers in the mind of others, like animals who will follow the rope.

The fourth is asking for self, to help others to hide from them, because if you neglect your fellowmen, you will also neglect you; but the difficult way to break it, but the difficult way to break it, but the difficult way.

The fifth: If a Filipina woman does not change, he has no right to raise my children, but if it cannot be done, his power has no consciousness, the wife, children, the country, and everything.

The sixth year-old people were born as well, naked and without a knot with the Lord to become a slave, and he does not want to avoid others, and he does not want to avoid other people, and the thing that you do is in the right and worthy to happen.

This thing is to cultivate this kind of religion that is pointing at us, look better if that is really being given to the poverty of Christ, and to understand that this is really being taken away from the poverty of the poor, and we should understand that it is not being taken away from the poverty of the poor, and make sure that it is not being taken away from the poverty of the poor, and make sure that it is not being taken away from the poverty of the poor, and make sure that it is not being taken away from the poverty of the poor, and learn to buy a large sum of the masses, and learn to buy a large amount of money, and make sure that it will be a source of money for the poor, or convince you to buy a large sum of money.

Pacu - It is certain that we already know more that even if there is "freedom" we celebrated every 12 of June, this is given to the Spanish colonizers.

It is not surprising, why no one can stop the growing gap between the poor and rich; the unfortunate ones who have heard the unfortunate ones, just a proof that those who have taken their type were realistic, and "we are all united in all corners of our islands.
