That is why I can help one of those who survived the Commander of Commander from the eighty of Two four how they say they are going to take the fulfilment of the wake up in the house in the midst of tired and having a hard time in the kitchen, I said.
Someone from Quezon City used to eat while Marie joined.
Because the toll fee was said to be at the truth because of what happened to them, this Saturday in relation to what happened to them, they were not able to go with what happened to the public but he did not have the name of the truth and thanked the Lord that the death was raised to him.
It is not easy to return to each other for the highest biggest in the operation.
Go with you when I sell it on Saturday on Sunday, the fire was carried away from Saturday on Sunday, when I was carried away by a condominium that we were riding in a nipa hut to name and we will surely show up to Commander we hope for the help of Project 8.
Inside the house.
And out of what he said.
You called there.
There will be an opportunity.
I said, sir?
Hold a word on what happened, we will withdraw.
They immediately made a mission to fell down and got his finger in order to confirm that this is what you have seen here in the mountain.
When I did not see it too much, I was not able to give it too much but he saw a child when they were with a father, who is said to be in the closed City.
I cannot do anything.
The end of them is his father.
You are young.
He / she didn't have anything wrong about that, both of us were mobbed and stopped his own child.
Like my question, he will give a gun at his time.
There is no fund.
He said that in Tanza, he only has seven to ten minutes from them while having sex.
At the end, it is estimated that there is an estimation of an ice cream in the middle and then.
The toxins from each other is that they are able to catch them from each other so that they can see all the trouble that we finished.
God is still not there for us.
There is a limit to the people.
Nothing was left behind.
Said, sir.
Even if it is expensive to get away from us to make up the fingers of the body.
I also cannot stand the question to help them because I am also living in a house.
It was a miracle that they wanted a text message to another place to answer and the mistake was done because the mother did not just help us.
Even if you have to go to electric fan.
I am happy.
But nothing.
It's just a thousand.
I asked myself why I was not hit.
Along with me, it is just right for me to signal number with my pants.
Until now, I can.
Because I am full of things.
That is when I accept the way.
It's because I really want to go there level.
So, it is also about my back that we are carrying heavy things.
That arrives.
You have watched it, on the other hand, I will go down on a band that they are going home to the other hand, which is how they are drinking with what they are drinking in the country, he has seen how many are brave.
Be proud for that.
Telephone.
You know, do they just cry anymore?
You know why.
Because they will not be seen by two children.
It was said that this is not the only dangerous operation that was made up for the payment for the payment for the entire country to have been identified by the whole country but the bag that happened there for five years.
Jessica, in spite of the crash site, he said that he will continue to visit because he will continue to visit the Pi'll continue to visit the Pope to visit his godmothers, not to buy-hearted; and prayer to your children.
Which is for any extension, because the prayer of the mother of Jessica Mariz said that he gave the witnesses as a mole under the Elin that's why the Elband is right.
He said that he is also a member of his mother because he is often assigned in different operations, that's why he's busy not able to attend to his siblings every Saturday, and he / she's been busy that he / she was not able to attend, that is why he / she did not have any idea what is the answer of these people, that is why he / she did not have a lot of things.
Why,
Jobelle is able to make their own position like that, when he entered, he was saved and his other companions were saved.
It is said that he will be grateful because even if his companions are really angry; he really mentioned to him that they are going to see each other, that is why they are saying that they are going to go to school so they need to get up with it, that is why they need to get up with it.
It's five that because of their firecrackers, their opponents are slightly stopped so he is not thankful that he is not thankful to the heart and the sake of those who have been with him but my co-budol gang, who are really stubborn; and thanking the Lord, thanked the Lord.
What he is saying is that they are really new before they survived.
I want to continue with something that he has seen with a lot of land where they are saying that it is almost every Friday when they were saying that there was no opportunity when they were able to see that there were those who are noisy with those who are really noisy with those who are really playing with them.
And this is also like this, similar to the interview of Holy Week which is also a part of those who get used to get through it, especially that they will lose one of those who are in the same time, especially that they have no one to be with.
It will also comeback as if in case there is another mission in line, which is a medical mission.
He / she said that he / she would really have something to do with his co-worker; and then, he / she really doesn't really want to go home to the town hall because it is said that they do not want to go out of the challenges that they will say, but they still want to go out because they really want to get a lot of evil things in the act of many people.
