
Cholera and corpses were thrown in the river.

According to the authorities, it is said that the Philippines has Ebola.
But it is not impossible for us to be able to enter a disease that is more than the devastation.
Because we are going to put the door to Filipinos who want to go and work in countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, Sierra Leone, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Guinea that come from these countries.
There is a different discussion on the arrival of the foreigners because of tourism, tourism, business, marriage, marriage, and others.
They are just taking advantage of the saints when it is not 100 percent thing to scrutinize those with Ebola.
Private hospital.
We are happy, Bro, in response to the private hospitals in Ebola.
According to Prime Minister co Jimenez, President of Private Hospital Association of the Philippines, Incorporated., they are already preparing the "Navigation room," equipment and personnel for those who have Ebola.
But they explained, they can't face any epidemic or 727 of the Ebola virus because there are some who are sick that they should take care of.
Or Health Secretary Iking Ona, how is this, duh?
Philippine Institute of Philex Mining Corp.
Anthony Leacapin said, the president of the Philippine College of Philipines, they are ready to help against Ebola and in fact they are already moving to reach all about 10,000 doctors who are members of the entire Philippines.
They want all doctors to have a seminar, training and other needs against illness, even the doctors who are in the provinces should be prepared against the illness.
They are also coordinating with the Department of Health which is also moving forward, together with some of the World Health Organization, for corresponding preparation.
Question again: Health Sec. Ona, how will this be, duh?
Asking.
We are asking, Bro, to DOH because we want to make sure that the Ebola virus has entered the Philippines and will appear wherein we can do something for our safety, not only from illness, but to death.
The fact that it is said that that up to 70 percent are dying for those who are carrying the disease and not just half of this.
This is where we remembered the many mistakes made by the government in the said countries, that it is very painful to the doctors in the first, just like the Doctors Wazole, Bordado.
Cholera allegedly thought.
In the studies of Ebola in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Guinea, children of tool, it is said that the Doctors Wazza was said to have made a mistake in saying Quiti Kill is just wrong.
Just January 30, the voluntarily doctors rushed to these countries to help the government and the people who fought in "cholera."
But while the days passed, week and month, they were not able to stop the onslaught of "cholera" here that they discovered that it was not cholera but Ebola.
This is where the doctors have been in a rumble and they have started warning on April that will be out of control, or not to stop the burning illness and death.
They themselves lose one of the people you are with in the fight against illness.
For a few moments when they go to barangays in order to attack the disease, can they believe that they are being attacked by a bolo, two-two-two and gun in the belief that they bring them from the deadly disease.
It is up to them in life.
At first, according to the study, there are politicians in the said countries who are pleased with the Ebola virus, especially if those who are hit by Ebola, especially those who are hit by the ramp.
"It will take care of them in their lives, but they might cause death!" The reaction of the arrogant politicians.
But when it was reached by, even their voters and barangay leader, this is where they became confused.
They have not allowed the Ebola virus.
He is very negligent.
It appears that this is really negligent.
At first, he acted first in the advancement of sending a few personnel in the said countries, a few of them were lacking in budget and personnel.
Sometimes they had a budget that is about $500,000 but they have not been used to it because of the "red tape" or flying in their movement, there was even a small thing that Ebola is just a small thing.
But when they could jump off the number of those who got sick and died, that's when she was also confused and asked for help.
Throw it in the river.
When the Ebola virus continues to destruction and many are dying, as long as they are thrown away from the rivers, they will be thrown away together with this, Bro, and leaving them anywhere, even on the roads of the dead.
The burial of the dead from their own came true, and abandonment that they do for thousands of orphans, old, female, widow, and others.
It is the child of our newspaper, let us remember what is happening about corruption and corruption in the Philippines, these corrupt and corrupt cops do not have anything to fight and file a fight for them to win in the election 2016.
We have not heard anything from them whatever their preparation is against Ebola.
Hopefully you will be hit by Ebola and remove them from the rivers or leave the streets to create a passenger, tricycle and jeepney.
The children of Ebola, GRRA!
