Alden, I continue to thank God.
By Alwin, July 31, 2016.
I first interviewed Alden Richards when the black dog of GMA actress was launched for a gravh hotel. First Division, my young man, good and affectionate and affectionate.
Behind bars was the set set of eyes and there were already a few seconds of clothing and ten-o'clock, it could not be denied that the young man was not able to deny.
I sat at him / her, in an illusion for an illusion for the movie teen Academy (Diva, thank you for a love, the order of the Philippines should always be kept in order before he went to a press.
I thought, I was the only person in the house where I suddenly opened and shocked me.
Lo is a holdup, Alden is the one who was open to tears and opened the garter of boxer shorts and I opened the garter of boxer shorts.
He / she wasn't able to step down when his / her name was open and he casually closed it and fixed herself.
She could avoid being abused by her smile, look at the smile and on the cheek of her cheeks.
Because, I was wearing a baby dress.
He / she was wearing.
As time passes, to the press, then make the programs that he is included, the protagonist or maybe, will always be affectionate.
It is easy to look straight at the eye when talking and not, you will not feel that he is going to be famous.
As a sign, I was able to bring this writer to my birthday that was held in a place.
It is obvious how she is delightful to the children, older brother and older brother.
The hair-up with the grandfather, sister, with me, was shocked, he went with each other and gave gifts.
.
He / she was wearing.
True by her abdomen, she maintained his self-control.

It seems that no one changed.
And even if his anger towards her is getting worse, he will be the remains of the child, which is why it is success, he continued.
In a few moments I visited the moment I visited the letter of Miss AiAi delas Alas, especially when we see each other in the room of Miss AiAi delas Alas, she was very happy when we saw each other in the roof, they watched and visited the call.
As time passes, his embrace is always strict.
What he embrace is strict, he has been experienced again and has been given to your servant to look for the press for the press.
We can handle it, the heat and strict is really felt.
He / she was wearing.
After a half-year-time passes through, the Motawas are starting to release a regular point in Eat Bulaga, the location of the PAre-ray for Alden.
"He said," I do not worry about what will happen to everyone, I will just leave up to God.
"Wagerness, that's why he / she wasn't able to recover.

As long as the Lord for the Lord for him to be the one behind bars in the store for me. "
