Meanwhile, the hearing in the senate has no obstacle in relation to what you want to tell about it.
Which caused me to be the one killed by him.
He went to the flag of four here that's why I want to take responsibility and casino for the operation for the F-B to talk to.
You might do your own slippers.
That is it!
!
A hole in the hearing went with what happened to her husband, that it's not his nose that is why it's not his nose, which is why he says it's the reason why he can be washed away from the evidences of the demon today that's why it is said that the Aquino's evidence will directly be active.
Aquino is said to be the approval of the person who is not part of those who are not part of the hardship he entered to you, and how to protect himself from the death of the antique floor, and how to protect himself from the back of former ducks, there is no problem.
In the hearing of each of us who looked for an operation on the eye, you did not planned it and when they were helped by the First Year with Peña, the former Police Officer 3 Acuna was arrested, the president, Romy and, the same.
He said a simple Las Piñas was the whole plan if four were killed.
"Your older sister said they should monitor the troops and talk to a A vice-P, but she says it's true that she doesn't want to tell her on Saturday questions that she would not say yes to him / her last Saturday, but he / she didn't even say that he / she didn't want to tell him this Saturday, he / she didn't even say that he / she didn't want to tell him this Saturday, he / she didn't even say that he / she didn't want to tell him this Saturday, he / she didn't even say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say that he / she didn't want to say yes to the
I will ask why this is given a way for Boy.
I said it was not true.
Only but the order given by Fahs was bought by Fathy, many Tupas, his tree.
They do not have been separated from six to six months to do what happened to him that is why I am also not going to do what he is applying for?
He is Pad.
The six were consumed.
Doctor Love, the two do not know anything, even if you can't see that they are not getting worse, they still feel the growing space for his / her Ate Asukal.
That is the band of the price of petroleum is on the operation.
Number.
Even the P-U-T!
What is it?
She asked her mother to tell her mother what Marie said, but she was very five.
Meanwhile, a duplex, a plan of Sevidal.
The Las Piñas just said, that we can only make it in making an operation, Enrile, whose things are only five million, are only five o'clock in the same age.
Fahs said that he does not know, but when he arrives.
Five million pesos is coming from the word but it is okay.
Just do not just wait for us in and Serena Ligas and the Philippines, Robert elle, asked for money to buy one hour when his questions were asked by other senators to continue that he will ask him in other number cases happening in the hearing.
I-Ann took advantage; as long as you have mentioned that you have mentioned that you have mentioned to the Senate in the senate, they have been talking about the previous hearing in the senate said by Salvador Enrile, who is said to be the political party, flawless; and covetousness.
It might be a bit more not to believe with him.
"Is it a statement, what if it is possible that the election is going to be near the ground where there are events that are happening at the same age;
The personalities who are emotional again what is important here is Anne.
What are the new evidence?
How long?
This is what I gave because of course the country is making money from it.
You know, you are just with just a little bit, "you are right in the right side.

There are many canned goods that can no longer be seen; we are going out of the side of Mother's departure which might be met by the previous hearing and what we are saying is Enrique's character that's why most of these can be exported.
But in the kind of police he will ask, he will not be Me-Ann.
He said.
What they are asking for is that they are doing that, because they are the same with Janghai, which is why they have asked what is important today.
Evidence as well.
It appears to those who will ask if there will be someone who will get along with Yao and socks Fajardo which will not be able to deny five years old and that's why you cannot really have a cellphone on what happened.
I did not see it.
In the past vote, how do you say that this is what we are saying only one day.
Fur, fuck, chore; this day.
So it should be revealed that if they will release a tip that they will release a tip that they are going out of the time that they should be released on this day.
Then, it is not what they want only one day in the opening of Sampaguita Pictures, because we still have to buy 10 pesos.
It is okay that there is nothing more to pass by these.
That it will be passed on, you are the only ones who look down; we are still innocent.
Covetous, fur, the decision about it is Me-Ann.
We were able to look down; he / she didn't take care; not at this time of Cherry Pie Picache was the one who was on January to five-bust operation.
Under those who like that, that is how long as they have to ask.
You have been together for a long time.
