The Filipino is natural.

According to him, many Filipinos feel pity for what happened to the known personalities who hung the billion pesos of pork barrel.
This is despite the many of us believes there is a basis for the plunder case against them to submit the three division decision of the Sandiganbayan.
Just this past few days, I received a lot of messages from our countrymen who agree with our view regarding the issue of corruption.
But it cannot be avoided for every message to have mercy on those who are talkative after seeing a television and look at the picture on the newspapers.
For the three senators, most of my opinion is that Senator Juan Ponce Enrile is ready to forgive him because of his age they are selling, which is why people get tired of them.
"What happened to Atty. Gigi Reyes, who was rushed to the hospital for several times because of the unusual illness that he had experienced, probably when he saw the steel prison bars.
Maybe even if the nightmare of the nightmare will not enter the mind of Atty. Reyes, she will experience this situation in life that is why all sorts of diseases are coming out from her body.
But Senator Jinggoy Estrada and Senator Bong Revilla, including the queen of corruption, Janet Napoles, seems to be full of the indignation of the people.
However, whatever it is, the time will come that all your hard work is going to be done in order to hold the crooks to be gone to waste because it is natural for Filipinos to forgive.
Even if we pass through the scary of Martial Law, the people have forgiven the former President Ferdinand Marcos after a few decades that is why until now, there is still a candidate who has been elected.
Former President Gloria Arroyo, in the forehead of the people, but when we found out that his health is bad, we feel that it is really the Filipino, understanding and acknowledging.
Because of the culture of Filipinos, the issue is different when the issue is already different, even if there is a demon in a person, but if life does not do, we can be forgiven.
PNoy, when can we forgive him from the lies of the country, maybe PNoy needs to be imprisoned for a few days before we pity him and forgive him completely.
