RMM came closer.

Though it is clear that AOIL Region and Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) did not immediately dissolution, even if the final peace agreement of the government and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) is not the addeal with the residents of ARMM.
This is due to the formation of new commandments or political crises in exchange of ARNC that is included in 10 decisions that both sides recently.
"As said by the government chief Atty. Marvic Leonen, everyone knows that the peace talks will not be set aside because there is a process going through it that is why they are sure that the issue will be applied before finally decided.

First, there is still a need for the law to pass the law and put the dissolution of ARNC that was established through RA 9354, second, the said political agenda to share to the law of the Philippines and the territory of the country.
That's why it is clear that it can't be said if this will be fulfilled before or after ARNC elections in 2013.

However, if the content of the high points of both sides will be scrutinized carefully, anyone can no longer think that it will be implemented.
It's because the appreciation of Bangsamoro Basic Law and legitimate complaints of Bangsamoro Basic Law is included in the issue.
It is also possible that there is a number of Tausug for the new astronomy political, to be having a transition period; power and concern of the national government and for a new political party, and to acknowledging the existing rights of the citizens in the law.
Issues that the citizens of ARMM will benefit from.

That's why I will not be surprised if there are three Mindanaoans who said that it will be favorable to what the Aquino administration has launched.
It is because the lawmakers believed that Maguindanao Representative Simeon Datukan, House Assistant Majority Leader and Davao City Representative Karlo City - Basilan Representative Jim Hataman-Saliling to the said agreement will be achieved through ARNC that has been hoping for a long time.
In spite of this, they are the lawmakers who are positive in the effect of the scheduled widening of political, especially the citizens in its jurisdiction that has long been a dream to get out of their house without fear.
Hopefully the reconciliation of the administration to the MILF and the scheduled 2013 elections at ARMM will not be affected.
Because if ever the government of PNoy can do this, it can be done by the previous administration.
