Poor Pasay.

As time passes by typhoon Glenda, we have proven that the mayor of Pasay, Babes Calixto, one day before the raging typhoon in Manila is busy with the preparation of other cities in Manila to ensure the safety of their citizens aside from the town of Pasay.
And while the left notice of the mayors in almost all cities in Manila about the suspension of the classes in their school, Calixto was very silent for the nine-nine days before it was released by notice.
What is Mayor Calixto who is busy with and seems to be sleeping in a noodle house?
It looks like what he is busy with now is more important than the life and safety of his constituents.
Is it true that the complaints of the employees in Pasay City Hall were true, that's why Mayor is always staring at him because he almost cannot act on his chair inside the casino?
In my news, it is said that he is more often declared mayor in the casino instead of entering his office in the City Hall. Abah, the mayor declared that he lived in the casino and resign from your position?
That is why instead of moving forward the progress of Pasay, you just imagine, there is no proper parking space in the City Hall and even the small order, you will not be seen around the office of Calixto!
The squatters are not the order of what kind of stores and businesses surrounding it, and where vehicles are parked because they do not have a choice.
In Pasay City Hall of Justice meanwhile, the condition of the office of our judge was only right and tragic was the condition of our judge, even the court record is just piled anywhere, instead of taking advantage of the cabinet, they were even complained by our people.
The office is very hot and reasonable, which is why it is not surprising if the Americans have no one to go home.
There is no budget for the City Hall in order to restore the building but it is true that Mayor is not running out of the casino?
"That's why," that is the reason why it has been a few months that they have no salary in the casual period on the City Hall, have mercy on them, declared mayor!
Just stop what you are doing nothing wrong and take care of your Pasay!
