
VK, Quezon City and Pramis, de Lima.

The blessings shown by QCPD director Senior Superintendent Joel Pagdilao in suppressing criminality in Quezon City is good.
As a matter of fact, there are several consecutive wins against illegal drugs, wanted to be famous, etc., but what we are wondering, Colonel Pagdilao in the illegal gambling, especially the video karera (VK), are usually not yet addicted to this vice.
According to our Adona, "it is said that this is only final, according to them, I mean, it's the office of Dir. Pagdilao's office because it is still being handsome for a few decades that they are taking, look at the gambling.
This news, make sure that we do not believe, we are just wondering why the VK players in the entire Quezon City!
Here is, Col. Marcelino, the two can be able to die from you, VK operators from Project 1-6.
Okay, Colonel, a sample of a sample! "If it is not true, it's true that Manang and Jojo Gerry Cenes are final already!
Entice the President.
In the past commemoration of the fifth year of the Maguindanao massacre, the government of PNoy strongly condemned because the case is not moving forward.
What I want to say, to collect it, a half decades have passed but until now, there is no one who will be able to return to the leaders of the Ampatuan clan!
But we are surprised, to make sure that DOJ Sec. Leila de Lima will suddenly make a promise that because he will be able to pay before 2016!
If you think about it, it is very good to listen to Pramis, de Lima because at last, justice will be given to the death of the tons of journalists who want to finish the death of those who are roaming around.
What we cannot understand is that in spite of the concrete steps, the solution to be under De Lima is his strength to make a promise by the culprits before the 2016!
Noche buena, moments, Budget Sec. De Lima is considered as a senator in May 2016 under the line-up of the Liberal Party. Derit, if he will serve the Ampatuans before the 2016 elections, "will it be a candidate for the senator in May 2016!
King-mother, the victims of the said massacre did not really give justice to the said massacre, and even de Lima will still give justice! "We was we we" we was we we talked about by de Lima!
