The lashing of Martial Law regarding the guards of UP was closed.

Victor, or Limited.
Almost two decades of serving as security guard in UP Diliman (UPP) and Ate Adela Cruz, he admitted that his job is not a joke, the safety of the students, teachers, and other employees of UP.
Like more than 300 'actual guard in UP, it can reach 12 hours or evening or evening, it depends on the agency of UP. "It is prohibited to be sleepy, and it is prohibited to be sleepy," he added.
The wife of Ate Adela Rosa did not have long-lasting work for more or less than P14,000 monthly salary to pay the expenses at home and the bills of his two children.
"New Zealand is a new system."
Ate Adela Rosa is one of the 20 guards of UP who lost their jobs after the exchange of Winter Security Agency (Gwernafiled, Security System as a new security agency in North sectors of this year.
From 149 guards in the North sectors last year, it is only 111 hours of duty, while 33 are the ones to be sent to the top of the giddy.
It appears that 38 with former regular Filipinos are going to be sent to the order, while 5 were finally removed from service, aside from this, it is apart from the violation of the rules and those who were replaced by the new guards in hypocrisy.
According to UPP Chief Security Adviser (Cheart) Elpidio Ebrethren, it is saddening that there are signs of those who lost their jobs, this is a part of fixing and improving the system of UP which is based on a thorough study of the administration.
According to this project, UP will surely increase from this year in implementation of more opportunities that is included in the middle of the National Bureau (MTPB), or agreement between the management of the Ubers and their security agency.
It was said that the rules for accepting security agency to the search of the security agency is going to work in UP, just like the age (up to 45 years old) and Heath (5 "2) for women and 5" 6 "for the man).
In the report of Ebrethren, 11 guards were removed from work because of the low quality of service, one / her Ate Adela Cruz, 47 years old, from the eight men who got removed because of the accident.
Restriction.
According to Ate Adela Cruz and other colleagues in the former agency, Gwernafiled, Security System (December last year has given a guarantee for them to pass a guarantee for them to continue their job in Semirara Island as well as their service in the past year.
"We just found out on January 1 that we can't get it because of age, we would be able to get it early because it is still early because we spent more than 3,000 pesos in the age," said Ate Adela Cruz.
When the removed guard in the administration of UP went to the administration of UP, they were ordered by the Cheart to pay attention from the guards that they received to serve as a recommendation for their return to work.
"We were passing by these signatures but they still have not decided to bring us back," said Ate Adela Cruz, but we are pleading that we should change the age of us, or Heats, or we can do it to the transfer. "
Ebrethren, this has this kind of rules since 1979 when UP started to attack from the cunning and security Services Program, he said, this is not strictly implemented by the previous administration and it is also not strict that the agencies that they put in contract are not strict.
"We recognize the long and skill of their service in the university, but they should also know that they started to work here in UP Diliman, there is a need to be followed," said Ebrethren.
He added, the toll fee cannot just be changed because it is also the content that he is taking advantage of the rights of the guards, like proper salary, benefits, and inhumane management of the agency.
"If they will just practice staying all parts of the toll fee, we will find it hard to make sure that the other things that are stated in here are going to be followed," Ebrewed.
In 2008, UP arrived in his contract with Lanting Security Agency after it was found out that this is not giving a proper salary and benefits to its employees; however, all cases in the next agency were still continued because this is not fully implemented in the toll fee, "Ebrethren.

It's the torments of the Saligang Batas.
In the South sector of the Pacific Ocean, 123 and from the current 153 guard will be needed by UP during the end of the contract of the current agency this February and this means that there are 30 guards who are in danger of losing jobs during the next month.
According to him, this is a result of a better system of duty and.
"A lot will be saved from P13 million because we can use it with other important needs of UP," said Ebrethren.
This strategy of the administration is not new and it can be seen in an alternative security guards like the formation of the Special Action Force, a patrol of civilians guards, and the "No ID, No Entry SEC" which is implemented by majority of the buildings in the bed.
The country's problem is rooted on the needs of UP to be frugal through his surrender to the private agencies of the services that could not directly support because of the lack of funds, according to professor Olivia Domingo of National College of Public Administration.
According to the general of UP for 2012, P202 million worth of the government from the budget last 2011, in relation to this, 698.4 million last year, which was allocated for the implementation of the budget, which was the source of the budget to pay for the agency of the guards of UP.
"Build of Tindan, which is more effective in UP if he will just step down by the private companies because UP can buy the agency that can give the most low price of the services he needs," said Domingo.
However, it is a big problem for the increase and benefits, "Domingo said, the security guards do not directly go to the security guard so the security agency is free to buy and lower ranks of the employees and have no chance to become a member of the union for Filipino workers.
Second, the guards do not have no assurance with the work because every year we can change the agency of UP. Third, the obligation to pay for its employees are in the agency, and make sure that the employees will have benefits, and make sure that the employees will have benefits.
In this way, the financial aspect should be made again for the financial aspect of habeas corpus to ensure that they save the university, if they take care of the rights of the actual employees, and if they take care of the rights of the actual employee, Domingo explained.
Higher funds.
According to Ebrethren, current administration is currently conducting the security guards to make the security guards to strengthen the security guards to strengthen the UP Diliman Police so that the private agencies to finally give security.
On the other hand, the UPP University Provincial Council (USC) Chair Jhmm, Garcia promised to coordinate with the councils of the administration to immediately find a new job with Ate Adela Cruz and his other colleagues who lost their job.
According to Garcia, this incident is also a warning to the importance of protection from the government so that the university does not need to be forced to connect to the candidates who can showcase these kinds of reforms.
"The call for greater Metro Rail Transit is not only for the teachers and students but also for the whole community of UP, together with our security guards and other employees in the bed sheet," said Garcia.
At present, Ate Adela Rosa is still hoping that they will find a temporary job with the help of the administration and the SC) but they can find a long-lasting job, every year, there will still be no assurance for those like Ate Adela until he has not been able to attend the university.
