
2013 election, Break for Binay?

It is not unknown to our knowledge that next 2016 election, Vice President Jejomar Binay is possible to run for president while his children have their own fight in different positions in the government, even in the local or local government in the coming 2013.
After it was formally declared that the member of the United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) declared the son Nancy Binay, his father will pull his child in the senate?
As a part of the cabinet of PNoy in almost two years, what Binay did was really a lot of things that he can show to the people to vote a child?
It is true that Nancy Binay's name is true to those who can win as senator according to the previous result of the Social Weather Stations (SWS) survey.
But, is it enough for this survey as a result to remove the son of VP in the senate who can clearly see that strict security is very strict now?
If ever his son won't win in the senate, he aims to win the father for the next fight.
This means that this is not just depending on the survey of the people in choosing and voting for the right candidate but for what they have done.
What happened to the dees of poor people from Makati with Guese, who refused the three offer of the local government to leave the lot that was assigned by the barangay hall and a basketball player?
Said city is the source of our beloved VP that is also headed by his child.
According to a few reports, the three offer of the local government of Makati is allowed to have a choice of their families from Calauan, Laguna, financial status of P24,240 and free from the province of Package.
According to the residents, there is no need to take a livelihood to the mentioned Relocation Site, meanwhile, up to where will the money to be reached with others?
And we know that the reason why some of our countrymen left the province is because it will experience the place, which is why they tried luck in other places.
As chairman of the Housing and Urban Development Authority and Development Coordinating Council (HUDCC), can't it be done for VP?
