Kris built a "Food eath"

You will know Nacadi (Pilipino Star Ngayon (Pilipino Star Ngayon), PO 2 44; Usahay, November 30, 2014 - 12: 00.

The friends were Mayor Len Alonte of Biñan City, Laguna, Mayor Mylene Pineda of Lubao, Pampanga, gay designer was identified by Kris Aquino and Dominic Hernandez in Ali Mall at Cubao.
Kris did not say if he share with CK to 10 years old, but they are hoping that they will be able to recover what is important to him, pro-Break, but even in Tarlac.
CK and other kinds of business is to be under a Keker or Kris Associate Aquino Food Authority) and the film Production of Kris is to be under KCAP or Kris Cojuangco.
Kris has a new title, he is not the Queen of the all media, she is also known for the Ninang of all media because in the age, he is already known to me in the wedding, while his business partner identified as Dominic and Marian Rivera, another partner and Dingdong Dantes and Marian Rivera.
To stars 31, Kris and her children will reach Japan and Bimby to join the New Year with them.
Each has his own complaint on who will be the first.

Shake, Rattle, and Roll that will not be put in the protagonist's name in the poster billing.
Dennis Trillo and Matteo Guidicelli were involved in a box in the box of Lovi Poe, Erich Gonzales and Carla Abellana who is not in a box in the poster of Shake, Rattle, and Roll.
He said there was a camp that did not agree to put the "traslacion" after the name of Dennis and Carla, as well as the name of Dennis and Carla, who was the name of JC and Erich and Lovi Poe.
Rocco is very eager to make Lovi a lot.
Rocco Nacino is no longer the Gudelosao's girlfriend, Lovi Poe because she was able to return yesterday with the actress-Her one Brigada Eskwela in Japan which was why she posted the actor's Instagram (IG) in Europe that he / she was putting up by the actor, even though he was just lying down even if he was not able to recover.
If you are not tired, maybe Lovi Poe is on top of the raffle promo by Shake, Rattle and Roll XV, where she and Matteo Guidicelli were used to borrow money, which might be caused by Perci Intalan, and dragged inside the airplane.
