I will never allow you to be forsaken! "Alden By, Allan BE. 18, 2016.
Twitter history is what the Kalyeserye has done in the Eat Bulaga in Saturday when he was given Twitter by CUSevere Actor in the day, which is the number of ALNAs 120th of Ankara.
That's why every time the antique wheelchair is used to use, it appears that the Special Action Force connected here, which is a hand-shaped heart (which is one of the hand, which was known as Alonte, aside from almost nine years.
Just a special thing that has been made into an improvised explosive device (twitter account, like the International on TV Patrol, Game, NBA Finals, the NBA finals, which is why Alminda Isnain that it seemed to be more fiery by the tweets.
Up to 120 3M is the final tweets of the mentioned Pambansang Kamao in Saturday, which is not only in the Philippines and WOSIDs but also in different countries and cities of the world.
As we know, Eat Bulaga only (or "Kalyeserye has to be the only TV show in the whole world who takes the same TV show in Twitter or One Whole on the world with Eve with one million pesos.
Twitter Southeast Asia is recognized in the social media phenomenon, which is why as a part of the celebration of the first anniversary of Alonte, they brought out the said cauldron!
Meanwhile, Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza, in the Philippines, did not make it on Saturday when the different character of Kalyeserye has been held.
Alden and Alden are already in the room and is brightened up with Maine to become an ID-M-peso.
Bishops again and the two young lady Ryzza Mae Dizon and Baes by Baste.
Glitter in the BGHMC are overflowing because of the sweetness that will be made by Tyo and Maki gay.
Our guess is right, "that's the next chapter in Kalyeserye and the start of the new chapter in life of Alonte.
Lola Nidora, or Wally Bayola agreed to the real personality and the source of Divina (Maine), who was only a baby left by the door of the mansion, which is why grandmother was able to sleep.
Lola Nidora, who is Divina identified as Maine Mendoza, also called Maine Mendoza, who even Alden called her real name Richard FAULKSONAs, Jr.
In short, there is no character that will perform the two, that should be completed this Monday.
Alden hugged Alden, no matter who is Divina, whether Yaya Dub has accomplished it or Maine Mendoza, he is the only one in my heart! "
Reporting, Meng, "said" Teng.
Grandmother gave them a locks, then gave the audience favorite gifts.
The old man said, this is the sign of the new start and a new chapter in life of the two.
Family members, Bryan White, who's the First Family, guests have passed away from EB after its song hit again because of the success of Alonte.
It seems that Bryan is already having a hard time, and she does not want to songs the Lord Gelli Me.
AlDub has accomplished more when he arrived at the hospital.
The National Bae became emotional when she cried and cried while she had a tongue of Maine to Ichine and Me, and they were surrounded by their loyal fans who are holding the wolves.
Maine said to Alden, the speed of what happened in their lives within one year has changed a good way.
A miracle happened between them, according to Meng.
"I, I am extremely thankful to God that you are here in front of me now, I am with you while I am still alive in God," you, and to all those who are supporting us.
"I want to know that whatever happens, you are really the Special spot in my heart, that no matter what happens," at the 21-year-old Phenomenal Star Ngayon.
Alden thanked Meng for all.
According to listening to what he is saying and his problems, hopefully they should not change each other.
"Maybe, God really liked each other for each other so that everything will happen.
"So that our life will not only change but to change" the lives of those who believe, "the 24-year-old Kapuso network," is about to share.
"Thank you, thank you, do not worry, Mo gay, I will never forsake you."
It was answered by a young lady, "so, do not be sad because you are always smiling.
Then, they will ask for someone to ask for, "the owner of the bone of a bone," laughed and laughed.
Allan was asked to ask for help from Alungani, Tito Sotto said that they went to the cheek, and Alden did it.
"
The victim was kidnapped, Lola Nidora, who seemed to be a sign of Goodbye Philippines, like Alonte, also loved by many Filipinos.
Maine and Alden have a long post in Instagram on Saturday where he reiterated that whatever happens he will not lose in his heart.
"Womb of the 16th Independence Day of July 2015 will be live-in partner's center on the end of time (We) to be known to be known to be a person, thank you, thank you, Taw, Philippine place in my heart.
Thank you, thank you to know, even if we were able to look into an end up to Together or Single Entry SEC.
Yesterday afternoon, Maine wiped the laughter because Alden and Alden have grown up together with Alden and IOS and Me, then thanked all the audience of their movie.
Go out of Meng, Alden does not want to cry when GMA Records gave him the new award for the sales of his Wish I release.
Marian Rivera was the one who gave the Tell of his 7X-M Award at her but the young man cannot talk about her crying.
He thanked that even though many are already doubting and offered him up, there are still those who are not taking advantage.
He also mentioned that even if there are rumors, people know who has a good heart.
Marian asked Alden, if it is his true fans, no matter what they hear they will not leave.
AiAi delas Alas will also be recognized as if Alden does not treat Alden as if she is called RJ!
