Why do we like this by WILLIE. "

After going back to the country to allegedly testify against the pork barrel scam, Ruby Tuason appeared the name of the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada, what is the involvement of Erap in the scam, "that?"
Tuason is included in the case filed by the plunder case against the Malhfund scam, Erap is not included in the plunder case even Senator Juan Ponce Enrile.
Tuason appeared to be the one who took the commission of Jinggoy and Enrile.
Erap denied what Justice Secretary Leila de Lima was saying to be in social media's media, it is obvious that Erap wants to confront Erap to mention any case on his name.
Erap was already beaten-up on the issue of corruption, he was imprisoned and det-tempered because of the misuse of money from jueteng.
How did the people of the country implement the misuse of money coming from jueteng?
The case against Erap was wrong immediately against Erap, the cases filed against him are really wrong because they are in power of Erap in power as well as his bart for him.
Now, they dragged the former president again, why?
Maybe the administration is afraid to run for President Erap, they have a sleep in the current mayor of Manila.
Last 2010, PNoy was almost opened.
Who would have thought that Erap will become number 2 because everyone thought that it is against PNoy and former Senator Manny Villar.
Isn't it right that, Vice President Jejomar Binay was able to step down because the vice president will be exposed to run in the presidential battle 2016? It seems that the administration has already known the opposition in the 2016 presidential elections.
Did this start with the visit of Erap to former President Gloria Arroyo who is in a house arrest in Veterans Hospital? Aside from Erap, there are still many big personalities in politics who visited GMA.
Also in addition to what Erap said about the new person he / she was telling about what he / she is doing is Douglas Cagas in know the McArthur and what he said during the second war. "
If this is one "Erap's only a joke," hey, Malacañang should not just laugh, especially to NoguMar Roxas.
