
To defend our ancestors, punished the crooks!

According to RL.
Jennifer "Maria" Cariño Command - New People's Army - Benguet.
April 30, 2013.

Jennifer "Maria" Cariño Command of the NPA-Benguet Command of the NPA-Benguet City was successful in the implementation of the indigenous people in Mankayan, Mankayan, Benguet, the construction of Tailbo Island and other parts of Tailbo Dam, Benguet, and other parts of Tailbo Dam, Benguet.

Lefur, which is owned by the Marcos family, Dilaw, Tecson and other major companies in the Philippines, which is one of the biggest companies of landslides and neighboring towns in the scope of Benguet and Mt. Province, these towns of Abra River in the part of Ilocos Sur and Abra and even in the entire Philippines.

It's not only a few of the accident that happened that was directly caused by wide and violent mining of Lefur, land and livelihood of the residents of Ilocos Sur and Abra.

There is no truth that Liezel is able to help in giving jobs to the workers, so that the company has not received sufficient support and benefits to prevent the company's obligation to prevent the company's obligation, while thousands of workers are still ongoing for their jobs.

In exchange for this, the company is earning a few billion pesos from a gold that is a gold, copper and other sweetened bosity of the few are suffering and destruction of many.

But the rape and capitalists have not yet included here is the company of the company to widen the scope of their operation in other barangay of Mankayan, just because of more than a year of taking and successful fight of the residents of Tabio and neighboring barangays, which is why Leung from the middle of the said area.

The application going to the mining of Lean to all the provinces in court is everywhere, using different names such as Older en, Eles and Mt. Frank Drilon.

For greedy interest, Lefur is doing all the issues that will be filed against those opposing citizens in 2003 and 2005 and other armed groups in the protest against FSMAS.

The disconcerns of the native citizens of Mankayan, wide and appointed mining of Lebosity are the struggle to fight for their land, livelihood, livelihood and of course, this is strictly enforced in the total call of true reform in the land and the national festival.

In the whole Philippines, thousands of families are being thrown out for their land because of the entry of huge companies in mining, most of these are the national mines that can be used here in other countries, and this is a big reason for the continuous increase of economists in the Philippines.

There is no hope for the indigenous people from the management of the government fund which is currently being implemented by the government officials in the custody of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency) in South Cotabato, one of the new leaders of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency) in South Cotabato, and the new leaders of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency) in South Cotabato, including the new leaders of the Philippine National Bureau of 1995.

The CPP-NPA, CPDU and the whole movement is firm for the interest of the citizens against wide and equal mining in the country in exchange for the ratification of the people to achieve the national freedom, democracy and real progress.

Fight the wide and appointed operation of Lebosity and all big companies in the mining companies to defend their land or livelihood!
Let the rape fathers and fight for the Pambansang Kamao in order to go back!
Push the true reform in the land and the Pambansang Kamao tonight!
The government government budget will be held responsible for the crimes against the people!
Push through the democratic solution!
