
2016 elections are successful in Caraga Region according to the latest survey of COMELEC, AFP and PNP.

June 07, 2016 Jennifer P. Guna.

Butuan City, June 7 (Pia) - the Commission on Elections (COMELEC), with the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Philippine Army (PA), became successful in facing the May 2016 elections in Caraga Region.
In the report that was held at Papal visit Regional Office (RL) conference of the Regional Joint control Center (RJO) which was headed by the COMELEC recently, COMELEC Caraga Regional Director Atty. Renato Magugba, which was held in May 2016 elections in the region, was approved and successful.
There were just a few recorded incidents in different provinces of Caraga, but these have been running over again and have been solved immediately by the authorities.
Atty. Magahin further thanked the ranks of the police and military as well as the different sectors who helped in order to become orderly and peaceful because he also emphasized that the region of Caraga is lucky because this has a good officials in the PNP, AFP and other law Enforcement Agency.
Also stated by Col. Isidro Purisima, 402nd Brigade of the Philippine Army, that one of their primary mission is the fulfilment of their duty to support the COMELEC and so that the 2016 election will be completed.
According to PNP Caraga regional director Senior Superintendent Rolando Felix, the election is peaceful and peaceful because of the cooperation and unity not only by the officials of the government, but also the local residents of different provinces.
Meanwhile, regional director Abner Caga in the Philippine Amusement and Caraga, will also serve the COMELEC because of his dedication and hard work to be honest, and peaceful election this year.
According to him, the election in this year will be said to be the most successful because the public is able to show the importance of unity and change that the country wants through voting and choosing candidates right in the position.
