
It is out of Order: Beware of the favorable resolution of the Office of the Ombudsman.
By Fortun, June 6, 2016.
Atty. Jesse Robredo is puzzled by the president of Fukuoka, Arroyo, Arroyo, Dueñas, Arroyo and his younger brother, Valenzuela City Congressman Walis Gatchalian for the complaint filed by the Ombudsman in the Sandiganbayan.
The said case has something to do with the buying of Local Water Up Administration (LWUA) in the UV Expresses, Incorporated (Pad) for 80 million pesos almost 10 years ago.
Lanting was accused by Lanting to the graft case of Sherwin and Weslie even if they do not have a participation in the sale of the BI to LWUA, which led to P2,500.
As told by Lanting, it is just too small that it is just a small amount and it is not yet qualified to have a official share but he is still being accused of accepting the immediate solution for P2,500!
On the other hand, Weslie was filed with a case by the Ombudsman because of his being a member of the Board of directors that he was a member of the Commission on Forum Pacific, which is why it was not owned by the Liberal Party in the Forum Pacific, which is why he did not own it.
Lanting was emphasized that 100 percent of Weslie is not only equivalent to a peso and 14 billion pesos (about 1.24) to share to the Liberal Party, which is very small amount.
"The sale of the Forum Pacific in their bank is a kind of investment on where you will buy one thing and after it will be sold by an interest to sell the said bank, especially in the decision to sell the said bank that's why it's still being accused that he is receiving an interest in the said bank.
But it is surprising in the Ombudsman regarding the immediately cleared by the 5-year anniversary of the three members of LWUA Board of Trajes (AIDG) and Bonifacio, Peña, Senior, because of the said possible cause. "
They were identified as PWUA officials who have cases were former administrator and Queen Chairman Prospero Pichay Jr.

The Gatchalian family strongly refuted, the owner of Wellex Corporation and his other sweetened bosity are the allegation of the Ombudsman and said that they are in good faith "and they did not violated the law.
Lanuan said that the obligation to get along with the authorities of the government from Monetary Board and Central Bank was given to LWUA under the contract of oil and not in the filing of Wellex Group Inc. and Fi.
According to Lanuan, LWUA and it's the person who's the decision and price of the BI to 80 million pesos that was paid by LWUA, for 60-million pesos which paid 200 million pesos compared to the original amount of money they buy.
The Liberal Party has been bought by the Gatchalian last March 5,81996 from the family of Lito Camacho, former Finance Secretary.
That is why it is surprising why the Ombudsman disregarded the three deport of LWUA while they were brought to the charges against Sherwin Gatchalian for an amount of 1.2,500 and Weslie due to the amount of 1.6 billion pesos.
