
FVR became annoyed by Lacierda, and who are you?

The Supreme Court (Izzy Canillo) from former President Fidel V. Ramos (FVR) for President BS Aquino III, "fix the peace of Aquino in Mindanao due to the foul odor of Malacañang, but he was mocked by the Malacañang, Edwin" Boy, "Lacierda.
Lacierda said, the former president should know who is the "epal" "whom he was referring to, because they did not follow the Aquino administration and not him (Lacierda) who is really known by Ramos. Ohhhhh," you are really known?
Manas well, Lacierda said that Lacierda is his boss, Noynoy, who is in Zamboanga's boss, and it is true that the president came there, the question of many, what did he do there?
Why is it that 2016 presidential candidate Mar Roxas is the only ones seen in the press conference?
If Lacierda will listen to us, he should be careful with his firm statement and answer to people who care for peace of the country.
Maybe later you understand Mayette and your troops, he himself and allies are going to call protests not only against the wrong policies of the peace of Talk and pork barrel.
It is scary to think that FVR and the country will take care of you here in Malacañang!
There is a group of soldiers and police who announced that he manipulate position or statement against the Marcos regime, they called their group, GU or Reform Officials' group, which are currently composed of soldiers and policemen, which are owned by the leaders of the government.
GU assured that they are not like the first who introduced themselves and act as soldiers and police, they also clarified that they will not be fooled by the previous leaders of Ram and Magdalo that they are just used by the leaders for their personal interests!
Even if you guarming, I hope that you will become a model not only by your fellowmen, but also by the entire citizens, you should not be given to the first leaders of your uniform that they just want to be a politician and the country's money.
For sure, for the people to have mercy on your profession, it is certain that the trust in your profession is certain, "there is a big wealth," I hope, you are the one who survived against all kinds of evil, corruption and corruption.
I hope that we can see and know you in the coming days of protest, hopefully you will be the guidance of the national peace, and hopefully, along with your actions with the people, we are different from the rottenness of our country.
With the corruption happening, greed and corruption, it is perfect for us to go down, speak and fight!
