Do not wash the Visiting Forces Agreement.

Postanes and his mind.
On October 29, 2014.
In opinion.
Take a leave.

The US Marines who killed a transgender Jennifer Laude was involved in the heinous crime that was done to him.
For me, hopefully we will fix the issue because the Americans have a big contribution in our country, especially when there is a calamity like Yolanda.
It is pitiful if we are really being picky.
In my opinion, the US government should be responsible for doing this kind of crime in our country because it turns out that we are being oppressed by the foreigners who go to our country, but it turns out that we are oppressed by the foreigners who go to our country.
Let us take it slow because let us admit that if America is not in our country, it will be better if China will be acquitted by China.
We still need America to go to our country.
The other side of the law enforcers should also be tested.
President Noynoy is right that we should not be careless with incidents that happened, because a person should not be involved in general problems.
Why are foreign fugitives that get involved in the country?
The NBI should really investigate the Immigration because of the increasing number of Koreans who have cases in other countries which are where they are starting to discover the Philippines.
This is my only question.
Why do not make it way to our country those illegal Koreans, Japanese, Chinese, Bombay in our country?
Does this mean they are involved in the Bureau of Immigration?
GM Bodet Honrado himself was the partner of PNoy.
Everything is done by President Noynoy to fix everything in our country especially in the departure of the flood in the government.
We will even support the President in his program on the straight path that is going to be given to our country.
That is why MIAA GM Bodet Honrado himself supported all the programs especially in fixing our country, including the removal of members of the airport such as former people in the previous administration.
That's why we are still impressed by President Noynoy and GM Bodet ardo Tancinco because they do not stop working so that everything will be better for our country.
Depcom Ariel Nepomuceno who is an asset of PNoy.
In the Bureau of Customs, the rating of BOC Depcom Ariel Nepomuceno, still continues to be good.
His mandate was to help the straight path of President Noynoy.
Depcom Ariel Nepomuceno is one of the pillars of AOIana now and he even gets stronger on his jurisdiction over the help of the officials and personnel of BOC-EpiPen.
There are many changes in the Customs Police and X-ray unit since he administration has a proper way and many are afraid of doing nonsense in Adelana, especially the coler.
At the X-ray unit, their work will get better with the leadership of their chief Atty. Rolly Nana's leadership.
Long live you, sir, Keathons of Social Work.
Collector Col. Edgar Macabeo.
There are a lot of praises now in the management of a good Customs (district Collector Benjamin Macabeo in his jurisdiction.
In his being famous and good treatment of his personnel and properties, therefore, all programs and reforms of BOC Commissioner Sevilla have been released.
They have seen a lot of contraband and in the last contraband because of the alert of his people at EpiPen and CIIs.
That is why the Social Work Collector Macabeo.
Long live you all!
Jimmy Salunoy.
