
Farmers of Hacienda Luisita, punched, shot.

By Filipino Weeker.
February 21, 2012.

The crash of the privatization of Hacienda Luisita, call on the 25th anniversary of the massacre (MLordiane / Mayanta.
Members of the farmers condemned the firing of the guards of Hacienda Luisita, police, and military to the farmers in the orders of the family of President Benigno Aquino III.
Yesterday, 100 guards picked up, 15 members of Tarlac Provincial Police, and 10 members of the Philippine Army were exhumed on the land of the farmers in Brgy. Balete Drive, according to the report of alliance between the farmers in Brgy. Balete Drive.
More than 300 members of Ambullets have stopped fencing was shot by the eight times by the guards and authorities to scare them.
"They thought we are going to be afraid, but they forget that our fear comes after the massacre last November 16, 2004, we stayed in order to defend our land," said Felix Huertas, Junior, chairman of Ammunition).
The alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle Luzon (SWS) is condemned the use of the Aquino government to the forces of the government for the interest of his family for 4,915-hectare land.
"The President is using the Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines as his Philippine Army," Joseph Canlas, the chairman of the PDRRMC.
He added that this is part of the President's plan to focus on the impeachment of Chief Justice Renato Corona, while the implementation of the decision of the Supreme Court to express the implementation of the decision of the Supreme Court to share the farmers.
Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) condemned the incident, "Aquino made the same violent actions that we saw under the former President Arroyo," according to RTECAYETANO, second general secretary of KMP).
Postigo also challenged the President to release from the military in Hacienda Luisita, who is allegedly spreading fear in the ranks of farmers, "currently detained by the AFP from 10 barangays in the hacienda.
As well, the group is calling on the Supreme Court to release the final decision of Hacienda Luisita and immediate release to the farmers, including the ingredients that they sold in RCBC.
Meanwhile, the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan appealed to Aquino to call fair and quick investigation of the incident.
"We have not heard anything that has been arrested or an investigation to be done, according to Renato Reyes Jr., general secretary of the Bayan.
The Bayan also said that the Department of Agrarian Reform of the Office of the President should be decided under the Office of the President, the decision was given by the agency of Cojuangco-Aquino.
