Another request from STS.

Certain Danro.
It is time for school again and for sure even before the students are seated at night, they have passed through 500,000 pesos up to 1 million pesos, and who will be able to pay attention to Bracademic, or those who will be able to go to Bracademic, or those who will be able to be happy with the sudden change in terms of a sudden change in order to be happy?
Last 2007, a great change will also happen to those who were beaten-up, wherein the based on 300 pesos per units was increased, many are forced to walk from 300 pesos.
It looks like what is on the height of protests in the past years is still unclear, that is why there is a new policy that, after all, will add up to P500 to the bills that you are from.
In an alternative dam to complain to the College of Education, the President of UP directly defended the effective change in their work, but, there are many poor people who are living in their efforts, but, there are many poor who are going to get to work, but when they are just going to get to go to each other, they will be able to get to go to and give other reactions, they will also get what they want.
Every time there is someone who is going to talk to prove the failure of Mr. STP, every time someone will stand in order to expose himself as one of the victims of STS., the voice of the President to tell his own opinions and then she will not mention to his own opinions.
Even if I was not able to speak to the legislative chamber, I know what is true - the number of vehicles inside UP would not be strong, and not all students are receiving power to stop the voice of the students who are asking for a chance to hear.
As a student of UP, who would be happy with the high level of private university and it would be said that they should have to increase peace even if not only the students are making peace even if the students are not only making peace even if the students are not only making peace but of the whole system of education.
