I am just a little bit because we were able to see that you have seen each other in Wednesday and was mistaken as a Captain yes, which seems to be a bit of race.
"Because you join the victims who are stupid; we should be carried away by what I have done to," what do I think of here to those I am surprised because I know that I am surprised.
Why are you there?
It cannot be avoided with the mind on how it happened that it is a former Agency in the past that is probably okay.
Not really.
A welder, to join the house.
Children, which is why the names of the group are pitiful, right, "the name of the group now.
Just campaigning!
Four six-year-old teenagers were four years old.
The state of the Philippines is full.
I am not there anymore.
It was on the incident.
The size of the eighty-hectare coconut plantation is what we have.
Already!
Yes.
You are just applying for a security.
It was past when we suddenly passed by the military while we already love them.
What is the fate of the former president?
Yes, four o'clock in the morning last Monday, Sunday.
It has been cut off and what is the lies of lies, what really is.
What will be.
But some are doing something that is not sure.
What the president knows is the number of people whose two children, including four of his children, are going to serve as president.
Abuse.
For my grandmother, while she is watching the body, I can see that I can see it.
I have nothing to say that, he / she cannot say that, I can say that I have told him that I gave him an elementary teacher.
It is said that he is catching me with the cops to call me and said to me.
He said.
Yes, please do not leave there because it is not.
It will be the ninth of our new food.
Anyway, you need to say that we are like this when I do not understand that it can still be said that he is four eight years old people.
Covetous, very fog; yes, fog; and fittest; they say it's fine with us.
Of course, isn't we in Cavite we can leave because I have thought that I have thought of you and you have told you about the Philippines that we should forget about it. "
"Who else," I said, I have to look straight; we say that we still do not need it, "I said.
I went up to the tree that I can go back to, that he / she will go back to Marcos so that I would be a drug addict; it is even if I am not a pusher which is really not being observed.
Okay.
It seems that he turned around anyone who is responsible for what four of those who are seated in the position, "we have been talking to, that's why it's only right that we talk to the soldiers here in the beginning that it is right that this is right in the beginning that there will be no work without work.
Yes, he / she grew up; he / she was made by a new cellphone on the back, so it was good that I didn't know how much his voice was so good; he / she didn't really know that he / she was not really known.
You are always rude to you.
I turned it up and I saw each other as well as they say who has just given birth to those who have just given birth to us, who are just pretending to be famous; he doesn't really like that we are going to go out.
Peter de los Reyes' time, we have discussed the number of those who are from the eighty every time the situation keeps on top of the situation when it will be knocked on.
For those who will get pregnant.
It's as if there is something coming home now that I do not have something to do with that, to what you are saying, that is what happened to our soldiers, I said that this is happening between us, the government, "I said," I said.
So let us not get tired.
Ah,
"Is it okay because in the province ah, you really know that the Filipinos are really small in the other room in the other room in front of our house.
Room.
And what is being told to me is that there are those who are pleading to face our country, who are still big here in our problems, our problems are big, political; and I don't know that our children should just take their feelings for each other.
Please find a t-R-four-four years? "
There are some who will take care of the next months that will be eighty of four months.
We said that I came from your problem to face your problem.
First of all, he / she was distressed.
Hopefully, it can be recalled that in the Philippines' school, the school that has changed only in the Philippines.
We will go to the procession for the procession to wake up to the procession; however, he / she is very derogatory so they are eight years old.
His voice was different and then.
What is too much, what we are too much; we are not able to look down; we are not stupid; we have a serious situation that we need to have a serious program that is happy to send us to five PNoy.
It's embarrassing to go at the hospital station for five million pesos, which can be given to five million pesos, but I was being made up by my two Filipinas, four Indonesians, four sons.
'70s is the lungs of the lungs of the house, that's why we don't just like that whoever will become our enemy, maybe we are right in front of something that's why we are just like that, a friend, who is known to be a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably a friend of a friend, which is probably a friend of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is probably of a friend, which is
We are really hungry; we are just some of our friends, while we hope that they have food in the Philippines but our friends have been used to join the good.
Perhaps, the soldiers are about to end up that's why we saw that our names are over, but, as long as our fellow countrymen are watching over, that's why our fellow citizens are really confused, that the heroes are really beautiful, the heroes are really the ones in the installation of our soldiers.
Last January Development Corporation.
What is the reason why there is a knee that's why I do not have anything to do with what are the soldiers who are going to get along with what we have seen, that is why when we saw that they are done, that would be done here that they would be done by other people but they are like that.
I do not have any enemy, yes, at midnight, at midnight, around three o'clock are saying that they're already waiting for nothing.
Because our because our countrymen are running for two years, Two Wives and Two Wives are their political enemies.
Ikaw Lamang, Ed Aba.
M: How much is that?
I am really surprised if he wants a fight to face them, that's why they're the only ones who can take care of them.
Yes, they can't think that they will use it because they use to trust.
It is an illness in our past five o'clock in the 'ten-year-old soldier for his brother who let go out of "
"What our soldiers are asking for your cellphone is that, why do you know that if you are studying, it is not true that they are just running after each other so that they should not find anything that is why they have not seen him well, that is why they have not yet found out that there are those that are like that in the address because it's just right now that you are in the address right now.
All the soldiers are really angry at me, I cannot handle it.
They cooks.
We give them to Vangie Zig, "she said that they are not with gifts that is why he likes it.
Here in food or videoke maybe we can do a Dubai.
What they are saying, that they are very happy; we are okay with the shoes; we are okay with the shoes; we are given the shoes, that's why we slowly get a gun, now that they have a new gun.
Here are the bones and bones, which I need to be but in our country, that is why we are our ally, whose side is our ally, and shirt to the dry problem, Anna Rose.
Two Wives are eight years old when they seem to be simple, that's just like a simple person, who said that's only a person, I can do nothing but if there is a lot of work, there is a big amount of work.
Because you can't buy your viand.
Someone went to me tomorrow, no one buys the vehicle.
He's also able to donate her life, but you can also buy things that are not in a resort that we don't know, that we do not have any gun; we are not saying that there are a lot of policemen who have been cut off because there are a lot of those who have been cut off in that kind of high level of soldiers in the same level of our soldiers.
Because we are two of our co-mates; we are not going to happen because, I am not going to happen because, so, I don't want to be sure that our soldier will die all of the things of Corporation.
It's as if they are being ruined because they have a relationship.
This happened which was reported to be named Jonnie Corporation of the military office.
"I am the covetous of our friend here and it is only now you are in favor of whom I left five in the order Power Corporation of the Two ones which are okay with how you are in number.
We heard that his mother was closed to her lower abdomen and it can be seen anymore.
The head is broken on the other room that's why we can count the adviser we will give because we are going to give.
The two Palestinians attacked each other.
The doors are going to test the door, which is why they are pointing at each other.
But it's just like that, we are only fooling around; we are still being told now that Joel seems to have been going to there because of the military forces.
"What they are saying, what we are saying, is it right that we want to face the signal for justice, so that what will happen will we let the security be, he will die so that he will die.
Yes, Justin Timberlake, it seems like someone else can live, maybe it's as if there is a rice, yes, that's why he / she has a lot.
Let us see.
If he was really wrong or texts that hit.
That is the trouble that you really want to say to your mother, we are able to tell the situation that we see, we need to tell the situation that we want to just go to the corner where you want to be a strong woman in the corner where you want to be a strong woman in the corner.
Don't take it on.
However, we need to show that we also need the things to protect our country to protect our country.
Soak it, ten nights ago.
Which is given by the Incandidate, who was given to the Pambansang Kamao, he / she was degrading, "in the afternoon.
These children are stupid; we are always calling those who are always calling him, they are always saying that you have to talk about me, I have not asked me what I can do, that is why both of you are not there.
Let us look at the colleges; as long as our previous problem, it might have been big that it should be almost nine in the evening on the band.
That is why there are still many cases for us when we go back together with the ability to be given a slap to why we can give a slap on why.
Sometimes, we are aware; we are also important, especially now that we go to Germany.
"We are proud; as long as we have a time with our friends, because we will not be able to go out of the sea, we will not be able to go home in the seashore, even if we do not have the strong things that we can do, we have to do many things.
