First.

Maire.
Three days from now a big gathering will be held again inside and outside the Congress where the million-million Filipinos will be held.
It is possible for the visitors of the US to be attended by the huge trophy or huge yard, maybe I am only one of those who are lucky to attend the two gathering, when it was born in the SONA of Bayan in the next year in Congress.
If I will be asked now, I will choose to go to the SONA of the Bayan, there is only a simple celebration, there is a simple celebration, there is a few series of cases where you will hear many lessons and primary experiences.
You will also meet a lot from different sectors of society - there are farmers, fishermen, workers, skillful and common people who want to cooperate with the call and action.
Why do I choose to choose inside the Congress if the fight is just good for the fight and even the clings of every word of the President.
I was surprised when I joined the SONA of the town last 2010 and this was my first experience to work one in the rally which is why I need to understand what I am writing and know the people whom I am writing and get to know the people who will destroy each space of even a space.
I went with it, not only because of the fear that I will be scolded by the chief, but because I want to experience what I see in the television before, a long queue for people who have been holding, "rights of the people," and many others.
I am nervous at first, because I do not know what to do, that is why I chose to be the one to give me to the students who are in Quezon City when I have not know how to talk to other people apart from those who will be in a hurry.
"
I am praying and "I am confused," what I always answer is, I don't know how she would be seen from the people in TV but I have been seeing me from StarStruck to a famous actress.
When we were near the Congress where the very SONA of the country will be held, I was slowly comfortable with my co-workers, I tried to keep up with my older brother who was in front of us, I was really helped to remember other lines.
It has been a unique feeling for me to see the people waiting and by the groups that we have arrived in the place where it comes to the place where it comes to their faces being full, diligent, and happy in the opportunity to show unity.
