"Palparan's coward, liar.

The victims of former general Jovito Palparan in "special treatment he is receiving since he was caught last Wednesday was filled with anger.
Despite the order of the court to transfer him to Bulacan Provincial Jail, the so-called "tanim" "in the custody of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) still remained in the custody of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
Palparan's motion has filed a motion to remain in the custody of the NBI on Thursday that he is asking for his personal safety and he is safer in the NBI detention case.
But for the relatives and victims who are so famous in NBI, he should be imprisoned in a regular jail like the court.
"Where are our children?
Petinglay adds that it is as if the NBI is protecting Palparan, while they are relatives of the victims who have no protection.
"Although I was happy when he was caught, and felt pity on his appearance, I still cannot forgive him," Concepcion Emano said regarding the change of Palparan's appearance.
Emano added that Palparan's day is still good, at the NBI, while their children are still missing.
"At any hour (Palparan's) will die and will be buried properly but we do not know what happened to our loved ones," Emano said.
The two parents insisted that Palparan's regular jail will be placed in a regular jail and he is responsible for the accusations against him. "Hey, he says before that he will face the cases he is facing, but they are hiding," Junrey said.
A liar.

Aside from the motion to remain in the NBI, Palparan's lawyer is also separated to transfer the hearing of his case, according to the lawyer of the victims, Palparan's security is not a basis to transfer the hearing on the case as well as his stay in NBI.
"Unisan, a long-year-old woman, who has a threat to his life," says Edralin Odelia, lawyer of the victims and the general secretary of Naawan Union of People's lawyers and NUPL.
Odelia said, Palparan in Bulacan Provincial Jail is safer than NBI because it is far from the court in Malolos.
Up to 50 kilometers from the NBI is a distance of 50 kilometers from the Malolos Regional Trial Court, while the court is a few steps from the provincial jail.
"It is a bigger sum of course for the security guard if he will take a trip from the NBI," said OPLAN ia.
Palparan's political prisoners should also not be afraid of the political prisoners who are members of the rebel New People's Army (NPA) because they are not in jail in Bulacan Provincial Jail.
"We should just think, it is more than 500 political prisoners and those scattered all over the prison in the entire country, do it mean it is not enough for him to be imprisoned because of the NPA who are imprisoned," said OPLAN ia.
Odelia added that he is an insult to the forces of the military and the police to say that he cannot be guarded.
Odelia insisted that Palparan's motion will prevent them to be held accountable and be imprisoned in a regular jail.
Complete.
Odelia believes that they will get a favorable decision of the court against Palparan because it is a strong witness Raymond Manalo.
Manalo is the former prisoners who, together with his sibling, Palparan's staff was tortured first in 2006 and was personally seen for Sherawat and Karen.
"The Supreme Court himself said that he / she said, to be alle, and has been petitioners from Manalo," he said, was ordered in 2008 of Court of Appeals and was released by the military as Karen and Sherawat.
This is due to the order of the Supreme Court against the writ of Amparo for the two.
Odelia added that even in the separate investigation of the various groups such as Melo Commission, of United Nations Special Rapisora, and Palparan's name, the kidnapping and other violation of human rights in implementing alleged corruption, kidnapping and other violation of human rights in the implementation of human rights in implementation of human rights in implementation of human rights.
"On this second life, I will not allow it to be held accountable," said Oscar Leuterio, one of the victims of kidnapping and witness against Palparan.
He insisted that he saw Sherawat in Camp Magsaysay. "They were making noise inside the vehicle when they were transferred to other camp, I still heard that one of them were taking advantage of the drinking soldiers before they were transferred," Leuterio said.
Leuterio said that he / she is confident that he will face her grandfather "grandfather" nickname Charles Palparan in the side of the camp, his happiness will only be complete if Palparan's will be jailed and held accountable. "

"What I experienced from them was severe, I knew that my head was having a hard time when he broke up with a two-by-two-by-two (wood).
Just to be free.
He said he was forced to agree with the desire of Palparan in order to be freed.
"He talked to me, to help them against the NPA, we were even given money and medicine for building, because we can really pay," he said.
A few days after he was released, Leuterio said that until he went with the priest and the group of Karylle.
"To give justice to the two children, as well as what happened to us, I will not allow my second life to suffer, which is why she needs to suffer what she did," Leuterio said.
For Raymond Manalo, "Palparan's experience is still lacking compared to the siblings and other victims.
"She was not handcuffed when she was arrested, she was even careful when we were able to reach each other, that's why we did not have any fault.," Mamondiong, from the refusal of him to do with the disappearance of two students.
"I personally talked to him, I have included in the camp of Karen and Sherlyn when I am the former witness," he said.
Manalo added that Palparan's excuse is just for her fear, "he added to show his courage before because he is afraid of his many victims." Said Manalo.
Aside from the kidnapping and serious illegal detention case that was filed by the parents of the two students, there is a separate case filed by Manalo against Palparan who is currently sleeping in the Ombudsman.
The call of OPLAN ia, should be acted upon by the Ombudsman in the hearing on the case, especially now that Palparan's hands is in the hands of the authorities.
"
A friend denied the statement of President Aquino that there was no blood "in the military after Palparan's arrest was caught.
The group said, "the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) said that as long as the government does not run out of blood, as long as the government decides to implement his human rights," Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Karylle.
Marasigan said that there are still many allies in the ranks of AFP who are direct in control of Aquino as commander in the chief.
He took as an example of Maj. General Eduardo Año, the former Intelligence Service of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (ISAFP) and now a certain Commander of the 45th Infantry Division in Mindanao, Major General Ricardo Visaya.
According to Karylle, Año is involved in the kidnapping and disappearance of Jonas Burgos while Obligado was accompanied by Palparan in the Middle East Avenue in the Middle Luzon, according to the same place the number of victims of kidnapping and murder was high.
Palabay also added that the Aquino administration is not different from the past administrations that are full of violations against human rights such as massacre, murder and kidnapping.
"Aquino said that he did not have a blood pressure, didn't he know the massacre to a massacre to mother and child Juvenile Tantos, Romeo Capule, Romeo Capinig and Jimmy Lampihan who were arrested and surprised by the military guard in Southern Luzon Command," said Candido.
It is said that it's not surprising if Aquino asked for a second term for President. "Is threatening to file a new term for President." Is threatened by the controversial Marcos dictatorship (Aquino), "according to Palabay.
At present, the victims and witnesses are preparing for their lawyers are the relief of Palparan in Monday.
