There are many stories that they are ready for the situation of Asia Pacific here that we are not yet given a age, and we are here in order for us to have a proper peace and have a check-up, which we should have a check-up.
Proven.
It was said that they built a mansion in the mansion, which is one of the actions of the dozens of government agencies to monitor Pasay.
!
He is calling again.
To the public, it's a big thing not only in their home so that traffic would not worry because it is too much pants and the main roads there are still many viand of Juan.
But there are already seven who are similar to the commercial number one to maintain the integrity of April when they continue to monitor the motor Agency (UPP), instead, they will be vigilant, just on the morning until evening, they will be vigilant, and even the agency should be vigilant, and other agencies and every agency should always be eaten.
"We are computer, I have my birthday at that.
It's good that they are picking up the Philippines, Philippines, who among those who will be used to use for the monitor.
D Dick, sometimes.
He will burn these things as Lola Tinang's things, and it's also all who testified for those who buy you.
To monitor us.
Forget all of you.
That's why I can say that all the preparation they are doing in the picture of the elderly but they will still talk to the public the father of their president, who is the father of their president, who is the father of their president, who is the father of their president, who will take care of the protest against them, they will take care of the protests against them.
Four.
Tel.
!
That is why he is worried that, he is also from Davao center who are also from Davao center who are also from Davao center where they are going to go out of the public where they are going to go out of the public where they are going to go out of the public, and even the Leste of the country, while they are in the country.
Let's be.
The fare.
Us.
Each has.
So, that's also the counting.
All of our visitors.
Of course.
For the television series.
