
BoC-tempered, "didn't react.

It seems that our admiration for the three courageous representative of the country cannot be relieved, they would be able to do anything against a BOC official who was dismissed but was returned to the help of "Midnight Cabinet" by the former Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez.
Well, Representative Neil Arce (Iloilo), Neri Colmenares and Teddy Casiño (Bayan Muna) gave us the reason for doubting their ability.
It's because they have been proven that it has been proven that Gutierrez has been questioned the mysterious return of Gutierrez here to Joey, who is an expert of Customs.
So who, who is, who,, who, on?
Harvey, who gave the case to Gutierrez's case and then released a decision to bring back his position to BOC before she was resigned from the Ombudsman to avoid the removal of the Senate.
Why is it that Gutierrez did this?, because she is loyal to the followers of former First Class Mike Arroyo in BOC, Marchavez and Mike Navallo.
The call of Trevor Ariza, Colmenares and Casiño was called by Gutierrez was "Midnight Cabinet" that is why there is nothing happening in the legislative chamber about this issue but until now, the three congressmen are planning to make noise but they are weak in action.
We did not personally know him, who, on, but based on the news that came out, he was kicked in BOC on the past because of the violation of anti-graft case, but he was able to return because of the blessed decision of Gutierrez.
It is really right that Gutierrez went back to the Ombudsman because of what he did to the Ombudsman because of what he did, he was suspended before in BOC and was dismissed by the Court of Court (CA) as a strong evidence against him but the first decision of the Office of the Ombudsman is stronger.
The time of former President Gloria Arroyo was said to be too hot at the time of former President Gloria Arroyo, and until now, PNoy is still shy in the administration of PNoy.
Many residents of Customs cannot stand the return of, which, on the position, that's why he has a record for enriching them while in power.
Isn't it that PNoy does not want to like that especially since it is known that this is just taking advantage of the time of GMA? If it is true that PNoy wants to be taking advantage of the crooks in the government, why is it true that PNoy has returned to BOC on a person who has been suspicious of the tasks?
