
They are anxious.

By Rogelio L. Oryang.
June 16, 2014.

A big thing to give birth, but even if it is being out of service, what is being insisted on in the service of the administration's department, because they do not understand what is happening now to the students in English language, and we don't understand what is happening now to the students in English language, and we don't understand what is happening now to those who are in English language, and we don't forget to understand each other in English language, and we don't forget to understand the lessons in the foreign language, that's why they are quick to forget that this kind of lesson is being forgotten.
In relation to this, a letter was still alive when Doctor Noni), Pramis, identified to be patriotic, humane, and became president of Policy "and political life, is not based on the research of teaching, and for the principle of teaching."
Dr. Pradia, also emphasized that he disapproves of the said policy of the department of education under the regime of La Gloria, because the controversial "bridge in the said department is being used by students but also the teachers in public schools.
First, in the point of Dr. Pritil, "said to be a low quality of living in the country," same with the biggest problems that are being used in teaching in English, but most of the biggest problems are being used in teaching in English, but one of the biggest problems in teaching in English, a foreign language that they are starting to study. "
According to the research of America and Canada, he said, five up to seven years old, the students, who will be put under the programs of the students, will not be put under a program for three years, and will not fully be put under the foreign language in English which can become the problem of foreign students - language or culture.
"A big joke, to correct the terrorism controversy," he also emphasized, "it should be used in English as a second language or third language, according to him, he should be taught in English as second language or third language, but according to him, it should be considered as one of the level of education in English which is why it should be considered that this is one of the level of education and elementary school to college.
As an example of Doctor Pramis, the system educated in Japan, China and Korea of his own language is being used by those who were taking care of all their students, every year, they also made the "calculator" and "computer" which is also being used in college even though it is also being used in college.
He is challenging, even back then, the officials of the government and educated companies that may change the rules and resolve, especially in the said two-academic, especially in the said two-academic, especially in his research, he assures that the result of its implementation is good in the whole country.
While the education of almost all the countries in the world - Spaniards to America was Spaniards to America, Russian of Russia, Nargalungan, Nayungan, Nayungan, Naytono, "according to someone who does not know how to know or weak in English, and even if we hugged his own language, and even though we hugged his own language and in English.
What can the education in this country through the English language, it appears that the quality of education in the Philippines came down, it is clear that the national needs and problems are not included in the first year, that is why, on the other hand, it is clear that the national needs and problems in order to enter the path of progress towards the country.
"If you will show it," according to Doctor Pragony, "the problem is in the system and full of education that they really do not want to improve the quality of life of the filipino masses," according to him, they still don't want to improve the quality of education that is why they still don't want to improve the quality of education and the rich. "
Because of the foreign policies of education - aside from the other field - the government is investigating it, it is clearer that the Americans which have long been fighting in the fields of the Middle East), of Emilio Sy of the Cua Institute of technology), and Henry Sy of the Asia-Pacific Ocean, has been controlled.
Aside from the mentioned, the hard work of the Church is also full, especially from the camp of the church - in building and widening of their respective schools, farmers, farmers and fishermen who belong to the armed workers, farmers and fishermen who belong to the armed forces.
Because of this kind of trend, based on the observation of Dr. Pritil, it is not impossible that many schools that are being taken by the government are full of negligence because of all of poor people who have no ability to study, especially in other field of education, "said that we have no ability to focus on the economy of the country," said by Doctor Pragantang, "said by Doctor Pritil,"
In total, and in any point, look at and examine it, it is very timely to turn the country's filipino language, and continuously being done, of progressive countries who love their own language and culture.
