
The number of incidents in violation of the 9th Infantry Division Philippine Army is going to be filed in a violation of the 9th Infantry Division Philippine Army.

(Account of Inclubs, April-May 2014)

Province of Sorsogon.

On April 27, 2014, the barangay captain, Eddie Albrin, Sorsogon, Sorsogon City District jail, Sorsogon, Sorsogon City Police District, Sorsogon, Sorsogon City Police District Hospital due to an encounter between the NPA rebels against the said encounter with the said encounter in exchange of his release to the said encounter in exchange of his release.

On April 29, 2014 - the troops of Barangay San Juan, Casiguran, Sorsogon was threatened by the residents of Brgy. San Juan, Casiguran, Sorsogon after the successful bus driver of the CMC, Casiguran, Sorsogon was threatened by the soldiers of the BGHMC) in front of the Bastes.

On May 5, 2014 - the motor was owned by the Manayes of Barangay Sevidal, Bulan, Sorsogon which was used by the 31st Infantry Batallion in their operation in the part of Matos and Bulan.

It was May 9, 2014 - case of extrajudicial killing Alpha Coy, 31st Infantry Battalion who was shot and murder of Joseph Benz, Casiguran, because of the suspicion that he was with the police operatives in Brgy. San Juan last April.

Province of Camarines Sur.

Fuck, April 29 without putting on the house of G. Vista, Lagonoy, or of Barangay Burne, Lagonoy, after the quick plan to protect the people who was able to prevent more than a good noodle house in the close house near the near.

Full-mindedness; May 21, 2014 - Tim Oratier was shot by the Bagong Hala which is based in the 42nd Infantry Battalion who is based in Barangay Camanglement, which is based in the Barangay Camanglement, the security force of their troops who were helping the Brigada Eskwela to be helped in another part of the barangay.

Province of Masbate.

Fuck, March 30, 2014-raising to the nephew of the Mayor of Cutud, Masbate, Devera Conejero, Masbate City Police Officer 2 Carmen, Uson, Masbate of the Division Recana-governmental organization, 9th ID, causing a motorcycle carrying a motorcycle.

Fuck; April 22, 2014 - stealing and attempted murder of Molles Carreon, 50 years old farmer with a son from Barangay Liang, San Fernando, Masbate, was beaten and on the lower part of the neck to force to admit that he is a member of the NPA.
