Villa Family.

Mary Joy Viado.

The small houses in Las Casas Philippines de Acuzar.
The Las Casas in Bagac, Bataan.
Aside from strolling, it can also be temporarily placed in the said houses, which was transferred to the original location of different parts of the country, the spirit of a rich story in our history - 650 pesos for the rich story of our history - 650 pesos for a few days of seduction today.
Glass of history.
At present, there are 27 houses in Las Casas who can visit the visitors including the 25th anniversary of the trade in Manila during the time of the Spaniards, a house of Maruri, and the house of Jose Rizal.
Even though the house of the Philippines "is the meaning of Las Casas Philippines de Acuzar, it seems that there is only one owner of the antique house - Jose Acuzar, a famous architect, such a native architect, like Chope, which he bought for 500 pesos.
Places in Las Casas are aware of the growth of art of art of the country, every sign and structure used to the old houses, which is made of bamboo and leaves of the bamboo and leaves of the bamboo container, which is made up to the palm of the bamboo and leaves of the hut.
But it seems that the history made by Las Casas to his visitors are being paid for by some not good stories in the history of the Philippines, for example, the scenes experienced by the Filipinos in the hands of the guards on the hands of the guards on the hands of the Spaniards.
Aside from the history of history, the Las Casas well as a "Heritage Village" the idea made the history was formed and focused on by some famous personalities in however, the Las Casas is still being endorsed by the Las Casas because of its limitation on the feeling of Filipinos.
Take care of each other.
It was only the former house-vacation house of Acuzar, Las Casas, but eventually he did it was the collection of old houses in the Philippines instead of totally destroyed their original location, Acuzar, which is better to transfer them to Bataan to take care of them.
"It is not easy to take care of a whole house because we need to study every details of the design," said Jordan Hernandez, a architect of Las Casas.
One of the old houses in Las Casas, Alberto Mansion, former house of Rizal's mother, only half of the original 200-year-old house was transferred to Las Casas after he was blocked by the local government of Biñan.
There is a huge sum of steps for Las Casas before removing the old houses from the community and order to make their identities yet from the attempt of the Las Casas to make its failure on the preservation of the amount that has been given by our history.
It is said that there is nothing wrong if he will take care of the Las Casas to take care of the culture of Filipinos, the professor Gil Goitia, department of history, but because of the structures that are taking advantage of it, "of Goitia."
As of now, it is important to consider the areas where the houses have been used because it is being considered as the character of their community, and this also serves as a entment of the past.
"Taba Are, stories of papaya, architecture, of Are Times Street, Arinoli, who is an adult who is being treated in the place in the place," said professor Mary Ann Espina, Dequia of college.
Lunan in history.
It was formerly a wide rice field where most of those who are living here had a huge rice field, but most of those who are living here have different towns, there are still some who are still living like Tyo, who has a small shop at the bottom of the famous Heritage Village.
The current appearance is far from being a rice field, but it will still be clear to the near the mountain and the waves of the river - a typical passenger picture of a peaceful farm, and has become a gigantic picture of a peaceful farm.
It is said that there was a scene of the popular painter such as Fernando Adona, and Juan Luna only, and Juan Luna, according to its website, aside from the construction and strengthening of the houses, placed under the houses in Las Casas to make it better for the visitors.
"
This is a proof that it is not only changed by Las Casas, the original owner of the houses that we need to increase, and because of this, Las Casas is considered a popular, and direct line of history.
It seems like what is showing in Las Casas to the Filipinos is the importance of our history and culture, it is part of the desire to earn a few hours or day to return to history, it seems that the culture of the few who have the ability to pay.
Although they are taking care and not putting off the buildings and houses in Las Casas, as long as there is a business with the stories of our past, and as long as there is a business, the culture of our ancestors can remain hidden under the corners and taking of houses the stories of our history.
