
Tourism Committee held in Puerto Princesa.

October 29, 2016 Leila B. Doren.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, October 7 (Pia) - at the end of the celebration of the 25th year of September in the city of Puerto Princesa, the whole day, which was led by the Provincial Police, which was led by the Provincial Police, which was led by the provincial government which has a theme of "Tourism for almost a day of PAG-85th."

In the meeting, the management of Puerto Princesa City Hall, City Tourism Office (Cambot) and Provincial Tourism Office (Pthese) are the reports and events about the tourism in the city and Palawan.

Also given information related to the tourism is the different support projects which are expected to open in Puerto Princesa International Airport (PPIA) who are expected to open on January of 2017; the plan for the management of the City Engineering Office when it comes to traffic and transportation; and public funds for the Palawan Electric Cooperative, Incorporated.

(PCCO) and Puerto Princesa City Water District (PREWD).

There is a part of his observation that PO 1 Tantque was part of his observation that the leadership of De La Salle University, J. Robredo Institute of Governor, according to him, the management of the city should have nothing to worry about the town of El Nido.

"In the reported last 2014, around 70 thousand tourists were able to go straight to El Nido, San Vicente, this is small compared to the amount of tourists who are about more than 700 thousand."

Nuque was also pointed out that it is just normal to reach the peak of the tourism industry in Puerto Princesa because of the exchange of honor for PLR when it was included in the New Serena Daan in the whole world.

However, as a strategy, the professor has proposed that aside from PLR, a new tourist spots is still needed to progress in the city so that the visitors will be able to encourage the visitors.

Meanwhile, the meeting is timely to prepare for the things that should be prepared for, especially since there are increasing number of tourists in the city and influx of tourists.
