
Expose the number of criminals behind suspicion that comes out in Quezon.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 15, 2012.

Disbursement Acceleration Program was exposed with the Uico-International Criminal Court to the Quezon suspicion.

From the start, it was clearly seen that the criminal group is Victorino, Atienza Jr. ("Viceral") and to 12 others from the operation between the police-military in Atimonan, Quezon last January 6.

It is figured out that the huge number of criminals that are caught by the criminal-uppers who have the hands of criminals are used by the police and military, including the police and military, including the high interests of the syndicate and military, including the high interest to push for their criminal interests.

The group of Victorino was a part of the jueteng operation by the group of Rosario "Chicken" and a resort in Calamba, Laguna.

The ambus was held at Victorino, the group of military headed by Supt. Hanapi (RTEL) of the government official who were involved in the office of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group (ALL) of the local criminal case that resulted in the death of the Small Town Lottery, which resulted in the death of an unidentified criminal elements.

However, the jueteng and criminal operation in Southern Luzon will be put in decision making by a young criminal group.

Dingcong announced that the national network of jueteng and gambling dens which have a regular amount of money from Malacañang and the high-ranking officials of the military and police should be put in the custody of the local and national government in exchange for the political leaders, police and military.

This is also the network that Joseph Estrada gives bribe from the former president Joseph Estrada after he was elected by the national anger and it led to the destruction of Arroyo in Central Luzon, Macario "Bong" Pineda and his wife, Lilia, Baby "Pineda.

It appears that the group of Victorino is out that an operation or supported by the political leaders who took the operation submitted by Police Director James Malad, chief of Castilla Public Works and Dumlao who was asking for an additional funding for the project of the Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Commission (PCG).

Paquito Ochoa, Executive Secretary of Aquino, said to be involved in any controversies that may happen in Malacañang, it cannot be denied that the PNP Chief is not able to give funds for the project but it is also not being considered as a plan of the PNP for the succeeding level.

Dumlao and Melad are famous in evil because of their relationship with the former chief of police, Panfilo Lacson, one of those who are involved in the kidnapping and murder of the Aquino administration, who is involved in the kidnapping and murder of the President, who was involved in the kidnapping and murder of the President when Estrada was drinking with the famous gambling dens and the personalities of the syndicate.

Lacson and Dumlao hid in spite of the strength of the evidence and the huge anger that was made up by Aquino, it was also dismissed under Aquino's personnel again and assigned to PNP-Calabarzon, while Lacson was able to return to the Senate again.

It was caught by the ring that connects the country's party, and the former chief of the police and the military who were taking advantage of the campaign against jueteng, and the former chief of Aquino, Antonio Trillanes IV, admitted to the public the campaign against jueteng.

Is it still surprising why Aquino ordered his supporters to fix the return of Lacson, or why Lacson was saved from a hearing in the Senate for the hundreds of millions of pesos from bribe from jueteng.

The strongest forces of the Filipino people are strong and firm against the operations of the syndicate in jueteng, whether the citizens who were taking advantage of the gambling dens are prohibited, and instead, the people who are behind the gambling dens are being deceived by the citizens who are taking advantage of the anomalies in order to fight the corrupt and opportunist system that are trying to fight them from poverty.

The revolutionary force of the Filipino people are trying to expose the politician-criminal network that are spreading the rotten government officials and police, including those who are involved in the local government and police, including those who are involved in the local government and police, including those involved in the operation of criminal syndicates that are being carried away by their generals.

The Filipino people insisted to stand up and expose the criminals and other those who know the criminal operations under the Marcos regime, they can give their needed help but those who are ready to leave the legitimate criminals and those who are ready to leave the syndicates and that will be revealed in its operations.
