They say it's too late and a good, punishment.

Truth is the sudden and truth of the administration of President Benigno Aquino III.
The skyway 3 that should be guarded by the streets in the top of EDSA, at Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) in Balintawak has a proper solution to ease the strict flow of traffic.
Only, no matter how many are going to pass there, when we are over, what we do is like the skyway 1 and 2, some are just going to pass because of the severe bills that they are receiving.
The DOTC said three years to the owner of the skyway 3, meaning, the motorists, especially in the stretch of EDSA and some parts of Metro Manila have added three years, especially in the stretch of EDSA and some parts of Metro Manila.
Our friends, economists and businessmen, about this project, have long been no joke in the income of the country, and this is not a joke in the income of the country in relation to the Manila City government, that our country is already dead!
If you think about it, up to EDSA and Commonwealth Avenue and other main roads are the action of the LTFRB-LTO-PNP-PNP-PNP-PNP-PNP-PNP-PNP-PNP) that this agency knows that it is almost nine thousands of public buses that are running to colorum!
If they have a franchise, they also have a lot of buses that are lacking in care, old and dangerous, we have been noticing that they have been involved in buses that have been involved, no one is involved, like what happened in Don Mariano bus when it fell from the skyway!
In the record of the PNP-HPG and MMDA, almost ten thousand have died every year in Pahiram ng mga Bayani.
Now, the solution is to add the streets and one solution is the approval of the skyway 3 which is still under the administration of former President Fidel V. Ramos, but, it's too late, it would still be better if it is still good.
Hopefully, the Marcos regime can also think about the mass Transport system or the one o'clock in the progressive countries, this is a life that we also use during the time of Spaniards.
OPS, we are not foreigners in this issue because our goal is to help Noynoy in resolving the worsening traffic.
