
"Krrrik, reporting.

In the initial investigation of the retired Major General Jovito Palparan, the word "Berblood" has already surfaced again, with different names and reputation as a member of a negative nickname who owns being a soldier.
It is said that members or allies of the leftist groups and as members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Palparan is considered as the right group in a campaign insurgency and insurgency).
In real war, the goal of insurgency group will be removed from the government and height is to be replaced by the country by protests using violence and weapons, this is a crime against rebellion, this is a crime against no order.
The state of oneself is needed to defend himself and under the existing Constitution, the AFP of the entment of the Filipino people and the state of armed groups and the state of rebel groups and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army and the New People's Army as well.
It is as if there is a chance to undergo an opportunity, the rebel group will be arrested in the "Berblood" by the rebel groups, the primary goal of the law, this is the primary goal of the law to identify and respect the rights and welfare of the world.
The question is, who really is the true blood pressure, who really is the enemy of the society?
Many are said to be the abuse of the military for human rights.
The various documents were charged and charged with the appropriate charges and charged.
But it seems that there are also many issues being thrown at the NPA by the violation of Martial Law of Armed Forces, they are addicted to the Martial Law (IHL) although it is legal to become the target of the soldiers, strictly prohibited in the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights and IHL.
The opportunity could no longer be measured.
The use of the uniform of the opponent can be prohibited so that the NPA can easily get into the uniform of the soldiers or police so that they can use them near or entering the camps so they can be able to carry out and kill the soldiers and police.
There are lawyers - plantation, factories, company of bus, transportation and communication and others are forced to pay "revolutionary taxes" so that they are not paying to sabotage the operation of their business, and others are reported to be busy in the news of the burned plantation, factories, bus, cellphone site, said the affected.
The last happened last August 24, 2014 in Butuan City, two plantation of banana was burned by the NPA as a result, many ordinary workers are losing their livelihood, which is the primary needs of their respective families.
There are many cases that were considered as a massacre, those who were killed were recorded in history as those who were killed by soldiers of the government or their custody of the NPA, as well as a clear process of the military as well as proof of the witnesses as a clear process of justice and human rights.
The sincerity and skill of human rights to the said violations against the said violations against the said violations against the said violation, no one was charged with criticism against soldiers on the suspicious violation of human rights.
It also cannot be avoided for what our countrymen are, to who really is the human rights?
He / she was wearing.
(Email edad of 90 centimeters.
