Barrio Isko Bugnay, and a residential area in Area 2.

Julian Bato.

This is probably one of the first challenges in my new house like me to find a second house for the next four or five years of UP Diliman, and if they are cheap and close to a boarding house, you will surely be included in the list of Area 2 which is inside the bed.
When the Papal Office is going to go to the streets of JP Laurel, it was noticeable that the number of people outside the area was noticeable, the conversation between students who eat at the part of various eatery and store was noticeable.
In my search for a boarding house, I noticed that the equipment were simple and they were able to pay their houses to the teachers and other employees of UP.
I remember my teacher in damp to cover-off the expenses of their families and it seems that I can't stay still before, even before I am totally complete, I can stop the issues that the university is facing.
However, I found a boarding house in a different place, I was still always brought by my own feet in Area 2 because of the volume of income from goods in Area 2 because of the amount of income from goods, rice and viand, shrimp paste, apple tea, and even and Mary i.
One of my favorite restaurants in Area 2 is the crispiness of the eateries or LB; instead, I first found out that she first discovered that it was delicious and cheap.
Built on 1979, the LB became popular to the students being searched for, according to the owner of the LB, they tried to make a house on the set up of their eatery in order to watch while their customers are eating.
Because the place is near dormitories in bed, it did not last long and there have been nowhere to come near Area 2, that it is not surprising that in the succeeding years, it is not surprising that in the succeeding years, it is possible that the price of the condo units in Katipunan or their boarding house is convenient.
Later on, its own community: The employees who are lacking in the right salary, who are temporarily adopted by students who are both lacking, are helping each day in the university and the increasing prices of living and students.
