There is no true change in the two years of Aquino -.

If the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) will be asked in the past two years of Benigno Aquino III as president, this is not different from the presidents of the country that have been included in the leadership of the US for the showcase of ordinary citizens.
This is how the different parts are centered on the situation under Aquino when they protest in Mendiola and then in the embassy of America where they fought against the police when they were blocked by them.
"It has been two years since the" Daang Matuwid "said," Gloria Arroyo was yet caught in the hospital arrest, General (Jovito), while the government has not yet caught him, which is really the government, "Renato Reyes Jr., the general secretary of the Bayan.
There is no need to celebrate.
The two years of Aquino has no meaningful change as President, instead, it becomes worse in the present, according to different sectors under the Bayan who expressed their own situation.
"Under the Marcos regime, those who are so rich are getting rich, and those who violate human rights are the government, which is why the government is thinking that this is the government who uses" weapon for human rights, "said Reyes.

Reyes stated that the Aquino administration's investigation of the foreign policy like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is scheduled to allocate $1 billion pesos in the leadership of Aquino while the number of those who are hungry Filipinos are set to allocate $1 billion dollars.
Reyes also condemned the continuous increase in the military in the country like the continuous arrival of the American troops through the continuation of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and using different cars but it suddenly appears in the territory of the Philippines.
It is a vampire.
Reyes explained that in spite of the "economic growth of Moro Islamic Liberation Front (GDP) of the country, they have 10-11 million families or more than 50 percent of the whole, the majority of them are still in the main problem, most of them are still in the primary problem of the real reforms and emphasis of the Bayan.
According to Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (equivalent), the salary of the workers under the implementation of the workers during the implementation of the workers during the implementation of the workers, the jobs that have been widespread during the implementation of the workers, the jobs that have been occurring, and more intense, are widespread.
"Because of the continuous work that the country can make in the country, thousands of Filipinos left going to other countries, thousands of Filipinos leave for different ways; suffer; being raped," stated by Garry Martinez, chairman of Amnesty International.
"Aquino even added to the mayors that will be a bait for the amount of confidence of the country, he is plague to the workers but blessing for big capitalists have.
According to Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Yngentech, Aquino showed himself to the two years of service to himself as American Boy "who implement the anti-citizens, anti-Laban, and anti-Illegal Drugs Act, and anti-Illegal Drugs Act, and anti-governmental organization.
It was approved by Gemma Canayugan, chairman of Health Organization (LFS), the workers will come out with the effect of K + 12 to the workers who will create a cheap strength and pull down from the salary of the workers for the benefit of the capitalists have.
Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP) has expressed their worry about the end of the World Trade Organization (Wthese) this month that means the downpour of stored rice in such as a free trade "which will surely give up to the farmers, according to the group.
"We are expecting the worsening of the land of land, change things on earth, being depending on the importation of rice, hunger and poverty," Antonio Flores, spokesperson of Kibalabag.

Together with Kibalabag, alliance with Magbureaucracy in the Middle East) and the airports in Hacienda Luisita, who expressed their continuous control of Hacienda Luisita, and the privatization of the Hacienda Luisita, owned by the Aquino family.
The Health Nationalist Alliance (Izzy Canillo) condemned the Public Development Assistance Fund (PPP) of the Aquino administration where the 26 public hospital will be put under the privatization of the Honor Code, while the benefits of Filipino workers like hazard, and it will be paid or not to be given.
Preparation for the SONA.
In the upcoming state of the Nation Address (SONA) of Aquino, the Bayan is expecting the declaration of the administration in the removal of Corona and the said economic growth of the country, but the government is still going to show the true condition of the people who are drowning in the quicksand of poverty while the government is still continuing with it's protruding from the foreigner.
"What's said in the right path of Aquino is that brought us to the ravine and is more down to us in the crisis which is appropriate for the citizens to protest against the policy of the Marcos regime, which is a burden to the policy of the Marcos regime, which is a burden to the policy of the Marcos regime.
