Official of PDEA, is being fooled with the honor of the actress?

It is said that an official of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency or PDEA is obsessed with an old actress, and in fact, they are often seen in some firing range in Metro Manila.
In the information that reached lily's Calvento File, it is found out that the operatives of PDEA will often fetch the actress and he is brought to a firing range where PDEA officials are said to be deported.
According to the source of lily's payment, PDEA official who is a former Police Officer the firing and in fact that it is connected to different firing squad.
And while it was going to the firing range of PDEA officials, the number of agents of PDEA will fetch the old actress and bring them to the firing range where their boss is waiting.
After the firing, the two are together to board a low vehicle while the PDEA agent met with the PDEA official and the old actress.
The people who saw the two are wondering why the two are together and why is it that the actress was together, the actress was wearing a baby, sometimes she was wearing a black cloth carrying PDEA of PDEA.
What is the true role of the actress in PDEA?
Although the two often see the two in different firing range in Metro Manila, it does not mean that they have a relationship.
It is possible that the official is just using the actress to look at who are the actors who are addicted to drugs.
This is what's good to watch now, and when it happens, there are surely many famous actors and famous individuals who are possible to catch PDEA.
If ever the role of actress in the PDEA, or from the surface from his fellow artists, is that the old actress has credibility of being an asset of PDEA?
It was said that before and even until now, this actress is still using drugs, and it is possible that he was caught by PDEA if it gets close to the official.
Some of the agents believe that it is possible that there will be a connection between the two and if it is true, it is possible that this is possible to be an asset of PDEA, so let us expect that there are many showbiz personalities who will be placed in the list of PDEA.
