
Lives in the back of the line.

By Iya Espiritu, May 1, 2015.

Deypalubos, by Neil Dolar, "Labor Movement of the Philippines." Marilyn Estores, QC "Thanks, QC" Thanks and ready to give service to work, but are also ready to give service to work and benefits?

What is their situation behind the line?

"Sunshine's" year 1995 when the industry has been built and the industry of call centers or business liquid is widespread in the Philippines.

He started to answer the business offer and giving other service to the management of business, around 80 percent of its services are for the public market in the Philippines because of the low salary in the Philippines compared to the US.

Thank God, education in the Philippines is good in English, many are able to finish college, with a hard work and motivation, those who have no job, meanwhile, year 2008, the industry of BPO, which reached $12 billion pesos in 2012.

Last 2014, the workers and employees of call centers are at 95th.

Despite the growth of the industry, the workers and employees here remain no assurance for any time, the government remains no assurance for any time, the government agencies like the Department of Football League (DOLE) and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PETA) and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PETA) and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PEZ), "self-law."

Usually, the companies are threatening that if the workers get along the union, they will be taken away from work.

"In an hour of accepting the call of a call center agent, equivalent to his salary every month, that is why the rights of the workers will fight, especially in the board of a leader, especially that we are the ones who are earning billions of pesos, especially since it's a huge amount of billions of pesos in the company, especially that we are earning billions of pesos.

Bien said that in 2012, connecting the call center agents from different companies through the group, the people like Ian will be able to give inspiration to each other for the so-called "Sunshine industry" in the Philippines.

The Aquino administration made an additional benefit from the spread of BPO centers in the Philippines, compared to other jobs, the salary is bigger than this.

But the call center agents and other people working in this industry: Hard to work in BPO, the morning they are doing in the morning and evening the morning.

Many of them, getting sick in the stomach, are getting ill-raising infection, bronchitis and kidney problems which are usually too cold in the office.

Coffee's coffee is too much because there is no sufficient time for rest and sleep.

Ian Porta, 26, native of Iloilo City, has a lot of employees of a vigil in thinking that the condition of a job here is a call center analyst from ADP) in Makati, Ian Portavis.

Ian is a native of Iloilo and just like other youth work in Manila.

It was only one week in Manila when he was able to work as a call center agent in Sitio I Global, Makati City former EPLDen, this was owned by Manny Pangilinan, which was eventually bought by Bombo Radyo Global and became the Indian Ocean.

Afterwards, Ian, and "team leader" in 2014, he is earning $2,000 pesos and it should be received by the capital which reaches up to P4,000 pesos to P5,000.

Last May 2014, Ian will resign and transferred to ADP.

There are many similar to Ian who fought back in the back of the company.

Calm about them, no certainty at work, because daughter-in-law has no assurance, they can easily remove from the company and are trying to remove them from being in a relationship.

This is the motivation of Ian and many are still trying to attend the Philippines last 2012.

Those who are working in the largest company of BPO are the association's association. This is already a lot of 10: From Baguio, Pampanga, Cebu, Bacolod, Iloilo, Bonifacio Global, Mandaluyong, Ortigas, Quezon City.

Recently, Bien led the construction of Top Rank Promotions of the West Contact Services Program, Incorporated.

Bagtas is worried that we can enumerate the call center agents and hotheadedness!
