Weak leader.

Even if President Benigno Aquino III does not force what he started in "Daang Matuwid", there is still no chance for many of the poor people to continue to support its leadership because the people feel the weakness of their elected tree of the country.
Despite the followers of President Aquino, it cannot be denied that since he took office, it cannot be denied that since he sat in Malacanang, the increase in price of goods like rice, garlic, canned goods, and others, lack of livelihood and increase of crimes.
Aside from the very high tax that is given to the salary of the workers.
Isn't it difficult for workers to increase their salary when the increase of daily expenses like food is not controlled.
That is why many of the workers have been eating two times or only once their family members eat.
The children of the poor cannot be able to study in school because their time is not enough for helping their parents in working so that they eat at time, aside from the truth that there is a lack of schools that can be done by the government.
It's because the administration of President Noynoy faced the spending on the incessant defamation of his enemies in politics instead of giving help to the poor such as young streets that are dangerous because they will possibly have an accident with vehicles.
It is good for PNoy to remove his role, who is his / her government, who has no use to his ears and dedicates the advice, he could not understand or just listen to his followers.
That is why President Aquino has no right to force herself to the people because he does not want to be proud of him because he cannot be proud of the change caused by her "Daang Matuwid."
That's why there is no time for extension, because PNoy will only experience the Philippines and the citizens will experience hardship because of the hardship they are going through because of the difficulties of the current administration.
But if PNoy wants and force himself to run in 2016 presidential election through charter change, it is better for him to investigate his allies who are supporting the country's money.
Maybe if he imprisoned them if proven guilty, the mind of the people will change and think thoroughly again to love the son of former President Corazon Aquino.
