
You can find a doctor who can find the Mamasapano process.

There are a lot of gay men in Mamasapano.
That is why many of the policemen were killed and now that is why it is believed that the President's attempt by the President of the country is annoying.
President Benigno Aquino III is the socket of blame.
I have been suspended!
General Getulio Napenas was appealing to the suspended Philippine National Police Chief Alan Purisima.
On the investigation done by Senator Chiz yesterday, Purisima insisted on holding the operation and nothing else.
That is why Purisima is celebrating every step on the operation against terrorist Marwan, and Purisima will report to the President.
Only, Philippines - the suspended leaders are the boss of the operation which is very big because there is a suspected police officer and a big force of the military.
No.
Department of Interior and Local Government Secretary Mar Roxas and Department of Defense Sec. Voltaire Gazmin were insisted that they have no idea about the very big operation against Bin Laden of Asia, Marwan last January 25, 2015.
They would get their own personnel even more.
"That's why the two ran hurriedly to help those who are killed and asking for a vacation of the Special Action Force.
These kinds of officials do not have any use as the basis of the management of the Philippines and against terrorism compared to the official position.
Onse, Miss Philippines.
In the text.
Onse, Philippines - the use of firecracker in the operation of police and military is currently too late.
It is the child of tofu, if you will use a text message in sending a very big message like the operation against Marwan, child of tofu, you cannot hide anything.
"It is said that it is said to be a secret to the national security, they will be able to find a simple technician from the companies Globe Awards, Smart Araneta and others, and in this situation, they will be able to expose the message for national security.
One more thing, the opponent will look up all the important message of the military and police.
In other words, the opponent will keep his gun in our military and police to ensure all of them.
It is half-month that they can overthrow the government for giving lies and for the message of the message.
Where is the World First Class which is using the communication of world First Class SAF 44?
A liar.
Onse, Philippines - the Palace is also lying on the people about their knowledge about the very important event.
At first, those who are around down and made out that this afternoon or going to be placed under the afternoon or told by Roxas, Gazmin and the generals in the police and military, PNoy.
It was the child of tofu, when it was announced yesterday, it was just dawn when PNoy already knows about the incident.
Who was arrested was Marwan, and Abdul and Usman escaped.
That is why the ER did it.
PNoy is confidence in order all the actions of SAF 44 that are ready to help the military in the SAF during danger.
"It turns out, the military cannot do anything because the SAF has no right coordination with the SAF.
They are only together with their coordination "when they are pleading that they are living together.
That is where the military does not appear there because they will not be able to show up their gasoline tank on the places of the fight because it is muddy and these will disappear and it will disappear.
There is also no person in terms that the military will guide the military which is why they do not want to act.
They feared that the SAF themselves will die from their positions instead of the enemies of these especially about 30 to 50 meters only between the opposing sides.
It is said that the explosion of a bullet between Hooters zer which kill around 50-100 meters is where it crashed.
Good.
Here are the gay man?
Can we imagine that the finger of Marwan was not even given to PNoy, who is said to have been cut by the SAF.
Marwan's finger directly went to the Americans.
It appears that the one giving direction to the operation is the Americans.
They are the real protagonist and bosses, only the actor, PNoy and the generals and opponents, and it is suspicious that he is not even studied and will be raised in the investigation.
The fights of Filipinos are enough to not notice their meddling with the government of the Philippines.
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
