Half of the sanctity of this year, does not have work.

By P2,500.
March 28, 2012.

It was the end of a state university.
It is estimated that half of those who will be leaving college this 2012 are those who are waiting for work, in front of the lack of meaningful plans of the Aquino administration in making a livelihood and disimprovement of the economy.
This is the statement of Anakbayan, despite the data of the data of the National Statistics Office of the National Statistics Office (3.8 percent only to 35.4 percent only of the youth part of the strong rain in the past decades.
It was also reported by the agency that 43 percent of the current partners have been able to finish college.
"While the Aquino administration is still investigating the Supreme Court and foreign policy in the economy of Arroyo, we do not see any reason for the situation of the unemployed youth to improve this year," Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Sochi.
Crisostomo also said that he will face a competition with the slow-raising position in the work.
The ice cream 2012, in front of the increase in number of those who have no job.
The number of Filipinos without work has reached nine million.
It is said that this is caused by a high policy of the friars for the government to attract foreign businesses for local jobs., said Crisostomo, the country will also experience the effect of what is called "great depression" which hit the United States from 2008.
One of the steps of the US government, to the leadership of US President Barack Obama, to add and the lack of work is to encourage the Americans not to send money to the countries like the Philippines.
Other candidates are expecting that this will happen to the youth workers in the Philippines.
At 12.36 million youth working last year, than 49 million will be seen in the public service sector, including the call center agents and the industry of Business Administration.
Hao further added that instead of dependent on the industry a vigil in BPO, and even the expulsion of corporation, the government needs to focus on the agriculture and improve the food being given to the citizens.
It is said that the local businesses will also need to rise from the price of oil, electricity and other expenses; and full of oil companies such as oil, electricity and mining.
