
TV Patrol, November 30, 2013.

A message on the 120th birthday of Gat Andres Bonifacio.

On the 25th of the birth of Gat Andres Bonifacio:

There is no.

Against the useless President and a failure to be Elsee.

It is said that one of them is alias o'clock in the past, Andres Bonifacio, encourage the Katipunan and Filipino leader who led the country to the colonies of the Spanish tourists.

"By half a century since he has given birth" Maysilo, "- the first President of the republic of the Philippines is right, but it is still timely to ask every Filipino:" Will we still hope for our motherland. "

This question is meaningful especially during those times when we face the left challenges caused by the calamity and the controversies of politics.

Especially on this point, it seems that the whole country is addicted to lack of hope.

We directly declared: "There is still hope," but it will not come from an accident that will come from the top, "this will not come from the high-control of the government officials who are taking advantage of the high officials of the government who are taking advantage of the poverty and poverty.

Why is it because of the following reason?

This government is for low wages that was brought home by the Aquino administration's response to the additional wage hike for the Social Security System and PhilHealth.

The Aquino government is for the case of Klay Thompson to the Philippine Airlines when it was tried by Lucio Tan (former owner of the company, to remove the regular employees of the company, he made a new leader, "core" and "non-core" which is not stated in the Labor Code.

The Aquino government is for the demolition of the community of the poor.

The demolition would be reckless in the "Ipit Gang" in the said city.

It is said that this is for them to be saved from the "danger zone," but what they are going to transfer to the relocation is worse because aside from nothing or lack of service, it is far from their jobs.

What the government is asking for the poor is to leave the poor, so that the Land Transportation in the city has increased to the real Estate prosecutor, such as Henry Sy, Zobel, Ayala Police, Lucio Tan and Andrew Tan.

The Aquino government is for the high price of oil when the protest against oil covetousness together with the price of oil price in $100 pesos per bariles last 2012, called for the Department of energy.

But instead of asking how to return to "tanim-oil industry," it is clear that the effect of the price of oil is still clear, which is the reason for the incessant increase in price of petroleum products, but the government is being favored by the high price of oil because the price increase in its price increases!

The Aquino government is for the high level of service to the public, it is not allowed to stop the privatization of former high vices of the government like health, education, housing, filipino masses, like train, etcetera.

It was only replaced by the name - so-called public service (PPP) - but there are only one example, the improvement of LRT and MRT in some example of its effect is the near fare increase in the LRT and MRT, SLEX.

The Aquino government is for the major capitalists have in the previous SONA, Noynoy boasted about the progress of the regime seems to progress for all Filipinos, however, who benefited from the best GSU-9% in 2011.

The Aquino government is for political dynasty, the very president is from the nation's funds and it is not prioritizing the welfare of the majority and the real national development being implemented against political dynasty.

The Aquino government is for the pork barrel scam in the pork barrel scam, and if there are no corrupt, there is no poor "and" hundreds of political issues that are being used by the local officials and the local officials and their voters.

And most of all, the government of Aquino has a failure in helping those affected by the calamity after a week before yesterday that the government has started the image of the government in Leyte but until now, there are still many places that have not received help from the government.

If not for the useless president and for corrupt government, where is the hope of the country to be found, it is in the people who are in our brows as well as the people who are not waiting for the announcement of the government but immediately help those affected by the previous disaster.

"It is more painful, because their bad movement is from the lower part, just recently, of the following success.

First, the declaration of the Supreme Court that it is against the Constitution is the PDAF's PDAF, which is against the approval of the government for the approval of the country, this is the result of the continuous action of the people that will be started at the millions of pork barrel scam, this is the result of the continuous action of the people that started at the million New Year in Luneta last August 26.

Second, the return to those who were removed as regular employees of Philippine Airlines, from the leadership of the PALEA, from Malacanang until the Court of Appeals - the regular and crush of the PALEA.

In the span of two years, the union was fought with the help and support of the movement of the people and the movement of the citizens, but it reached two years since it reached two years since it reached two years since it reached two years since it lasted two years since it reached two years since the new owner decided to return as a regular member of the PALEA.

Our fellowmen, there are still hope that our client is in our hands for their hands, PDAF and PDAF, became illegal and the PALEA has returned to unity, the Filipino people have the strength and success.

"Atong Andres, workers, like what is said to be the responsibility of the country, it is possible that there is an action of the country's welfare, not only one of the government's welfare, intelligence and time - he is the real leader of the town of the country, not only his strength, intelligence and time.

MP) PLM-Santos City.

November 30, 2013.
