Until true success.

There is always a looming danger to disregard the success of the youth in their fight for rights in education.
It continues to push through the reforms that we are insisting on the system of education, violence against our rights, and this is the most important thing that our fight continues to hide in order to continue the fight for our democratic rights.
The Aquino administration is currently using the increase of funds for the educated police to make sure that the government will be able to support the needs of the State Universities (SUCs) but it is still lacking in order to support the total of 34.6 billion funds needed by SUCs from the next year.
There is also no assurance that the increase in budget will continue in the next year, in fact, the Commission on Higher Education are hoping that the Commission on Higher Education are expecting that the Commission on Higher Education are expecting that the Commission on Higher Education are expected to support from their total expenses using their own income from the tuition and level in the private sector.
The status of SUCs from the Polytechnic University of the Philippines and UP continues to increase the funds of the students to prolong its internal budget next year, while the price increase based on Bracademics through Bracademy, the signs of idolize him towards the university.
Under the primary platforms of Aquino for the SUCs), Roadversary, Public Higher Education (RPHER), the educated police are going to treat their education as a business which can be given to the filipino youth as given as a cheap strength of foreign companies.
A few who are expected to be led by RPHER did not raise the number of SUCs from the country and the government continues to ruin the budget of SUCs, until the government finally abandoned his responsibility to make education in all levels.
In front of this situation, it is fair in continuing the fight because it is not enough for its subsidy if it will remain in real needs, most of all, the youth will not be helpful to a few businessmen, education and companies that are taking advantage of their cheaper ones.
So now, we are trying to wake up again and disagree on the 25th of September, it is set to launch a different group of youth in education and request the meaningful budget that will serve the youth in education and request for the students to fight for the rights of social activities.
It is not new to the hearing of this challenge, but now, the plea to investigate and continue, if we will continue, all our sacrifice will lose hope for the ranks of students who are fighting against the roads and Congress to insist on giving quality education to everyone.
All of these are just like the pages in history if we be a bait for the destruction of the change being proud of by the Aquino administration.
The long-term fight of the youth for our rights to education is not able to make a temporary success in our rights in education but it seems that our call for the government should not end up contrary to what we insist on the programs of the Aquino administration for education.
As the sector that will inherit the change due to success of success in the present, and as one of the forces that can decide in destroying obstacles to the meaningful reforms, we will challenge those who are planning to be sharp, observant, and challenge.
