Not only those who were caught with the son of the deceased were screaming for justice, even the family who died of the M he was the one who died after a member of prostitution in the city action companies that was spared from what happened to his mother.
We were able to look straight; we are almost all enemies in there so that he / she has been telling all of a bullet that came from the way that he / she was able to find a bullet that came from the chance to find the dead M Police Officer 1 million MT.
Light from Mindanao, Jay-Jay has a report.
According to Angeles earlier, we talked to the very weak family here in Manila who were killed by eight buses than a bus than his mother during the time.
According to them, what you mentioned was that, the statements were gone, and it was only then that he shot the sleeping people inside the voice of Tau Gamma Phi.
I have forgotten.
A month before the noise of the social protagonist is obviously of a bad video, if you can see what is dead, one of the people behind the legislative chamber's advice is to call the call of close-out of the legislative chamber to know the call of close range of the legislative chamber to know the call of his family to leave.
It's because in the fourth year-in-law, he / she grew up.
Family!
Eighty four pesos.
Contributions!
What if he did a lot of minutes that he did, that is how I feel that he is a boy with a boy.
They did not pass.
You are with you!
But the victim is not the only victim of attitude?
Justice is also for the family of one of the opposing parties; that's why they had a lesson.
There is no longer eating.
Here we call, we asked for help.
Ah, what?
As long as he works.
What is second?
Went into.
We drank.
For what?
Okay.
It was said to be electricity.
Those who are getting involved here are M-million people.
The one who killed them was Toto Cris Lala who was the only one who survived.
The 5-year-law who knows Dav is four thousand pesos in the debt of Maria.
Remember, in the time known to the ID-M A New Year, her colleagues are safe.
He said that almost all of his opponents, who suffered a bullet.
There is no.
In my last hand, it was the last time.
He agrees, aside from the statement made by the story, maybe it came from the relatives of the dead, who were found dead, whose legs were taken.
"You are busy with course of course, I also want the reaction of the picture of PNoy about this.
Meanwhile, on March, the result of the investigation will be the result of the investigation to tell his mother on the tree.
It's as if they find out that you are able to find out who have been killed members of M which is why they are even trying to find out that there will also be a father who can get into their loved ones in a jeepney that can make them become their own.
That is right.
"That's not yet different; we are not able to talk about it, right, they have not discussed it, but until now, there are still a pending investigation, that is why there are still a pending investigation, which is why the M-bala 'salary agrees that the M he / she leaves, the M he leaves, is not a pending case.
As of now, it is not yet there although what they are doing is still ongoing, that is why they still continue to go to their investigation, that is why it can be recommended that the case, which can be recommended to the case, that's why he / she can be recommended to the case, that's why he / she was the one who talked to our relatives.
Those who are ill-minded; we already left that he will just leave his own life in the right path that they really want is to be given justice in the right path that they really want to be given justice in the right path, so that they really want to be given justice in the right path, which is why they really want to give justice to each other in the other side.
"That's the right thing that we are saying; we are saying that we are saying that there are no more cough, ah, that is what he is doing.
He / she was able to look down; he / she did not know that, even before, she already knew that it was just like that in the area that's why he thought I was sleeping, but that was what he said.
He / she was able to look down; he / she seems to have a preparation in praying the morning so that it would be a chance for her relatives to take rest; perhaps their relatives have long rest and thank you very much to you.
