The focus of Filipinos is not enough because there is no rice.
It is the importance of rice to paint to a museum with a museum in Laguna, that is why it has been declared that there is a need to move.
It is said that Filipinos are fond of rice, but no matter how much it might be, they will go to school; we say that it is one of those who are going to spend the research of rice that can help in Laguna before they have seen it earlier.
Save for "I am just a joke so that for the farmers, it is still not yet in the research of those who are not yet in the research of the government or in the international airport.
Isn't that?
From their relationship in the school of rice and rice, all of you have the kind one who is going to have two rice and different aspect.
What are you only good at?
It seems like many are saying.
It will last.
Night at night.
But when you go here, there are those who chose to build a chair, showing different kinds of rice without other countries.
It can also be tried by them.
The type of old and manual voting is needed to be given to a machine, you have no avail.
Anyway, I go back to the different parts of the farmers in different parts of the farmers.
The carabao did not do anything on Sunday used to have high rice.
Ariane was not a small thing to kill me, but is there a call from a big church of rice in removing the Batanes.
Do not waste time with the help of old clothes how to reach a half-year yes, the new type of new farmers, but now, with the new type of new millionaire, the new type of given birth to the three months, which is being played by a dog, which is being played by a dog.
In a point; the different birds are also affected; there are also different kinds of birds which can be seen on the statements of a while de Vera fond of eating rice so it will not be taken away by it.
Birds should be guarded.
The importance of rice in Dilawan, Filipinos, and even our neighbors on him will be healed.
What is important is radio Spencer, who suddenly gave birth.
Maybe you are jogging here for money that you can buy from our house, what you did to China is what you did from China, a machine for the candidacy of rice yes, aside from others.
If you think, before, they go to the Philippines to go to the Philippines, whose faces are in different countries to study the training of rice.
But now, when we left him, according to him, he / she said that it is not true to prove that it is not true to prove that it has been five percent of the Philippines, who was treated last year four years old, I was not there anymore.
!
Fittish, deacademia; Ipit Gang.
It turns out that there are many people in the Philippines, but when they are to go to the Philippines, they are not the same and became rice, why are you making a hole in our pockets when it comes to the prisoners what is in these times.
Because there are many who are thinking of rice, there are businessmen.
It's because they were able to look at each other; that's why we were able to go to other countries, are we going to reach other countries?
Covetous, fog, of course, of us.
Third Year at the Ro-Ro!
A surprise will come.
Fast.
In English, I want to play in position.
A month-month.
He / she was able to look down; he / she was degrading; that's why he / she was almost four o'clock; that's why he / she was the ones to be victimized by two motorcycles.
Okay, it's okay the owner of the owner did not neglect him, like you, who is his rice, and this is what you have seen on television and every good thing that this is right now, especially in the time now, thank you very much.
