It is out of Order: Duterte and the CIA?
By Fortun, October 7, 2016 - President Rodrigo Duterte was in Vietnam when he said in front of the hundreds of Filipinos living in the said country with a plan of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the United States that the president of the Philippines has died.
"It was said that the CIA has a plan to kill me, Susi, and Joseph, a gentleman," Duterte said to the Vietnam-based on the Intercontinental Hotel last week.
Duterte did not say how he was able to get the information about the plan that was sentenced to him by the CIA but it was surprising that he was known by the American soldiers to fight and have succeeded with the American soldiers in the second Vietnam, which was said to have been an official statement about him which was said to be an official statement about him.
This possibility cannot be set aside because the CIA spread of intelligence outside the United States and the said agency has a license to conduct operations against the threats of interest and security of the US and the citizens.
The crocodile is also known that the rules of leaders are contrary to the interest of the United States because this is the reason why there are several successful operations in Latin America that was behind the CIA.
The CIA has a basis if President Rody cursed at the US President Barack Obama. Second, Duterte wanted to suspend the Philippine National Bureau of the Philippines (AFP) and by the American soldiers in the US and in exchange of communication with Russia and China in exchange of weapons from Russia and China.
It can be recalled that the Marcos regime fell in 1986 when the US retracted his support for their most kind of followers from 1965 up to 1986.
There was also a secret supported by the CIA Reform of Armed Forces Agreement (Ram) for the series of cases filed against the administration of former President Corazon Aquino where he almost fell on December 1989 but the former US President George a businessman, Tita Cory, is still being supported.
Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Castillo is one of those who are warned about the possible bad effects of Duterte as the anti-US. "I sa Kaunlaran Foundation, in the Philippines to be the vice president of the US Embassy and's political power," Cayetano said to P4.8 pesos.

It was said that Russel directly said that he lost two presidents of the Philippines through his power, including the Marcos dictatorship in 1986 and the Estrada administration last 2001.
But most of the most important is to make the Jews as the US especially those who are owned by big banks and institution because, if it comes, they will be the one to take a campaign against the government of Duterte.

What can it be?
