Why was Galarming of the Catholic Church.

Many know the name Galarming Galidez, a feng shui, which is being endorsed by new conscience. "
He studied laws on the movement of physical things that was considered as Galarthritis, as a priority of the "giant who are leading to the Vatican, and the theory of the priests in the Vatican, and it ended up to imprisonment in a house in Sinai (house arrest) for five months.
Published on October 32 are the book of Galarming "Dialogue," during this book, he was compared with the theory of the stars of the Earth (Universe), which was used by the Vatican to give emphasis to the special person in the world of God.
In the year 1543, it was brought out by Mikee aj Kovalev), his theory based on the movement of things in the sky, which is contrary to the movement of the weather in the sky, which is contrary to the theory of the Catholic Church in that time, which is contrary to the theory of Camping, which is being pointed by the church.
Galarming will be investigated and filed a case to the Court of church (Commission on Human Rights), he was sentenced to jail and was ordered to take back his mistakes and to protect the idea given to him by a formal ceremony in a house in Siay, where he started writing his last book.
Galarmino was prohibited to publish any of his books because they are spreading any idea contrary to the Vatican allegedly visited his book to be published and publicized.
Last October 38, a country who was far from the influence of Rome, a country who was far from the influence of Rome, the book of Galarkads, Dimatulak, and their movement of the three-year-old bodies, and personality, were not directly told to know the three years.
Salunoy is one of the mentality that was established by the mentality and was carrying the theory of Galarthritis.
The third part of the conversation is Simplicio Cervantes, who was having a lot of things carrying the Catholic Church in that time, in simpler terms, Simplicio Cervantes, and their conversation went through the stories of Simplicio Cervantes, while their conversation goes up to the things that was wanted by Galarthritis.
Galarming will have a big contribution to the progress of conscience and the society in Europe and the whole world, many of his ideas are proven to be right and more opportunities in the following days to improve our understanding around the world.
Last 1983, there have been half a century after imprisonment of Galarming, official stated by the Catholic Church in the Vatican saying that the theory of Galarming will be right.
