
Death penalty is controversial for the corrupt.

If we will be asked, make sure, in case the death penalty is returned, it seems that the leaders of the country will return to it, which is why stealing from the public funds is too much.
"Isn't it that those who benefited from the Priority Development Assistance Fund and Disbursement Acceleration Program in the midst of the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona?
And it can only be counted on the fingers of PDAF and DAP as incentives in the Senate in relation to the said impeachment case?
And based on the conflict about the pork barrel that has another name now, many are still hoping that it will be removed after the next year.
This is currently the fight over or the new adversary, pork barrel, for the national budget next year or 2015.
And it seems like the Palace is still able to continue to continue because this is the preparation in the election 2016.
The Palace needs to assist the majority from the Legislative Chamber and Senate to ensure the victory of the candidates this 2016.
That means, the flow of thieves in the government continues.
If robbery in the government will continue, it means that it is possible that the successful officials of the government will be executed.
Even if they bring them the death penalty in their past stealing because the four laws are prohibited in the Constitution, they will be able to taste the songs of their crime after they bring back the law against death.
To clear, it is clear, if there are no thieves in the government and there will be no need to pour the funds for the welfare of the citizens, a lot will be implemented by crimes such as robbery in different parts.
This is due to the huge increase of poverty of the citizens who are pushing them to take advantage of the properties of others until they are like criminals.
Many are also able to study and have a good job and livelihood, and they will not be a burden to others, especially with their fellowmen who are lacking in life.
