
The people are the "owner" in the Albayano was fighting against the SEA Games.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
January 8, 2014.

Those who were able to go to Alsisto and Dante Jimenez of VAPD and Dante Jimenez of VAsukal) are determined to stop Motel at the San Miguel Corp. (Arguera).
Occupied by more than 100 pesos in the province of Albay was the compound of the Albay Electric Cooperative (Allyxon), their goal was to stop its goal in the implementation of petroleum products but one of the companies that can be seen in the implementation of the electricity supply in the Philippines.
The said conduct er and the group were against Alsisto and Comprehensive Final Peace Agreement (Commission on Higher Education) based on the implementation of the electricity and services of the electricity.
Last January 7, the operation of the cooperative from San Miguel Power Plant (SMC) is scheduled to pass through the editions of the San Miguel Corp. (SMC), but January 6, it will surely cause the employees and increase of electricity and price hike in SMC.
Father, Alex Gonzaga, one of those who led the indigenous people who protested at Xianglement of Allyxon in San Miguel Corp. (Areca bird).
Immediate trust in Allyxon.
Together with the witnesses, the employees of Alpupera, who have been protest against the employees of Alsola, three months have been protest after they said that questionable their electricity will be allowed in public sectors which are allegedly allowed in the Public sectors which are allegedly allowed in the Public sectors which are allegedly allowed in the public sector of the said cooperative's operation last September 14.
The police raided the local government of the compound last January 6 to stop the implementation of the armed Philippine National Police (PNP) and the local Philippine National Police (PNP) of the bomb squad.
According to Vince Casallo, one of the spokesperson of the Congress, there are those who were hurt when they tried to ask the police who are allegedly involved in the name of the militant group, Father Alex Vito, lawyer and vice-President for Luzon of National Union of People's lawyers (NUPL).
Pastor Dan Balane was also hurt by the United Church of Christ, the Philippines or Ueki and Bayan-Bicol when the guards forced to close the gate of Allyxon.
"The guards and police are waiting for the examination of We Arinoli, who became a nuisance, the owner of Alpupera," said Casanas.
Albay Governor Joey Salceda confirmed the said confrontation between the armed forces and police, but in his statements of the took place, he was belittled the local government and leaders in the region of PNP so that the situation will talk properly.
But recently, the Congress insisted that their right is to stop Mahogany them, if the employees of the employees are sure and the price increase in Albay will also not pass through the right process.
To give reason to the cruelty.
Casallo said they are questioning the basis of the entry of San Miguel in the operation of Allyxon.
Last July 31, the electricity supply was cut off by the National Liberation Front (MIAA), who was assigned to the Transmission system of the country, Alsola because of its debt that costs Php 1 billion pesos in the internet and more than Php 3-B which resulted in the lack of electricity in Albay for the lack of electricity in Albay.
The NGCP and the Department of energy of the Aquino administration has been erased from the problem of the Aquino administration causing him to be sent back to Albay after he was able to pay the electricity supply in Albay after he paid Allyxon.
According to the recently, the corruption is widespread in Alsola, corruption and for a long time even if he has not yet made it well, he will be able to make it well.
In his commentary about by Casoon in Bicol Tosaid, an online news on the coast of Hala, he said there is a good record for the fiscal and can be considered to be under the management of Noni), II, and the III, and its debt grew up.
Casallo was compared to the whole industry of a competition in the country, which is the industry of electricity that is under the Electric Power Plant (GAS) last 2001.
When the Epperson, "(a 52) out of Two percent (52 percent) of the Social Security System (PMC)," Casanas street, the Philippines, who is the most expensive electricity in the entire Asia, and the third in the whole world, almost cannot be jailed.
It is expected that this will happen to the service of the electricity in Albay on the privatization of Allyxon.
Questionable is questionable?
Which is why according to the reports of the Congress: Included in the government's response to the fiscal office of Alsisto and Cooperative (C2C), which is said to be an obstacle to the conflict between the cooperative from the province and is the cause of power being thrown in the province and is being pushed by the UMC to put SMC.
Under the C2C, Altareros was coordinating with the Benguet Electric Cooperative (Bensani) to rise from the operation of the earlier agreement that Bensani will not profit from the said agreement that they will do it to help a fellow cooperative.
But what is being pushed by the editing of Allyxon, the PSP), PSP), it is expected that SMC) is expected to profit from fixing the operation of Allyxon.
In General Assembly by Allyxon last November 30, 2011, after he pulled the PSP), but it was forced by the editing money through a special General Assembly "last March 24, 2012.
According to the announcement, aside from the legal basis, the process to be implemented, the process that he passed through is still limited.
According to them, the execution of the proposal for the PSP) "it seems that the" Bensani "of SMC), it seems that it was just replaced by" Bensani, of SMC in the said proposal, it seems that it has been replaced by "Bensani, of SMC in the said proposal, it seems that the legal basis for any corporation is 5 percent.
The editing of Allyxon is denied to be denied, but there are a government insisted that there will be a widespread buying of votes. "
"They could not avoid being hit by the vote buying from twenty-PSP) of the members of the members of the members of the members of Barangay power (PRO-PSP).
The result of questionable "Ipit Gang": 5,500 is a few days from 9,000 voters in the PSP), last September 18, the Board of deputy directors of Allyxon.
Altareros was used to lay down the entire force of the government to attempt to suppress the protest of those who were able to collect it (Article.
The people are the owner.
Meanwhile, the majority insisted that the majority of the armed members are not in favor with the entry of private interest in the country, the operation of the huge private companies that the Manila Electric Company (Meralco) in Manila cannot increase but the price of electricity will increase as time passes by.
It is also owned by SMC to almost 22 percent of Meralco.
(Read the news about the protest against the cost of Meralco.
Meanwhile, even the straight path between San Miguel and Alpupera, is said to have been kept secret by the editions of the provincial government, Casiple, until last January 7, they have not yet learned to see the actual agreement of the two parties.
"In this situation, the Albayano was not expecting anything but their own strength to stop 25 to 50 years of abuse of San Miguel Corporation (25-50 years ago when we encountered Alpupera," stated by the Sandiganbayan, when they were able to hold Allyxon.
According to them, the people who are throwing electricity are the owner of Allyxon, which is why they are the ones who should be followed how to be able to restore their cooperative.
