It is difficult to be with.

It is hard to be poor now that it does not mean that this does not mean that this kind of poverty can be felt under the President's promise during the election, "if there is no corrupt," the poor is being given a promise.
The Reproductive Health Office is needed because the relatives of the poor do not resist because they don't have evacuated even if the government does not have to evacuate even if they don't want to be evacuated even if there is no relocation for them to work even if they do not want to work.
They are looking back to him, it is not far away from what they want, not only a long term interest and the country, they need to point out, guide and discipline the government, forgive them because they do not know what they are doing.
Even Randy David, colorums are introducing themselves, this is the view of the masses, in his last column, he refused the implication of a statement of Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago that there is a need to finish the voters and the politicians to cure the diseases of politics in our country.
Even if the statement of Santiago is avoided, there is still a problem with the proposal of David, "there is still a problem for the voters and government officials that the citizens (citizenship) and politics are those who are instruments for the betterment of everyone (good fortune) and they failed to be put under personal interests."
According to him, the gay "is more aggressive while his stomach is very strict instead of insisting on his votes from the person you're idolizing or have the ability to address all of his needs compared to the person who has been thinking about prosperity for all."
Why is it that the poor voted in spite of the artists and they buy a sign in giving various projects, these questions are not far from the alleged Bangko Sentral ng Kiangan, Barazza, which is why the people are fighting for their safety as if this is their safety?
It is said that this kind of discussion was made by the poor, but it turns out that the response of the progressive and arrival in politics is focused on, but it can be said that those who get caught are focused on the road, while the romanticism of those who get caught are increasing.
There are different kinds of implication in the poor, similar to the attitude of David, one of those whose ability to make a thorough change and for those who are allowed by the current system, just like the election, that's how they do not know their reasons for their actions.
But first, David is not far like what David is thinking about the immediate request of the poor, for the interest of the poor, regular jobs, regular jobs, regular jobs and others.
Second, there is truth behind the response of the poor in the election, that they don't want to identify the people like David, who are hoping to know that this is not good to know where the "person who has learned to think of prosperity for everyone?" Is always in government?
It's been two times released by the poor, if, the proposal of David, first is, for the interest to build the election and to change the system of bringing him to the poor, that he does not understand the regular illusion in politics.
