Miss Philippines Miss Earth isn't resign! November 1, 2016.
Imelda Schweighart is already resigned yesterday after his controversial statements and not good performance as the representative of the country on the recently pageant.
Miss Earth and Miss Philippines was immediately accepted by Miss Earth and Miss Philippines Miss Earth Imelda Scholastica, at around 5: 52 yesterday afternoon.
He will be replaced in the resigned House Schweighart is Miss Philippines Miss Earth First Class Hang Gregorio Catapang, the decision to resign, Schweighart and mother, Anacorita Bautista, executive vice president of Caraytono.
It is found out that the mother of Schweighart is alarmed because of them using their child in social media.
Schweighart is failed to be part of the Top 16 in the Miss Earth 2016 when Miss Ecuodiness and Henrike Dielen.
The latest controversy thrown at Schweighart is a video of where it seems like the Miss Earth Miss Earth Miss Earth Euphrasia EpiPen.
In the said video, Schweighart is confiscated while he is saying in front of some supporters, those who won, the nose is fake, the product is fake, which is fake "that is fake" that is fake. "
Schweighart is saying that he / she is feeling bad because he entered the top 16 which he should wear when he entered the top 16, which is why he has the right to pass through the other when the Philippines fell down.
Prior to this, Schweighart is controversial when she asked her live in Facebook live in Facebook, Miss Earth Austria who was shocked with the question by Miss Austria who was shocked with the question of Talk n Hitler, a few o'clock. "When Schweighart is touched and said.
"Our Lady Onok Island in the Philippines" said that Miss Austria was very surprised when he said that Schweighart is said to have been involved in the Miss Earth, which is okay to eat the bones in the Miss Earth, which is okay to eat raw.
Meanwhile, on the recovered copy of Schweighart is stated that the reason for his resignation is what he will do with his mother who will travel to other countries and does not know when he will comeback.
Because of the mother to go with her mother, Schweighart is not able to fulfill her role as Miss Earth Philippines, which is why he will be sent to Caringal, Production.
