A week of hunger and turtle.

Where is the help?
Especially the food?
This is the biggest question of the victims of the super typhoon Yolanda, especially outside the center of the scheduled resolution of relief goods like Tacloban City in Leyte.
Because just one week, majority of the victims still have nothing to eat but also in Leyte but also in other places like Samar.
Ship and C-370.
There are some who are flying around 2 o'clock in the military who bring food.
But they are not enough with them to immediately answer the needs of the food that they have seen or survived from calamity brought by the typhoon.
It seems that the two have a defect in three C-130 pesos, which is why only one is flying around?
It is said that the ships of the military and the police are also picked up when they bring food to the food.
But where are the food?
TV Patrol.
When there is a war in Zamboanga City, there are some who are grown up and will be quick to make a solution to the military.
But where are these who are very quick in traveling during the time of war that showed when the forces of Bro. Nur Misuari will attack the said city?
They wish to see them very beautiful to send food and other needs for those who are hungry and getting sick.
What are you ignored, right?
Drop off.
Malacanang is saying that the victims of the food will go.
But where is the causes of damage?
From the implementation, what we are expecting will be used by the government for the quick interest of the food.
But where are the rules in line, if there is a war, the government is quickly using the in-laws.
But in the time of calamity, where are these now?
Many are approaching, ships, boat.
If the government really wants to bring help to the victims, it should be used by the funds to hired a new vehicle for the needs of the victims.
There are so many cases in line, ships, barge, truck and others in other places that will be counted and used to bring assistance.
The style is, the government is just waiting for the voluntarily help of those in private sector.
This is where the government should quickly use the money that they are doing so it is very quick to give a billion pesos per peso money from the inhumane politicians who do not do anything but to give money, no reason for them not to move quickly in helping the victims.
The problem in Trujillo.
For those who use the truck from Metro Manila and north of this, it is very difficult to bring help.
First, it reaches almost two days before reaching the truck that are from relief goods.
Second, what if it's up.
What if he gets involved in traffic, if ambushes, would it be stopped?
With the number of ships that cannot anchor in the pier of Manila and Batangas, for example, the hired ones will get closer and will eventually go to their help.
Amazing or robbery.
As early as now, clothes and attack of many people in malls, grocery and others are happening.
It might be true that there is an insignificant argument.
But the attack of the citizens in areas where they will possibly get food will be clearly seen.
The help of the foreigners.
The help from foreign countries, organization and individuals has reached three billion pesos.
Those who send their personnel are different to give service, like taking care of their bodies, taking care of their sick and helping the government and the Filipino people to go and to reach those who have not yet ended up to Hapin or help.
But the help of them is just short and has a limit.
That is why, we still remain in the shoulders of Filipinos.
From P16B now is the P26B virus.
The national government expressed the announcement that up to P26 billion can be used by the people to support those affected by the super typhoon.
This news is okay with us because the government cannot move without enough money to spend.
But if it is true that this is already the amount of money that he is holding, where the actions will be cut off, water, medicine, clothes and other needs by the victims.
It appears that the coming from other countries will be fast when brought to help instead of our government.
We are referring to the actual operation so that those that are from relief, Bro.
Be added to the LGU.
The boss said, it will be added to the resources of local government using the national funds that he is preparing for.
What?
What are you?
