"Family relations, Philippines will be relieved after the term of Aquino.

Noon, Cimetidine - it is a big possibility that the relationship between the country China and the Philippines will be bigger if the term of President Aquino will end in the year 2016.
This is said by Wu Shama, president of the National Institute of South China Sea to ensure that the government of China who is based in this city will be held in this city in the country.
According to him, he said that this is the same way for the Filipinos taking part in a university in Manila who said that they might wait to wait after the term of Aquino to strengthen the relationship of the two countries.
"The Philippine government (under Aquino) behind bars in Little with the Philippine Coast Guard," Wu said.
According to Wu, the Chinese government is looking into the current administration of Manila, "there is a problem" in the Philippine side ") why the relationship between the two countries is not good.
He gave an example to the country of Malaysia, that there is a bigger change in China compared to the Philippines, despite this is the territorial dispute with China and Malaysia in the James Shoal (calling the China International Space Station).
At present, there is a US $100 billion worth of trade between China and Malaysia, while the US is only from the US and China.
Beijing is also worried about the signing of the government of the Philippines and US for the military agreement, the Philippine National Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA).
"
In his opinion, the US has a strict interest in the region, which is why it is allegedly meddling in the territorial dispute between the Philippines and China because it is said that the US would just want to make sure that the US will push forward against the West Philippine Sea (South China Sea).
Despite this, Wu believes that the strict relationship between the Philippines and China will be restored, the trade of two countries will continue.
China is in favor of the discussion between the two countries (Commission on Human Rights), instead of the arbitration talks with the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea or 120,269.
It was the editor-in-law for the delegation of 15 journalists from the Philippines that is currently in China with the invitation of the embassy of China in Manila for a "tanim-bust tour in the said trip, including the government of China, including the government of China.
