
Force and things are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones who are the only ones in GMA, Manila.

You will know the statement of COMELEC chairman Sixto Brillantes to prove that he will not allow the implementation of election laws.
Weeker, "epal."
Do you want a sample of why I am saying that you are going to be in "epal"?
Ask those from Barangay 648, (Quiapo area) Manila, why are they saying that they can say that it is as if they are in the war.
According to our "Adona," a candidate chairman in the area is being complained because every time it goes up in campaigning, it is a team of force and he will bring along to it!
Umm! You have heard, Mister Sevidal, the policemen did to assist, the police?!
Traffic becomes tangled, also using money in exchange for money!
"That is what you should look at.
"That is what you should examine.
"That is what you should fool, Mister Solo of us to believe that you are really decided and are not just a proud averted!
Just a few moments, the Comelec knows that the COMELEC is rushing to passengers along the said place?
A known drug Lord who is being pointed out is the source of the tons of money coming out today.
Which even though Bordado was already in prison, he allegedly had a lot of money to ensure the victory of his candidate.
Because the said place also wants to fill the said place!
King-mother, the combination of drug lord and police?
That is why you try to try your goodness, Mister Sevidal!
Entice the President.
If it is natural for the Chief of Police of GMA, Cavite, that's why he didn't notice that every night, around 10: 00, while he was snoring, the "germs are starting to accelerate" of the illegal gambling of Bowie, wow, maybe the chief should be tested.
Because according to our Adona, it was said that the police of GMA, who is already sleeping with the police of GMA in the leadership of Senior Inspector Leo Angelo Lalaer, before it will declare the germs of his illegal gambling.
Just a moment, make sure, "it does not mean, not only the chief should be tested.
The entire force of the GMA police should be irritated because all of them will be sleepy, which is why they are able to make it away from him.
But there was a time that he has tons of things, who are just pretending to sleep on the chief so that the said illegal gambling.
Aha, what means, is the chief an accomplice?
It's true, if it is true, if that is true, you will be in danger of becoming a rebel group of INC because their church is against illegal gambling, right?
Isn't it?
