For PNoy.

In that day, just after my meeting with a high administrator of PUP, I did not know how to end the meeting, that is why it's not difficult for PUP, that is why they don't feel discouraged?
If you are in that meeting, how will you think about your experience that will be given to the indigenous people?
In my class, after the meeting, I received a text message from a friend, "you have received a text message from a friend," do you have a hunch because it is always on the bitter truth in the death of a companion that he / she became proud of.
I was able to go out of classes because I have thought to share my life my life to serve as an inspiration in the case, the first day of class, I am ready to discuss the reason of your death?
What can people remember about you?
Although we are not always together, the pain that we meet every time we play the task of the National Executive Council (Noni) of the Kasibu, UP.

With the number of things we need to take care of every day we run for the Congress of the Kasamfather of UP, you should always take back what is the goal of our gathering, and from there, one of us will enumerate everything that's happening, the tasks that should be finished.
If one of the issues that the councils of UP should face, you should just explain it, but it is clear and sharp when they say it's better to find a deep understanding if he can explain it to the most simple way.
Your charisma over UP becomes too much even outside of UP.
"We got tired then at Ateneo de Davao as the spokesperson of Liberal Party-list in Southern Mindanao Region, I said before to you," what we always say is just like that, that is just like what we always say, that is just the way we can do, that is the need for us to go ahead, and then will not be able to meet.
That is why, I am not wondering why you have chosen to give back to the Lumad and help them there, to help them, "what you want to lead to you," the good thing you want to lead, from the community, from the community. "
But do not answer, "we are not able to leave the task," because the truth is, you have chosen to offer your skill, strength and intelligence for the loved ones that are being raped.
You are really not doing anything that you cannot do that, especially since you are not able to study there are many opportunities for those who are good leader, and if you want to be admired by your different abilities, but just like the real scholar of the country, that we will be admired by your different ability.
During my last visit to Davao, you immediately left.
I know that in your last 11 months of your life there, you will be with the Lumad and our fellow countrymen, you are extremely happy.
And in the end, I really cannot say anything if it is what I remember every time when you remember the Mountain eagle's full-Victory; true to the baptism of the race that is being monitored by the general movement of the Philippines; the a leader leader of the Revolution. "
This is the highest tribute that we can offer to people like you and will continue the revolution of the release of your loved one.
Goodbye and tribute to you, along with you.
