
Family of those killed in Abra, screaming for justice.

Macky Macasaxing, October 23, 2014.

The relatives and groups for human rights in front of Camp Aguinaldo themselves said that it is contrary to the higher investigation about the murder of some civilians and the rebel group caught by the military in an encounter last September in Lacub for the military.

In what they will just blindly agree in front of Camp Aguinaldo, in Quezon City, the relatives of the killed who needed to have a thorough investigation about the events in the said place, especially the said encounter between the elements of 41st Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army and the members of the New People's Army (NPA) in the area, which is said to have been encountered by the seven victims who were identified as members of the NPA.

"We can accept if Pulong has died from the legitimate encounter but it is possible that he is alive and it is also possible that she was tortured before being killed," says Angelica Dacanay, who is one of the killed NPA.

Based on the head of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), the victim was full of bullets on the back and lower part of Block, and there was also a part of the body that could possibly cause his needs and he needed to believe his wife was tortured before being killed.

My brother is dead, but no one was hit by a bullet, he said that the body of one member of the NPA, Recana Noelle Street, said that there was no gunshot wound on the body of Recca, but the lower part of his body was crushed, the lower part of his body was crushed.

The relatives of those who were killed in Lacub that have a separate investigation for the justice of Macky Macasac aside from the two, even the six members of the NPA, there are many members of the NPA, according to justice, the group of victims of human rights violations.

Serious violation on human rights is what happened in the military operation last September 4 until 6.

Aside from the accusation against the rights of the NPA as well, the group also accused the military for killing two civilians.

According to Guese, the military was murdered by the military after he and use the military as one of the military forces who were also victims of the murder of Fist Salvador Salvador, an agalvanized iron fist that was taken by the projects of a non-government organization when the fight happened.

The group of Appeals said that it can be considered a war that happened in Lacub that happened in Lacub that happened in Lacub.

"What was tortured, killing and cleaning of the dead bodies of the seven NPA is a violation of the Comprehensive Final Agreement on Human Rights which is signed by the government and by the National Democratic Front," says Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Barangay Red Cross in the Philippine National Bureau of the Red Cross in the Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office.
