It is dancing to a dragon-off of the Chinese people and Filipinos.

Kand Eve.

A few days before the New Year arrives in the calendar of the Chinese, the visitors in the womb of Manila are increasing in the nest of red-coloured house, a nest of animals, Preso, Mami, and other foods which are very busy.
It is believed that the dragon on the road will not be like January 23 or Chinese New Year with a while, vacationers, buyers and residents of the area were surprised at the consecutive noise of the alphabet and other firecrackers.
Even if there is another date of the New Year, it cannot be denied that the long history of the Chinese in the Philippines will not be denied, many generations have already passed and there have already been a big part of the politics and economy of the world, but until now, a huge part of the country remains to be a huge part of the country.
Transfer.
The Spaniards still cannot anchor in the Philippines, the Filipinos' products from the Chinese are going to change when the Spanish colonizers arrived, including the Chinese in throwing infrastructure and for workers.
Some of the Chinese got married in the local Filipinos before, and there were a lot of businessmen in Binondo, after Luis Perez Dasmarinas collapsed on 1594, their route that became the center of Spaniards in Manila, they treated as a threat to the massacre which was launched against them.
But the Chinese national is not totally removed from it, as a national tourist in the country - Spaniards, American and Japanese - with their own steps so that they will remain in the Philippines, many of them remained in the Philippines.
The rise in the transfer of Chinese from China towards other places in the conflict in politics is severe, but until now, the continuous increase of the Chinese in the Philippines and other parts of Southeast Asia in spite of the more progressive countries in their country is noticeable.
The Chinese may see a different opportunity here in the Philippines compared to what they came from, according to their parents in other countries to ensure that the Chinese are still aware of the threat of lack of uncertainty of their economy.
Stolen.
However, there are still a lot of Chinese people in the Philippines with legal or illegal manner, before the mass was given by the Chinese, only the students and businessmen who can stay here, 60 percent of the Chinese in the country should be implemented, 60 percent of the Chinese in the country.
But it does not mean that the Chinese are truly only in considered as the national community "of the Filipinos, because they are a group of Filipino people who are not included in the Spanish colonizers.
A proof of this is the important role that the Chinese are doing to the local economy in the Philippines, despite the notorious human trafficking case, charge and other crimes by some of the Chinese who are living in the country, it cannot be denied that the value of Chinese Chinese in the trade in the country cannot be denied.
The primary example of Binondo was a primary example, wherein there is no occasion, the exchange of products in the country is not yet finished, which is a reflection on the economy of the Philippines - a reflection of the economy of the country, which is under a reflection of the economy of the country, while the small business remains in the hem.
Aside from those who are not fed up, Binondo was also a pillow from the people who have been used to join the Filipino culture and other commodities in the stretch of the street, Carajal, a few parts of the Filipino vendors, but there are also a Chinese people who remain foreign to the Philippines.
Even if it is the primary religion of the Chinese, there is still a catholic Church in the heart of Binondo, there is a sign that it seemed as a sign of time, and there were also some devotees who were roaming around by the huge cross.
Love.
Binondo was the one given to the Chinese in the country, which is why it is also known for the call of Calaguas of Manila when it was only a Chinese, but only the Chinese, those who refused to be a Catholic, were asked to be transferred to Pproperties, the hem of the city before.
The Chinese are considered as part of the low kind of people in the Philippines, and a long time has passed before their image has changed and was known as resourceful, rich, and good in business, when the cases of the kidnapping for ransom, and all Chinese families have increased.
The Chinese often shows being good by the Chinese in those out of television and movies, and aside from this, it is often the theme of the Tsinoy businessman and Chinese race in each other.
In the series of Binondo Girl, the Chinese national was forced to leave his son from a Filipina because his family was against her, even in the movies related to the Tsinoy businessman in the Filipino culture, Carolyn Hunan, an expert in Chinese people.
Before the mass that was seen in 1975, the course of course, the Philippines is open, from the Montenero, "Hanglement, the Philippines has not been born in the Philippines to become a Filipino," said one of his personnel.

The economy of the economy is one of the most venomous snakes who brought the Chinese from the hem of Manila going to their present state in Binondo, on the middle of the prevailing arguments in Binondo, and, like the crisis in Binondo, this is not to finish the energy of their culture and history to tone down the celebration.
