PNoy can do it.

While we are watching the national politics, we are getting along with us, Bro.
Because we think about it, it's embarrassing to explain that I want to donate many of the politicians.
We are having fun with a lot of drama that appears like robots in each other.
To those who criticize this, who is the truth and who is the only father to send them to his enemies.
There are also those who are acting acting and become very disgusted of the eyes of the people.
They are pushing.
What is in power, especially to the president and vice president of my beloved Philippines?
First, it is a big honor.
But there is more than this if the history of all the President and vice president of the country is a basis.
You will be rich now "if he became president or vice president.
Who will be the president or vice president, for example, the one who left or sent away from his position when they were not chased by gossip and intrigues,... that they have taken any power using their power?
"The others, are he charged and jailed.
He is still different.
But those in the Palace are not the only ones in the palace.
Even those in congress are also the senators and congressmen.
Whichever senator or congressman did not leave or run away from the election so they cannot save for their forever rest in politics.
With the size of their pork barrel every year.
During the time of Cory, Community Development Assistance Fund is the call of pork barrel.
When the time of Erap arrived, he called the Priority Development Assistance Fund.
And during PNoy's time, there is PDAF again, there was the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Here in the pork barrel, the children of those who survived 20 to 50 were free.
How much will you earn, for example, within three to nine and 12 years of PDAF, which is 70 million years or 200 million pesos?
They are pushing.
Not only are the high-ranking government positions in front of them.
Including the local government.
This is clearly seen, Bro, for so vast piece of political enemies.
In my aunt, relatives are going to gather positions or they are in the jurisdiction of the municipal hall, city and province because they have their own strategy.
They are benefiting from the reward of those who are on top of the top, they also have their own livelihood using their power.
Ask you to be a part of illegal gambling, quarry, against illegal mining and many others, including the illegal fishing.
Day of election.
When the days of the election arrives, it will show that it is pitiful but the event will be reversed.
You will be entertained from listening to the stories of the lies of politicians.
There is stealing using their power.
The number of things they are doing is covered with too much secrecy in the eyes of the public.
And you will not know and think about it if you are just an ordinary citizen.
Their rivals for the stolen wealth are known and you will be surprised that even the saints when politics are evil and evil.
But be amazed, Bro, because of the serious complaint filed by the complaint.
Usually are being harassed, while politics is hot.
Currently, all are everywhere.
If we will think about the national budget, Bro, the amount is astonishing.
As early as now, it has been more than two Labor Law that will be done by P2.6-ABB) for the year 2015.
An important question: To whom is the appreciation of the money that the public goes?
We will be forced to ask because this is our national budget.
All of these are from our tax, license, franchise, fine, and many others are given to us to be forced.
While time goes by, how will you not be pissed at, after a while, it appears that the country's money to be fought over by the children of the children of corrupt politicians are coming out?
"There are even others who are from the billions of funds that are being made up to their politicking, like what happened to the impeachment of ex-Chief Justice Renato Corona.
You will really be pissed because the removal of robbery in the public funds will only be lesser.
The majority are free for any responsibility because they do not have different kinds of cheating in the city officials.
Get along easily.
In these days, Bro, while time passes by big corrupt and DAP, the PDAF and DAP were quick in their system of stealing from the funds of the country, they can clearly see their grip on the position.
There is a need for the Saligang Batas to cover the Saligang Batas to a case that will be when they will be when the bosses in Malacanang remain in position.
It is certain that they will surely have more stolen from the country's funds.
Until when will the country be silent about this event?
