
30 families in Quezon City have evacuated because of the crash.

(This news was published on the issue of 11-12 of the Philippine Cologne last 1970, 2012.
Vienne De la.
It is estimated that 30 families in Bondoc Peninsula, Quezon Province are forced to evacuate from their houses due to the increasing number of human rights under the military who are stranded in their community.
It is about 100 people who evacuated to Bondoc Jr.
"There are so many incidents of incidents of soldiers in our barangays who are happening in our barangays but we are not members of the New People's Army (NPA), but the military insisted that we are rebels," said Ramos.
Eight members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines are currently assigned to the two districts of Quezon Province to capture the members of the NPA, according to the Kash@-@ TK, group who are pushing human rights to the farmers in the southern end.
Instead of taking a risk in danger brought by consecutive incidents of violence in their barangays, residents decided to leave their homes and livelihood, Aida Ramos, one of the evacuated.
Five of the families evacuated in the headquarters of the all the all the all the all the all the all of the all the all of the all the all of the all the all of the all the all of the all of UP Diliman, while others were rushed to the house of their relatives in Manila.
It can be found that Bondoc Bautista is found in the southern part of Quezon, which is composed of 500 dollars, which is composed of coercion.
Cases of violence.
From January to June this year, the number of the victims of political killing in the whole country reached 99 to 99, according to the record of Karylle - Alliance for the record of Karylle - Alliance for the National People's Rights.
On the other hand, three missing farmers in Bondoc Peninsula were suspected to have been kidnapped by the military, while more or less 200 were reported victims of violence in different community in Quezon Province this year, according to SBPM.
"" My child, the military forcefully sent us by the military that he was brought to another barangay and pointed a gun and a knife, "said Ramos.
After the incident, a witness allegedly brought the son of Ramos to the barangay hall to ask for help, but due to fear of the soldiers, the family of Ramos said that the incident happened and he decided to evacuate the next day.
Ramos's family were able to evacuate the family of Roger Cruz, a farmer resident of Bonacosta since childhood that he was on his way home on the 19th of June when he was suddenly blocked by the soldiers and was allegedly hiding a grenade and a gun, said Cruz.
The soldiers allegedly entered the house of Cruz and then brought him to the grass where he was beaten and left, although said incident was reported to the police, according to the wife of Cruz.
Meanwhile, six months have passed when Maria Lastity was last seen by Maria Lanticse, resident of Bondove, a farmer, Carlo to leave their house early to sell the devil, one day last March and was not seen again since then, his wife said.
"There are those who are saying that the soldiers have seen my husband, hoping that he will be brought back by the military, but our children, who are only two years old," is added.
Oplan LS.
The group of TESDA was able to solve the violation of human rights to the residents of Bondoc Peninsula, and announced the immediate release of armed groups in the said province.
Under the Oplan Tokhang, the violence being implemented by the military is part of the plan to ask the farmers from their land to give way to the entry of big companies, according to Karylle.
Thousands of soldiers are going to be Bondoc now, since it is worse than the previous typhoons in the onslaught of life and safety of the citizens, "Orly Marlboro St., spokesperson of SBPM.
To stop the violation of human rights if the government will stop the Oplan Tokhang, according to the group, the law should also implement the law that will give way to abuse of power, and cooperate with human rights violations.
"This government should stop the deceit of the citizens, no matter what Aquino wants to be served in the Oplan Tokhang, the citizens already caught up the destruction brought by this program," said Maroons.
