The sin of Mahogany.

These past few years, as basis that there is a calamity happening in the country, there are increasing number of poor cities, those who are living beside the canal and dangerous places, they are blamed for the flooding, because they are being thrown away by the flood, because they are throwing garbage that are throwing garbage that are throwing garbage.
It is good to ask the old people who are like this, who are the ones blamed for the damage caused by calamity, the damage caused by the calamity, the damage caused by the calamity, how much is the reason why it reaches to our society the cruelty done to the poor?
(1) a huge loss of understanding to the poor and the hard work to understand them is, particularly for others, many of our fellowmen stay in the canals and places which are dangerous to the flood.
If you think about it, the poor are always outside the country and they can still say that they are being bothered by their lives, but for all of these, it is not being implemented on the hopes that the government will implement on what the government is implementing in the orders of the government.
Because there is no discussion on the regulations which are rooted in the individuals, particularly stories of poverty, which is the reason for the increase in the increase of poor people, that is why there is no work that needs to be the source of source of livelihood, which is also not given to the evacuees who could not give their jobs.
The regulations which are causing the companies that are causing the mountains to stop the mountains, and the companies of the mining companies to destroy the companies that are destroyed by the companies to destroy the companies that have no plans to sell water in spite of all these, rules and lack of Disaster Risk Reduction.
She was avoid the discussion of discussion on the rules, and whatever disact made in general; she says she can't be true; and if it is true that it can be true; and if it is true that it can be considered to be true; and if it is true that it can be considered as an individual experience, Pelagony, "1988."
(2) it will be recalled, that in relation to the mentioned, the implementation of the current government of Noynoy Aquino is needed to be responsible for the destruction of power and responsibility of the government, especially in the economy of the government, and the government of the Aquino should be blamed if the citizens are blaming the victims.
The mayor of pork barrel scam is approved on the last part of the decades, 80 and the entire decades, the government will say that he has no power, he will point out of its power (like international market), and to make the alleged bad effects of controlling it.
The Aquino government, exported for defending his alleged popularity, he avoided responsibility and there is a strong action that he can do when what happened in the landslide in Litex, Quezon City.
It is important to add the observation of Ddy Brown's observation, based on the implementation of the flow of the market in the fields of the market, which is not just the result of the destruction of traffic in the market, "2006," 2006, the poor do not succeed because he is lazy, not to abuse it in the market. "
This is the Disaster during the Independence Day anniversary, they are still doing several times to the poor Filipinos, and they are still doing the chance to understand even those in the middle of the calamity, they are also doing the chance to understand even those in the middle of the calamity, they are also being harassed by the calamity, they are also being experienced by the calamity, they are still being monitored by the calamity, they are still being blamed.
