
2014 / 3 / 24 / 24.

Ka Edicio Serrano at the Kasibu, Nenita, is on the month of women.

Dependent on this card is what has been written in the column of Mark Angeles to Filipino Weeker.

Ka Eduardo "Edicio" Serrano Street was deep in the memory of Ka Eduardo Serrano Street when the old man called me for almost ten years when we last saw each other for almost ten years.

I am a student in the university of the Philippines-Los Banos, when I first met Ka Edimio Balmores, Oriental Mindoro Provincial Jail, he was imprisoned in Camp Crame in Manila, that he should be imprisoned in Camp Crame in Manila, that he / she should be imprisoned in Camp Crame in Manila, that he / she should be imprisoned in Camp Crame, Manila, which is a clear violation of human rights.

Although ten years were added at the age of Ka Edgel, since he was arrested, her spirit was very high, he remains a high conversation with me and my husband, who was the only time he met.

I know I am fond of reading and write to Ka Edgel, and even before, she is writing to me and when we are asking me to visit me, he handed him to me and when we wrote to me, he handed me to women as if she was able to chase it for the month of March.

At its cheap paper, his writings are written in the hands, particularly in "for women who are women and respect of Ka Edusma's respect, especially to the members of the armed movement and respect of Ka Edgel," which is clear to be the representatives of Internal Revenue, which is clear to be the representatives of Internal Revenue, which is clear to be the representatives of Internal Revilleza.

A small single woman from the middle of the mistreatment of the mistreatment, where poverty did not push for the land farm, only the hope that they have decided to join in Hunan Bayan.

The "epal" which is covered by poverty, "from the second line of the first lane for the first lane of the first alarm, it is clear on how to build the status quo of the citizens (age or maturity).

The second architect will bring readers in the image of ordinary women inside the factory.

A woman who is a worker at the factory is oppressed which was used to take advantage of the type of farmers who decided to join in Hunan Bayan.

Within a few minutes, he tried to become the martial law in different kinds of women from different kinds of women from different types of society, which is why it can be said that there are women from different kinds of buses, there are women from the middle of the movement of women from the ranks of women from the ranks of women.

A woman, who has been able to study in the university's university, came out from the Pambansang Kamao sent her studies to the masses who decided to join the Hangbo of the masses.

It is a good sign that there will be a risk from a certain city, who is usually affected by the lack of equal livelihood in the middle of the straight path that comes to the middle of the straight path, which is expected that they are going to learn from the Hangbo of the masses.

A fervent prayer and huge contribution to a integrity, has learned to love our fellow countrymen who are able to love the judicial change needed by the society who decided to join in Hunan Bayan.

It is the content of Ka Edusma's bitter present; what is more important is the author included in the security brought by the armed fight.

A young mother from the community in the mountains while saving food for the family was raped by the American soldiers who decided to help and bring letters for the Hala Bayan.

A grandmother from the indigenous people are the weight of a few decades that are working in different parts of working!

That's why it's not pity, but the high spirit of unity and unity is what the readers will feel on the work of Ka Edicio dela Cruz, not just a simple picture of the current condition of the women who are being swept by the armed conflicts in the Philippines.

Caught by a copy of a monk in the letter of Ka Edicio Serrano.

In this way, you graduated from Ka Edicio dela Cruz.

They are now that women who are currently detained by the country!

They are the women who are hornets attacked the Bagong Hala Bayan!

"I will love him more if they will change" we will change "
