Against EDCA, it has reached the Supreme Court.

Miss Christian E. Marty.
After the Supreme Court made the Disbursement Acceleration Program of President Benigno Aquino, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is presented to the higher court.
The group of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN), Kilusang Mayo Uno (BAYAN), Kilusang Mayo Uno (Izzy Canillo) and former Senator Rene Sarmiento and Waziristan, asked for a Temporary Protection Order (TRO) against the new agreement between the US and the Philippines that Aquino signed last April.
The group pointed out the direct violation of EDCA (Section 7, Article II in the Constitution which prohibits foreign armed forces, based on the military or any facilities in the country except if the Senate was able to release the agreement.
"Aquino, a public trust, which can be the Pambansang Kamao, which is the leader of the Pambansang Kamao, which is the National Bureau of Our Lady, national interest," said town Secretary General Renato Reyes.
Under the EDCA, the armed American who will stay and save their weapons from the military forces, also stated in the agreement that the conflict between US and the Philippines may not be given to the court.
According to Section 25, Article XVIII of the Saligang Batas, this agreement was implemented by the Senate for the construction of foreign armed forces, based on military, or facilities in the country.
An executive agreement was said to be between the Malacanang and US the EDCA, which is why it does not need a ratification of the Senate, according to the Aquino administration, but it was not approved by Saguisag and Tanada, two of the military officials in the country in 1991.
Because of the Bureau of EDCA, payment from the Constitutional Commission for the Constitutional Commission for the Armed Forces for the Armed Forces for the Armed Forces of the Constitutional Commission for OPLAN), "stated in the petition of Social Welfare and Tanada.
Since the RP-in the US was implemented, the two countries will implement an agreement that the two countries will defend each other during the time of the war when it was followed by the Visiting Forces Agreement in 1998 that gave permission to the military of the US to reach the Philippines' territory.
Meanwhile, the current administration signed the third agreement between US and the Philippines.
"The president, in EDCA, to be a short-up to the Country and a piece of Fight IT ers to the Office of the US to position its military and the Pacific Ocean," said UP Lady Regent Neor Mackay.
In case the Supreme Court cannot release a TRO against EDCA, the US is free to use his former military operations in Clark, La Union and Quezon City together with three other facilities in the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) - the three more facilities of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and San Miguel Naval Base in Zambales, according to former AFP Chief of Staff Emmanuel Bautista.
In relation to this, the government provided P500 million for the construction of a bigger ports in Oka.
"It can't be denied that Aquino is a puppy of the US because he is asking the foreign military to control our own countries," says Mencherness, councilor of the University Engineering Council of UP Diliman.
EDCA is one of the basis of the filed impeachment complaint against Aquino on July 21.
"With the funeral parlor that was made into a concert, Our Lady OPLAN), with KC Conception is the High School which was being watched over by the administration of the US to file a resolution to the US to file a score of Fight IT.
