Around witnesses: You are still hope?
By Jimmy Cantos, October 31, 2016.
The camp of Representative BandTolentino will file a protest recently, the president of the PhilCyrus, about the candidacy of Tom Caringal, for the chairman of the Philippine Eagle Committee.
According to the criticisms filed by Billy Sumagui, the secretary-General of PhilCyrish, he is not qualified for his position for running away because he is not the president of the 25th Association of the Philippines.
There was a new president of the 25th Association of August 31, Mon Marchan, which was replaced with Carbon with Caringal, he said that the incumbent president of the national sports who can run as president and chairman of BOC C.
It was clear that it was a clear revenge for the burial of Tolentino as a candidate for the chairman of Agriculture C.
It turns out that Vargas will file a appeal to the decision which was set aside from the COMELEC (Comelec who was disqualified by him because he did not personally talk to the General Assembly in the General Assembly in the General Assembly in the General Assembly.
In his appeal, Vargas said that the interpretation of BOC C COMELEC is wrong with the issue regarding the Active businessmen, which is not a person who is said to be the Active member.
"Active member and best-conformity is going to be set aside from behind bars, which is being monitored by the 120th Infantry Batallion of the most apathons of the most Nationalist Alliance," said Vargas in his appeal.
In the following days, we can see what will be the decision of BOC C COMELEC with the fighting filed against Caringal, and with the cases filed by Vargas.
But I will not be surprised if all protests and these are thrown outside the window of the COMELEC, to where the old Old Boclub will be thrown outside the said petition?

It's just a waste because if he was not allowed to run Vargas and Tolentino, we can see what is really the attitude of the members of BOC C.
Of course, what we will hear is to give peace to the members of BOC C.
