-March, what is about?

There is no doubt, the number of less less than March in Luneta on the day of Heroes, August 26, 2013 will be successful.
The effects of social media sites in the internet, the citizens in the entire country and some parts of the world are cut off.
The question now, will President Benigno Aquino III do the wish of the citizens to join and those who were not able to join because they are in far places?
Or he will still wait to be brave, going back and decision the next flag of the country against pork barrel and corruption.
The truth is, the contestants are just centered in Congress because of what happened as P10 billion "pork barrel scam."
It's like the lawmakers are the ones who have faults with pork barrel.
Meanwhile, the truth is, from President Aquino to the lower part of the barangay, it is tainted with their own pork barrel!
The cadmium penalty is reasonable.
It's only because there is no direct leaders who should be swayed by action, it will still lead to action and effects of discussion.
However, this is a sign of aware of many citizens.
If there is a sequence that the country is pointing out, we want that there will be a leader that will lead or the committee to cover-up each candidate.
"If there is a sign that all contestants will have a chance to call a thorough change in the wrong rules of the current state.
We saw the reaction of Malacañang and those who want to commit suicide.
The pork barrel should not be removed from the immediate action of PNoy came from, "the pork barrel," that means, will continue the joy!
This is more intense, Lacierda said, if the pork barrel will be removed especially in the funds of calamity, the typhoon and calamity are going to prohibit the storm and calamity?!
There are already rotten tomatoes, Lacierda will not tell it if there is no signal from his boss!
It is said that however, the "epal." Is prohibited, "who will be the" epal "in that time?
I have met a politician and an artist who even spoke with an individual and group of KKKK and Aquino.
When the former Supreme Court Justice Renato Corona will visit him, he will greet him.
The shouting was from the group of Ateneo who is known as the KKKK and Noynoy.
There is no doubt, the million customers are pointing at Luneta even if the number of those who will go to Luneta even though the message was not allowed to stop the message, stop the pork barrel!
If this will be followed or not by Malacañang, it is up to them that the ones who are pointing out will probably be the more organized, there is a leadership and is being kept in deciding!
