
Rebellion, there is a mutiny.

Don't you notice anything?
Our disagreements in our society became even increased.
The military and police in Mindanao against Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters and Abu Sayyaf Group are all out of all out.
In Mindanao, and in different places in Visayas and Luzon, there is also a fight between the military and New People's Army.
While the group was calling for unity with the group held by the People Power 1 in EDSA Shrine, the call for the resignation of President Aquino and his co-inmates in his position is getting stronger.
There was also a talk about the mutiny or there was an importation of police and military in the civilians.
But there are also rumors against action (it is said that there is a mutiny and this is martial law.
Malacañang has been warning a warning about the limit of free journalism and included here is the one being endorsed by newspapers, radio, television and internet in the form of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and others.
Dead!
Between the ASG and military, more than two dozen are dead and most of them were ASG while wounded from the ranks of soldiers.
We are still waiting for the news of the dead between the BIFF and AFP in the fight at Bulaga Complex.
Some have died in the fight in other places like five soldiers in Ilocos and others in Kalinga and others in other places.
There are also killed NPA.
Civilians!
Along with the increase of people being killed, also a number of those who are calling the IDPs will also be the number of those who are calling the IDPs, or they are proud of.
They are civilians who are involved in the fight and are being driven out or escaping to the places they know are safe from the chaos and death.
Up to 10,000 pesos were already playing in their barangays in the fight of military, BIFF and ASG.
It is likely that the fight between the military and NPA will also be.
Disagreement.
If there are only a few who went to EDSA Shrine to celebrate a mass and celebrate the New People Power 1, the number of those walking on the road which is calling for the resignation of President Aquino is increasing.
These started in EDSA near Camp Crame, to give emphasis to the call for the issue of Mamasapano, which the 44 police who killed 44 more injured by 17 others.
These past few days, thousands have evacuated to Malacanang carrying the request of PNoy.
Students of big school are also increasing in the resignation of President Aquino in his position.
Unity!
Around 1,000 soldiers and police are the ones who showed unity by their arms around Camp Aguinaldo on the day of PP1.
And it came from the police and soldiers are the resentment in relation to the Mamasapano massacre.
First to be seen with resentment and pointing fingers to the police and soldiers due to the lack of coordination with the murder and the contents of the 60 policemen in Mamasapano.
But the pointing of fingers ended up to Malacanang and was able to resign from the PNP Chief, General Alan Purisima of Malacanang.
There was a coup with martial law.
While the soldiers and police are showing-up, the news is low regarding there was a mutiny.
They just neglect this but they also have fear that is why they say they are investigating.
There is no assurance that the military and police have no assurance, like what they want to go through the blurring of it.
While this is happening, there are those who are saying that there is a possibility that there will be a mutiny for the declaration of martial law.
It is certain that there is a possibility that there will be a mutiny on other chaos that will be made to make the declaration of martial law.
And if there is martial law, the quarrel of the police and the military will be relieved as a part of the government of martial law or any management of the government with a trace of trace of blood.
Rebellion.
The Department of Justice is different with the call for President Aquino's resignation.
It is possible that they will file a case against rebellion and we know that if you can file a case against rebellion or the suspect, you will just be charged with the police and military.
Where would we lead to these events?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
