Thursday, January 2, 2014.

Tribute on the 120th anniversary of the "flow of the desert" (1964-2014).

Responsibility for the 120th anniversary of the flow of the desert "(1964-2014) of Gregorio V. stars Jr.

It is an honor for the ten anniversary of the flow of "epal" today in 2014.

The "flow of the desert" is a book that a short story of the five groups of writers, in the filipino language published in 1964.

The group has changed the flow of the sun when they caught the lives of ordinary people, especially the workers, farmers, farmers, and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid" and "Daang Matuwid". "

The five writers, on the first decision of "the flow of the sky, Edgardo M. Reyes, Eduardo Bautista Reyes, Eduardo Bautista Reyes, Eduardo Bautista Reyes, namely Eduardo Bautista), and Rogelio RRS, Reyes and famous architect of the heart (AAO), (13.4 per cent), (13.4 per cent), (13.4 per cent), (RPA-KMU),).

According to WILLIE, Office (hmmmp!

"How published" the flow of the desert "?" This was written by Edgardo M.

Reyes in her book "at my time: 13, made up (13 years old) ,-60-61, how the waves are published in the desert":

"At the point of living, it is not a good opportunity to have family.

This is the time for the former DH that will not end up to the Editorial Department, but up to the guard, the whole group is united with no one to write to us until the door of the Editorial Department of "will not be opened to us.

"We were able to respond to Atty. Teofilo or co, chief of flowers, that was the only time for us to play in the theme and outline of the novels he visited us there, which was said to be right to report to our five because we are all wise in this time."

"The novels, I cannot be proud of and might be ashamed of.

But to us, that has a good meaning, we are also making our unity and fighting for an institution. "

"Every day of becoming a few days, the five in the office of the flowers are coming in.

Hidalgo, Quiapo is the money to be used to eating and getting a lot to each other until we talk about it carefully that it is good for us to make it better.

We agreed before that we will not just send money from the money.

When the novels were finished, we suddenly lit the entirety of a project. "

"We used that money to release the first decision of" the flow of the desert today.

Majority of the author are all able to be awarded with a good author as it is around 1 (1) (7) refilling station, Don Carlos Palayan Memorial Medical Center (7) refilling station, Don Carlos Palimpinon, 1962), Don Carlos Palusao in 1964) (9) refilling station, Don Carlos Paltrow and Medical Center (9) refilling station, Don Carlos Palimpinon, 1963).

This is also the story of Mrs. Corazon Aquino especially Santos for the department of the Filipinos of Ateneo, Manila University in its peak when the judges, "Ipit Gang" and "Dugo-barya Gang" "" "Dugo-Kalawit Gang" and "Dugo-budol Gang," said that it should be taken away by the judges in different types of contests, "said that it should be taken away by the judges in different types of contests,"

The time when it is up to five writers, the following are the following, based on the fourth Econdition of the flow of the desert today.

Efren R. Abuan aeg, 1) in Bagong Paraiso (2) certain that the face of the month (3) fierce City (4) outpost in the head of Corbo (5) in the city is a Doren.

Dominador, Mirasol 4 (1) "Eli, Eli, Lfather Sabacadani" (2), a dog in Lagproperties (3) a mother in the time of Travers (4) a mother (5) machine.

Rogelio L. Ortho-1) trace of Juan Lazaro (2) tornado (3) in the company of stars (4), their arms were cut off in the stomach of Almodovar (5), Anzon.

Edgardo M. Reyes: 1) can be reached by lack of consciousness (2) Emmanuel is already down in the village (3) Emmanuel (4).

Rogelio RL 4 (1) Tata Selo (2) Implementing Negro (3) Quaels (4) in Lupa, his own Bayan (5).

The first and second direct decision of the book are those who are assigned to the author, the third exhibition made by Bienvenido Meca, who is the National Bureau of Sineneng, in the five writers, who were said to have been living together, Abueva and Orcauldron.

The current of the heat in the desert is one of the eateries where they discussed the path towards the lives of ordinary people that are happening in the lives of ordinary people that they discussed suffering, workers, workers, youth, common people.

The disturbance to the First Eve with the current administration in the desert is a mandate of the past and perspective in the future, let's go back and we will go back with the content of what they manipulate position.

"We youth, we can see that we can call it with our own language in spite of the painful accusations that this belief is part of the hurtful words that this belief is just a part of the pitiful minds of the writers," we opened the path towards Lupang Hinirang.
"There are also accusations that if there are many Filipinos, this is a huge desert, which is usually seen in the yard, that's why we don't believe that these feet are annoying, even if we do not believe in spite of the temptation that is lacking, instead of the temptations and obstacles.

"However, if there is a part of the Filipinos who are in the desert, this is trying to send a new image, by a new topic, of a new belief that is connected to the current author as well as the goal of this book."

"We noticed that the works in school are being studied now in schools, even in the lower post and in the university, the 1955 arrived.

After that year, the shocking revelation of the new Sibol, the writers have not been published since then on 1964, the town has not been saved by the country. "

"This is what we want to do, we want to let the new works in our knowledge and skill are our savings, and despite the obstacles from the feast, we sold the country."

"We are expecting that the flow of the desert is going to be blessed," said to be blessed by the Filipinos, and also in the minds of its enemies. "

The flow of the heat in the desert is fourth, the fourth Eve, C-E Publishing back in my time: 13 years old, Edgardo E. Reyes, 1990, Philippines-year-year-old Charlesetta Williams and dela Rosa in the department of Filipinos at Ateneo, Manila.
