
"The irregularities and failure.

Let's take care of Ben Tulfo (Filipino Star Ngayon), Nunber 1255; Usahay, 31, 2014 - 12: 00am.

The last day of the year 2014, many issues were marked in the minds of Juan and Juana dela Cruz of this year.
Different kinds of modus and irregularity of the government were discovered from the "high-ranking people seated until the personalities who were also involved in controversies.
There are some who went down because of delicadeza and shame and there are also those who were forced to make it but until now, there are still those who put him in position because there are some who were locked up and charged and there were also a shameless person who put him in his position even if the people already bleeds.
I do not need to enumerate every events because it became a entertainment or the national, this is an example of the public for the whole year.
In the agencies of the government, many are still showered with criticisms due to the failure of their system if there is something.
The most important agency is, the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), Department of Health (DOE), Department of Agriculture (DA) and Philippine National Police (DA) and Philippine National Police (PNP), under the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG).

PSN (Article. Rec), around 1: 1, to go to 1: 1.

It is not yet included here with the long-time problem that becomes the content of news and what the authorities are saying in front of the television and microphone, the government inside the facilities in the government or National Bilibid Prison (NBP).
But in the end, it is also not surprising that it is still happening, if there is a case, Pili just.
In all issues, it is important for Juan and Juana dela Cruz not to comment.
While the news about this is hot, there are also many who take advantage to be famous and to be famous.
Yes right, just a few months, it's already election time.
That's why they are trying hard to sit on, or SAS "if it is called by BITAG Live and just to be noticed, to be noticed and to be considered to have something to leave the mind of the public.
There are still many issues and irregularities in the government who have met firecrackers and will come out.
Expect that it will worsen and the mud and reconciliation will increase in the coming year 2015.
Watch out for BITAG Live and every day they see each other at around 10: 00 in the morning at Radzmi 5 92.3 News FM and Akit's TV.
