Because Lida is lacking in books and even the teachers who are seven situations in college where Angelo goes inside.
But according to him, they have no choice; as long as there are many classes because if you think about it, it is a blessing that the pesos will be able to study because it is like you can buy this is a way for them to get the one who is being made into school diploma.
You!
Despite all the wall, Andrea, in Muntinlupa in Muntinlupa.
Happy is the dream of two twenty-seven-year-old Angelo to study.
Bye Philippines that might be outside.
What is unlikely for me to stop from studying.
Do I want to think of a high school year-nosed; very fur.
That is why I am gone because I have no appetite for me.
I am selling, with what happened, I am I?
He / she started to look for him in the case Tell that he hid while he continues to use the sale of those who are going to go to school.
Do you save you in hiding?
But one event would be met with Angelo, I have seen me on YouTube that I really want to study or my plan to go to me, because I really want to study, I am going to be alone in my taking care of me.
These were dumped twice by Angelo, in the two hundreds of students who are going to be in a resort and together with the University of Staff, we should be together and route.
Or they will believe that you are going to have a new email here in the office so they will find an opportunity to get them.
!
Hoy of Two point, it's because you know that the heat is wrong because we know that you are just a good person in those who have become good in those part of Popoy two Cielo.
Two hearts will be seen in the video and full security compound in Bacood or me by Joy Labrador, which seemed to be one of Major-Welcome Rotter, all hearts who are ready for the wake.
From the start of the program, which is called eighty four more than four people have already married.
Yes, even here in the Philippines, there is an opportunity to study for free if you want any age to believe if they will be able to study.
Even if they finish school, they have a high study here, we hope that they will not return to jail so that they will not return to jail so that they will not return to prison so that they will not finish college so the high school level of a colorful and only three percent will finish college.
But from two thousand connected to two thousand, it is tiring to have a viand from the government.
There are only four plastic bags that are allocated for almost two hundred students.
It is the right of classes for two hundred students of high school students.
A lot will be saved from doing things that are already dead in the classroom.
Isn't it that however, especially math, those in college and ten thousand pesos are being used by those in college and ten thousand every month is being used by all high school.
That's why it's a big help in the program for ten years to be mistreated!
"Where do I laugh at that with the heart of PNoy that we are teaching all the high school '?"
I teach four children to my children to be here so that my siblings will not do it.
Sorry, of course four mission for them.
It is said that a teacher Yao Ming and t-shirt are sleeping on the program after the teaching of the rich in elementary.
Is it one of my one who's my friend, Michelle, always with them.
A six-six-five-five-five-six.
I did not expect that I will come, I will also teach me, so instead of thinking that he is just a simple person, he is thinking of it every day I am looking for it.
Make things that are lacking.
Both have not yet done anything that's not yet done regarding the Virgie adviser who is currently detained in the Virgie adviser?
They hope that the weight of their school library is severe than their record for time.
Tino, Tino.
It is said that the bothers the school that they are graduating from are graduating, that's why they are still holding a new life if they will be given a chance for six months that they should give them a chance for the six graduating from the College.
Because there are people who want to change and will not be able to do anything before we will not help them.
Their school diploma that he will do a shack in the next year will he ask a shack if it is not when I will not be.
Who would be that fate in his plan if the education will be used in facing just one of you.
I am in a span of six.
