Thick smoke.

A week has passed since the ambush happened at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) where the ambush happened at Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) where killed Labangan, Zamboanga del Sur Mayor Ukol Talumpa, his wife and two others but until now, there is no doubt that the suspect has no joke.
Aside from that, even if there is no official of NAIA that showed delicadeza because up to now he still hasn't resigned from his duty.
Is it because they are among those KKK by President Benigno Aquino III and they know that they will defend them?
Well, there really is a virgin woman! For those who cannot determine, that means of thick smoke is no shame and thick faced.
The management of NAIA has not yet given a lesson when Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news on Ramon Crus and former couple Raymart and Claudine Barretto. "Isn't there yet no CCTV footage, and there was no CCTV footage from the incident and there was no CCTV footage.
President Noynoy and Interior and Local Government secretary Mar Roxas "will immediately be there in the official who are included in the KKKK of the President, wait for the police and soldiers assigned to NAIA when the incident happened?
Probably, they are sleeping in a noodle house but the official of the PNP assigned there, for sure they should be fired from his position but they are not the ones who should be responsible for the incident if the management of NAIA has not been negligent of their duties.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima even added that he immediately said that the suspect is already known and with him at the ambush, where are they still not behind the iron fist to give "true justice" to the victims?
My goodness, the administration of PNoy is only good in all of arrest, but in action, there is a lack of lack and without license.
The administration of Aquino should not wait for the incident to be followed but as early as now, he should show that there is no sports in his administration, "no relative, no friend, no friend, no one classmates!"
