About the popular news, he was arrested by the secretary of the Liberal Party in the southern end.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
He is south.
October 14, 2010.

Last week, Chel L. Bolina, spokesperson of Southern Luzon Command (SOLNBM) of the AFP, said that they were captured by a "Benjamin Mendoza," said that there was no other than the secretary of Liberal Party and another member of the Liberal Party in the region and one member of the Liberal Party in the region and one member of the Liberal Party.

A few days after, it was confirmed that the "Benjamin Mendoza" who is in the hands of 2nd ID, is an ordinary employee of Megaforce and working in Asumba compound in Barangay 5, both residing at F. Castillo Street, Project 4, QC.

The SOLCOM was intentional to serve as an hour to serve their opinion in OPS and the whole story, as the day of the revolutionary movement of the Liberal Party which is owned by the SOLCOM, they want it to be believed to be involved in their own traits of the story.

It is under the minds of Colonel Bolina and Major-Hala which will be exported back to the southern part of the Liberal Party which will be exported back to the ranks of Liberal and movement in the region and is just an illusion that their aspirations will happen again.

The AFP and the Marcos regime was also an illusion that through having an expert of the personalities of the movement, the revolution ignited the life of the Liberal and movement and the line of the Liberal and movement is only on top of the few leaders.

The revolution is a huge movement and the Liberal Party which are leading the revolution, a deep root of poverty and passion in the society is deep, and the masses will continue to look for the masses and continue to look for the mass.

More than ever, strong will be strong and more part of the revolutionary movement and Liberal Party on the region who were thrown to a big country in the next five to ten years, and when this season comes, the SOLCOM will eat all the declaration that they experienced.

The Liberal Party is calling on all the indigenous people who have a hard time to build, the ranks will build, and intensify the proliferation of the struggle for the countryside.

The armed forces are ordered to further pursue in strengthening and continue to conduct a mandate to the winning enemy of the public and in order to launch a golden lesson in the head and body.
