United Kingdom will participate in the Rio 2016 festival.

Postanes and Aries Fallero.
On July 5, 2016.
In!

It can be said that the time of Manny Pacquiao is almost over inside the ring because of his retirement, but it cannot be denied that he is the face of sports in the Philippines.
His unexpected success in the field of boxing will increase the standard for the quality of filipino athletes - this is the ability to be alone every corner of the ring.
Now, many athletes are following the footsteps of Pacman who wants to bring home an honor to the country and will prove that those who are going to go home to the biggest gathering of the best athletes of each country on the country that will be held today.
At the approaching Rio 2016 elections in the Olympics that will be held at 4-21 of August in Rio de Masangaron, Brazil, there are already seven who got a ticket to pass the Olympics.
Commission on Laden and Charly Suarez admitted that the Philippines will become the representative of the Philippines for a game in boxing.
Veterindependently, Humalig Diaz, will again compete in the field of the cave for a third time.
The SEA Games that Eric Sampaga who will participate in Kathleen for the Philippines is heading to the Philippines.
In the world of the table Tennis, Ian Labuan did not be left behind because he is the first Filipino who will participate in the said sports while Councilor tie Elaine Alora is the only one who would try to get the medicolegging in Tausug and Tausug.
In the field of libel, Miguel i will prove that those medals are going home to the country.
If it is the discussion of basketball, Gilas Pilipinas is waiting for a chance to get a ticket to the election that will be held on the Olympics if they could overcome the team of France, Turkey, New Zealand, Senegal and Canada.
The Asian Games that will push through today will be held at Mall of Asia (GAA) Arena from July 5 to 10.
It is expected that there are still a lot of Filipinos whose participants in the Olympics according to the Philippine Football Committee (Commission C) Vice President Joey Romasanta.
Last two Olympics, 15 delegates sent by the Philippines in Beijing 2008 Olympics while 11 delegates were joined in London in the Olympics.
Everyone is hoping that the medals in the Philippines will be able to follow the gold medal brought by Manongol on "Onyok" Velasco when he joined the Atlanta Hawks last 1996.
