
Impeachment or removal of the people?

The last rally in Luneta has a threat that the problem of corruption, corruption and negligence of the leaders of the country will not be solved if it is just protests.
There is a need for the actual process of removal from overseas leaders of the country.
This is severe.
In the legislative chamber, a impeachment case is being pushed by some lawmakers against BS Aquino III if you will be asked by the country, which is what you want, impeachment or removal of the two past EDSA People Power Plant?
If impeachment, we know that as a number or number one is needed to execute the process, and now, we also know that the number of allies in Malacañang in the legislative chamber especially in the Senate.
In the three past protests, the million-March or Luneta were showered with a large number of those who joined the number of those with the join.
I only noticed in the three rally, there are those who are opposing that they are still allies of Noynoy Aquino and himself in the tongue of PNoy, who are all allies of the pork barrel scam, those who are suspended by the pork barrel.
As of today, we are looking at the new forces of the military and police under the U U. The group also criticized the harshness of those who launched a coup with Marcos at PGMA.
It was supposedly used by those who led the Ram and Magdalo to reach the position, they will no longer allow this to happen again because the forces of the society together with some soldiers, former soldiers and policemen, are there.
But the question of many, which is more effective, isn't it a impeachment case or a straight action of what should happen?, what do you think, customers?
And if ever any of the two actions will happen, who should be elected?
It's because I am, let us allow the military and police to help a city council of the people from the reliable leader of the town of the city, because they have a lot of thinking, decide and taste the government.
While the posture is like that, they will steal the Congress and let the leadership of the local leaders in their respective areas lead! It is fine.
