For THE is the root of the skyway 3 and others.

Up to five years passed by the severe traffic due to making a few big projects to go to the country, including the skyway 3, who will be stranded in four cities of Metro Manila.
The project of the skyway 3 in Makati City will start, and it will be implemented in Manila until it reached the Caloocan City Quezon City.
What are other projects which will be held anywhere.
Hey, a long time is five years.
Go to hell with millions of people because they will lead the traffic.
15.8 billion people in Metro Manila.
"In the evening, around 15 million are living in Metro Manila.
But when a day, their number is double because of the influx of residents from Cavite, Batangas, Quezon, Rizal, Bulacan and Nueva Ecija.
Members of students, workers, tourists or strolling, go to the airport to go to other countries and who else.
Thousands of OFWs and tourists from different countries go to Metro Manila.
That is how many people in Metro Manila are, and we are expecting that many of them bring or use vehicles even if it is still traffic because of different reasons.
Only here, hit your head in thinking what you should do.
Vacation and week.
It is certain that the traffic will experience a traffic on Sunday, Holy Week and summer.
But it is certain that at the longest time, the traffic needs to complete millions of citizens.
It is full of PERL.
For businessmen, included are the public utility vehicles or passenger vehicles, hell with their future.
It is full of relief.
A form of hell was the expensive products that their trucks, bus, jeepney, taxi, tricycle and others are.
How can they take back the expenses here? If they will increase the price of products and services, the business will be murdered.
If fares will increase the public utility vehicles, those in the government will not own this.
There are still some who continue to be a regular police and traffic enforcer.
And of course, they make sure that the citizens will be confident about entering their job, school and strolling.
Even the firefighters and ambulance are also affected even if the government is saying that they will be given a special treatment.
The police, were not able to respond to their vehicles going to the places of the crime to save the citizens.
Failure.
It is said that the government received many personnel for the government of the government.
We are okay with this wherein their duty is on 24 hours and Monday to Sunday.
But what is the attitude of many of these, instead of making traffic in danger, it is easy to catch even more than a smaller reason for their more beautiful activities.
It's because it's money, there is a percent or commission in arresting them.
Other action on the streets are still different, which is usually done by corrupt politicians in the streets.
LRT and MRT.
The government of the Light Rail Transit (Metro Rail Transit and Metro Rail Transit and the Philippine National Railways might also be hit by the government.
But hopefully, there are no problems and failures that are happening at present.
The failure of the LRT MRT was clearly seen in the length of the line of passengers on the riding.
The citizens will be forced to ride in the LRT, MRT and train because it is certain that the bus, taxi, jeepney and other kinds of money for transportation will be allegedly been broken.
Because of sure the train will be defeated, we can be expecting the problems and failures of this.
Schedule again.
If it is true that there will be changes in the schedule of school, the teachers should have a training here, children, and even vehicles, including the school buses.
It is also good to have a meeting with the teachers and parents to support the help of the traffic and the children's education will not be disconcerted.
And where are plans or programs to start the entry of children?
Hopefully, the projects will not bear fruit and foolishness.
For THE.
Request to all the authorities that the welfare of the people will be the real and primary reasons why the government is in a hurry to do all the places in Metro Manila.
There is a big belief that the projects are rushed now to save those connected to the custody of the funds for the coming election.
Because the pork barrel scam is uncertain now and the projects of the government are being made to earn.
Hopefully, we can't hear from the high-for-called "for the fund of this" the project that will create traffic and negative to the citizens.
