"DAP was the most anomalous pork barrel of Aquino.

The government employees are very angry at the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) of the Aquino administration, it appears that this should also be treated by all citizens.
The government employees are asking the national office of the Department of Budget and Management Council (DBM), before going to Mendiola, Manila, yesterday because of his anger towards the Aquino administration's declaration that the Disbursement Acceleration Program (DAP) was revealed.
The employees are angry, according to Ferdinand Galite, president of the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of government agencies that is one of the primary benefits of the government for the additional benefits of the government for the additional benefit of the funds for DAP.
According to Collector Needious Agreement (Cuya) in the leaders of the government and the administration of the government and the administration of the said agency, it might be given to the employees as benefits that will be saved from the end of the year.
Which is why the employees are trying hard to be frugal to the office that has been widespread in the office during Standard Lunch Program and after one o'clock, according to Aquino's expenses, and to the pushers of DBM Secretary Florencio Abad, the benefits can be received by the employees.
Before, it reached Php 500,000 on the end of the year, the biggest money can be received by the employees - even if it will be added to the diminishing, it will not be added to 2,000 yuan, and they said the Executive was able to control the huge budget that should be given to the benefits of the employees.
When the Senate conducted the Senate last month, the DAP was used to bribery the senators so that Chief Justice Renato Corona will be removed from his post, it appears that the members of the employees are right.
The Supreme Court questioned the Supreme Court.

While the employees of DBM and Mendiola are feasting, the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) has submitted a petition to the Supreme Court to clarify the legality of DAP.
The petition was led by Bayan Muna Rep. Carlos Zarate, Gabriela Representative Lumakil in Ilagan and Kabataan Representative Ansaruddin Adiong, they are also included in the prevailing changes, concerned citizens; Movement, Ang broParty, Anakbayan and Youth, Noguera.
The petition was questioned by DBM Circus in 541, who is an official of the DAP last July 18, 2012.
It can be recalled that the impeachment of Corona has been passed in the legislative chamber last December 12, 2011, this is only more than two weeks after the senators of the administration like Senators Franklin Drilon, Alan Peter Cayetano, Ralph Recto, Antonio Trillanes IV, Ralph Recto, Antonio Trillanes IV said that it is priority, "said the said senators.
The Senate has officially announced the removal of Renato Corona as a member of the Supreme Court last May 29, 2012.
Last month, Senator Jinggoy Estrada revealed that it was also involved in the pork barrel scam of Janet Napoles - the said "bribe from the senators on the kind of DAP.
In the said petition of Bayan and other groups, they are worried on February 2012, in the middle of the impeachment hearing of Corona, the lawyer of Chief Justice Secretary Jose Roy said that Malacanang already offered Php 100-M for Malacañang to the senators.
They are not yet able to save money.
According to the said training of DBM, they said that the funds of government agencies are coming from the funds of the government's funds so that the programs and projects of other agencies "(" thank goodness are the programs and projects of the administration who are not in 2012 budget.
It is allegedly against the Saligang Batas, that only the Congress is the only one "power of the law," or the right to set a fund, according to the approved of General Appropriations Act or national budget of the government for a year.
He said that he can only use what he does as a budget for the agency.
But in DAP, the Aquino administration allocated the implementation of the budget for other agencies, like the Senate, it cannot be said, "it can't be said," it cannot be said, "he does not say," he does not say, "he does not say," he said, "he does not say."
The commissioners of the Supreme Court wants to release a temporary restraining order to stop the approval of Malacañang for the government's funds through DAP, and stop the implementation of said questionable program.

The supporters defended.
Before this, various non-government units also released a statement, including the caucuses of Development Authority (NGO) and Ateneo) of Malacanang who got involved in different corruption.
"We believe that Pres. Benigno Aquino Aquino and Budget Secretary Butch" Butch "Abad led the fulfilment of DBM by concrete reforms that will continue even if the administration will continue," they said, in English.
But many groups are also questioning the integrity of Election (NGO) and even a blessing in the release of the said statement.
"Even if we are not able to catch Aquino again, they are still trying to catch them from defending DAP, we are still forcing them to defend their clean government to defend human rights that they get from the Aquino government," Elmer Liscano, chairman of Kilusang Mayo Uno (PAR).
It can be recalled that the Omnibus Election Code will be recalled to have been involved in the anomalous sale of P35-billion pesos Poverty Eradversary, Allowance (Peace Agreement (Peace) in 2001.
Meanwhile, former director of ASG), and now the representative of Batanes in the legislative chamber, the wife of DBM Secretary Abad, Henedina Quinto.
It was revealed out that Representative Edcel Lagman received Php 92.5-M that pork barrel in 2012 - more than pork barrel, which is usually received by other congressmen, Php 70-M.
"It is disgusting truth that the money received from the political opponents in the Philippines (like the Election (NGO) in front of the international culture of politics in the country, it is clear that they criticized the rotten culture of politics in Malacañang, it is clear that they are supporting and supported by the politicians in the time that they are supporting and supported by the politicians.
