Going down when there is no attack.

Because of the love of Manileños, the surrounding is trying hard to fix the livelihood and economy of his jurisdiction of Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada.
The goal of the mayor is good that the purpose of his trust is Atty. Simeon Garcia, city administrator, who is in good work to help his mayor and the citizens.
Caught in the work of City Ad Castillo, which is why even his health was affected, when Atty. Garcia got sick, the other surrounding Mayor Erap took advantage of it if they did not understand each other.
The selfish officials surrounding Mayor Estrada are able to sign papers to sign the documents that take care of themselves, to be the general of Task Force Organized Vena who will be the ones who will be the vendors in Manila.
That is why they were able to finish the operation of dearse, who are going to travel from Avenida under the Light Rail Transit Rail Transit because they will change those who are going to pay which they are going to pay for which they are going to pay.
Whatever request of the students, they are selling, the task force didn't listen to him because the command of his head is to remove them because there are contract that they want to pay for the price that they want to pay for.
Ayso, the syndicate, which is not really concerned about the administration of Mayor Erap should not be able to take it up because of the defeat in the election last 2013.
That is why even his children, Boy and Oliver are all assigned to vendors to identify themselves as part of their boss, which is insinuating to them to give their weekly kickbacks. "
In the management of Atty.
It's a notice that all members of the head of the task force wiped out and also those who were involved in Binongan, were all affected.
It is possible that the selfish officials are to sign because they have been observing the City Ad Castillo of the appointed mayor.
"But thank you-a good luck."
The truth will come out that all your greed and personal livelihood are the objective of these.
However, is it good that Atty. Garcia has a good attitude to just allow those who destroy him and threaten him.
It seems that his resolve is wrong to let the enemies attack.
Manny Pacquiao and Notara Magayon, his fellow boxer are strong and will be strong, but when they keep the attack of their opponent and they will only avoid doing it, they may also become weak or not to be broken.
For sure, it will get thin when you do not learned how to cry and make her knees.
