Severe protest against education is a bigger protest in education.

By P2,500.
February 28, 2012.

Protest of the young student in the university of the Philippines in Diliman last week (P2,500.
Militant youth warned the Commission on Higher Education and the Aquino administration of a bigger protest in the midst of threats of the worsening crisis in education and economy.
According to League of Filipino Students, the youth do not have a choice but protest because the bills of the Filipino families due to the increase in price of oil and the ambush on the tuition in university will be alarming.
They announced this in the protest in front of CHED after the series of protest in the university last week as part of their "Day of RVillage against the education crisis."
Meanwhile I asked the position of Anakbayan, Patricia Licuan, chairman of CHED, because of the impending increase in tuition this year due to the impending price increase in university and the annual price hike which led to the ranks of the youth.
"The Aquino administration did not understand that what we are fighting for here is the future of our country, which is why the budget for the private university and as well as the budget for State Universities (Colleges," says it Canila, spokesperson of LFS.
Canila also said that this is the outline of the program K + 12 (or caldergarten years old) in the said program, the government is pushing the Filipino youth to become a reserved system for the needs of international community system.
Added.
Again this year, the students will now be facing the issue of additional bills in the university together with lessening education.
According to the National Union of Students of the Philippines, it is expected that the tuition fee this year will be expected to increase their tuition from 10 percent up to 15 percent, not yet included with human cellular phones.
Young students reviewed for the budget of Polytechnic University of the Philippines or PUP last week (P2,500.
Brogonio explained, five out of the biggest schools have a pork worth of P3.45 billion in the past six-years, and compared to P15.43-B in their jurisdiction.
It was only in the year 2010 when there was an estimation of P585-million to Far Eastern University (WestMinCom) in their income because it recorded a increase in their profit in the past nine months after increasing tuition in the past year.
Meanwhile, the University of the East Avenue has an estimation of 300-M, added by Pagasa.
Included in the hopes of the increase in the tuition this year is the following 3-6% of the students in the first year; the Roque, who are expected to increase 3-5 percent in their tuition; they are expected to increase 3-5%; and De La Salle University, which will increase 3 percent.
In the data of CHED, more than 80 percent of students in college or approximately 1 million youth were stopped in studying last year due to the increase in tuition fee.
"In the midst of the increasing crisis in economy, Aquino does not have any steps to send the free tuition and the Commission on Human Rights where the education and parents in their campaign in exchange for education is truly a business in exchange for education.
In spite of this, the youth are expecting from SUCs to worsen the condition of the academics, which is caused by the agricultural sector of education, and policy of the Philippine National Capital Region which will be given funds for the construction of new continents, or facilities such as shabu.
His lawyer is not serious.
In a gathering this February which was led by the Sangguniang Liberal Party-list, the things that is said to be imposed on Higher Education, but this will not be implemented this year 2012, 2013, that is disappointed by the youth.
According to Crisostomo, it is not a few leaders who filed a complaint against the "unknown bills" in the past years but the Commission on Higher Education approved the increase in tuition in their school.
"In a few moments by the students, the Commission on Higher Education did not issue an issue related to consultation, all that they have done, and said that they will not be implemented this year, and it is said that the said expense will be implemented," added Crisostomo.
Anakbayan, Los Angeles and other groups of students and youth of the morgue have been calling for their high tuition and other bills this year and investigate if there is a fair high tuition in university last year.
Protest response to the youth.
The LFS is warned about the Aquino administration's administration this week as a response of the youth on the worsening crisis in education.
"The youth are really fed up with the increase in tuition fee, the government should ensure that the quality and free education in all levels and stop the continuing selling of the system of education," said Crisostomo.
Canila also said that the youth will allegedly have his stance alone on March 2, so Aquino will know that we know that it is not their interest but the interest of the few. "
"It is a responsibility and responsibility to fight the government with a good future for his youth," the end of Canayugan.
