On the first time, Marlon was able to stay at the house of OPLAN), where he was killed by Police Station at Lacson, as well as he was killed by the people in the operation last January to five or while in order to sell, why did I have a report on why.
Pia Gigi, two hours have passed before we reached to what the house is saying to stop.
On the other drink, what we need is that, isn't it that so that it is a natural area to show how much poverty is done by the people involved there.
Something that is difficult to be coercion.
If just look at the map.
After attempting to say goodbye to the Commander of cheap Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which is scary to go outside, there is a scary near outside when we found out that the said house is going to be left and will not be left behind.
Possible.
There is still no longer seen how many of where are the nose that is needed to reach the house of Marie one bad colors to the people who are going to get along with it, which is why they do not have anything to buy this thing.
There are those who are calling him.
It was a place when I was able to talk to the four who are at the age of age, whose name will be named even by the soldiers who quickly defended themselves.
I was not allowed to transfer to a job near the house where she might be shot by old people, at the place, it seems that we were shot by an old man's house, it seems that we were riding a born place because it became a little bit of cold water.
!
The house of Mariana is going to the house of Marias well as we arrived at November of the Emplayer.
Our eggs are going to be seen which if you do not know, you can lose.
Although the eggs are deep, many are just low.
What we rode in was the head, Christopher, after they went with a glimpse of the nose.
We have only asked for a few minutes before we reached the last house who have been cut off M for a few minutes.
She is not in this house with Marie.
Who else would be with his companion, who he / she was wearing.
They say they are not approaching our fellowmen to work because they do not control him.
It has been a month that, after we are in line with the colleges, you will be the ones here to get the alphabet; to get shouting.
So short; we are still positive; we are still positive in taking advantage of these places which have to be used to steal with our companions who are amel.
Maybe there are almost no other group who helped us in the house of Marie.
Maybe we will be abused by a franchise from that, in the river, there is no longer time when there is an effective hand on this day.
We are crazy; we are very wide; we have vast ways where there are no trees.
