
Liang by the Honor Code, My personal interests (also a part of 2).

On the 19th of January of 1996, I was reported to my first field unit, the 7th Scout Ranger, which is based in Camp Tecson, San Miguel, Bulacan.

I also came from vacation because he was told to have been stabbed on the training of the shooting team of the Army's Army in the previous ASEAN and M rifle Meet where the Philippines is host of the Philippines last November 1995.

On the 7th Infantry Batallion, 1st Lt Jason Lo Aquino, the units are connected to combat against Central Mindanao as member of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Group, Cotabato-Maguindanao (COLampu).

Wild, wild, West of Bulacan.

Barangay Sibul in San Miguel, Bulacan is called wild boar, wild, West, said place, many of the people here have weapons and usually hear the gunshots every time there is drunk and every time they are sleeping.

Agriculture is the primary livelihood of the citizens here in the area where Mines and piggery farms become widespread.

Meanwhile, Sibul was also famous because of a turmeric tea, which was found in the boundary of San Miguel and nearby towns of Dona, La Trinidad).

Altaserv paid for the quarry in the very beautiful mountain which they exchanged at the very beautiful mountain.

Even if it is heavy for my feelings, the lies of abusive armed creatures here and especially those who have burns in the Mt. Io which is a Protected area, we do not do anything because we do not have a direct mandate.

As a matter of fact, the number of trucks coming from the mountain is going down, riding the huge sum of it, which is said to be exported in abroad.

Because we are in the training, we are focusing on different training as a preparation for the possible deploy of our company in the legislative chamber.

Sometimes, we, on the patrol of 20kilometers per second in Camp Tecson, where there was also a presence of the bandit group, the armed forces of the terrorist NPA, we were seen in meddling because this is the work of DENR and the PNP.

That's the situation of the Army.

One night before, we were watching the show of "Kabayan" Noli de Castro, "Magandang Gabi, Bayan, where she discussed the illegal number game at Mt. Io.

Because the problem is about the place that we have seen, we are serious in listening.

One of the those who became interested in the said episode is the Barangay Chairman of Sibul, Amado "ARubella.

When he spoke about the issue of illegal quarry operations in the Protected Area of National Park, I almost fell on the chair from his declaration.

"He is brightened up, even the Army are receiving P58,000 pesos per truck."

He used to be questioned, his blood climbed up in my head but we did not ask if it was true, I was very annoyed with Kovalev.

In the next morning, I decided to go to Saint Pope Ado to confront each of the Black Suit and my companion is 4-ranked leader with the number of armed men in Sibul, I cannot believe that most of the people there are.

It was around 8: 00 in the past when we went to his home to be talked to.

The eyes of the people around us arrived and I arrived when I was met by a female child, I immediately said that I want to talk to her father.

"I just want to talk to your father and when we have clarity, I told her.

When the Captain came out, she was obviously thinking about it because I was simply waiting for him.

"Krrrik, good morning, what is happening to us?"

I remember the words that he has given to TV but I cannot hide my dismay since I cannot handle being judgemental.

"It is said that in the morning, I have seen in TV the morning when you have watched on TV for you to say that we have nothing to say to you, I have no care for you, I do not care even if I have not accepted even a cent of peso!"

I saw KimXi.

"Oh my!

I am really the child of maybe I do not know how to escape because I see me very angry.

I held my left chest and pointed to him what was written on my ATM card that has the Philippine Army.

"There, can you read it?

He was also shocked when it made the head that he is guilty in the head.

"I am sorry! I don't know that you were the Philippine Army whom I am referring to by the Army, who were assigned here, I thought you are anger,"

It used to be used to me as if I was carrying a cold water, I was annoyed just like begging.

"My goodness!

"I am really sorry, I am not talking about it, because we are also angry at the illegal quarry owned by Mt. Io, we are afraid that even if they do not stop to stop in the quarry in there, I hope that I will recover from you."

Whatever it is that I am feeling, I can't do anything anymore because I do not do anything.

I opted to give a challenge to KimXi. We are the only ones getting angry about the environment of nature.

"It is already over that we should not just change what we should do, we should be united with the CENRO that we will be united with the PNJ for us to be protected from arresting illegal terminals,"

And this incident became the signal to take Barangay and of 7th Scout Ranger) to fight against armed groups that he has control over the illegal numbers game at Mt. Io.

"Tata Ado, whom I used to drink, became a close friend and partner in the combat against illegal drugs, even in your own peace in the area who is known to be wild, wild, West,.

On the side of my leader, Lt Aquino, this is his advice.

"You should be able to complete the papers of our deport of DENR Bulacan to help the barangay to stop the illegal number."
