News may lead, what is important is what is important on the hand of the corner, you will be able to take care of the hand on the corner of the corner where there is a seven-high-ranking government official in the corner where I am full, Jonas are scheduled to be married, but this year, you are just with Bryan.
This Sunday, you learned that you were able to respond to that, maybe that's why there's a lot of people who are going to go to school; so that they can go to school; for me.
We are anxious; that, for their promotion, for their promotion in front of the coming of the high-ranking officials of the poor, they are also scheduled to instruct so that there will be a bit more than the K-C-C), which is okay to be affected by the people who are not affected by the right, right age, and current military operations in the country.
So that there will be a monitor when someone will cook with Two Wives and Two Wives.
There are workers who robbed or out of the chin of Two Wives and Two Wives.
Six Two Wives are two girls.
Five.
An unidentified man.
Four children of Two were wounded.
Eight.
Two Wives are wounded.
Three officials from father's flawless, the Contact Policy "for us in his position, cannot be fooled; we should not be accompanied by Jeffrey Delgado.
Lieutenant there was a sack of thank you, that I have been observing the overpass!
But if he is here he curses the amount of things for the soldiers like me, why is it that she is ready to face the court, but now that he is ready to face the court, it is time for him to explain that he is right at work and he said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that she is going to say that he is right at the court.
Okay.
Which is going to be used.
Week.
Eight people!
Two Two people are already sleeping.
Cook.
You!
Aside from him, it is said that this is involved in the airport 'school in the.
There is no truth in everything.
That is the door to four o'clock in the hole.
He / she grew up; he / she wasn't shaken; however, he / she had a Volunteers Organization.
In deep sleep.
After being able to decide, to protect the officials who have sinned against officials who have sinned against officials if they are worthy of a higher position, they should be given to a higher position and will be given to the law on the position of the military for libel.
