"Lola EH?"?: Miguel, no PRESalas!
"I am the Virgin of me!
By Rose, September 18, 2016, the Kapuso actress, Miguel Potol, was chosen to be U4U celebrity, Ambassador 4M (Commission on Higher Education (Commission on Higher Education), the pork barrel program for Filipino Workers.
Miguel introduced themselves with BOC-M executive director, Dr. Juan Antonio Perez, that according to him, U4U) is one of the programs of the government to answer the sake of the youth on the right information, especially to those who are in the right information, especially to the high-cies where it has been a lot of number.
Since I gave birth, this is one of the main agenda of U4U, he can see that it is a possible blood pressure for Miguel, but I am not looking at him, for the age of 18-old, "yes, that you will be taken out of the coldness of the problem.
"I am looking at him that I am the one who got hurt because I can help the people and help them to be able to help their children."
That is why, 18, is still in the world of showbiz, what is he stand in His sex?
"It is no!" He strongly answered.
"It is really no, because if you do it, the pitiful ones," Ang Girl, "the boy and" the baby, if it is really different, you can do what to do.
Miguel admits that the youth were really crying, she admitted to her, she admitted to her what she said, but she was already there as a teenager, actor and student, which is why she was really busy with her thoughts.
"And then, I know that my priorities is to make the transfer, I think of his condolences," he added.

We even told Miguel, that means, he can say that he is still the Virgin on his sex.
"Of course, of course," of course, "he said," and then, you might think of it, "in a long time, but long-lasting difficulty."
The First Class UU U of Miguel did yesterday, SSeptember 17, where, he was the one to lead U4U High School which was held at Commonwealth High School which was said to have been released by the Anti-Tropical Convergence Beck in the hand of the Grand Anvil Awards for hand.
Julie, was given birth, but he was able to go to school for a good thing, and she was able to bring him to Julie Anne Hospital but of course she would be able to go to Julie Anne Hospital, the family, including Mister Juan and OPLAN).
But, the doctor does not have a child who should have a child to Julie, which is why Romeo Acop also does not have a child, which is why Romeo Acop also chose Doc has not been nervous, which is why he / she has not been nervous with Doc because she is also the First-time for being a father.
Shuler was the pet of Julie, when Romeo peeked at her baby in a tomb and her too much happiness was on top of it.
After he looked at the baby, Romeo went to his wife to take care of this, Julie, but if she will be able to make it to her mother, she will always take the international law, especially if she is always with the international airport.
Of course, Julie and Romeo are John Lloyd Cruz and Toni Gonzaga, which anytime, they will possibly be given to the real life of her first child with Director Paul Soriano.
Just acting cute is the timing of the Kapuso sitcom Hamping that can be watched every Saturday night in ABS-CBN and with the true events in his life, Toni is.
Today, on Sunday, the network is still focused on the pork barrel of the network that can be held this afternoon and to Goaynon, Bulaga this night.
