Sharon, Sharon, is too much from the beauty By Jun on July 17, 2016.
Together with Martin Nievera in London, England for this (The Filipino Channel), the dearts of Kim Chui and Xian Lim.
Probably on Tuesday is the return of the KimXi like Martin.
Wait, Martin is asked when he comes back when Kim and Xian have returned in London, seven was the Special Action Force (ABS-CBN) of the movie he was carrying Enrique Gil.
The Special Action Force was not free, he said, "the fans of Enrique's fans.
Every fan of viewer would eat later.
It is said that Rhian is going to pass in the Special Action Force to take care of his fans.
Because in The Varice cream, the career of the baby Sharon Cuneta will be lively again.
Sharon Cuneta will be exported as a judge or a judge in the said show.
Sharon was replaced by Sarah Geronimo to The Varice cream.
Sharon is a classic example because she is talking about the said show.
The fans of Sharon will be entertained by the diets of Sharon in The Varice cream.
Sharon had a different kind when she said that his fans are really like him.
One of the fans of Sharon will be focused on The Vevice cream) is the continuous lose of weight.
It is only now that fans now believe that Sharon had a lot to lose weight.
Because before, Sharon said that she lose weight, some are still doubting.
But now, Sharon had clearly seen her outfit even if her outfit was not black, he / she was able to return the beauty of the mouth.
When you completely lose weight, the tongue will return to the concert center.
And of course, his movie to be under Star Ngayon that there is still a few years already.
Bea Alonzo is very good about the doubt of many that they intentionally saw Paulo Avelino in Singapore last Holy Week.
In the Scud of film How TBaba, she and Gerald Anderson Silva in the Friday night, Bea Binene chore Dee, and a handler of Star Magic, was the one who was in-time in Singapore.
They just found out that Paulo is also there, that's why they met him there.
Paulo is said to be with this kind-Friends that's why they saw each other in the country "that is almost a day.
Meanwhile, many feel butterflies in the relationship of Bea and Gerald of How TBe Yess because there are those who are hoping to have a Second Chance with the two.
