
"It will not work" Tuwid na Daan ".

Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon made a big thing to stop the trend of the meddling of different branches of the agency for regular equipment on the BOC.
In his memorandum, he ordered all officials and employees to avoid meddling with the process of the cargo trucks.
It appears that the primary aim of his directive is what he called "Lala" or the small role that was given to different kinds of RA-Homicide Section (Fortich, Formosa and Inc..
"That's really my target," the "krrrik," but of course, he is not wearing a job or for me; however, the target of a stop of practice, "Commissioner Ruffy Biazon," said Commissioner Ruffy Biazon.
He initially revealed the said "wangwang" in his meeting with the members of the Intelligence Group of the agency where they are warned that whoever will violate his order and proven guilty, which will surely be punished according to the law.
The important forces and Customs broker are condemning the said practice which caused a huge inconvenience and additional expense for them for the processing.
They said, this kind of trend is one of the reasons why they are forced to settle with officials and employees just to not get caught up, and their business will be released again!
"If you have issued a" krrrik, "after you said, you need to prepare yourself," said some source that they are familiar to this situation.
The Customs chief also mentioned the "hotline" which can be called if there are Customs units or employees who will violate the order for the complaints that can be called (PO2) 527-1935 for the corresponding action of the BOC.
Unable to get it up to SoJ; Maj. Diangco, well.
Your servant is giving up an amount of up with the Public Works and company so that the officials and staff in Caloocan City led by our friend, Carl Diangco.
Here is the past typhoon Maring and southwest monsoon, if there are several thousands of relief goods that are planted with clothes and towel, those affected by calamities in the city especially at the eastern part of the calamity.
Just recently, Carl was with his father-tempered in the police service, Major Arnel Dimatulak, in the police service in Barangay 87 like Pareng, who is currently the president of Rotter Metro East, where many residents benefited again in the said barangay where many residents benefited from it.
The residents here are lucky if the barangay chairmen is lucky in their barangay hall because it is good to serve people who are loyal to people.
He has been imprisoned for many criminals especially drug pushers and many are also able to save the drug pusher.
Mayor Orca (Oscar), the big asset of the Caloocan, Major Diangco is certain that he will be married for a better and peaceful city.
