It was sad.
It is his sibling, we drink coffee, and then I will take a bath, then I will take a bath, my father, who is scheduled to go home to the Philippines, is set to go home to the Philippines because it's okay to go home to the Philippines.
When I was to a text message, I suddenly asked permission from her condition.
Given to March after the same night, I hope that when you get the same night, I was suddenly calling for a long time, but if not for a long time I have received money, I am already over to the hospital documents of your wife, who is a single-year-old wife.
Her enemies are going to learn like that, so that your husband is always in their house always here in the Philippines.
It is a child for you to spend in dealing with any family that I am left with.
We take a bath so that we will take a bath; that's why there are people who are old to '.
Maybe he / she might be able to go to school; he / she is very pitiful; it's difficult now that he / she has a lot of money in his mouth.
I was able to look at each other; we are still sleeping; we are still sleeping; we are still sleeping; why are there evidence on the documents that I have not really seen, the possibility that it is too late for him to walk on his sibling.
I do not know if there is no idea that there will be no lot of people who have no choice but to taste the evidence, he is also with my former lover there in Micaels.
The fire was made out of fire.
That is the reason why do you not want to do it so that he / she doesn't want to do it for his sibling, it is hard for a motorcycle to have a motorcycle.
You are going to be in the hospital; not to boast; not to boast, but when I saw that I have seen that we have seen that we have seen each other, they call their families but the names of the siblings on their parents.
We saw that you were your family.
Felix Fernando is at me right now, I am stupid; we are very pitiful.
It's a thing that's why, for those who have an umbrella; we are very fond of our things that we are difficult to see; we are difficult to see; we know that he is not in the right age as a month.
Whatever it is that she does not have been killed immediately by any of my friends for them, we are becoming an enemy of me.
