
A call: You do not like, don't you!
By Arnold Clavio, September 7, 2016.
I do not know if it would be good for the majority of our Filipinos the severe resolve of President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte against the government of the United States.
But in the belief that PDigong is the lack of diplomacy, it comes to the issue of foreign policy that there will be no change in a short future.

Our relationship will continue to be used to other countries, particularly the members of the ASEAN or Association of Southeast Asian Games.
But the worry is the latest released by President Digong directly to the President of America, Barack Obama, "s of a B," if they are trying to discuss the issue of extrajudicial killings in their conversation because of this, Obama's height was canceled in the dialogue with Duterte.
What would possibly be the possible opportunity in the Philippines if ever our relationship with them will finally be replaced with them?
In the release of the White House last 2014, there are some benefits received by the Philippines from Uncle Sam.
I will not heal it and there might be someone who is called "loss because according to the report," according to the report.
Fuck; The United States behind bars was the $40 million in the edge of $40 million in the experiment, training of the United States (Actor, the United States (Actor in the Philippine government of the Philippines "Internal Revenue (Special Action Force (Special Action Force (AFP) Regional Trial Court (Special Action Force (AFP) Regional Trial Court).
Fuck; The United States' Suppliers (PFG), the Enhanced Defense Cooperation (PFG), the Enhanced Defense of 15 US government, to be held at the address of PFFF), in the Philippines, to be known to be able to answer to the majority of PFG financial condition for the majority of PFG financial aspect.
Fuck; The United States, the Philippines - a 24 billion-year-year-year-year-law Trade Center (TPP), the Comprehensive Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (TPP), in the Comprehensive Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (TPP), the Comprehensive Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (TPP), the Comprehensive Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (TPP).

The United States will be sent to the Philippine government's medium to the Philippine government's medium, which is being monitored by the Philippine government's medium built, by one hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-in-hand with the former government units in the United States for a $140 million.
And what is most important to all,
Fuck, estimated to 4 million Filipinos are in the territory of the United States.
It is clear that there will be a big loss in the country if the help from America will be a compromise, financial or relationship.
There will be more acceptable reaction for a leader of the country that will express what you want in other countries and "will not be with his name.
Many understand the goal of P. Digong to stop the operation of illegal drugs and criminality in the country, so he can see too much love for the country who has no known advice from the foreigners.
The only thing that is not acceptable and received criticism on the whole world is the alleged use of extrajudicial killings for those who were suspected to have fallen or drug pushers and there the problem started.
With the character of P. Digong who is more local and good relationship, his advisers should make a step to lessen its effect in the Philippines and our relationship with other countries.
Even though P. Digong was elected in position without any influence of the United States, the US government should not allow the US government to go out of the palace because of the issue of the mistakes in the world.
Lord, I will take care of it.
