Politics and puzzled by the campaign.

The candidates have a lot of promises in exchange for our votes and everything we want to hear.
The campaign of candidates for senator is already started last February 12, in the start of the campaign on March 29 with the candidates to become a member of the House of P, provincial, city and municipal hall, let us expect that we will be raised by promises.
There is no need to be an expert in communication to determine the non-worthy thing in front of him, education and other valuable things in front of him, education and other valuable things in the elections that have been promised, but until now, most of them have been promised to make sure that many have been promised in poverty.
What's different from the current message is the way of explanation, as well as choosing the words, according to the defense of the legislative chamber that is the art of effective speech or writing (equivalent to the arts of their supporters to make the message of the public a long time.
And to be more effective, they use four kinds of elements: Use of the Filipino Workers (mixture of Filipino and English); it is simple, short language or pen; and there is a funny message or play in the end (eateries, or playing with words or play-writing.
It is clear that these kinds of candidates will win as a senator, "I want, to become a senator," (Juan Ponce Enrile) and "Joker Arroyo) and" Joker Arroyo), they still remember what is said to be supported by some issues being faced by the country.
Because of a limited word that should be used, it is clear that there is politics behind the worst issue, if one candidate wants to focus on the promises of giving a job, if one of the candidates wants to focus on the development of the agriculture, except if he will be asked about it).
For the candidates who have allegedly made the real advisers of the society because their argument is not practical because in the long explanation that they understand, it is hard for them to remember, even if they understand it, it's hard for them to remember, while a short "tickle" we enjoy were not interested.
Among all the enemies in position, how many of the candidates will rise from their rivals, many of the candidates who are pretending to be an artist who is pretending to be an implication in the whole campaign, aside from being rude.
It is not a place for a long time for a long time, there is a goal for the issues to pass through, the shallow discussion is needed, aside from choosing a child and for the resignation of a candidate to support all the poor?
But the question: Where in deep the issues can be expected, we cannot expect that the rules of the agricultural sector in our economy should not be expected because of the continuous increase in the price of petroleum products in our economy, we have nothing to hear their silence due to the consecutive increase in the price of petroleum products, and if there is a continuous increase in the price of petroleum products, we still expect that it is going to be angry to them the big companies of oil.
They do not want to complicated things that are not just because they need a long explanation that they will tell the truth that they will tell the truth that they will be able to give training for the poor who have no job but he is not directly support the call to raise the salary of the workers.
It's just like this is the routine in the campaign of candidates who wants to sit in position, and after winning, will finally forget the promises during the campaign period.
The urge to bring the message was effective but politics should be examined in its back, but more than there is the basis of the candidates to show that they do not want to show off the level of course, and even those who are pretending to be an actress) in the current campaign.
How will this be done, the community or sectors are going to be together with the source of their dismay with the campaign happening even though it is possible that the voters will be in expressing their voters as an individual, it is still different to express the voters from one part.
We gave the clear message of the candidate, we will not vote for you if you will not be true.
