Thursday, June 21, 2012.

That will be given to the new leaders of MMR-QC.

The new-INTEL.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

A big event happened in the group of Metro Manila Film Festival (MMR) last June 20, 2012.

In front of it, there is an intensive line line where it is written.

Quezon City Market Development and Administration.

Vazole, Poverty.

In cooperation with perseverance, Metro Manila Film Festival, QC Chapter, CRBB.

Brgy. Old Balara, Barangay San Vicente, Barangay Central, Barangay.

Work for the disciplined vendors.

Mayor Herbert Bautista.

Vice Mayor Joy Belmonte.

Danny Matik, City Market.

The Barangay Council.

One hundred pesos in front of them, 50 black chairs were from the office of being used to the office where the small vendors are carrying a green t-shirt, while some of them were wearing a green t-shirt and some of them had a hat.

On the end of 10: 25 in the morning when the belief of Civil Defense Cooperation (emcee) of the program named Claire Regi (Fcee of the QC Hall, is the faith of the government officials who are pointing out from the City Hall.

The line of ribbon committee was started by Councilor Ivy Lagman of District IV, Quezon City, and Father Mabog, Quezon City, and Father Mos, which was taking the picture, and was taking a picture, and the people went back to his own chair.

The founder made the program again and called Camping. Lagman for the said project to talk and according to Camping, Ivy Lagman, it's a good project that happened because it is said that the residents of barangay.

Given to an acquaintance, Ma'am Noor, manager of the PNB, and what she called was City Market Administrator Midas Matik, she is the happiest day in that day.

He congratulated the officials of the government who attended, and the vendors of MMR, and according to him, there is a law that should be followed by, if there is a law that should be followed, if there is a law in defending your livelihood, we have nothing to defend.

You vendors will prove that if there is perseverance, there is food that is always raining, (1) clean, and with respect, cooperation, we should help each other, and we should help each other. "

The barangay watchman is also stated in the old capitol of Captain Mauricio dela Cruz.

Rodriguez said that according to him, "our barangay was advised to favor our vendors in their livelihood to be thankful to Mayor, Vice Mayor and to all councilor, this time, let us not neglect it."

Xiangana, Josephine, one Velasco, of Barangay Central, Tita Flor was greeted.

"We are happy that we are part of the vendors Association of us to make sure that our cleanliness, garbage ation, uniform, it's embarrassing, thank you very much and long live in this program."

According to Amigo Puno, councilor of Brgy. San Vicente, "I am thankful to the city officials who supported Mayor, Vice Mayor, for the beautiful project," he added to having a position by the vendors, the discipline in self is needed.

John Yalting is also said in addition, "we do not lend money from each other, they are helping each other," they also give their own ship training for the vendors.

After this, the Crime Operatives) announced the number of having snacks or a person who was called by the president of some groups of vendors who are members of MMR-QC.

Aunt Flor Santos called Tita Flor Santos with the strength and adviser of MMR.

According to Tita Flor, it is a good noon for all, we sympathize with Mayor Herbert Bautista, whom we don't want to run for Vice Mayor Joy Belmonte, to all of the barangays who gave a resolution, at TWG), John Lloyd Cruz, who is at fault.

The belief is finished at the full 111: 14 in the morning after that, there was a small gathering for those who attended.
Being investigated.

Eyes.

.

6 / 21 / 2012 08: 26: 00 o'clock.
