STP and the entire culture of UP Diliman.

I am sorry for the sermon of an elderly, I just need to worry about the current youth despite the changes as time passes by, there are things that need to be avoided.
Let me start to tell the story of our situation during the last part of the Philippines (UP) Diliman, although they are even proud of the public, we can't make it to the public the general culture because before UP Diliman, do not be proud.
Even if they are clothing, there is no competition in her own bag because what we use before is the "epal" or handfuls from Northern Luzon, and even if you are not activists, you can count as a handkerchief, which is being used as a handkerchief.
If we have a rich classmates, they do not want to be obvious because they are just joking and don't want to show expensive things.
About our UP ID, this is often hidden in our pocket that we have just shown this to the authorities if we have never hung her neck, bus or LRT, we are able to keep up in a jeep, bus or LRT, you, grade 1? "
But it seems that the weather is already different now, which is included in the foul odor of UP Diliman, which because of the foul smell, those who borrow the U and PNoy will try hard to look at the ID, which is obvious to be seen in grade 1 "which is obviously of UP."
Anyway, as a symbol of wearing an ID, even the situation that you are working at, as well as the situation that you have to work in a company, is it not right?
In your opinion, you will look better or handsome if other people of UP will know you, maybe you know that there is much more frustrations in a private university for the rich, this is the chance that the tuition fee is not too different compared to UP literally.
I entered the time when the case was at P40 per hour of UP Diliman, thank you to Soccorridors (STS), if you followed the history of STS), if you followed up during 2007, the changes were implemented in 1989, and the highest line with UP Diliman were implemented in 2007.
Is it acceptable to you by the STS?
Whatever is your belief in Mr. STP, you need to complain about it during the last part of the '80s, we do not want this situation to a rich student who will give its subsidy for our poor classmates. Second, it is not acceptable to us the truth that the administration of UP will give financial help.
In spite of the program, the poor students who are under the top of the poor students who are under the hardest part of UP.
In this point, the government wants to implement the STS (or any program like this) in other state Universities (Colleges (SUCs) because the program that should be given benefits to students should not be needed.
I started negotiating with a sermon so let me end it in an asking for apology because it is clear until now that our principles have been implemented and it is clear that our principle is effective, but our principles have not listened to us.
Because of our weakness, the current students of UP Diliman were together with a 14-year-old student who are comprising UP System), but there are still a few groups of students who, instead of continuing the call for filing the STS.
I hope for an apology that I will try to make a message to the victims who have forgotten to know the real effect of the country, and instead of being charged by their fellow students, the government who continue to lack in its obligation is not acceptable.
As time passes, our culture of UP Diliman can't be avoided, but if there is one thing that should be kept in order to achieve a scholar of the country, the reform presented to him by the STS.
