The fraud of MILF, nothing.

Even from the beginning, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) deceived our government, but it appears that it is nothing for the respected officials of the administration of President Aquino.
The use of MILF Chief Executive Director General Iqbal Singh that it has been signed on the historical peace talks with our government to further strengthen the doubt of the citizens with the loyalty of the rebel group.
The public's trust was first destroyed when they were brutally killed by the 44 police of the Special Action Force (SAF) who have a direct arrest of the two known terrorists in the territory of MILF in Mamasapano, Maguindanao last January 25.
Because of this, Senator Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos was suspended by the Senate Committee on local government, the hearing of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, that will give the MILF in power to use the wide part of Mindanao.
Now that the names being used by Iqbal Singh, it is not few who believes that the peace talks that he signed and the government have lost its meaning.
The refusal of Isarog to reveal his real name and reason that he is being used as alias, who is common to the rebels and even the heroes are not acceptable.
In the view of many, he can use an alias in writing an example of books or other things, but not in the legal document that he entered the government because this is a deceit for our government and the citizens.
But despite this, Deputy Presidential spokesperson Abigail Valte said that, when Deputy Presidential spokesperson Abigail Valte said in a briefing that Executive Department of Iqbal Singh that they know the real name of the MILF troops.
The BBL will be the result of the peace talks by the government and the MILF, it should be discussed based on the merits or traits of this law, and not on the issue of the alias which was used by Iqbal Singh.
Justice Sec. Leila de Lima also entered the scene in expressing that there is nothing wrong in the use of Iqbal Singh, and this is not the basis for the signed agreement between the government and MILF.
What de Lima used for example is the use of the former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada of alias "Erap" in his campaign and the votes were allowed by the Commission on Elections (Comelec).
The secretary seems like alias "Erap" what Estrada is using, he never kept his real name, and he did not fool the public in using it.
He does not want to stop the government and the Filipino people, and if we really think that the law is about to talk about the law, is it not remembered by the local officials of the administration that they are supporting, there are conditions that are contrary to our Constitution?
In spite of all the issues to doubting the sincerity of MILF and reconciliation with the government, from the lives of the police who have no pity that the name of Iqbal Singh that the names of Iqbal Singh that these are not the owners of the administration of this rebel group.
