Wednesday, March 12, 2014.

Communication!

The connection of the heart is being done from the heart without the tongue.

A beautiful thing will happen when we have started to give attention to each other, in great terms, unity, and concern given to our relationship through communication.

In communication, it is better for you to be quiet and do not say anything, because you don't want to listen to the words that you have no right to refuse, because it is only right that you don't want to listen to the opinion of others, but you don't want to listen to the opinion of others, but they are not expecting that they are the center of each other's opinions.

If the trust is high, the relationship will be strong, and the connection of the communication is easy, and the connection of your feelings, and if you are not able to express what your feelings and intentions are, it will be harder for you to clarify this for the second time.

You will never know if in a moment, a few honest words can make a big change in the life of a person.

If it is not good and there will be no good outcome, it will only happen that this should not be applied, because of the person being sensitive, it seems like a salt that is given to fresh wounds.

A long speech will be avoided, even the use of people who can take care of it, because this is not being thought of having a connection with other people and those who continue to take care of your relationship with other people who continue to care and strengthen the connection of others that could improve you.

Do you know that... that you can attract a lot of friends within two months, if you are interested with other people than two years that you are interested to talk in front of you, even if she is ill-mannered, lawyer, governor or president.

The most important ingredients in communication should be heard about what does not seem to say because they have something to say, because there is something that we need to talk to others and even in our self is the way of our communication to others and even in our self.
