Relocation of poor people to get away from Manila, not humane.

By P2,500.
February 6, 2012.

Relocation of Rodriguez, Rizal: The tragic condition of the relocation of the citizens from Manila.
The contestants are alarmed in a reality in a fact that the citizens living in Relocation Site in Brgy. Vitality and San Isidro in Rodriguez, Rizal are alarmed.
For the fact that the people cannot live in it, their condition is also caused by other social problems.
Gabriela Representative Edcel Lagman said that there is a lot of lack of service and information given by the housing for this occasion, he assures that these will not pass by those affected by the United Nations for the inhumane project.
Among those who are of Relocation Site in Rodriguez, Rizal are the families that was evacuated from Barangay Corazon de Jesus in San Juan, San Roque, North Triangle, Quezon City, and in Barangay Tatalon, Quezon City and in Navotas.
The children are crowding in a tricycle going home from school (P2,500.
In the said mission being led by Gabatan, Gabriela Women's party-list and accompanied by Filipino Weeker last February 2, it was found out that it has been used by the government for the disconcerting of the citizens.
It is just a few of those who have been able to join a mission at dawn and the walls of the houses are weak; and the flood is weak, and up to the neck, so the flood is getting stronger, that is why the flood is not in Panatag Shoal.
"This is not the housing project that you are expecting to give a healthy atmosphere of citizens," said De Jesus.
According to the residents, the Relocation site was the former rice field and he was buried there.
"At first, when we arrived here, we had no water and electricity such as their promise, it reached almost a year before we got weak," according to a resident.
The residents are becoming a problem with the high level of electricity "to them and its supply is said, they do not have their own styles, which is why the" home owners "Association of their wish to return to Block leader.
The meter is also a problem for them because of the huge amount that reached up to P30,000 are the highest.
Location of poverty.
One of the primary complaints of the citizens here is the lack of livelihood in their place, so many of them are going to return to Manila, they say it is not enough that you have a living in order to eat the family.
The houses are like a box of matches -- which is lacking in facilities, according to residents.
"All their families cannot build a different store in order to live," according to Corazon Gabas, resident from Navotas.
According to the residents, it caused a point that some houses each have entered each other to make it in many opportunities, they say that prostitution is becoming a replacement.
On the part of the National Transformation Council, they started the program, but the problem is, the quality of making soap) was not good, that is why it was able to stop, according to the residents.
The source of Relocation Site is one of the mayor who is a problem of the residents so it is too far from their jobs, school and hospitals.
"What you can earn is that you can just bring P100 for the distance and love of the fare, if you are tired, not just when we are in Manila, but when we are in Manila, my expenses is small compared here," Margie Catino, one of the residents.
Margie further added that her son is still needed to walk almost half an hour to enter the nearest school school, here, more or less one hundred students in one hundred students.
"My child, when they have dengue, the nearest hospital here is a private hospital, so it is still private, but the medicine is still not there," the nearest public hospital here, three hours will be counted before you reach, "says Margie.
According to the members of the mission from Gabriela, Gabriela Women's Liberal Party and Adik-list, there is a need for them to be united with the approval of the demolition and insist on the rights of a decent housing project (P2,500.
A business project.
Although he was transferred and given a place of homes, it is also not free to have a house of Relocation Site, according to the residents, they are not being able to hold a title except or Single Entry SEC.
"According to us, we have an extension of one year to pay the houses every year, we will also pay P200 in every month on the first five years until it reached P700 every month," according to a resident.
Also added by the residents, they have their own interest and ask help that it won't be paid, it is hard for them to pay within 25 to 30 years.
There are even more residents who say that if the others have no money to pay, it is being put into their units for the personnel of NHA.
Already destroyed.
According to De Jesus, others go because the quality of their personality in the mentality that they can accept is not than nothing.
"This is disturbing, because this is what they gave to them by the government," that is only enough for you and that is the mentality of the citizens of Relocation Site, "that's the only thing that their personality is lacking in this mentality and situation," he explained.
According to Arlene Brad of Adona, the scenario that placed the children in more dangerous situation is not good because the group stressed out to pay attention to the children for their growth.
Residents also said the different crimes in their area such as robbery, some of the residents said that they almost raped the other night with a huge problem with security and many houses, almost no security like police or officials of the barangay.
Avisado explained that the demolition really happened one of the trauma that happened to the children, while their hard work that will affect their downfall, according to them, the future of the youth that will affect their previous houses in Brgy. Corazon de Jesus in San Juan.
"In critical, the demolition really needs to have a clear program until there is no clear economic plan, but we can't do it anymore that's why we do not do it anymore that is why we need to continue to be complacent about the citizens," said De Jesus.
