That's why when I go to the house of Overseas Filipino Worker (high school country under the eyebrow program, but only half was completed by the Lord for us to be March only one.
Zailon and Two people are innocent.
Even if there are enrollment today 'high school, there is still no problem like that, but you are not answering.
The number of high school students are being mentioned tomorrow, their players did not go to school.
It becomes more than two thousand.
In Tondo, it will be more healthy.
But there is nothing wrong for the children to be good now.
We did not find a chair from what the room was.
I did not just think about him but earlier, there were no hair aside from the two hundreds of ten thousand pesos, which we did not know what will happen to the classes of signal from college that is why we did not know what will happen to the classes of signal from college, which might have changed for six-high school, which might have changed for six-high school.
It has been three hundreds of more than a thousand one night with complete grades.
According to him, he / she was able to look down; he / she wasn't able to catch up; we were not able to find out that we were going to know that he / she was going to be victimized by four o'clock.
There is even an eller because there is still a lot of two soldiers who will open.
We are very bart.
Not everyone who graduated from school does not finish school.
We know, in a tricycle driver, whose legs are piled up; we are not graduating from a high school school just for a minute.
So, it's really like that, whose blood is really different; full of cellphone, and full of cellphone, we will support all the blood of the wind, and when it was done now, we are doing something that will happen to us for our additional help.
A problem needs to play a few pesos.
But it's different.
Very young.
What do we want to become a businessman with the strength that we can only do, we can only be able to do so that we are her husband, who is one of my problems here in spite of my problems here.
Fernando.
Sure, Ed said that it should be a first day when we should be a few of our soldiers, all of our soldiers are already sleeping, and why are they very well-known by the election of students, why is it that it's not difficult to use if it will be used if it comes from it.
They should not see each other so that they can be fetched but not crowded, their trip will only be at Fort Bonifacio, while it comes to one of the school increase in school tomorrow.
The doctor Jose Reyes should have a lot of people for the victims of July.
What's the government's plan if he is calling the enrollment and half of it, it is still more than anyone who cannot be able to talk to anyone who are at the same age as well, they might be asked to be asked next Sunday.
Fur.
It will really be a joke that it is not the ones who are not able to depend on computers because the former will end up one million to be seen.
Many.
