
Very well, taking sides!

It's really all over the Congress to take advantage of the lawmakers and in the midst of Circus, it is definite that President Aquino is just joking.
It's because the people are confused and it seems that we are going to forget about the painful truth that up to now the country has been locked in poverty.
It seems that the citizens would forget about the promises made by PNoy when he asked for our support to sit in Malacanang.
This Wednesday, the common-year-old Senator Jinggoy Estrada had a direct speech and he revealed the huge corruption in our Congress.
But instead of putting on the expose of Jinggoy, we are only irritated because it appears that the truth is really happening in politics in the country, just because of the quarrel of those who are both thieves and corrupt.
Instead of talking about these evil things, they should do what they need to do so that the livelihood of our citizens will be exposed on who are the more stolen from our country's funds.
Isn't it that he is very annoyed?, what is being done by our Senate is what they are doing as a violation of those who are members of fixers, who are caskets, who are casually discussed on what they did to our citizens?
In the Philippines, it is obvious that PNoy is very busy with these events in our Congress because through this event that would be lost in our minds his promise of good life for our citizens.
What is lacking in the three years is that the administration of PNoy will be finished but not even the little change in our country, but instead of the continuous increase in the price of oil, the continuous increase in the price of oil and the continuous increase in the price of oil, and even if it is a lawmaker who is part of the opposition, there is still a lawmaker who is part of the opposition.
Our citizens have already forgotten about the forehead that PNoy promised us that he will not permit his campaign against corruption but it is obvious that his party mates from the active pork barrel scam is obvious.
We have not heard anything about the action made by Justice Secretary Leila de Lima on those who got caught in the controversies, Iloilo Congressman Niel Tupas and Davao Congressman Isidro Isidro, and Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala, who are all addicted to the activities of Janet Lim-Napoles.
Are we just like this?
"If PNoy was able to do it, even his known friends will get out of his allies.
