Bangoy.

The earthquake in Visayas recently proved that the funds of the country just went to corruption through projects which are infrastructure.
You should really fool you because there are those inhumane officials of our agency and politicians who were carried away by the tax of the country for useless activities.
Almost all of the damaged roads in Visayas are found out as a vampire.
The Mayanta showed us how much the people responsible for the said project are really shameless.
This is a proof that corruption is really widespread in the office of the government because there is no iron sheets and there is no foundation.
Thin steel will just fall down on top of it and make it look like it was put in a hollow block.
But the truth is, there is no content, no downpour of cement.
That's why it's not surprising that a severe damage was reached by the roads and bridge, especially in Bohol.
There should be people who will be responsible for this robbery but they can easily identify if the damaged projects will be investigated.
Their delicious taste, a knot was dropped on the head, to be honest, regular patrons.
He / she was wearing.
The trust of President Banoga, I mean, Noynoy.
Here is the worst, he blamed his downfall of former President Gloria.
It is the child of bald people in the start he was appointed, GMA was criticized in the lack of funds.
The robbery in the GMA administration is too much.
It was discovered that robbery in his government was also intense but he did not blame himself.
On the issue of the pork barrel scam, the reason was Gloria, who was the reason.
It was discovered that he was beaten-up with the said more than one hundred peso peso savings, it is not the corruption of bald people!
It's been more than three years that GMA is suffering from his illness while being imprisoned, he has been being stormed by Banoga, maybe even the earthquake, also accused of Gloria.
It's as if she is the one who has a sickness which is just an illness of the brain.
That's why it's just like that, his grades are high, the people trust him too.
So, who will be happy?, be annoyed with his face and just smirked while he is in front of the controversies and tragedy.
