
Don't be swayed by Binay (1)

Because many have been the reaction to our column about Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte, including some of those who warned your servant to serve as a few days to show it to his crazy dog that I am not afraid of these evil like them.
Even if it is said that even all afternoon as basis to the Luneta and the incoming New People's Park in Davao City, it is certain that the citizens will not win as president of the country, and the people will never allow us to lead us in the country.
The followers of Duterte are proud that the Davao City will be nice and peaceful, and when a place has been peaceful, it would be okay if one of the highest number of murder charges?
The followers of Duterte insisted that the Davao City will be progressive and in fact, this is included in the list of people who are in the Philippines' list.
However, in truth, it is really good to live in Davao, but this is not because of the administration of Duterte but this is because of the natural beauty and many blessings of nature in the said city.
And to those who are saying that I do not know what is happening here in Davao, I usually go to there, so I know that poverty is getting worse in the city hall in fact, there are barangays in the city Police, which is why there is a military tree that got hit in a landmine at gunpoint?
Where do you see a tight city centered in that up to now there are community who patronize the communists, it is clear that people are poor in a community but this is not known by the followers of Duterte because they are blind about their gimmick to the media.
Even them were an insane man by Duterte who said that he pretended to be a taxi driver to hear the complaint of his scope, old style, "if it is true that he pretended to go out of the media with another picture.
In our next column, we can get the status of the economy of Davao because the belief of Duterte believes that the followers of the city are confident.
We will reveal the real reason why in the media, Duterte is very angry at the alleged coler who is David Tan.
