When the former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was cooked, he was able to study the bonfire and cousin of the soldiers right now.
Together with the solution.
Later.
The number of Two people who have not able to pay one point of Two soldiers who have not been able to pay for one hundred thousand pesos to those who were not able to pay for a few thousand pesos, so I don't know, that they were not able to catch up for four thousand pesos, but I don't know that it was not fulfilled, it was hard that the friend should have been able to catch up.
The price of the soldiers are fighting for the conference of Communications earlier that he will be able to follow four o'clock in the legislative chamber.
He said ten thousand.
It has been more than a hundred thousand cases that he cannot accept even in their relationship that's why he / she was sitting on a house, which is why he / she / she was at the age of HE. "
You should feel pity that they are the only ones who look at each other, so we understand that you understand me.
He insisted that the victims of the soldier should be paid.
According to him, this will be given to the computer that will get April Rafales.
He sent the occasion of October, "Atong said that the agency will study the meeting of Manny thirty-seven in the afternoon until now.
It's just finished that Two people have no solution.
What why is it that there are many laws that are widespread in all the government being given to all that my government is being given, so we can go to the provincial government, that's why the provincial government suddenly came to it, and that's why they went out of six.
I will buy for the right time.
The company of the company of the soldiers of the soldiers to know a problem here is because we requested our financial status but it will not be brought by an indie Congress because in Bulacan.
There is a need for the chaos that will be exported; as well as the land of the land to pay for the projects to be paid.
You, if it's true that he is going to give attention to the people now, we still do not have any care to go to what we say.
You will have clarity on our penitence.
A text message to the town soldiers.
While who will be accepted in Tondo.
The cellphone should understand that it is easy to understand while still alive.
