It was Php13.9M worth of the project, was given by the DA to Oryang.

August 20, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, August 20 (Pia) - the Persist was given by the Department of Agriculture (DA) Secretary Emmanuel Piñol, the amount of P15955769 in the province for the agricultural projects.

This is due to the income and recognition of President Rodrigo Duterte recently that Oriental Mindoro is a big potential to have a huge potential as one of the primary Food Production areas of the country, which is rich in agriculture and metering charges, which is near the whole of Manila.

It was also done here, the u-mindedness of different farms to be held at the agriculture, Regional Training and Gaming Corporation (WBC) in Barangay Labonan, town of Bongay.

This is attended by the farmers, fishermen and different parts of agriculture from the provinces of Oriental Mindoro and Occidental Mindoro.

In the task called "Duterte Deldivers, on the government and Pang-Masa," it was first given to the officials of Oriental Mindoro to witness the officials of Oriental Mindoro, at the leadership of Second District representative Reynaldo V. Umali, Jr.

Subsequent to this, face the face-face Dialogue, between Secretary Petilla and the representative of the farmers and fishermen in the province.

According to Piñol, they are just returning, in the name of the national government, the help and support that should be given to the citizens is the target of the national government to have the country under the Duterte administration, according to Piñol.

Because of this, Piñol challenged the farmers by the farmers to try the production of rice to contribute to the general production of rice in the whole country, this is in exchange for all the help from the national government.

Meanwhile, Piñol also led the Formal u-make-turn, from the farmers and fisherman who were included here are the following: 10% of the indigenous people, five units of 100-skinned, 20 percent of their pet pigs, 20 units, crops and items in the farm (CPRD / LTO).
