The pork of Napoles and Villon!

Whatever explanation of Senate President Franklin Drilon regarding Napoles, it will not be clarified.
Instead, he has been placed here!
In the past times, there are a lot of thieves, Jews oy, called for the Senate hearing to give clarity on the issue even if someone was leaning on the case, even if they were leaning on the case, they went out of the warrant of arrest just to attend.
But this billion worth of Napoles is forcefully taken from pork, I mean, by Drilon. Senator Drilon, "isn't it that all that I called before are you allowed to save even if there is a case, I mean," in the behavior of Napoles?
"Is it because he is your" your friend, "that's why you can still be swayed by Pictures?
That is something that will happen!
Entice the President.
The smell of Barangay elections, which is why the Talk of the Town, "said different issues in the barangays.
There is a good thing, there is something wrong, there are a good father who has a good father and has a bad notice.
There are voters, Jews as well, without being judgemental, and also use their minds.
For the few, only those who make money can run for them because they can be approached if there is a problem.
Tangere, which is stronger to steal a millionaire, why is it that they are used to summer that is why they are not contented with the small vendors, and on the small amount that they are stolen!
For me, my intention is to make sure, or feeling of a candidate is important, even if a candidate is hard to serve a clean and sincere heart, I will vote for it!
No one is different from the poor but instead of doing anything or teach his family of nonsense, poverty did not become an obstacle to give education to his children.
Meaning, he / she is dreaming, make a relief for the arrival of the right time.
And in a clean and pro-God, "that is what we have seen in Bernie" Jeff "Villaros of Brgy. 85th, Santa Ana, Manila.
That's why they encourage you, make a councilor to run as councilor in order to have an example to a special situation of the people who have a clean goal.
In the right way, the situation of our country is like that!
That is what our country needs now!
