Collection of Customs is collection to Customs.

The Bureau of Customs (BoC) Commissioner Ruffy Biazon made a different kind of skills after finishing the collection of tax from January to September of the past two officials of the said agency.
It is as if Commissioner has no doubt that both should fulfill the duty of arrest and capture the Customs' collection.
This January of the current year, P1,990 billion will be hit by the Customs compared to the same month of the leadership of Inanares who has been collected for P17, 605 billion only.
On the month of February 2012, the price of Customs has increased to the leadership of Biazon at P22,433 billion that are far from Calamudi in P18, 583 billion worth it from the same month, while P10.76 billion pesos in Morales.
Even in the following months from March to September, the rating of Biazon can be compared to the past administrations of Customs because the increase of collection from the agency is clearly seen.
Yanares who worked for the BOC from July 11, 2010 up to SSeptember 18, 2011, while Morales is from January 2, 2006 until July 10, 2010, and based on the data that we gathered, the last month of those coming from the Customs' skills and skill at Customs.
It is said that Biazon has a unique determination and it really is a sudden increase in the tax of Customs which is a big help in the government as funds for various services in the public programs.
Your servant has been mentioned several times that President Aquino really did not make a mistake to Biazon as well as the height of martial law in the agency once it has been taken out of controversies.
Admirable is this, Commissioner, and is anticipated for the next operation of Customs who will stop the deler who will meet and lead the illegal activities that will arrive in the country.
If Biazon will not sit now in Customs, will this be achieved by the success he is experiencing now?
Of course, it is not surprising because there is really a different kind of principle and determination on the leaders of this agency.
