It has reached more than 10,000 bastards who are fighting against the BHB) for a few years in front of the failure of Aquino to face the root of hornets.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 12, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) stated that for the first time.
In this history, the number of fake passports is the leadership of the New Year.
Armed groups with high-caliber weapon will reach.
A level of 10,000 in the next few years in the middle of the direct failure.
It's the Aquino administration to face the national and under democratic governance.
The filipino masses, which is the root of the insults, brimming.

The KP has released the statement as reaction to the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces.
Of the Philippines (AFP) to the public, he failed to be removed from the public.
It is the strength of the BHB) however, the AFP allowed the failure.
It is said that the number of group of BHB) "more than 4,000" from 4,383.
It will start a start of the launch of the AFP to the campaign to Oplan Tokhang.
January 1, 2011.

"What is clear, the AFP will not allow the truth to be more than more.
For a few years, it will continue to strengthen the Botchok, "said the KP."
The revolutionary movement of the armed struggle in the whole country is insufficient.
The things that we showed through will be stolen and big.
The distribution of intense offensive launched by the Bagong Hala Bayan (BHB).
Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao.

"To make it look like it will make it look good, the AFP repeatedly take advantage of it.
It is set to reach the peak of its strength that happened last 1986.
However, it came out of 6,000 pesos and I can advise it to be less than 4,000 pesos.
Marcos regime, "said the KP.

"There is no basis for what is said by the AFP, the truth is, the peak.
It is the strength of the BHB) to reach an estimated 6,100 million MT.
Strong weapons in 1986.
The number of BHB until in 1992 is slowly getting down.
The PKP has launched the second movement of drubbing.
It has reached the level of its strength that is equivalent on the early morning.
It was a part of 1980 when it was thrown to a lot. "

"In some other years, it is not known!
In 1986, this is in the path of reaching the level of 10,000 people.
Next year, "PKP has insisted that it is rampant in building it.
There is 180 fields against the entire country when a company has a company.
It is a red yacht for each other, that the armed group is giving more attention.
It turned out that ten thousand armed forces are going to be responsible and members of the committee.
Defending them for their own barrios. "

"It is continued to investigate to the people the Botchok (HB) in the whole country.
It is the responsibility of the everywhere and being noticed that they are destroying the brink once again.
The widespread movement of reforms on the land is being pushed through the land.
And steps and level of levels are composed of infrastructure.
The government budget process, "added the PKP," there was even a sample.
It's small and weak unit of Botchok, however, he is being supported by other people.
It is the unit of Bibot Domingo who is more strong and harder. "

It can be recalled that the AFP Spokesperson of the Oplan Galugad conducted by the AFP from the 201,900.
It is said that the mother and it is said to have been the strength of the BHB) for more than half.
The middle of 2013 or in these times is the plan of the AFP to the next time.
It is time to transfer their duties to the insurgency and immune system.
Philippine National Police and the AFP are going to celebrate the latest survey.
That's a threat. "

"What is clear, the Oplan Tokhang was scheduled to fail.
Aquino said, "said the KP," the AFP did not fail to beat up the number.
It is the Botchok of the shouting that the level of shouting, it was also successful.
It will bleed the armed and unemotional fighting against the people.
This is by the brutal and distress.
The AFP is considered by the AFP who are operations in peace.
Progress is. "

"The Oplan Galugad of the Marcos regime would also be like what happened.
Oplan LS cannot be denied and Oplan Bantay, "and II of the Marcos regime,
Oplan Galugad conducted by Estrada and the first to four stages of the Oplan Tokhang.
BITAG reminds the regime of Aquino and Ramos from 1986.
Until 1998, the PKP has said, "all the OPLAN should have been cut off.
Because they do not have anything but plans to suppress them.
Filipino people, and stop them from your grades.
Struggle and armed fight. "

"The response and needs of the launch of the SEA Games.
An armed fight is becoming very clear to the Filipino people.
The Aquino administration wants to take the peace talks.
And there is a need to push for the policies of the federal law enforcers.
Interest of big foreign companies in mining and the plantation.
Different kinds of capitalists have and the big Lord of the Lord.
There are big business allies of Aquino for being thrown away.
Filipino people. "

Aquino and his rival military are the ones who will win.
The people fought against the force and military.
Campaign of the armed forces, "said the KP," Aquino is very wrong.
The AFP is about to think about this because of the worsening financial and military.
From the US, this is no longer running away from the armed and under democratic governance.
Fight the people through pure violence. "

"After three years in power and all of politicians.
Improvement of this, the Aquino administration failed to recover his trust.
Citizens of the rotten society and politicians who are rotten system.
Become understanding and opportunists.
