
Province of Batangas, we were able to be one of the 3rd division of NSETC.

October 1, 2016.

In the city of Batangas, October 6 (Pia) - the Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (PDRRMC) made the third Los Baños (NSED) in the Provincial capitol compound recently.

In the case that was done wherein the Metro Manila experienced 7.2 magnitude earthquake, which is feared to be "the" big typhoon "and also experienced in the province of Batangas the holdup and after they went to their pet five (5) evacuation areas in the capitol.

The IncManagement Council was immediately made to give direction to the response to response and know the damage caused by the earthquake and even in the buildings of the provincial government.

This was formed by Joselito Castro (PDRRMO) as Incayao commander, Antonio de Sousa Kaunlaran Foundation; Joey Miranda, Lotion; Joey Miranda, Lorena Rodriguez and Dyesmari and Dyane Garcia-Lireo.

One of the reports, all bakers for each department, about the number of their employees and those who were hurt or injured.

According to Jenelito Castro, their primary objective in implementing said drill is to increase the number of people who have the right to increase the number of people with the right thing to happen, has an knowledge and someone will help the victims.

"We will not stop in the PDRRMC under training to have enough knowledge for the safety of all," added Castro.

Antonio Lacampuenga, who served as leader of Operations Team, should be careful and make sure that when the actual calamity happens, there will be no one who will act in order if these do not be careful.

In the message of Provincial Prime Minister Dimaunahan, he thanked all those who want to share to Sill because this is an effective way to prepare for the calamity like the earthquake and explosion of the volcano because even the modern technology cannot be compared to the storm.

"If we know what we are going to do, it will be given protection to any calamity to be given to any calamities and have the Zero.

In relation to this, our governor wants to sail at the preparation of the Disaster; thus we need to undergo the training that can be done, not only the things or things needed in the time of calamity, "according to Dimaunahan.

Meanwhile based on the observation of some agencies who shared that some of those who noticed were the following: They need to put a stronger siren in order to hear these from all the corners of the capitol, giving knowledge to the visitors of the capital to prevent them to avoid getting wet in the rain.

In total, the runners did not release the PDRMMC because he was able to conduct a proper order of the Inccommand System (BHala P. de Castro, Pia Gutierrez.
