
The collector of NCRPO and "epal."

The effect of the "recall election" is really a big effect on the Commission on Elections for the province of Bulacan.
According to our Avena, the former is very ill-tempered governor, while he suddenly ached.
And the former who did not ask for help from Alvarado, was suddenly helpful.
Ehek!
And who would really be nervous if it is about half a million voters of Bulacan who have signed the "recall."
This means, whoever will fight against Governor Alvarado in the "recall election" hanged himself on almost half a million voters that are being driven out of the current governor!
If you will decrease, make sure, if each of their tribe is 4 members of the family, it is said that the half million people from Bulacan who are taken to Alvarado, will immediately be taken to Alvarado!
So, if also add the number of the fifth is Silent majority?
Second, he will be the one, it is clear on the rays of the day that the governor will be held accountable and will be facing charges of corruption!
That's why when he suddenly became ill-tempered, he is so ill-tempered and suddenly asked for help from him!
King-mother, maybe GROs at that means that he has a habit to complete the people in Bulacan.
I am stupid that their patience is too long and they are just a gentleman who does not know even if the butting in your side is too long, then you are still riding a motorcycle.
While a few moments, we thought that we know how to read.
But, in the Bible, what will be his fate in a recall election is already written on the wall.
Maker is averted, it means, "he did not accept it but it is not enough!"
Hopefully the events now in Bulacan will serve as a lesson to politicians.
Entice the President.
That's why his mouth is shut and it is not moving to the management of PNP NCRPO despite the proliferation of illegal gambling in Metro Manila because their collector is complete in all district.
According to those who chose to pretend, I mean, the office of Director General Espina, that, she and Jojo Cruz are regular for the NPD, Noel de Castro (MPD), Benjamin Alves (EPD) and Miguel Cotto (SPD).
According to our APD, one Colonel Jimmy Macaraig was control of control and cowered in the office of General Allan we was hesitant!
Does General Valmoria, this is what's happening under her virginity?
Do you want to endure the details of General?
I will contact me and I will give you the "x-list" of Napoles!
