
I am Teacher Dog of DSWD?

From being social worker, wow, it seems that it seems like Social Welfare Secretary Dinky Soliman as a teacher? Why, Ma'am Pilar Dinky Soliman, are you tired or too much wealth that is why you feel that you are tired of your position?
"Your servant is just asking because in the past few days, he said," he said, "stop it!" He ordered his personnel to stop relief goods for the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
"It is said that the one who gave help is right because he wants to live in their own ways with each victim, what is that, Ate Dinya?
Okay, your goal is good, the Filipinos are right to learn from the ways and strategy to live in his desires, "we should not be homeless and take a blessing from other people.
It is sad to see that many of our countrymen continue to experience living in Metro Manila only and in the nearby towns and cities, it means that corruption is worse than the past administration?
Because President Benigno Aquino III said, "there is no poor if there is no corrupt!", there are more who are suffering now, so it means that there are also corrupt.
And to be a teacher Dinky Soliman, I said, I am tired of your principles and don't rely on your principles even if there is a need for a hard work to improve our lives.
But wait, wait, Ma'am Pilar Dinky Soliman that it is prohibited and stopped the giving of relief goods to our countrymen who are devastated by different calamities and calamity, and to whom our fellow countrymen will go to but the help given by the many countries?
There, there are several other television network in different stores in Metro Manila and neighboring areas where the donations are being sold!
It is obvious what was written on "donated by Tabag-INTECAYETANO!"
Are you dresses just in your warehouse and food from other countries?
Where are you a thrift shop that would be sold?
The bundle of donations from the victims of the storm was not a joke, that's why when you say that the one to give, the United Nations is mad at the United Nations.
You are a child of excessive acting, Ma'am Pilar Dinky Soliman, do you share all the donations from our fellow countrymen so you want to stop the people who give help, wow, because you do not act in a big queen of you.
