The reform in the BoC continues.

Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon will fully support the current administration wherein he chose to continue the reforms in the agency given to him by President Aquino instead of put his ambition for politics.
Together with this is the fear of the chler because for sure there will be no chance for them to fulfill the exchange of illegal activities in the country.
Because under the leadership of Biazon, some illegal trucks are caught to have been allowed to go to the country who are all kinds of huge amount and if we can go to local markets, it will surely cause a "good effect on the local officials of the country.
Also recorded this year is the higher collection of BOC every month in some parts of the country compared to colorums in the leadership of the past administration of Customs.
In relation to the Customs' relationship with our communication, it was opened by Commissioner recently for them to implement the facilities in the BoC wherein they themselves have a witness to the implementation of its campaign against drugs.
Aside from the reason to file charges, the agency has been strict with the amount of pork meat in the country to ensure the security of the bark that they supported by the imported products.
No matter who has the dedication given by Biazon in the agency he is headed by PNoy, he is supported by PNoy.
Biazon together with TESDA chief Joel Villanueva and Quezon representative Lorenzo "Tana" Tana "in giving way to make some who wants to serve as a senator under the leader of the Liberal Party.
This will only prove that Biazon and his two fellow members of the Liberal, to fulfill the same goal of helping them as a party - the implementation of "straight path."
They can also implement the "straight path," even if they are not in the Senate through proper governance, agency or district they are headed.
Now that Rustom Padilla is still in position, let us wait for some operations of Customs that will prove that there will no one to insult the agency in order to fight against the agriculture, illegal drugs, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, and whatever form of its form.
