"That is not what was felt in Egasia this film... that AiAi was being felt, thank you, thank you very much, thank you.
AiAi delas Alas did not fulfill his long dream to join the international film festival.
This happened in his movie Area (AAY-sangandila by Allen Dizon), which led to World Premiere Medical Center in Eve, International Film Festival in Alungani, Kazakhstan.
We have read on Facebook account of the line that Dennis Evangelista said that they can't stop crying after seeing the said film which is part of his post in her Instagram account, "Sevidal body of the House Committee of Eve, International Film Festival (Our Lady OPLAN).
"It is said that... that," Tell of the film, "the film, which is being observed by the PIT's, which is the cause of being a fan."
Which was when AiAi was late when he was late in World Premiere because he wanted to send Alamping.
From the airport, he went straight to the hospital, and that is when joining a international film festival that turns out that there was a lower part after seeing the movie.
You can clearly see what was given to him that even his ID was posted by AiAi delas Alas as the First-time she joined the international film festival.
Yesterday, AiAi was able to post in her Instagram account that she could not cry for praises that he received from the audience.
In the post of AiAi was in the IG account, "the heart has a heart disease and that is the feeling that you are about to hug and applauding the people you are not of, but because they are so busy, they are strict and proud of their embrace to you.
"There are others who are crying or are addicted while they are about to hug me what I am feeling.
"Thank you very much, thank you so I can't tell them how I can return what I feel for them."
The observation of those who have watched is almost the same with just a prostitute but this is the story of a mother, faith, relationship and love.
AiAi was even narrated in the IG, "there is even one director who approached me because her mother is addicted to me.
"After the film said, when she came home, she said that it was her mother, the one you love, especially your mother, after the film."
The said film fest season is almost over, and what I know is this day ends.
Hopefully it will be able to bring home an award in the area, especially the judicial system.
The Kapuso actress said, "Manalo or defeated, I said to God, I am the one to be considered as an ally, acting, acting.
"It is a great gratitude that I was able to send the international film fest season and I shared the comments given to me by the Lord.
"If he won and you will be fortunate that it is not only for me, this is for the entire Philippines because the Filipinos are proud of it.
Long live the Pelikulang Pilipino. "
