
Trust in the government.

If there is something destroyed in my beloved Philippines at present, one of those is the trust of the people in the government.
If the destruction of the credibility of the government in the eyes of the people will continue, no one can stop it in the end to conduct action that can be likened to the actions before it fell to the minds of more than two decades ago.
It is possible for the people to take action in the election or other form of improvement in EDSA.
That's why, the government should know how to be sensitive and straighten it the liquid or destroys or its path to take care of the people's desire for the real Daang Matuwid.
Symptoms of Manila.
There are many signs or symptoms of lack of trust from the people in the government.
It is possible that these will only be seen in some areas and others have vast or poor in the whole country.
Crisis in Zamboanga.
Included in those considered to be a few places are happening in Zamboanga City which is hot between the government and Moro National Liberation Front.
But the scope of this conflict should not be belittled because the provinces of Basilan and Sulu, which are allegedly from the provinces of Basilan and Sulu, where the MNLF forces are from the Zamboanga City Hall and attempted to go there as the symbol of the alleged Moro Independence Day from the republic.
One more thing, who will be sure that until there are just a few places in Mindanao?
There are also those who are members and supporters of MNLF who are in Metro Manila and many cities scattered in the whole country.
The trust of the MNLF in the action of the MNLF in the action of the government for the wide peace in Mindanao will be destroyed because of what he allegedly did to them and just choose what he wants to talk and have.
Pork barrel scam.
The pork barrel scam is good at first because the corruption of the government has been revealed again.
Especially when President Noynoy said that they will just separate the Priority Development Assistance Fund of the congressmen and senators.
But, it is the child of tofu, the action of the government is fast for the action of the government so in the end, it is only the name of the pork barrel or PDAF again.
And the faces of the citizens are very hard to taste when the PDAF again of Malacanang itself which was approved by the President.
The pork barrel of the congressmen and senators are only for 24 billion pesos, while the pork barrel of Malacanang is around 50 billion pesos.
10 percent are only for 10 percent.
Some of the residents in Malacanang are still looking down the removal of the congressmen and senators from 20 percent of 10 percent.
How will you stop the hairs stood on if it is still billions, around P2.4B from P24B of the members of the Congress, the removal of Kong and Senator?
The 10% of the 10% of the rise from P450B-113 million pork barrel of Malacanang is getting worse.
The seven canned goods, turned into a chuces after the removal of Nilda and Sen. while around P45B of P1500,000 pesos is those who are in the palace.
Verano was laid before, "Budget Secretary Butch Abad, Presidential Management Staff Chief Julia Abad and Congresswoman Henedina Abad?
It is perfect for a thief.
One of these is the mysterious disease of the people from Malacañang to Ma'am, Janet Lim-Napoles.
First, Ma'am, Janet, those from Malacanang were fetched by Malacañang from the Heritage Park and brought it to Malacanang to be full of caution and ports towards Camp Crame for the residents of Malacanang also without handcuffs.
Second, everyone likes the comfort of the prisoners is what Malacanang is following from having a helper and a good food while he became cruel to Mister Atong Corona and Aling Gloria.
All the hardship experienced by the two were experienced.
And even if the treatment of those in the government is not humane, the ordinary citizens who are being linked to the ordinary citizens are not humane.
"It is really different, that is why he is just being possessed by bird or a robber.
Who would not get this kind of trend?
Different souvenirs.
Aside from the revelations of the pork barrel scam, and the suspects here, the people will still release the lack of action of the government for various places that have been lacking for them.
It is not able to do anything in the robbery of the gigantic size of his cellphone and this is also what he says in the oil price hike which is said to be what is being said in oil price, oil price, and other places such as the tax-Added Tax Reform bill, other places like the tax of expanded Value Added Tax which is different from the tax of expanded maternity leave.
And now, it is better to increase the increase in the appearance of the discount in the train of LRT and MRT.
Change.
The people want the real change not only in the government but in their poverty-made and hunger.
If the government needs good changes, the people's trust will comeback here and we can say in the end, "Everitt body."
