Reporting, racketeering and racketeers.

The Land Transportation Office is said to be the day before yesterday that the driver's driver, Robert Baya, Caringal, will not leave.
Caraan, the motorists who hurt and allegedly rude to MMDA traffic enforcer and Junifer Edrada.
According to LTO, Caranza of his case did not show up in the hearing of his case regarding the involvement of his license.
And the LTO said that it is only one of the ability to have a license that will surely be taken back to any time by the government, the government.
But there are those who are the basis of the said implementation of the said privilege same as to what has been done by Carrie ena.
You will cheat on the authorities.
It's just surprising, Bro, that the authorities cannot look at their so many companions and staff where they do something wrong.
Let us give a sample, Bro, the authorities who are full of foolishness on the streets.
Among the 2,000 policemen who are charged, many of them are involved in those who have been involved in the place, have been hit, kidnap, kidnap and other crimes on the streets.
There is a license.
It is common that Dina will drive their vehicles or their private vehicles.
Because they were driving, they have a license.
Question: For those who have been meeting with them in the living room, are included in the punishment for the government to take advantage of their driver's drivers?
I have not heard any police officer who was kidnapped by license.
They will file a case against them, until they are using their license to make crimes like the arrest of vehicles that they use here.
You will get worse than you.
The people of LTO said, Caranza, Caringal, is severe.
Caranza of Carayes, she still hurt her.
Aside from this is the respect of Caringal as a member of the law, that is why the case that's like "tanim-bala" is still there, "just like Fabregas."
But is it not worse than what those who are involved in Binongan, at the butt, arrest and kidnap, and others?
Because criminals or criminals are using the power of the government on their wrongdoings.
Bring you yourself to you.
The cops, traffic enforcer, from LTO, from LTO, are from LTFRB and from DOTC, and other people from the government who are corrupt and abusive on the streets.
This is to be fair or equal the treatment of its personnel and the citizens.
If authorities do not do this, it's ugly to the eyes of the people.
It is not good to think that if there is a law or rules on the streets, they will offer their license for free while free and continue to get licenses.
Cases?
Let us advice that the government will study and study the charges filed.
Who among them are using vehicles that they can buy, for asking for money, for alms and others?
Who among them were those who were found involved in drugs who are being traveled to anywhere?
Who among them are the criminal cases and others that can be influenced by the crime that use vehicles?
From the MMDA, LTO and others.
Not only the cops are guilty on the streets.
There are also a lot of co-workers who are accusing.
There are a lot of complaints against traffic enforcers who are not only in Metro Manila but also in the municipal hall and provinces outside it.
Those criticizing the DOTC, LTO and LTFRB are also everywhere.
Included in the appearance of those who can buy a "lack of forgiveness, even in a very small thing that is just needed by" Atong "like what is done in the central Office of LTO, if you're going to have a vehicle.
Every mental problem has a corresponding punishment, and it is being done because they want to earn the commission of a sign and end.
If you do not have a child, you will bring happiness and this is the usual experience of drivers in public vehicles.
In the security to be registered and just wipe the franchise, it is obvious how the LTFRB will extort.
They will also leave income.
In total, despite this point, the removal of the driver or the driver of the government should be done in all people and officials of the government that have crimes and abuse on the streets.
It will be doubly careful in the part of the government that is only by a civilian like Caranza.
And with all the hearing that will be conducted, the government's action should be a quick action for the case of Cayetano in the case of Cayetano.
For example the punishment to be rushed to Caringal, for him not to be like others, this should also be done to the people who sinned on the streets.
Only a few.
My only concern is, Bro, maybe only a few will remain in the people we have mentioned in the said office of the government if they have to receive a license for criminals and abusive towards them.
What do you think?
