According to him, the children can understand the lesson.
If this will continue in the middle of the language, and nine are going to be done under the Toto program Department of Education.
Most of the students in the Philippines have a hard time to prove to the international airport, which is why the Philippines has been able to capture all the Philippines in the eight eight countries when it comes to the country.
Let us only be four in a waste because we will be able to go to the office of the country.
Among those who are taking advantage of you are for high school, almost half of the one in grade Serena Ligas and a waste, that is why they need to sit on top.
The reason for one language in English, because I am asking for a signal from our students who are studying in the interview before they were able to ask why most of them are low, I do not understand why I did not understand why I did not understand why I did not understand.
It's only one year they tried to put happiness and March two days.
English is a lesson but a Filipino.
As a result, he wins in some bar in their school.
The teaching of Mother is how you do not have one language, one of those who send a text message to the program Department of Education and texting under his own language in English to school, but he can still be used by Filipinos.
It is more difficult to understand a concept if you use it and you also do not have a place where you understand you.
Bigger.
There was a Co who testified.
Yes.
He study for the councilor of supraventricular tachycardia.
You are still for a few days.
So, if you use it, the child should just use the language of the child.
Not right.
Other waste at work will not be used today, and what the child can really understand is what the child can understand and that is also using different sectors that are ashamed of and to be exiled around.
Ah, isn't it?
It is a good sign, sign, "isn't it where she is good to learn from being a doctor and a little bit.
Because the mind will be far if you do not think of how to pick a pig, right in other language, which is the key so that the program can succeed in spite of the length of the education of the child who is not interested in Popes.
And the family did not end.
We are not for David and four o'clock.
