They won't win.

Residents of Barangay San Agustin of Malabon City will win in Malabon City because they had a father, as a barangay chairman, this is the national shooting champion Nathaniel "Tac" Padilla who is truly dependable in serving them despite his popular status in society.
It is true that the barangay of Chairman Tausug was really wrong because they saw that this person is the real love and dedication of a local official in what he is anticipating.
Together with his nephew and current Barangay ex-or, Chongqing, "it is not far for him to be a leader of the barangay someday because it is also not far from the implementation of the law, we have been found out that in spite of it is a regular amount of conditioning the canals and other water pipes in San Agustin.
If before many are seen to stay and stubborn in San Agustin, wow, it is different now, because it has been tainted by Chairman Tac in cleaning the surroundings and patrolling, especially at night.
The uncle "Taisan is even more intensified with the campaign against illegal drugs, wherein the youth of San Agustin are now focused on different sports, and instead of giving them to bad vices and instead of giving them a good direction and have a good location.
Here is more, aside from passing away the dark, he even managed to fix the roads that are always flooded, which is why it's now be passed by "San Lazaro Street."
Here is more again, and t, it is certain that this is not in other barangay but in San Agustin, the burial of the poor countrymen of "Tausug and Chuang," right? Of course, will not be defeated by Chairman Tac if the discussion is in preparation for the calamity.
In what we are looking for is the almost regular training of many Volunteers Organization with barangay officials so that their Disaster Risk Reduction, "right?
If you think about it, it is Chairman Taisan, a national number, and if he would want to reach a higher position in the government, he can reach it and think that he even prioritize his own barangay.
An Bedana said that it was just recently that he was given as Chairman Taisan in the Sports Complex of San Beda's Day, aside from course with the numerous gold medal that he got from the many shooting, which is why he has no doubt in giving dignity to our country.
Long live, Chairman Tac, hoping that your race will increase! Good of your race!
