
Binay is the difference in 2016?

President Noynoy Aquino clarified that he will not be part of the next leaders of the president as well as the Nacionalista Party and former Senator Manny Villar, that he will not run for President in 2016.
For Vice President Jejomar Binay, it seems that the presidential battle is going to be free.
He is the only one declared by the candidacy for now and the survey is going to be leading the surveys against potential to become president.
In PNoy's decision, it should wake up to the truth that some addicted members of the Liberal Party should wake up to the truth that the Constitution is going to go against the Constitution or amend the politicians provisions to run again in a new term.
Now that PNoy is gone in the election, the LP is no other chicken for the President but based on surveys, Roxas has no opponent against Binay.
Maybe fate cannot be avoided even if Senator Alan Peter Cayetano and others are still different to crush Binay.
They are doing everything they can to get evidences that will decrease Binay in the construction of the Makati City Hall but they are insisting that the project will be tainted by the representative of the Commission on Audit (COA) in the city.
Cayetano might cry repeatedly in the whole world with the investigation of the Senate that the anomalies in the said project of Makati and the issue will be lessened when they say that the public should know the truth because Binay wants to run for President.
And before we forget, the people whom they invited to attend the hearing of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee - Atty. Renato Bondal and Nicolas Leste and former Makati Vice Mayor Ernesto Mercado - are all enemies in politics by the Binay.
For the public, the action of Cayetano - the action of Cayetano - a "hearing aid, instead of hearing aid, which is just showing his true intention to remove the most strong opponent in the presidential battle, Cayetano said that he plans to run for President in 2016.
But it is difficult for Binay to be supported by most of our countrymen here and in other countries, including Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) who helped them as the most dangerous situation or the hardest time in their lives.
And it looks like Binay is not shaken with the investigation conducted by the Senate.
According to his new spokesperson, Cavite Governor Jonvic Remulla, the Vice President should be prepared for the next president's next president and is ready to win, win and lead.
