On board: 00 reports on the 25th anniversary of horny.

Joguised er V. V. V.
In June on June, classes will open for the students of UP High School, after the Board of Regulations (boR) started the implementation of the new academics at their meeting on the 19th of April.
New acklers will increase in UP High School.
The UP High School is not yet ready, in case the new calendar were implemented due to lack of facilities and consultation to students, according to the discussion of their students.
Let us first need to fix the consultation to make sure that the needs of the students will not be gone to waste, the Student Gener Neill, Mackay.
This international year 2014 to 2015, the new calendar were implemented in all the college parties of UP, which was allocated to school from June to March until May.
It was also reported that two students were dismayed because of the heat of the weather, so it is really needed to talk if it would be better to follow the new academics despite these kinds of cases, said Mackay.
Aside from this, some of the students also stated the point that the students of UP High School will lose a chance to look for another university in case the students of UP Diliman were not going to pass.
"Tabag-5.
New director of PGH, ordered.
Also discussed by boR is the cases involving UP Manila-Philippine General Hospital Director Jose Gonzales, along with the consecutive call of all the all UP Diliman, La Union (AU-M) to resign from the position.
Currently, the Anti-graft case is being implemented and violation of Republic Act (19 or anti-graft case against Gonzales.
Gonzales was also accused of a violation of Magat Carta of Public Health) after he implemented the UPM-PGH Health Organization (UPHAPI) in 2012 when the workers of PGH and the rights were given financial help to the hospital.
According to the policy of the insurance, it is needed to go directly to the Philippine Health Corporation (PhilHealth) to directly go to the Philippine Health Corporation (PhilHealth) to just lead the salary of employees for its insurance, according to AUpi-M.
Commission on Higher Chairman Patricia Licuan is the case of Gonzales in boR to talk about who can replace Gonzales.
Macolos and suggestion of doing the legislative chamber to have a discussion between the workers and Gonzales to make an agreement with the issues and formed the search committee to lead to the search of the new director.
