TV Patrol, April 20, 2012.

Non-mannered people.

The cause of all kinds of foolishness and racketeering.

In Barangay Kotong, here in the city of Balanga, both teachers with a big difference in their personality are Berlin, an instructor in a university in the town of Mariveles, and diligent in following his principles even if his food is at the same time.

Careful with things, livelihood, always prepared for whatever problems and needs, he is members of the people serving the community.

Meanwhile, Erry who is teaching in college here in Balanga, but what he wants to have fun, is that he doesn't care about others, and if he wants to have fun with others, and if he wants to have fun with others, and if he wants to have fun with others, and if he wants to have fun with others, and if he wants to have fun with others, and if the basis is far from the discipline and style in life.

One day, Berlin is going to stroll in the house of Erning down, which coincidentally was someone drinking basketball at this morning, who is Bernejo appealed to his friend, to be drunk on Sunday.

He shook his head with what he saw as Erjas, "Kamias, a good friend, it's good that you visited me when we sat on my side," together with the depth of one glass with Berlin.

"Never, I don't drink alcohol, you know that it will be hailed as Berlin, together in the glass.

Erning down and the owner got his head, "why do you not want to speak about it only now, if you do not want to drink alcohol, or 80 percent of this, it will only bring back to someone else,", "according to his own friend," he borrowed from his friend. "

"Because of envious people, it will not be accepted that this only has a direct effect and cannot be said to be a person," said Berlin.

"What you want to say is that, that I am not a person, because it is not a person who is far away, I am not being envious of it," I am not being envious of me, "I am an ally," the response of Berlin, "

Lawyer!

Many of us are spiritual activities and they are cowards.

They will see in the churches that they gather and seems praying to the big part of the dictator, Marcos, but they are the ones who always see each other every time there is a wedding, rather, most of those who are pretending to be the ones who are pretending to be victimized, especially during election.

They will identify them, but they are able to look at them and make sure that what they are doing and there to the politicians, most of them are spiritual acts.

Jesse Guda.

City of Balanga, Bataan.
