It was said that it was four of the eight people who were killed just because of the cellphone that the military is already known by the military and then revealed it.
To them, this is one Indonesian that is said to be experts in making Bon-chan and teaching so that he goes down here in Mindanao.
Maybe it is already known that four of November of us are going to go hungry at the middle of the plastic bag yesterday, including in spite of your group, who will go to the southern part of the ashes, which is one of those who are teaching the ashes.
Covetous, dearse, 'hh I am "Ks."
I am very pitiful; he / she is very fittest; so yes, yes.
Yes, these are pointing out by these kinds of ways.
He / she was full-tempered; he / she was distressed; Indonesia.
One would be the one to church Rosana's one who is the same with the same with P-PNoy and little by Mariz that if the shooting has happened, it is for the occasion of a face to share a lawyer.
It is almost three o'clock why it is probably a tree to be transferred to Philippines.
Someone new to wake up what happened to Jonas yes, but it is probably too late.
Department.
That is because I do not have birthcertificate of troops.
Ten people are going to talk to each other.
There is no.
In line, many Factor, many Factor, are now here in you.
So!
He / she wasn't able to speak; he / she was not stupid; he / she was not.
We were amazed.
But after four hours of Dagupan by the troops of the government and the Palace, on the other hand, named Boy, on the other hand, she was going to go to him who was said to be experts in making something like that.
Are you together with the military who also have a house from where they came from, but the former wife of the killed who was left behind by Cai h in P-B) pray for the authorities in the area, which is being used by the group, Aliaga, which is being used by the group that is being used by those who are using it.
Covetous, fur.
To be a problem.
Fuck, fog; and covetousness.
We are very noisy; I am referring to the Islamic Liberation Front or the Islamic Liberation Front.
On the side of the authorities, the guns will sit on the hands and things in making something like that, Biliran has lost his girlfriend, which is why you are up to the public.
Nothing.
It is needed to worry.
Because around what we are saying.
Because the groups here are afraid to cook outside, we are saying it's five of us.
It is possible that it is possible to put the alert in the investigation on the next week but it is not because of the threat of RA 9165 but because of the entry of holidays.
Because it may lead you.
He is often touched on the streets.
Really strong.
Four o'clock, "Francis Faulve, in my history.
To the station.
The arrival of the funeral parlor, a text message of a text message.
Or for a point, he / she was able to go out; the police immediately came from there.
That is when he goes to the Olympics when we bring it, for example for example, Supnad, contract.
That is why it is allegedly increasing.
It is not too a group going to the mountains and they are saying that it is really not true that the military will not allow it to defeat the mountain and that is how the theme of the mountain is known.
And they might be avoided by relatives.
Yes.
He will be pushed through after it might happen again and it might happen again.
We are in the talk of peace and survey as a survey, so we can understand if we understand.
They want to place in place in front; that's why they don't want to be afraid that this is the only personality that we have been saying, that they might not be afraid that they have to be afraid that he was late at a bigger international airport, which is why they don't want to be afraid that he was late at a bigger international airport, but they did not want to be afraid that he was late to each other in a bigger international airport, but they did not want them to be alive there in a bigger international airport, but they did not want to be afraid that he was alive there in a big International Airport, which is why they didn't want to be afraid that he was alive there in a big International Airport, which is why they didn't want them to be alive there in a big International Airport, which is why they didn't want them to be alive there in a big International Airport, which is why they didn't want to be afraid that he was alive there in a big International Airport, which is why they didn't want to be afraid that he was late, Jason, "said that they were together with them.
Hmmmp!
What they are saying is that, "I really want to talk about it, but when we have not directly received any condo that comes there in the International but it is a stroke that we still buy the amount that is far from us while it is far from us when it comes to the Intelligence Coordinating Agency in us.
So they will know if there is something.
A condo that can be brought to an organization yes to one person.
From other countries, they say that it is a God that we are talking to.
That's why it's really not right that you're going to be in a hurry to prove to what they are saying is corny, two twenty-old viand, but the military, who are behind them, are those who are behind them and I have women who are behind them and I have women who are behind them and I have bruises.
There are also students where it is raining here.
Cotabato City - a few are very far from it, it is very far from the seven hours since it was discovered, but they were already used by them.
It is allegedly the group's group, who are the ones saying, "they are saying," as if they are using the studies-in-B) what they are using.
Just call them and according to those who are talking to them to have the training that they are going to do, they still do not understand that we are going to go home to other parts of the head, they do not understand that they are going to live-in different parts of the head, they do not know that we are going to live-in different parts of the body, that's why they do not know that we are going to go home to the side of the children, who are the ones who are working in a different parts of the body, are they do not know that they are the ones who are working in a different parts of the head.
Thank you very much; we were able to go ahead and that's because I mentioned it.
They were able to point out; he said, there were reports that this Indonesian was said to have been dead.
Blood in the association.
The father-in-law, who could have been declared to have been declared to have been declared to have been declared by the bystanders, who might have been killed, not deceived or that, it is possible that the price of this day in Zamboanga City has been said, that the price of this day in Zamboanga City has been said, that the price of this day in Zamboanga City has been said, that the price of this day in Zamboanga City has been said to have been killed.
It is said that they are able to get out and get out of those years old documents that were said to have been imprisoned, no matter what kind of evidence, which is why they were able to go back to the mountains, which is why they were able to go back to the mountains and nearby places.
Yes, United States, on the other hand, there are those who are opposing with this and this is what is happening that is why there is something that can be thrown at that, in the area of Intelligence Coordinating Council, they are able to make it with a large group 'huge group because of the volume of things that they can teach.
Last Saturday, he / she was able to wake up; upon his other experiences to wake up to the association, she was not able to show up to the fraternity but she was not able to show that she was really with me, that's why they did not have something to do with that, at the D: M / she was really there.
So thank you very much.
