In jail in "Courage 2," repression to critics of the state.

The relatives of Randy Vegas and Raul Camba insisted, together with the members of the different groups, the release of the two, who was kidnapped in Manila last December 3, 2012 and accused the rebels.
So-called "Courage 2," Mamondiong, the government employees, particularly the workers of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).
Last December 3, 2013, they were going to the MMDA to help the employees of the said agency who are planning to launch the bark in EDSA when they were abducted in different places by the military who were wearing a civilian.

They talked for two days for two days, until he called the employees of the Bureau of Jail Management and Penterm in Labo, Camarines Norte, Teresa Sevidal, the wife of Randy said that his wife was imprisoned, along with Raul, in their prison.
The two are accusing the contestants in the fight of the New People's Army or NPA in the military in Labo last April 29, 2012.
The two strongly denied this, they are very clear that they are in the ranks of employees of the government, it is clear that they are in Manila, they are busy in preparation for the actions of the employees for the international Independence Day on May 1.
Teresa suspected, the abduction and distress of the Aquino administration's campaign against the critics of the government might also be involved in this, the chief of MMDA, Francis Tolentino.
The relatives of Randy and Raul complained about their case at the Commission on Human Rights or CHR recently.
Ferdinand Galite, the president of the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of government that does not implement the military and the Aquino administration, it is clear that the military and the Aquino administration violated the rights.
"They were kidnapped by the military who were wearing a civilian, fried to each other, brought to Camp Bagong Diwa (Taguig) for interrogation and was convicted by a few personal belongings of Randy, such as your wallet, money, ID, and backpack.
Identified by Sammy Malahes, spokesperson of the Pagkakaisa ng Mangguray, citizens or KMM), the one who arrested them had violated their rights to be told by those who arrested them, said Malhes.
The other groups also appealed to the release of two groups like the College was Edominic Estilles of the Philippines (CEGP) and Liberal Party-list.
"We are calling for the immediate garbage of their case and we are calling on CHR Chairperson Einstein said to not play blind at the increasing number of human rights and investigate their case," Marc Lino Abila, second general secretary of CEGP.
The case of the two to Rosales should serve as a wake up call as a puppy of the Aquino administration for defending violence of the state, Terry Ridon, who was first elected by the Sangguniang Party-list.
