
Get to know the true enemy of the people.

The national Katipunan ng Magbufarm is open to the Middle East.
To soldiers of the AFP.

March 12, 2014.

The Oplan Galugad failed!

In the continuous increase of the system happening in our society and the true purpose of the Marcos US-Aquino, the real purpose and traits of the Oplan Galugad conducted, sovereignty and freedom of our country, sovereignty and freedom of the filipino masses, they are going to be fired by these words.
The management of the AFP and his co-workers and business partners in the appearance of the AFP and other kinds of corruption in the appearance of the filipino masses in the appearance of the filipino masses in the appearance of the country and his family were put in power by the farmers in his ranch.

According to him, if you can call the continuing controlling of the foreign contacts in our economists, it can be said that Noynoy Aquino and those who responded in the Congress are free to get out from our territory by the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA)?

It is rooted in the AFP and in its history as an instrument of violence for defending the Philippine Military Academy, which is the source of all the Philippine Military Academy, which is the source of all of its officials, which is why the Filipino people can ask for the interest of the people.

The true enemy of the country and threats to the people is the real root of the country's government officials and institutions that are the real root of real democracy and sovereignty, the lack of real democracy and sovereignty that will cause a short and justifiable peace.

But this very problem is the responsibility of the Marcos regime, together with his accomplices in the roof, that is why it will not be solved when the Marcos regime goes down, for the suspension of the Saligang Batas and economists.

Instead of defending the soldier of the AFP, sovereignty and freedom, interest of the Lord of the Lord with land and big players of the Philippine government and even them are victims of rotten system and they are suffering while they are suffering from a small salary and lack of benefits.

They should take advantage of the gun not for the people but to the suffering here, the New People's Army, in the form of giving information, the New People's Army, in the form of giving information to those who are patriotic and join every soldier of AFP and join the NPA.
