Your mother and Piolo should talk, nothing new!
Keathers, those who are annoying in LA, By Alwin, November 13, 2016.
A question from Diva, thank you for a love, "what can you say from the delusion of Piolo Pascual in the video of your mother and Shaina.
What are the video?
I have no care in the video that the protagonist is Papa P and Tabayao, what is new when they are dancing and according to them?
The video of Pascual had Chance with Chance that I will fight back, if his close friend Yul Servando, Mark Bautista or Maryo, will be a disturbance.
Asked from Diva, thank you for a love, "what can you say in the video that it is obvious that Maine Mendoza also got fond of Piolo Pascual?"
Who is asking this?
Could this be Iris Pascual, because Papa PNoy is all of the content, there is nothing wrong if Maine is moving to Pascual, Guda.
"It's just like him" my friend, who when we saw Yul Servando, the one who will cry, "Papa PNoy!"
That is how Piolo should be with another man who is in front of him, he is still the one being held at Diva, thank you, Maine Mendoza and Alden Richards are really married? "
I do not know if I cannot handle them.
They look into a face.
But if he / she's girlfriend, she is the only one you ask.
"I do not know you are married," the wedding at Eat Bulaga, isn't it?
Keathers, those who are unfortunate in LA!
"A question from Diva, thank you," Angel Locsin, "the discussion of KeemRebalde in her post?"
Well, why are you asking me?
You can directly go straight to Miss Requiestas.
And if it is true that Locsin was true, what is the foolishness of that?
Kylie, denied the heart of Aljur!
Question from Diva, thank you a love, "why did Aljur Abrenica and Kylie Padilla have reconciled?"
He / she was able to catch each other for a long time.
Something wrong.
Challenge and talks.
Question from Diva, thank you a love, "is it true that someone will fly again?"
If you were able to fly again, you are the only ones who will be held up by anyway, in Encantadia, you will be imprisoned, right?
