
Binay and political dynasties.

These past few days, the issue of political dynasty are because of the noise of some groups against it.
And because Vice President Jejomar Binay's clan gets broken on the said character of this system, he often becomes a center of criticism and criticisms.
In an interview recently, Binay said that he is against the political dynasty, they are just qualified and have the ability to lead the people who were elected by the people.
Binay insisted that the true spirit of democracy is to follow the will of the people and what they only want is to be followed.
For those not yet known Binay is former activists to fight the Marcos regime during the time of Martial Law.
When Marcos got out of power in 1986 because of the People Power Revolution was appointed, Binay was appointed by former President Corazon Aquino as officer in charge of Makati.
And since that time, Binay and his family had not made the proper time for the most rich city in the country, after he elected three times his wife, Doctor Elenita, was replaced with him.
After one term, Doctor Elenita went down to replace him again until he finished the three consecutive terms last 2010.
In that moment, he ran as VP and won but he made sure his son Junjun will replace him from his position.
Aside from that, his son Abigail Valte won as a congressman while he is going to run as a senator under his party of United Nationalist Alliance (UNA) and his other son Nancy.
In the cness of the Binay, even political dynasty are they being considered clean and no trace of cheating is the victory of their clan in the election.
Aside from this, the residents of Makati also liked the leadership of their family, as well as their beautiful programs.
But for the group of Ricardo Penguin, they lead, or of the Krus-Remontadoses, they will not accept the position of Binay on the issue of political dynasty.
Penson said that the view of Binay is alarming aside from the clear prohibition of the 1987 Constitution in the 1987 Constitution in the 1987 Constitution.
In front of the arguments and against arguments about the issue, I believe that it is really time to cut the prevalence of political dynasty.
Their dynasty are the ones controlling the livelihood and the future of the citizens and the primary reasons why we are not progress in a country.
The new generation of leaders should be given a chance to lead even from well-known elements who will inherit.
