
Binay is pushing for the case to get the support of the US at the 2016PPHP.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
July 30, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (Binay) for defending the US team for 2016 - CPP-NPA.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) supports Jejomar Binay, vice president of the republic of the Philippines, to serve as the interest of foreign countries in the Constitution which aims to serve the interest of the provisions of the economy and the majority of control of local business.

According to the KP, "the endorsement of Binay for a charter change (so before the constitution) or tomorrow it is clear that a attempt to get the support of a specialist US for his candidacy in 2016 as the next chief of the Philippines' state of the Philippines."

The PKP stressed that the Philippines is pushing the Philippines for a long time to amend the Saligang Batas of the 1987 Constitution so that this will serve as a "-free trade of US in the Philippines, Harry Roque stated the change of constitution to remove the prohibition of the foreign ownership of the land and business in the Philippines.

The KP has opposed the decision of Binay that the construction of the ban and regulations on the constitution of the 1987 fight against the foreign ownership of the land and business in the Philippines is a huge amount that started the economic growth. "

"In the past three decades, it is implemented that the consecutive government agencies in the Philippines can be given a bigger chance and will be able to take a bigger chance and will be protected from the destruction of the local economists, according to the destruction of the local economists," said the KP.

"Binay was deceived by the Filipino people when he said that it will cause the improvement of economists like a charter change (SC) for the Filipino people."

"What did the three decades of rules in the filipino people do, but the widespread lack of work, the lack of income for the Filipinos, the lack of local opportunity for their land, the spread of disease and an epidemic and general ability to have a standard of life," said the KP.

"It is said by the constitution of 1987 Constitution by the 1987 Constitution which will speed up, not the economic growth of the Philippines, of the destruction of the local government and improvement of wealth in the hands of some foreign businessmen and local colleagues in business," said the KP.

"The PKP has appealed to the Filipino people in full fight against the Aquino administration for a charter change and fight against President Benigno Aquino's declaration of the US President."

"In the approval of the torated case, the Filipino people are insisting that the country's constitution should not be the reason of the country's Constitution, but also in the field of economists, rules, culture and beauty," said the KP.
