
The chairman of the National Police (NDFP) was the message of the National Bureau of NDFP members who was held at the 25th anniversary of the NDFP).

Mariano Oro.
NDFP National Council.
April 24, 2013.

Disbursement Acceleration Program (deputy chief of the Chairperson of the NDFP National Council, Commercial Center of the United Kingdom, which was ordered by the Duterte administration.

In the name of the National Transformation Council, the best greeting to the management and group of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) on the 25th anniversary of our countrymen and other foreign friends and supporters in overseas.

We are proud of the NDFP National Council's important information done by the Spanish organization of NDFP members, we recognize the big sacrifice of the Black Nazarene, by the owners of the power of politics, and the members of their lives in our country and a martyr.

From the start of the start of 1973, in facing the brutal attack of the former President Ferdinand Marcos, we are slowly getting stronger and built by the anomalous organization of the Philippines (PKP), that it is slowly being strengthened and built by the Spanish organization of the Philippines (PKP), that the Spanish-governmental organization of the Philippines (PKP) was defeated by the Spanish organization of NDFP).

Members of the power of politics at 70 percent, were released and more than 800 towns.

Based on the basis of the masses, the masses, implementation of programs of true reform in the land, health, education and culture and launch of the armed fight, we are successful in the power of politics at the 70 of 81 provinces.

The program is the key for the true reform in the land of the revolutionary movement and wide support of the farmers, this is the primary content of the democratic country, causing the constitution and goal of the majority of the Philippines, the type of farmers.

Just like what we know, 'remains of reform in the land is composed of removing the rent on earth, put off the salary of the Filipino farm, aside from other parts where it is widespread in more than 100 areas where these are widespread in the entire country and has been able to give benefits to some million farmers.

The strongest program in the soil and the free distribution of land are implemented in some places where they can be implemented in some places where they can be implemented in some areas where the local school built by the youth and the children are benefiting.

The programs in the health of the health of the children are being made into the use of the illegal drugs, mango tree and western countries, who are diligent to support the revolutionary movement.

The programs of the culture launched the history of Antartica in the history of the citizens who supported the revolutionary movement of the national filipino language and language in different region.

These programs are dependent on the needs of the citizens, the basis of acknowledging, participation and support of the people in the whole country while they are fighting against the Oplan Galugad conducted by the US, and supporting the strong basis of the building and filing a democratic governance.

The government budget allocated.

They are able to support the authorities under a democratic government fund which is composed of the power of the Filipino people who are fighting for the national freedom of the Philippines (PKP) as the leaders of the filipino people who are fighting for the national freedom and democracy.

In the field of national, we have important information in 1980 when it was known by the Permanent People's Tribunal (PCCO) who deserves to lead the national fight against the Marcos dictatorship which is right to lead and have responsibility for the many serious crimes on the people.

We make our relationship with some of the leaders and leaders who are ruling, that in many times, gave an intensive care and support, even if the movement is kept in the straight movement.

In 1991, to protect our compliance of the international law, it is stated in the international law that was stated in the Commission on Higher Education, and for the international law, he can advise the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (Geneva who can advise the suspension of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (Geneva who can advise the suspension of the Enhanced Defense Sec.

There are some European Union as long as 1997 and 1999 to recognize Duterte who endorse and endorsing the peace talks about the government budget of the republic of the Philippines (GRP).

The peace talks with the GRP) today by GEGA) is being supported by the Philippine National Bureau (1995), supported by the government agency (1996) and the Royal Canadian national (1996) and the Royal Canadian government) from 2001 until now).

Last 2012, the International Criminal Court (ILIOS), which is composed of more than a dozen of foreign lawyers from Belgium, in the United Kingdom, USA, The Netherlands, Philippine National Police), was declared by our National Police Office for the Witness Protection Program of the Witness Protection Program of the Witness Protection Program of the Witness Protection Program (LNMB).

The Sultanate people are hoping to force the Legislative Chamber to force the high Disbursement Acceleration Program in the ranks of the SEA Games that we should strengthen while we can advise on the national cooperation with those who are opposing benefits.

While we are doing different kinds of duty to achieve our goal in order to achieve our goal in reaching the next few years, we should continue to fix the national movement and support of more foreign friends, we should continue to fix the international movement and movement of the international law, the anti-Tropas.

Long live the Filipino people!
Long live the National Democratic Front of the Philippines!
