There is no OFW, useless in the storm.

How will about 13 Overseas Filipino Workers in Libya come out and more than 100 are more than 100 in Gurria, this form of horseshoe, which is why it's already a Ipit Gang that they are going to earn.
It can be recalled that the Department of Foreign Affairs has been released on alert level 4 or forcibly evacuation from the OFWs in the said areas the day before yesterday.
This is in front of the severe war and war there and in order to be saved from death and other danger of OFWs.
But like before, it was late when they were late to waste.
Because he was late for the government's action, he should be responsible for any situation of OFWs.
Not like before.
Just like before, in the war in Lebanon, example, and Libya also, the government is currently implementing their homes and trip on the streets towards safe places.
The child of tofu, what is the meaning of the government is saying that he will answer all the expenses if they are on the brink of death, the OFWs are hungry and suffering?
And if the OFW are not able to travel anymore?
A problem now is the very dangerous travel in land, sea and sky for vehicles that can be used by OFWs.
There are still a lot of bomb in the bus, and other people who are involved in the war and this is the reason why it is very difficult to implement the broken evacuation.
As a clarification.
In Gleyo, this is where it is raining by bullets of a gun and they are throwing and bomb that they do not choose any of the murder of the opposing forces of the Israelites and thank you.
Both sides have not recognized both sides, especially the Israel who is pointing out to crush everything in the territory that the latter is claiming.
In Libya, each of their tribe, clan or organization have their own territory or organization to have their own territory or it is so that they will control the national government that is left behind by the murdered Chinese leader, Mohammad Gumba.
Where is the government?
But the war or conflict are already there.
Where are the actual government, using vehicles and money from the said evacuation?
It appears that many of the government are in far places who are just waiting for the arrival of the OFWs.
In other words, the truth will come out, "it is up to your life."
This policy should rule the Philippines in the middle of the calamity.
It is the son of ten people, this is the current government's mark.
And this is taking a curse and contrary to the Tuwid na Daan ".
100 are dead!
It is not enough for 100 people to arrive from typhoon Glenda.
It's a good thing that this government could not stop the truth on this issue because they have tons of pesos in these areas who are ready to report to the whole truth.
It can be recalled that the government wants to hide the whole truth in death when typhoon Yolanda hit the Visayas Region last year.
Just like before, the government failed to hold the policies of the Zero.
Although we cannot blame the government in the incident because no one can stop the indignation of nature, the fact that the government has a big responsibility for the death of the citizens of typhoon Glenda.
Almost all sorts and poor people have died and one of the high officials were the victims.
The government has a big negligence or sins to the corrupt and poor people.
Why?
This is the question that should be given attention by the government?
Why is it that the citizens, who are the only ones with the poor, are being electrocuted, drowning, drowning, getting buried in mud to landslide and other every time there is a typhoon?
Why is one of the high officials of Malacanang, congressman, senator, governor and mayor of those who have died every time there is a typhoon?
These are ordinary questions but there is a big meaning in the time of accident.
What are the shortcomings of the government to give protection to the corrupt and poor people in the hours of calamity?
Tax of the people.
The said questions are just going to have a good answer if these are related to where the government is carrying the tax of the citizens.
Until now, the armed forces and poor people are going to burn down and have no own house, and even the low pressure areas being sold at them and this is where they die.
They also do not have a good job so they are walking in the middle of typhoon and flood just to prevent food and other needs in life.
This is the opposite of the situation of corrupt and plunderer, instead of using the tax on change in the lives of the citizens, they are claiming and are just being treated.
