
When the US went to the Tubbataha Reefree and the damage of nature, the Vehicles (PKP has been included.

Bureau on the information.
The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
January 18, 2013.
(Transplant-up.
The US - Cefree is just a US (Cefree.
The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is the military of the US.
When it comes to the Tubbataha Reefree and Natural Transit in Sulu Sea, it will be finished in Sulu Sea.
There is a reason for the destruction of boils in the sea after they would eventually be crushed or the ship.
The warship of the Emergency Shelter Assistance Fund (which is part of the storage.
The house of plants and animals).

In the report yesterday, the USS Guardian will go to a ship for exercise.
US, around 2: 30.
A UNESCO world 1993 as an World Heritage Site, blocked by them.
American soldiers failed to get closer to the fist to come closer.
It crashed to the boat to enter without permission.

"It is too arrogant of the military and the US for the entry of the USS Guardian.
In a part of the place, it was good that no one was able to push through. "
The PKP has said that they are taking a tour in their territory.
It is the Philippines who does not care in the sovereignty of the Filipina.
This is because of the combined support of the American Benigno Aquino III.
There is an extensive military from the US as pork barrel.
He supported him.

The failure of the government agencies to make a stand against them is shown.
The US continues to go out in the territory of the Philippines.
According to him, it is blind to those who are in the US, "said the KP."
This was the hypocrite of Aquino for the shy game against China.
His protest will be held by China in the territory in Southern Luzon.
China Sea is already inside 200 million pesos as well as the name of the woman owned by the Philippines.
But he was so happy to see what to park in the park.
The US forces to investigate the ocean of the Philippines and anchor.
"They are anywhere and when they are getting married," said the KP.

"There is only a small part where the destruction of flood here is a small part.
Don't refuse the Tubbataha compared to the bigger cause of it.
A permanent presence of the troops of the US, ships, drones and others.
"They went to the Philippines," said the KP, "the bigger picture was.
It will be happy to be happy in the Philippines with a Catholic Church in order to use.
Philippines with a ehek of power of the US.
Asia-Pacific to achieve real military and economists.
Region.

"The toll fee is included in the guts.
The Visiting Forces continues to dismiss the Visiting Forces Agreement.
(VFA), "said the KP," they insisted on ending it.
The presence of the US government, is the narrowing of the advisers of the US for the local government.
The armed arguments, in the participation of the American soldiers.
Local operations were implemented, in continuing to enter and over again.
The US warship of the US and the floating objects in Intramuros.
And the yellow ones of the military and the US are asking for the rent of the Philippines. "
