Talks frankly: Study the decision of the United States before going crazy.
By Ellen on Oct. 24, 2016), it should not be talkative while waiting for the decision of the United Nations Arbring to Tribunal about the case filed by the Philippines against China about the conflict in South China Sea.
That is what Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay, Junior, who now explained what he said in Agmailig, France Pressure that the Philippines and China will have a joint development in the Philippines and China in the fighting of the parts of South China Sea.
There is no difference with his explanation and what he said earlier stated that this is the explanation of Yasay: "As the ruling of the disputed territory of the Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal, which can be said to be the owner of the disputed area of Scarborough Shoal or Scarborough Shoal which can be said that it is illegal to cover the big part of the ocean of the Philippines.
We have also asked who to say who has the right in the ocean near the ocean of rocks or island that are being fought over by Spratings near Palawan, seven of them are occupied by China.
Yasay said that whatever the decision of the United Nationalist Alliance (but it is said that the chance to favor the Philippines is high) the Duterte administration is ready to enter the joint development of the disputed island.
It's because the issue of South China Sea is complicated, therefore, Yasay never thought that there are many obstacles in the joint development in China.
First of our Constitution, the government of the Philippines is saying that the government of the Philippines may have control of "explored, development, and to be a joint forces but to the companies that the 60 percent is owned by the Philippines.
How can there be a joint development in the government of China?
There is a joint development in together with other countries but under their administration.

If this is done by the Duterte administration, it will be held by the 1987 Constitution, Justice Antonio T. Carpio regarding one of his lecture, "Any President WHO), the Saligang Batas of the Saligang Batas to the Saligang Batas of the Constitution, which led the Commission on Human Rights."
In 2004, the administration of Gloria Arroyo entered an agreement in China and Vietnam to find out what is really under the ocean of South China Sea, they called the agreement that Jovinal Baja, "that was against the Constitution which was against the Constitution.
Bayan Muna thanked the Supreme Court last 2008 when the Supreme Court did not release the decision and they do not want to talk about it because the Philippines might affect the case of the Philippines.
Because China can use it as the former admitted by the Philippines that they have rights (China) in the places which are the reason why there is an iguana, to know what is happening under the ocean, just to know what is happening under the ocean, start the joint development.
That is not what happened, because there are a lot of complications in law and politics, that's why the officials should study thoroughly the issue of South China Sea.
Especially the effect of the decision that will be released tomorrow.
