
Four starlet is involved in Paolo BPAT.

Postanes and his mind.
On August 1, 2014.
In showbiz.

Cesar Pareja.

RTEL TV host Paolo Bira will be able to show her Instagram account for the issue that will be thankful for the family, friends, and supporters of the TV host.
Paolo has made her Instagram and Twitter account last Monday night before reaching his late-year-old person in TV 5 which is based on TV 5.
Included in the pictures of the clothes she will come from, "Getton for" Aksyon Ngayon "
Prior to this, the sister Network, which they have complete support for news, has already been released.
Paolo was also destroying his / her own video as she posted said sex video, which said the TV host was asked when she was still in GMA-7.
Yes, 6 or 7 years old, the video that is considered as an issue is spread and because it is true that Paolo does not want it to be in the video, there is fourth, no suspect but him.
The Girl is a member of a Girl group that became part of the TV host of the TV host, he himself asked Paolo to take his sex video as it came out of the cellphone that they spread because it was considered that the TV host is being considered to be considered.
The sex video lasted for seven minutes, with Paolo with what we are saying.
On Monday, the name of FHM Model Shop has first came out as a woman of Paolo because of her sex video on the tweets of Tricia, Mo, Teng.
On the interview of China to Mena, to deny the speculation of the netizens, that he is the woman with Paolo.
The model whom he knows is the TV host of fact, he admitted that Paolo has been friends with Paolo.
But the pictures that they are taking together is already known in Facebook account of China.
The 22-year-old China insists in some of his classmates in FB, he is not the antagonist in the video, even if there is a big similarity between them and there are some with a mole on the chest and arm, they both have the same position in the chest and arm.
Of course, there are those who believe in him, but there are some who believe that he is in the video.
For those who do not know, that he is a member of the group Street Bethlehem, whose names were taken from the famous streets in Metro Manila, like Timor Morato, China Roces, and Aurora Boulevard Aurora.
Aside from China, two more names surfaced on social media and Paolo was suspected to have a sex video.
One of them is Helen Grace Garbo Gonzalez, who was considered as the issue.
Meanwhile, the second is that we will hide on the X-bala "G. Lorca at Balete Drive in the pork, and there is also a big similarity between the woman in the video.
Even the position of a mole on the lips, shoulder, and chest, even the coercion.
Some netizens were shocked because Aking G. on her Instagram account, that's why they did not get any picture on him.
Huh!

Bird droppings, it takes two years.
If you think about it, the movie they have been doing for two years is not been finished for two years, which is a long time for the Metro Manila Film Festival two years old, "said the committee.
"That's really what I wonder about, why do they not want to be in a good movie," Direk Jun Uruguay said that she is part of the movie press for a celebrity, of the National Press Club in Band- in the evening.
"They have no explanation, as long as I were not chosen," I did not know how to choose, "I did not know how to choose because there was another waiting for my movie," maybe there was another waiting for the movie, "I was sad.
Also according to the story of the director, that is based on the original machine that he did was based on the original bird droppings because in this time, the king and the queen is famous, "the king and the queen," said by the director, "said the director.
Rocco Nacino Stars, Taba, the Pinoy Moviefest and supported by Ronnie Lazaro, Joel Torre, Angel Aquino, and Leo Martinez.
They are anxious, this is on October 1 this day to the cinemas but there is a big Premiere-night on SSeptember 27, at least 9: 00 in the SM Mega Mall.
NPC President Joel Egco had told us that they are impressed by the project that is why they are supporting it, the group of director Jun who is the group of director Jun, will be the group of director Jun who's the media care of the media Association of the National Press Club.

CLE is search warrant, as big as THE VOPLAN).
In the social media-circuit television, the first VF-ice cream that was accepted and in our estimate that it was not a joke, "the millions and houses and land were said to have been given to him and the other opportunity to become a famous actress of ABS-CBN.
But of course, Lyle.
Whmm, "Vangice, and Lyle-ice, and we were impressed by a local TV network that is almost as big as a large amount of house and lot of Camella Homes and other Major-5.
As of now, there are still seven who are competing the two more on Saturday, wait for CLTV 5: 00 p.m.
Who among Barbie, JD, Doods, Louise Anne, Chongqing, Rica, and Lemuel Obon going to the final round?
