Fraud and negligence of those affected by Yolanda.

It is just two weeks when it rains in Samar, if the road goes through, the road is muddy and the rice-fields in the month of April will start, but after the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda, this is one of the severe damage.
Helping the couple, Maricel and Nelson Alambra to fix their small house which was destroyed by the typhoon, they lived in Sitio Rizal, Barangay Bulao, Basey, Samar.
Five months have passed, their roof was still high, and the bathroom's house is still high, and it is still training at the early age of Maricel, but it was still at the very young age, but it was still at a young age, but at the very young age, he was still at a very young age.
Just like thousands of families in Eastern Visayas which were devastated by typhoon Yolanda, water has become a serious effect in their lives while their houses were destroyed, and other parts of the house were destroyed and there were no use of the products from banana that will reach one to three years before they will be useful.
The family of Maricel has been hungry for now, before the typhoon, they have been able to eat rice for two days only one day, but only one more than two months of selling of rice, which is more cruel, and more cruel, the price of goods remains high.
Maricel remembered that five days after the storm, his mother needed to go to Manila to be able to buy 400 million fares in the bus and in Manila, which reached more than 50 pesos in the motorcycle, and it reached P250 because the supply of gasoline was lacking.
Many of their neighbors were taking a bath first in Manila to work for a few months but the debt of P2,000 will be returned immediately for a few months only.
If the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda is critical, the severe causes of the Abaya of the Aquino government for the welfare of his citizens is hunger, thirsty, darkness is brought by the coercion.
The green card of the DSWD.
According to Maricel, it was already December when the relief goods released by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) of the Disaster Coordinating Council (WBC) or better known as "green card" on the monitor of "green card" that would be heard from each family.
Previously included here are their father and kind of products that the family of Maricel had given up to 150 families who are residents of Barangay Batangan when they were not from the DSWD, that is why they did not accept that it would be good that the house of Maricel had a good race that was destroyed by the house of Maricel.
"We just received a green card that," there are many things written to him, even if we have not received anything, even if we have not received food now, we are not expecting anything to get food now, "we have not expected to get food now, or fish, or fish," he added.
As a mother, it is hard for Maricel to have their situation together with Maricel, 10; Eduardo mar, 10; and Mark, 7, they are forced to sell the rice in a low price because they have no other ways to sell money to buy soap.
The bigger problem is to send their children to school, even if she does not know where he will get the P600 million pesos to school, it is not surprising if the school is far from school.
"If it is closer to school students, that is the same time, there is a payment for the grave, it is more expensive because there are many people," the worry of Maricel.
All the prices of goods increase, but there are only P5 million worth of salt, but it has reached P8, from 6 million pesos in the height of the shortage of petroleum, and this is only 30 minutes before the storm has reached 50 pesos to 60.
The electricity was brought back on March 4, before they collected 100 pesos per month, and he worried that the supply of electricity will be increased in the next month.
For Maricel, no one to do is to do anything but insist on his rights to be heard in the streets of Tacloban last February 25 to 10: 00 in the evening on February 25.
The program money for morality of DSWD.
A program payment for Social Work for town was implemented last December 2013 when he was able to work for 10 days, but he was able to work for a day with Maricel, the wife of Maricel, the wife of Maricel had passed away for a day, but many were trapped in the ground that he did not work.
His father who is Winifredo Sabana ao, 60, who is from Barangay Cogon, Basti, Samar, is one of the victims of the program money for Social Weather Stations or January.
"Debt of making is a debt of making," Father Cito, who has not given them for five days, but only one day, my neighbor who has been able to work, but is just a few days that was given to them, "Tatay Dub has added that only one day is the captain of the barangay implement the program money for Work."
Aside from the protest, those who work in the program cash for Work, it seems that the Aquino government is expecting to live in the amount of P260 from December to this April. "And no coconuts were difficult," Father Yusoph's declaration that this has not been paid for only once, is not yet paid.
There are events that instead of money paid, those that have been paid for money for alms and relief goods for those who have been used to work for those affected by the typhoon?
"He does not have a house and livelihood, he is being driven out by some of us who will be transferred to a landslide area - we are just being transferred to a landslide area - Father Cito died.
Before the onslaught of typhoon Yolanda, Father Cito died 300 pesos up to P400 every day in the harvest of rice with 500 pesos to 2,000 pieces, from P25, now that it is up to 30 pesos per hour.
In rinsing, Father Cito, and rice, in the rice field, said that the products were selling out for a long time, which is why it's hard for them to earn a 300 every jeep, so it's hard for them to earn a 300 every jeepney and the coconut plantation will reach up to ten years before they will be useful.
Maricel and Father Cito are just some of the thousands of people who are experiencing hunger and poverty, not because of typhoon Yolanda, but because of the negligence of the Aquino government, it is possible that the people can't rely on their recovery, no one can depend on their own strength and concern.
