
The US's military forces are full of control of oil, Protestants of the women in Women's Day.

By Filipino Weeker.
March 10, 2012.

"Our size!"
This is the baptism of the speech of Akbayan Linmei, general secretary of militant groups from Gabriela, after the number of people who attended the Plaza Miranda, Manila last March 8, to commemorate All Soul's Day.
Thousands of women and people gathered at said place in that afternoon, not only to celebrate the serious problems being faced by the poor and people of the high goods, price of oil, and many others condemned the increasing number of military forces of the United States (US) in the Philippines.
On March 8, it is estimated that almost a month series of oil and goods, against the price of oil and goods, of the Department of oil, Pandacan), in relation to the high fare) and Malacanang, and the military forces of the US, according to its ambassador.
The color arrives in the feast, construction and other groups in Plaza Miranda, until they were presented to Mendiola last March 8, but there were no doubt that they announced with the Aquino administration wherein they said that there was a heated argument between the Aquino administration and the total of oil companies that were linked to the oil industry.
In Mendiola, in relation to the speech of my speech, I became emotional in singing of my Bayan, "awking about the taunting of the foreign colonizers. Bayan) after it was burned by women by President Aquino) who became the flag of the US.
For the women of Gabriela, this is only a sign of protest and protest against the influential military of the US in the Philippines, and with the strong winds with the Aquino administration in the US and the huge companies of oil.
Here are a few pictures of the protest.

It became an occasion by women last March 8 to condemn Gabriela and other militant groups to take control of the oil and in the Philippine government, more or less than 10,000 people have been caught in Plaza Miranda, along (KR Guda.
It was written in his forehead about the US troops that call from Plaza Miranda last March 8. (KR Guda.
Women by Gabriela-National Capital Region (several years, D. Quijano, are women.
Carrying the women are different parts of the US and the US, the price of oil and lack of action of the Aquino administration in this issue (KR Guda).
"Bloodshed in the oil should be stopped," this is the message of the US in the countries like Iraq, Libya and Syria so that he can control the huge amount of oil in the said countries. (KR Guda.

The militant groups will review the garbage from the Value Added Tax of petroleum products as one of the immediate action of the Aquino administration to slow down the price of oil.
Metro Aquino) is a symbol of President Aquino) that half of the US is the flag of Gabriela who will burn down in Mendiola. (Izzy Canillo).

Plaza Miranda was filled with foreigners to arrive on the first lane of the road (several years; Quijano).
Celebration of the Sining Lila, a group of culture of Gabriela, from Plaza Miranda, several years, Quijano).
Gabriela, Calaguas and militant groups are calling the leadership of the Proletarian Army and citizens or KMM) to stop the construction of petroleum products (Macky Macasac).
Children from the poor community, who were welcomed by Plaza Miranda, several years, Quijano, were born.
It was raised by women by the International Women's testimony or Iwa for their fist in front of those who came from a protest in Plaza Miranda (KR Guda).
Starting from Mendiola's coming from Plaza Miranda (KR Guda).
Members of the community of LGBT, or Leslagan, Glamang, Gabas, a transgender was killed in a protest on the international day of women (several years; Quijano).
Thousands of women are lined up against the high-control of the oil and the highest military forces of the US, on March 8.
Gabriela from the current time (KR Guda.
While the sun is gradually sinking, the women from Gabriela who slit their dyed to Mendiola. (Several years Quijano, were lighted.
The leaders of the women were leading to bringing the torch of Calaguas.
The gems on Mendiola. (KR Guda are already approaching.
Militant teachers of Alliance are united with a religious leaders of the concerned speaker (ACT). (Izzy Canillo).
In the overpass in front of Mendiola, the one who introduced himself as a girl who is a member of the town hall of Bagong women (protest), they are calling the women to join the New People's Army's "(several years Quijano, who joined the New People's Army."
The road was filled with protesters coming from the entrance of Mendiola to Recto Avenue, (KR Guda.
The leaders of women have started to burn the yellow ribbon committee which became the flag of the US (several years Quijano.
The fire broke out by the yellow ribbon committee of the US Marines to be exported.
I am emotional in Kwento ni Cristo of Filipino Movies was emotional with the song, "of my Bayan," an anti-governmental songs such as Amado V. Hernandez who was supposed to be exported "if there are a dried coconut husk, my Bayan." (Several years; Quijano).
Janghai Salvador, second general secretary of Gabriela, is the program in Mendiola's program through challenge to all women to strengthen the ranks of the citizens, this is the only way from the abuse and suffering of the Filipino people.
