
Horny.

That is what we see in the actions of the Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC) in the Metro Rail Transit (Holding) (MRT).
Why isn't it that DOTC Secretary Jun Abaya is still insisting that the government will just buy the whole property of the MRT Corporation-Holding which is said to be sure that the operation of the train will be better.
What is it again, Secretary Jun?
In our opinion, whether the DOTC still does not want to happen in MRT a long time, the discussion will be bigger, the money will be defeated by the current administration of the DOTC.
Those who are lacking in the knowledge that the real owner of contractor is like the Liberal Party (LP) are feasting.
It's because all government officials are known to be a famous LP leader.
Why are they continue to have a contract even if they are already known that they do not know about the suspension of the MRT system?
Their monthly payment for 60 pesos per month has not been a joke, the bidding has no joke as long as the right of LP had been ratified by the LP.
Congress is going to have a secret, any agency, with the ability to earn, if this will be given to a government agency, plunging because of the greed, corruption and colleges of those involved, operators and contractor!
If you think about it, MRT will have a big income if it is in the hands of private or aside from that, each passenger will be sure of any time for their riding the MRT.
Here is it, while we are writing this article, it is in the news that the number of people in the station of MRT will not ride in the right time and trip because there are consecutive problems.
Get angry, Mister Abaya, but in truth, in the past administration, it did not have that kind of problem.
The Gin Kings are able to fix the problem especially in technical because they are professionals in operations of the or main trains.
If I am in your shoes, for you to lose the pain in your head in MRT, just give the management of the real owner.
You can just play golf or basketball at any time.
There is no, too, in your hands, the DOTC is always broken into the MRT!
