Anti-Red tape Caraving in Puerto Princesa, started.

On September 27, 2016 Leila B. Dom.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, September 27 (Pia) - it was opened yesterday by Civil Service Commission (CSC), the Anti-Red Cross (Atejano) in the city of Puerto Princesa, together with the city government, "Paravors for the European Union.

The goal of the three days, Adik-Caravas to build the citizens the proper service of the government through taking advantage of consciousness in the campaign of anti-red tape, even the rights and responsibility of the client of the government service.

CSC Public Information Office Director Ma. Luisa Agayes, "Ang said that the public does not only want to encourage the public through higher positions, but to inform the change the change are starting to every citizen," said Agawan in his speech during the opening of the task.

The official added, if the public knows their rights, it is carefully insisted on the management of government agencies that they should give. "

In the ongoing caraving, some of the services or transactions can be received by the client for those who have joined the government agencies, online jobs, and application for those who graduated from students, PhilJony Basco, Iric Arribas of Department of Labor Law (DOLE).

There is also the Philippine Statistics Authority (National Statistics Office (PL-NJ), Land Transportation Office (LTO) to answer the questions about the service of the said agency.

Recruitment and promotion of their products and service is the Land Bank of the Philippines (LRP), the Social Security Service (SSS) of SSS number, online and accepting debt, and application for the benefits of the agency.

There is an online Regulations, member data, the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth), the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth), that the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) has also put a shack in order to answer the questions in relation to its service and CSC).

The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) also presented to their service through giving and acceptance of the application for Clearance; the Bureau of Foreign Affairs (DFA), and Commission on Higher Education (Commission) Commission on Higher Education (Commission) Commission on Higher Education (Comelec) who are receiving complaints for Commission on Higher Education (Comelec).

Adik-Caraving started on the 25th of September and it will end up to 28 at Asumba compound in Puerto Princesa City Hall.

Meanwhile, the city has also visited the city to cooperate in the ceremony of the European Union Ambassador Frank Jessen.
