
The land in Hacienda Luisita also shared to the Supreme Court.

By Ariston Municipal.
April 25, 2012.

The Filipino farm of Hacienda Luisita, in front of the office of the Supreme Court in Baguio City, the court decided to share to the family of President Aquino's family, but they are set to share the solution to the family of Cojuangco in 1989 the value of the said hacienda.
The Supreme Court made the first decision on November 2011 to share the land in Hacienda Luisita, Tarlac.
"The victory is already here for thousands of farmers, but it has been a long time that it has been the total Land distribution," says Lito Bais of the United Nationalist Alliance (ULU).
The decision of the Supreme Court is a legal success for the Filipino farm, "Jobert Rapid, lawyer of ULWU), and executive director of the center for the true reform Regulations (Ammunition)," in this decision, there is no legal obstacle to the distribution of land. "
It can be recalled that last November 2011, all the judge of the Supreme Court approved the distribution of 914,775 hectares of land in 6, 296 farmers and Filipino workers, according to the Presidential Security Council (Parc) order last December 2005.
But the leader of Hacienda Luisita, Incorporated, said that the Filipino farm is waiting for five months before the Supreme Court asked the decision to distribution.
"This is a result of the continuous struggle," Bastes.
Aside from the distribution of the land of Cojuangco the Aquino family from 1968, the UWU and Ambullets are calling for free to share to them.
On the speed of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court is leading the former decision to set a compensation brought by Cojuangco-Aquino in the value of the hacienda in 1989.
The Aquino family is asking for 1 billion pesos as compensation of the hacienda.
"Even if his demeanor is not given solution, it should not be given protection from the decision of the court," said Pahua.
According to the Department of Agrarian Reform, it is likely that it will reach until six to 12 months, before you will be distributed for the Filipino workers to be distributed.
But according to Ambullets, the farmers will start tomorrow (April 24) the farmers will start tomorrow (April 24).
The farmers and Filipino workers are fighting for a long time, in 2004, a massacre killed the lives of seven farmers while they insisted their rights to the right salary, and rights to the land.
"The tax of life is not wasted for this success," Willy Marbella, the general secretary of Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas.
