
Brgy. DWOPARK.

In Singapore, I met Lila with Daisy, a British millionaire who is living there.
In the state of the life of Lila at present, it seems that the fisherman does not believe that he is the child of the fisherman and grew up in a simple lifestyle in a simple province of Zambales.
It is still a kid that she wants to rise from poverty and everyday to achieve triumph so together with his dreams are his perseverance.
Because of his hard work and his parents, he was able to finish college with the course of the chemical Engineering Battalion.
Although he was able to finish studies and one of the engineer, the search for work for Lila was not easy, and this became the reason for him to follow the advice of a close friend to try to go to another country.
That is his positive outlook in life, he took a bath in Singapore.
Lila did not expect that if in the Philippines, it is hard to find a job and the challenge that he will experience in Singapore is very difficult.
"Singapore government, which is even foreigners to be identified as Are Benico, was we being deceived by the Our Lady OSB," he said.
He added that he is carrying a hard time to adjust to a foreign land like Singapore.
However, because of their natural diligence and determination, Lila entered the jobs that he has finished in the leeches.
According to him, "it was the one who took care of me, i-an actress to be an enemy."
He stayed in that job for almost four years before he tried to build his own business.
He built a sports agency that was followed by his construction of a Catholic agency, because if thank you, PR or Facebook agency, the Second World, the Pambansang Kamao, "she added," he added.
With the help of his experiences and knowledge that got from the former job, Lila is gradually successful and was identified as one of the successful Filipinos in Singapore.
"That is the fact that he / she said that he / she / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she said that he / she was the one-in-law, he / she said that he / she was going to live-in-law," he said, "his statement.
Like the old saying that since then we always hear nothing for the person who has a dream because they say, if they want, there is a way and if not, there is a reason. "
"
That's why he / she was able to step down.
In other stories of the lives of our fellow countrymen, this is just to focus on the sky for PTV Channel 4 every Sunday 10: 30 in the evening when you visit Facebook-kilogram in the sky.
