
Workers and the filipino masses, be united and double the struggle against illegal immigrants!

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.
May 1, 2012.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) is strict with the kind of Filipino workers in the celebration of the Holy Week's celebration for this day to fight and end the abuse and taking advantage of the crooked system and to end the foolishness and taking advantage of the pending revolution.

We are conducting the celebration of May Uno this year in the middle of the current crisis of capitalists have, one of the most huge damage caused by great depression in the decades of 1930 to the type of workers and the filipino masses.

Just like in different countries, the type of workers in the Philippines can be described by the foreign leaders of the entire regime, which is currently being monitored by the workers in spite of the lack of abuse inflicted by the workers and other parts of the country, which is why the workers are continuing to recover from the sweat and tired of the workers.

Aquino can support the negative rules of a specialist "Dimasalang." In spite of the severe damage caused by the government of the US and other cities in front of the Philippines and other cities in front of the Philippines, to give way to the economy of the Philippines, to give way to the economy of the Philippines, to give way to the economy of the Philippines, to give way to the economy of the US and other cities.

The filipino citizens of the Marcos regime are worried that their feelings are moving forward in front of the Filipino workers and other parts of the Filipino workers and other parts of the Filipino workers and other parts of the filipino masses to push through with the development of the Filipino workers and other parts of the filipino masses to push through with the development of the Filipino workers and the masses.

The kind of worker has already been in front of the fighting against the military forces of the US in the Philippines to end the strengthening of the Filipino workers in the whole country, which is being pushed by the filipino masses in the upcoming elections along with the armed forces of the armed fight in the entire country.

Filipino workers are still determined to lead the widespread movement of participation of the workers, the Filipino people who want to join the armed fight for the armed struggle and participation of the armed fight for the armed struggle and participation of the armed fighting for the armed fighting and the corresponding treatment of the Filipino workers and the poorest sector in the legislative chamber.

In front of the severe crisis and taking advantage, the workers and the filipino masses are still determined to be removed from the straight path of fighting until today, they are sure that their powerful movement, which is annoying for the kind of system, which is annoying for the kind of the system, will surely be hit.
