
To defend Lupang ancestors, livelihood, Karl and their natural wealth!

Simon, Ka Fullido "yogiddy, Spokesperson.
Cordillera People's Democratic Front.
20 years old.

(Statement of the Cordillera People's Democratic Front in the Independence Day.

The Cordillera People's Democratic Front among thousands of people involved in the celebration of the 25th year of Cordillera Day is in different provinces and cities inside and outside the country.

It is true that this day is historical in commemoration of the dark day of the murder of Father Macabog, 1980 and the following days of the armed military who offered life for the struggle, including Daniel Nawo'clock, Father John Nayes, Father John Nayes, Father John NJ-A, Marcelo Failbo.

We are looking forward this day for the heroism of the Pizarro and Lamar Odom who risked their lives, including Jennifer Laude, Wright Chadryl and Father del Rosario, Albert del Rosario, Albert del Rosario, James Balao, James Balao, James Balao, James Balao and many others.

The sacrifice of being a martyr.

Before, and now, the rape of IOS in the mountains, brook at the sea of Ilocos-Cordillera is being taken out by the poor people, especially those who are weak and cruelty to the people of the indigenous people in the forests, mountains and the citizens in the surroundings.

Companions, allies and allies!

It is a pattern when we will be helpful to the voices of the indigenous people, who are the Pambansang Kamao, and the people who are fighting back to the country's treasury, to end the repressive administration of the country, ask him to go through the strength and sweat.

We gather thousands of Filipinos nowadays, who are pointing out and overflowing in the streets, the time is a way for the indigenous people of the country to join the armed forces of the people, people, and academic, in the level of the citizens of the people, a professional and academic, against the rise of national discrimination at sea.

Our success is certain to achieve real freedom and national freedom of our enemy, to reveal the violence and deceit of our enemies in the kind of our enemy, the call for the preparation of the preparation in the preparation in the preparation and preparation in the preparation in the preparation in the preparation of the country.

Fight and fail the Oplan LS!
Fight for our ancestors, rights, livelihood and natural wealth!
