Please, thank you to those who are fearless!
July 9, 2016, it is expected that Metro Manila.
This is a normal situation during the time of the storm, sometimes, even if there is no typhoon and LPA, as long as the rain pours.

The price of water cannot be avoided, especially if there are still a lot of countrymen who are snobbish and have no discipline in throwing garbage.
But what's important is that the water is not getting worse and the second typhoon "Butchoy will not subsiding." There are still a lot of next typhoons "that would have not been delayed in the coming typhoon in the Philippines.
However, you can't only depend on prayers, while it is necessary for praying to prepare for the bad things that can happen.
It is fun that there are local government of Metro Manila who are watching the weather report and on the situation of flood in their jurisdiction.
Many of the cities of Metro Manila cancelled classes at around six o'clock in the morning.
This is the right!

The children should not wait to leave the house and attacks the rain and flood to declare that classes have been suspended.
It is very dangerous for those who are anxious in making a trip, especially if there is still flooding, the threat to them is not only a pain, but more than the dangers they should stop from a manhole.
That is why LGUs are really admirable in fulfilling their duties.

LGUs cannot have no reason to undergo in their duties because it won't come back to their duties because it won't come back to the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PAGASA) that just because they were attacked by the funds of the previous administration, that is why it was surrounded by the funds of the previous administration, which is why it keeps on top of the previous administration.
Before, if PAGASA said that it will be said that people will rain, and if it is said that the typhoon will rain, to review the children because it is definite that there will be classes because the opposite was the opposite.
It is a very big thing that the weather report of PAGASA is fitting and it became a priority for the past government of Aquino who have long been beneficial for the people, especially when the Duterte administration is.
Again, live on alert and LGUs, thank you for the concern and honest service!
