"The revolution ignited.

By Filipino Weeker.
Twenty 2, 2014.

"
This is what the actor Robin Padilla said when he faced more or less 8,000 people gathered and protested at Liwasang Bonifacio for the 151 day of the birth of Gat Andres Bonifacio.
The creator's message: Life is the spirit of this great contribution to the people who are fighting for the real change. "
The alleged dress of the IFI was wearing a filipino solution which was given by Padilla to his new movie, the actor whose son Emilio Jacinto, is still alive, according to Padilla, her studies were still alive so that their lessons are still alive.
"Do not lose hope because today, we will revive the Katipunan," Padilla said.
Hope of the revolution.
"Today is the birthday of Andres Bonifacio, which led the Pambansang Kamao in Asia, which led to the meddling of the appearance of the recent Americans in Asia, but was able to hide from Bonifacio in the history of the Philippines.
Ocampo also said that he took the success of the revolution of Katipunan, and it was returned to the broken land from the friars and kingdom of Spain, which is why until now, the anti-budol Gang and a huge loss against the reforms and fighting against the ongoing revolution.
"America suddenly appeared as a civilized society together with the ratification of the filipino masses," defeated by Ocampo led the importance of a relationship with a revolution which said that he will be able to bring to the true system.
The delegates of Manila's town of Mindanao spoke to the delegates of the Manila Film of Christ, the Philippines or at CCP, according to him, those from Mindanao are looking at the life of Bonifacio as a challenge and inspiration to push the fight for freedom.
"Our indigenous people now, especially those who have been going to our program in education, which is why we are requesting the sake of our programs in history, that is why our children know how to turn the national heroes of our country," said Mercado.
Meanwhile, the community of LGBT (Leslagan, Gabas, GST, transgender) was joined in a celebration and protest.
Corky Bello said, the general secretary of the community of LGBT which will continue the fight of Bonifacio, the real freedom of the Philippines, and cooperation with the masses, because they say that we have long been separated from the filipino masses.
"It is time now to cooperate with the fight of the country, he said, included in the advocacy of the group is the goal of justice for Jennifer Laude, member of LGBT which is said to be murdered by a American soldier in Olongapo City last October.
"Success is not true and it is not true that the freedom of the Philippines (where they will not be defeated, the sectors of LGBT," said Marañon, "that is why they are asking if classes are fighting for the fight of Andres Bonifacio."
Commit suicide.
Ferdinand Galite, chairman of the ConFootball Federation of Unity, Recruitment and Admiral Kuusuela of organization that does not ask him, the employees of the government during the time of the agricultural sector was included in the revolution held by Bonifacio under Katipunan. "
According to him, Teodoro Plata, and other workers in the government, joined the revolution.
Of course, there are different groups of workers under SOCOTECO May Uno, patriotic organizations and co-helpers, they recognize the November 30 as the day of Filipino workers.
John Eisma is the leader of Filipino workers or Sfather-in-law, the implementation of the Spanish tourists now, like the colonization of the Spanish tourists, in the kind of colonization of the US in the Philippines.
"It is a big thing (the participation of the authorities), because this is where we are going to express the cooperation, and the current abuse of capitalists have, this is where we can clarify this," said Eve.
"The so-called heroes are not left behind, illegal Filipinos, in unity with the birthday of Bonifacio, even if our countrymen are outside the country, Sol Pillas, spokesperson of Migrante International, knows and feel what is happening here in the Philippines.
"That is why it is very important to let them know and know that the essence of the revolution of Bonifacio," said Pillas.
Estelita of Kalapati, Damayang Lagi, Banga, Aquino did not do anything to answer their right to live.
"We saw that we didn't have a proper house, they were taken away from the far relocation that caused him to be taken away from us there, this day is a great commemoration of this day because this is the 119th Independence Day towards the national under democratic Philippines.
Aside from them, the different leaders of the movement, against corruption and against pork barrel like Senior Mary John Irvin, of the woman, Mae Panina of Sevidal of Sevidal of Sevidal of the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan), and others.
There are also other groups who are part of the fight for clean government like a Volunteers Organization (Crime Operatives) and VAvena, and other leaders and members of the Scratic pork barrel.
On the side of the program, the Lumad, farmers and other sectors from Mindanao.
After the program in Liwasang Bonifacio, protesters marched towards Mendiola Bridge, from the foot of Malacanang, to investigate the call for real change.
They also let the resignation of President Aquino the resignation of President Aquino.
7th of 50!
The Supreme Court's birthday is the 120th anniversary of the strong Rebolusyunaryong Alyansang Makabayan (kilometer), the national national under democratic organization of the youth which is being endorsed by Jose Maria Sison in 1964.
80 percent of those involved in the history and culture of the decades "60 are presented to the Liberal Party of the Philippines last 1968 and launched the" new type "of the wet revolution which continues until present.
"What is implemented, there is no celebration now and they do not celebrate this day, the people who will be blamed on this day because on this day, Vencer Crisostomo, the chairman of Anakbayan, which is currently celebrating the anniversary today.
In his speech in Mendiola, Crisostomo is thanking the founder and first members of the kilometers, as well as the heroes of the movement of the youth.
In Mendiola, the evacuees are registered to the call of President Aquino.
The wives of Bonifacio and his fellow waiters were also made an inspiration to the revolutionary taxes that Mayor Gloria de Jesus.
"
The citizens showed that there is a new meaning of the revolution of Aquino at present, but most of this, they are allegedly pushing the real change in order to bring the true system and change the new system of strengthening the citizens.
Ocampo said, "the duty of the current generation, the fourth person, according to now, finished the start of Andres Bonifacio."
