Egging and cursed at each other.

By Rolando B.
April 29, 2012.

7th of Oro, Plata Street, Mata (Pega, 1982)
On this year (2012) the 120th anniversary of the medical movie, the first, of Peking Galla, is one of the clan of Ihmmmp, a widower of a young lady and landowner.

The movie has not asked for forgiveness about his topic: The eagerness of the hems?
In fact, a Filipino-year-old Japanese had just lost his feelings for someone who was the one who became the enemy of the other type, the war was being raped, which is why the war became an opportunity for the removal of the hundreds of justice, and like what was expected to have been able to commit suicide.
He / she was defeated by the caretaker of the maid who could be calderogatory and the jewelry of his friend, the reason why he was not taking care of the bandits, he joined the bandits and went back to the forest.
A widow was raped, covered with a ring with a ring on the ring that was robbed by the remaining properties, food and armor of the former caretaker of the house in the forest.
The chapter in "Mata" in spite of the film that is part of the film is to make it look for the type of a bureaucracy.
Puri will return to all the type of a widower who is a widower of his hands (of course, they have attacked the camp of the former caretaker after being able to conduct the story, and was able to cross the story, became a movie action.
The suspension made by the violence of the primary men will save a few kinds of men to save a type of a house in the jungle, he was the one who lost their kind of music, he went out of a medical music, the older woman went out.
Scene in the movie "Oro, Patera, Mata.
In putting on the area of the bandits, just like what he said, "he can do everything," the teenage boy who became the Pambansang Kamao in the second, the teenage boy who became the Pambansang Kamao in the second, is in critical condition after the war.
According to the anomalous information that all the type: The first, they need their vices and copra order to become alive; second, like a few times that there have been an animal "because of the war, that will continue again as a kind of traffic in their ranks, that will continue again for the improvement of the war for their ranks.
According to the director, all the violence that happened in the hmm of the film that happened during the time of war will really happen during the time of war, operators, and we remember the war, this is what we remember, more than the violence of the military forces.
When we went to those with Ozon Mansion, the area of Plata St, "said sanctuary that came from the city, and climbed the stars from the city, it is true that all of you see, it's the only family who owns it.
The scheduled mansion to be given away is not given away for free or not just to thousands of people who were given to their roof, but the beauty of the mansion, that's why the majority of the mansion, which is why the part of the mansion's beauty, and those who do not want to run off.
