
DOJ and Ombudsman, up to 5B to 280 pesos in PNP, how?

The Department of Justice or the Office of the Ombudsman should immediately investigate what was reported by the Commission on audit that the illegal activities of the Philippine National Police should be investigated.
According to COA, there is a 3.4 billion pesos of irregularities in the PNP during the time of the administration of Duterte who resigned PNP Chief Alan Purisima.
Regular or illegal because these do not pass through it, just like the Republic Act Number 9184 or government ProcuisAct.
The transactions.
Included in those who did not pass through the market, Bro, the P91.7 million worth of businesses and services which have been needed by the National Heard Quarkana, Special Action Force and Police Regional Office 13.
There was allegedly an exchange of order that costs more than 500,000 pesos every order but nothing happened again.
The PRO 13 themselves bought the things of the police and military by prominent or fake money that were not in line with the rules of COA.
Here is it, the Camp Crame, SAF, National Capital Region, and about eight other Pro-Friends are not able to have a contract on the COA (Commission on Audit (Commission on Audit).
There is no contract yet, the police is still not expecting the COA regarding their acceptance of the dies inside 24 hours.
Added!
Another questionable transaction of the PNP is the buying of "human use."
It allegedly costs 113 million pesos and they bought in private sector.
There are also transactions that are not complete with the documents that costs P463M, aside from P47M worth of foolishness.
The answer of the PNP.
The answer of the police or the PNP Chief is simple.
It is the child of tofu, they said, that not all of their needs are jokes at the National Security System (Department of Budget and Management Council.
They need many service, things or supply which needs to be in their hands as soon as possible.
If they do not use it because the bidding do not look into it, it will take time for them to take care of what they need.
That is why, they are just taking a shopping.
"Is it possible that the police are going to judge or call the police officers, and who are the most low price, this is the source of their service and business?
The COA, which is brightened up, is said to be a foul smell like this in the PNP.
With the rotten, all the money, are you in the COA?
Said by the PNP, sure, in the next day, if the transaction will rise from 500,000 pesos the transaction, we are going to carry it.
Isn't it?
Another agency.
To those who are able to talk to the local government unit, all really, small or big amount of transactions are allowed to be compared to it.
Because this is the fate of the law of RA 9184.
But they have doubts that when it comes to foreign countries, if the contract is just about P200,000, the contract is on the power of the mayor. "
Now, it is like the P500 from the PNP is the equivalent to 200,000 pesos from the LGU.
We want to have clarity here, Bro, because if it is true that this is the policy, the public funds are not going to make sure that the public funds will not be allowed to make it easy, and that is why the law will not have no use, and that the law will not have no use.
Hopefully, there will be one who can tell the ultimatum at that lying or lying to this policies, hehehe!
Enemies.
The report of COA here, Bro, is brightness of the smoke.
Our grandfather said before, when there is smoke, there is a fire.
When it comes to politics, the Department of Justice and Office of the Ombudsman will immediately follow the date of the Palace in relation to the Palace in relation to its report.
The smoke of corruption and corruption is immediately seen by the truth.
Here in the anomaly that the PNP is so big, will the DOJ and Ombudsman take action? And will file a case against them, together to suspend the involved?
If not.
If DOJ and Ombudsman will not take action here, it will really be suspicious if the justice in the country is the reason why they are trying to be strong.
There are several cases that should be looked into by them but they are not moving.
The anomalies in the Disbursement Acceleration Program is here, the Condleweight championship and bribes for the impeachment of Corona but no action is done.
Will the smoke in the PNP of Purisima on the orders of the lady justice by PNoy?
Um!
Other complaints or criticisms can be shown in a long term for TV Patrol or text 0914-3333-1090451.
