How can Paje and Jasareno are going to sneak?

Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary Ramon Paje and Natural Resources Secretary Ramon Paje, even though they are filing a pile of complaints against him aside from corruption, he is still continuing to put himself on the "path," of the Marcos regime.
The powerful Commission on Appointments is being ignored by the powerful Commission on Appointments, because of being negligent and useless but they are not really insensitive or useless but he is not really insensitive or not, delicadeza.
There are a few cases filed against Paje and was filed in the Office of the Ombudsman because he is useless in the care of the environment that he is really his duty.
Zamboanga del Sur Governor Antonio Cerolan, former secretary of DENR and colleagues of Paje, said that the secretary doesn't want to remain in his position because he knows that he does not have any knowledge in the position that he ran over in one another meaning, Paje.
Paje did not even act to fix this situation in the province of Cerge that started with the Special permit that was released by DENR in a mining companies that caused him to be used by DENR in an operation using their fake gods.
The indigenous people themselves complained against the company of rape by their natural resources in their province but Paje, which can be considered as a sound of action due to lack of action.
And to finally kill himself, Paje was worried when asked by the Department of Justice (DOJ) how he was able to file a permit for mining and instead, he pointed a permit for mining for mining but instead, he pointed a permit for the mining companies for mining.
Wait a moment, who is the approval of the DENR, is it not the secretary of DENR?
If Paje and did not know this or did not go through the office of Paje, it means that Jasareno are going to sneak to him.
Let us clarify this issue.
Maybe someone was able to pay for money that was why it was only a little way to each other which is why he cleaned his image.
Oh no, there are still many mines in the country who have a foul smell, it is wrong, Special permits when it means that it is only Jasareno but I can earn?
However, Paje and assure that the miners will be safe from taking advantage of the miners and that is why it should not leave the service to the government of President Benigno Aquino III because it should not be returned to the "straight path, and instead they are taking a democratic path.
Do you want to share your experience with the officials and personnel of the police or private individuals?
