"The government continues to neglect the victims of Yolanda.

The group of militant youth condemned the lack of clear action of the Aquino administration for the victims of typhoon Yolanda which destroyed Eastern Visayas and more than two months ago.
"Up to now, the government does not have a clear and long term plan to help the victims of typhoon Yolanda, even the temporary shelter of the victims that can earn," according to Mon Paolo Palagtingan, Secretary-General of Liberal Party-list-list.
According to Pigcawayan, they are expecting the appearance of different issues of corruption related to typhoon Yolanda.
Despite the many assistance coming from different sectors (private, church, she took a glimpse and even the national can still not feel the help of the government, many are asking where the help and funds for those who are damaged are still not really felt.
As said by the said leader, the government does not have a clear plan for those who are going to live in a temporary restraining order after they are only temporary and they will not be sent back to the secluded areas.

According to Jonas Aclado, who survived the storm from Catbalogan, Samar and Uator who is helping those who are victims of calamities, it is not true that the lives of the citizens who were affected by the typhoon from their going around will become normal.
"Until now, they have not yet buried the corpses of the corpses which are painful for us to see that their loved ones are not able to see that even if they were buried at the mass they still cannot do it," according to Aclado, the mother died because of the typhoon.
According to him, up to now the full recovery of the corpses on the affected areas are still ongoing and the places destructed are already dirty and also causes danger to the health of the people.
"If you will look at it, they are almost being annoyed by all, but if you will see it outside the Tacloban, it will still be seen in the waste of garbage that will be implemented," according to Adelado.
Avisado also added that the arrival of relief goods from the government is very rare because there are those who are helping those who are affected by the government and if a politician is not strong or not, the politician is not able to immediately get help.
According to Ermita, 54, from Glamang, Eastern Samar and survived the storm, it is not like before the help received by the people in the affected areas, almost two to three times a week when the help arrived.
Ermita and his three companions in the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) are pleading for help from the fare of Samar but there is no clear response to them from the said agency.
"We interview each other on Saturday, on Monday, we are asked to be asked when we have received a text message on us, that is why we still have received a ticket and we just got a lot from us, and according to Nancy Lagrao, 34, from Guiuan, Eastern Samar who are also colleagues of Ermita.
According to them, they do not believe in reading the television that is only focused on Tacloban because many of their acquaintances in Eastern Samar have not yet been helped by the government.
