
TV Patrol, September 6, 2012.

Our stand against the rules of PNoy in the poor people.

Our stand against the rules of PNoy in the poor people.

The role according to the role to file a position against the statement of the government in relation to his declaration that it is owned by the houses that is erected in a danger happening after the devastation of the typhoon and southwest monsoon.

The document has also wanted to open the discussion on the anti-Illegal Drugs line and research on the middle of the issue of poor cities which is natural or made by a person, livelihood, service, and service of the government should be seen as chairman of the government and the government of the government which are taking advantage of the ranks of poor people.

In the process of discussion, it is expected that the content of the paper is expected to be rich and has a greater effect with the issue of the poor, not as the construction of the movement of the movement of the movement of the movement of the movement of the advancement of democratic country.

In the devastation of the calamity, like the past and incoming typhoon, the government found some of the reasons being pointed at the shore of the river and riverside which resulted to the riverside and creek where it can be implemented from the rivers and creek where it will be implemented in number of lost houses.

The problem with the ongoing devastation of the flood is that the government is trying to look into the crooks which are caused by the stubborn ones who are throwing stones, and other squatters, which can be washed away from the heavy rains, which can be easily removed from the heat in the world or global warming which can be removed from the heat of the world or global warming.

The problem with the government, we are the only ones who can give all the blame on the flooding and do not see the barbells that are forced to live-in the dangerous places, if there's a lot of people who are living near the danger of the poor people who are forced to live-in the dangerous places where the demolition and sources of money will go back to the expenses of the Relocation Site in the country.

What should be seen and the government should admit is the failure implemented by the economists of the white neo-liberals in the most dangerous places because of the lack of livelihood for the poor people but the programs of the economy for the poor people but to the foreigners.

Business not.

The program project is to profit from the rich and not for the service of society, there is no free relocation for the country's programs that should be a safe place for the country's residence, which is just meant for the Lord's residence, the real bosses of Aquino.

Some of the examples of the government (capitalists have come from the pipe are the projects of Quezon City Business District to cover the residents in exchange of construction of a shopping malls, Preso, NIA, Bulang Malinao, NIA, and other ordinary countries which will serve as a progressive country, so that foreign contacts will serve as a progressive country.

We will collect it away from the government because he thinks that it is better to pay attention to the business but in the previous relocation, we are not safe from the high relocation should not be safe from the high-ranked leader of the Aquino administration.

The experience in Isla Puting Bato and Navotas.

We can't change in the present, which is the first cause of the environment that is the first caused by the accident and expect that there are still many lives of those who have been victimized by syndicates and fire because it brought it to their homes.

A proof of this is the experience of the poor in Isla Puting Bato in Tapay who was not able to return to the area where they were buried in the evacuation centers in different places in North Harbor.

The experience that has been mentioned in Navotas and Manila are just a few of the proof that the residents are in a clear "blessing from the poor people, to make sure that the people's interest in the government and capitalists have, that every time, all the opportunity will attack, that is why all of all are times in order to buy a pipe.

We will not be surprised if we pray that even if they pray that it can be taken away, it can be taken away by the squatters in the stretch of R-10 in Manila until on the roads and coast of Navotas.

Our challenge to the government is our challenge.

It is said that the administration has a fund for ten billion pesos for the relocation of 195,000, who are in the danger of 195,000, which is the solution to the problems of the poor, of course, and of course, it is unlikely for the flood to solve the problem being mentioned.

They should try to destroy the houses of the thousands of poor cities that according to the government is the cause of flooding and floods particularly in Metro Manila, where we will bring to their houses in the city of Quezon?

All of the forces are in the government to evict us from our den.

But this is not easy to see what we are saying that the problems of the citizens will never be solved if they can't stop the problems in our livelihood, they can't stop the poor because of the lack of livelihood and miserable situation in the said places of relocation.

The problem with the government is what we think are the garbage that have no use, what can't be seen is the primary force of the workers as the primary forces of the government of the local government, instead of being swept by the generations of Filipino people, instead of being swept in-in and most dangerous places in the city.

When he is saying the alleged ranks of the Philippines as second to the highest economic provisions in the region, so the intelligent people who are living with the Aquino administration have nothing to live in the hole of a rat if their income is enough to give a good shelter in his family.

For the request that we have for.

1 - the funds will be made for the construction of projects projects that have enough protection and strength against any calamities.

2 - projects projects that should not be far from the places of the workers, have sufficient facilities for immediate needs and other services of society.

3 - the value of the projects projects is to make and stop the destruction of human rights in the city hall which is not able to respond to those who are carried away from it.

4 - the strangulation on the private sector was publicized as well as the residential areas.

5 - it is certain that the big participation of the citizens in the plan of the projects that will be implemented or any implemented program project will be implemented.

6-5-year-old lawyer is declared to be declared in the implementation of the thorough process of the housing program happening in the country.

7 will be a regular job for poor people.

8.

9 billion pesos will be implemented.

10 is a number of oil price increase to scrap or Oil Dermovate.

11 - the white economic policy of the Aquino government should be stopped.
