Did PNoy really want to call Commissioner Ruffy Biazon?

I am not able to tell him when I wrote here in the past issues that the case is happening under the Poe administration, Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, which is why it is possible that Noynoy is not lying down the performance of their directive and Lim, which is why he's likely that he will be included in the role they will steal at the night of the New Year.
Ismol Family of Trade Statistics Authority said that we wrote the severe case on top of the rights under the nose of Biazon, therefore, no matter how perfumes that he has made to his image, that's why the truth will still escalate.
Who will not pay attention to the extreme strengthening of the operation of the abler's operation today, who is the chief compared to the researchers, the scenario is expected during the time of the motion of Gloria and Erap.
It turns out that only up to the US $33 billion pesos will benefit from the US and Estrada, but now President Noynoy, who is in the palace, has already mentioned the US $19 billion that is missing from the collection.
But it has only been two years since the Aquino administration, it means that it is the US $38 billion that has been placed under the Customs' collection from the collection of Customs since it is also possible that it will pass through the left-helpers of General Lim to stop the left behind, Biazon and Lim at the right time.
If Biazon and Lim can still be killed next year instead of resigning, their freedom is an illusion that they can be an illusion that they are a good leader of Customs even if it is not true.
Anyway, Noynoy's character is in the character of Noynoy's character just to prevent their friendship.

We promised that we will release to the details of a good official in the administration, as well as a good official in the administration, it is strong that our official mentioned that they choked a businessman with illegal livelihood.
Boss in Manila Hotel made a meeting with the businessmen in Manila Hotel to talk about the gossips.
They agreed to have a boss, and it is illegal that he will give up to 30 million pesos so that he will not be taken away by the children of the officials and of course, he was transferred to the car by the official, blocked the car and grabbed the car and grabbed the money.
That is also the story of the official of his patron who is sure to report the incident to the police or in the media because how will the negotiation happen to the police or in the media because how will the negotiation have explained and who will believe in the version of the official?
What we think about this, is that the official made out that the scenario is like that, he is still clean and there is no need to speak with your grandfather, Hoy!
