Where is the National Security System?

Recently, an official of the government said that, "Edwin Lacierda said, that this is an official spokesperson of President Aquino, that it seems that Mister Lacierda said he has no idea about it, that is why this is the questions that I want to answer, Mister Lacierda.
Mister Lacierda, the National Security System has already been a huge amount, which is why we really know that this chemical is being used for various types of industry, however, you really know that the HCl is also being used in making various stuff that we use for different kinds of dangers.
"The cadmium or NaiH, you know that maybe it is important for the mercy of soap that is used for the very much aspects of the lives of Filipinos.
Even if we need to find a factory that we need to have a factory, we can just say that we are always hoping for our own country, but why do you just want to say that we are always hoping for our own country?
How can these chemical be done and different chemical is needed by a progressive country, just ask for a lot of chemical conservation in our country because up to now, the National Security System has not happened yet in the past 1960s.
If the National Security System has been exhausted, why don't we find any job in our country?
Where is our factory of steel?
Maybe you know that the Philippines has the most reserved reward for the Philippines with the most reserved reward from the land, why are we going to sell a electricity going to the whole country, why is it that we are going to use electricity and other people who are living in the middle of what you said while there is still no electricity in their places.
And why is it that our sales are cheap in exchange for the baldness through our forests, the exhaustion of our mountains, and because of the destruction of our surroundings, we should just let the foreigner and big businessmen are benefiting from our natural wealth and we should be the one to be suffering from the destruction of our environment caused by their good wealth.
Mister Lacierda, if the National Security System has been broken, what are the new solution on the worsening economic crisis in our country?
