In the taking of Aquino to the peace talks, the disrespect of the AFP is worse in the international law - PKP.

Bureau on the information.

The party of the Philippines is the party of the Philippines.

July 9, 2013.

The Liberal Party of the Philippines (PKP) stated that the peace talks with the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), further strengthened the rights of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), which has a huge damage to the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), which has a brutal law to the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).

According to the KP, the armed fight recently passed by the troops of the 31st Infantry Battalion and an official unit of Bagong Hagdan) in Irosin, Sorsogon, and it should be recalled that it has not been washed away by the AFP against the Comprehensive Final Agreement (CAAP) when it has not been approved by the AFP to fight and defend himself.

According to the actual report from the scene, it was not armed with Frankie ArSoriano (Ka Greg) and Ted Palacio (Ka NL) and Ted Palacio (Ka NL) and Ted Palacio), instead, they directly shot them with no reaction. "

The PKP stressed that it is strictly enforced to the national rules using the armed fight in order to protect the rights of civilians, even those kidnapped and soldiers who were led by the civilians, which is caused by illness, wounds or whatever reason.

"It was only then on June 28, the Gin Kings are showed the compliance of it in the CAYETANO and the Internal Revenue, they were helped and treated by armed men who were wounded when they were shot by armed men who were wounded when they were shot by armed men who were wounded in the PNP Regional Trial Court in Tutok, Mountain Province."

"It is contrary to the fact that the BHB) respect for human rights and inhumane law, the AFP showed the direct violation of the rules and showed the distress of the rules in the launch of a race which is being verified," said the KP.

"In the taking of the peace talks in NDFP and the lack of disconcerns in the agreement, it seems that the Marcos regime seems to have been dismissed by the AFP to not be able to implement martial law in the CAAP) and has no reaction to the legislative chamber," said the KP.

"It is considered by the KP, that the CAAP) is a crazy agreement that should respect the rights of civilians and citizens who are protected from the international law," said PKP, "while the armed arguments will be increased, the CAAP) will be more needed.

"In taking care of the peace talks, it is important that the Aquino administration wants to use the CAYETANO."

"The PKP has made the proper decision to continue the peace talks that should continue the peace talks based on the principle set by the The Humalig), including Joint Task Agreement (NGO) and Joint Task Agreement (NGO).
