
For the town?

In a few hours before the Air Force Police Officer President Barack Obama of the United States, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is signed, the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) is signed by the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to strengthen the ability of the Philippines, and against terrorism, human and drug lords.
But like what is expected, while it was in Malacañang, the group of protesters and policemen in Mendiola will fight in Malacañang, while the EDCA will sell the Philippines, the Philippines will sell the Philippines and in favor of America.
Obama's visit will also be criticized because there is no clear statement from the President of America that he will defend the Philippines with the conflict involving China's bullying of China and the latter's jurisdiction of 200 million pesos in the Philippines.
I want to ask the people who express their resolve to the issues that we should thank you because the opposition of those who are criticizing him is not a joke but those who are criticizing him are not a joke but there is no concrete solution to happen. "
If the group of critics does not want to be used to the Philippines, included in the country with things and skill to be able to defend our country, what are their alternative ways to defend our country, what are their alternative ways to defend our country, what are their alternative ways to protect our country in pushing for the war.
If the government needs to accommodate the small fund of the ship of the Navy, and we will buy-term as a puppy of the Philippines, we can remember that there is a president of the Philippines in the current time that there is no one to be recognized as a puppy of the Philippines in the current time that there is no one to be taken away by the Americans in the current time that there is no one who was burned because of the Americans who have been burned.
Whose "
Their fear and suspicion in "true" the purpose of EDCA will be the appropriate explanation, but what do they want to ask for help, to whom they want to ask for help?
It would be better for America to be signed, but it is contrary to the view of others who say that the Philippines will benefit more than a country, and if you will only benefit from being a country? And if you will only benefit, it should be the one to be united in order to be worthy of an agreement?
If it is being used to a country, our ability to defend our country against the stronger foreign businessmen are used to rob and destroy those who are patriotic and pro-Philippines to prevent those who are patriotic and pro-Philippines to block the interest of the majority of citizens.
Let us be observant, for the country, who is the interest in pushing this kind of resolve, is it not showing any concern for the country, if it is not boastfulness, the endorsement of our security and will be refused to receive help?
