Christmas bonus.

Maroons Tucuran.
Every Christmas, I have been used to each other.
I have no memories of a happy Christmas since father died because it was just a few years ago, that it was like Christmas day, that it seems that this is a day of grieving for things that have passed, things that were never returned.
I will be alone during Christmas, since my father's family felt, I was always celebrating the Noche Buena that their family is leaving every Christmas, and not in the house.
That is why I am not wondering why during the entry of December, I do not feel Christmas, aside from the heat of the weather, I do not have any plan to ride in bazaars and malls to paddle towards a Christmas season.
And I am also ready to go home again, "that is if you did not arrive.
We have known each other for a few months before, when we were together for a few months before, and now, super-typhoon Pablo has been used to each other, but as long as I take advantage of the days using accidents, but isn't it that way?
I started courting October, two months ago, and last night, I asked when you did not answer, just like when you are always joking when you are joking, "like all of those who have arrived before you, you have done again what is not expected.
Today.
I can't remember what I wanted to say after you said that, as long as I remember, you held a tight hand and hugged me after a few moments, we walked in the middle of the road, which seems we have been mystified by the night.
Until now, I still cannot think that I am already in a relationship with me, that I still don't want to smile every time I remember that you cannot just accept it, "or a gift I should not accept, but I still cannot accept it but I still arrived.
However, their fear is still there, everyone is afraid to have a dream, and after a while, all of these have to wake up and again return to the Christmas season because their love should not be finished.
Because of you, it seems that my feelings for Christmas will change, I can remember that this is the time when you get a new memory, and will meet all of my dreams, before everything for me, and I know that all of my experiences are replaced with you.
This coming Christmas, it seems that I will not be alone.
