
Fight the face-mindedness of the US in the Philippines.

Guide de Guia.
Invest in Southern Tagalog.
October 10, 2013.

The thorough investigation of the US on the Pacific Ocean is continuing to ruin the country on Asia-Pacific Ocean, on August 29-30, the Defense Secretary of the US Secretary Kerry, the Secretary of State of the US will arrive in the country, Barack Obama, in all the scheduled visit to the countries in Asia.

Like before, the country's visit to Benigno Aquino III is sure that the purpose of the visit of Kerry to strengthen the country's visit to the Philippines is worse, but the Philippines itself is allowed to protect the Philippines from the US for using us for the political development being transferred to the entire Asia-Pacific Ocean.

In the new military agreement, the Aquino administration has been the legality of the American troops and vehicles in the station of the US for several times by the American troops in some provinces and the equipment of the American troops in some provinces in the ocean of the country.

It has been a long time for the American troops that were released by the American troops in the southern part of the Philippines in South China Sea, which is being used by the US as a powerful country in Asia, which is being used by the US as a powerful country in Asia, which is being used by the US against the country of Cavite.

There is no reason that the Philippines will be able to get an agreement with the agreement that it is always a part and it is imposed on the interest of the US in other countries, even if the Philippines is being dragged by the American troops in other countries, according to the continuous work of the American troops and facilities in any US.

In the visit of Kerry, the widespread action should be lessened in order to inform about the voices of the citizens of the US and the Philippines, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (Southern Tagalog Region, the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (Southern Tagalog Region, including the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (Southern Tagalog Region, including the National Democratic Front of the Philippines.
