Who did I do earlier if it was not raining.
It is raining slowly, just like a few moments just to pass by.
A moment.
It seems that only a way to us is the strength of the rain here, but until now it is still raining, but until now, there is no small rain, but until now, only a few are not allowed to enter the house which can be seen here in the house that we have entered.
Why are you right now?
You are applying for a while you are applying for a long time now.
Only here, I am going to go to the road.
Just a ear to you, because, what kind of age is, he / she doesn't want you to be the only ones who are proud and to get tired.
That's why he / she was feasted in.
"They are asking about what they are asking about the people who are proud of the people, who are proud; we have no yes, wait for a long wait for the meantime, but why are we so that we can hear yes," why did you hear yes.
He / she grew up; very fur, what if Jojo said she has a girlfriend, brother.
Is that true?
They, Ben Underwood, very small, very fuck; Jay-Jay has a girlfriend.
I just do not know.
Because in the past, they are only fooling Jojo with a girlfriend.
What is the reason of this when they are drinking in the street; he / she went home to the evening, how can he go home to a resort that is why they have been able to say anything on the motor.
I was not yet allowed to go home to school; he was able to go home; we watched it, that's why he was very drunk that's why he was very drunk.
That's why we are very pitiful; we went to the streets; we went to the streets; we went to school; when we ran outside, we ran outside.
"He / she was able to look straight and to the letter of the children, that is when I was able to go directly to him, because when we were drunk, he / she didn't want to go straight to me, he / she didn't want to go back to him when he was very drunk; he / she didn't want to go back to a very drunk; he / she didn't want to go back to a very drunk; he / she didn't want to go home without being ill-tempered; he / she didn't want to go back to me, which is why he / she didn't want to go home because he / she was very drunk; he / she didn't want to go home because he / she was very intoxicated.
There are those who have been there in Parañaque Medical Center; we were able to go there right now, isn't he there?
She is in Parañaque for Parañaque.
Instead of living in a noodle house; he / she didn't live like that, that's why he's working that's why he's working.
"We rarely came home here, and I also read Joel who is also not here who is Joel who is also a cowards."
They responded.
I am still very lucky that they're tenants in the streets; we are renting with someone who are rude to you, those who are rude to him, but they just go there, but he just goes to the driver, he / she goes to the driver.
He / she grew up; he / she was the driver, she is a driver.
