The war against the people failed.

By Kenneth Roland A. Guda.
10, 2014.

The native Manobo tribe in Tutok-asa, Davao del Norte last May 2011, was after a month of Mahogany (BTAC), because of their bad action to object to the attack of the military, they went back to their community. KR Guda.
Every administration has launched a war against insurgency, "to the true war against the fading citizens.
In the case of President Aquino, this is Oplan LS.
Even if the severe violation of human rights in the previous regime was not yet solved, Aquino intensified the attack of the military in the community in the countryside, and continued the killings and kidnapping, and the citizens continued, through taking advantage of the cases and those who were assigned to them.
Every administration which launched a war against the citizens, failed this year, in the start of the second chapter in Oplan Galugad of Aquino, the groups of human rights that he will also fail.
A human rights worker has appealed to the military in Compostela Valley to leave the community of farmers there, and of course, the soldiers were able to leave the footage from January 2014 when the soldiers refused.
New plan, old tactics.
When Aquino made the Oplan Galugad last 2011, he said it was different from the previous "counter-governmental organization."
According to the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) before, the Oplan Tokhang's strategy is also given to the path of fighting against the current political system, as well as the programs of the AFP in Oplan Tokhang "that the peace of the AFP to Oplan Tokhang was given a victory," said that peace will not only defeat the enemy. "
Softdrinks out or "showing a sheep and the Philippine National Police (PNP).
The previous administration received an intense criticism on the widespread violation of human rights under its own "war against insurgency" which is Oplan Bantay, which has been the killings and kidnapping of civilians, colonization of the military and filing of cases against leaders who are progressive.
The United Nations, the European Union, international human rights are criticized, and other international institution is the government of Arroyo of his abuse on human rights that's why he promised to take care of human rights that's why he decided to take care of human rights.
The farmers are pointing out from the province of Quezon to condemn the alleged widespread violation of human rights that will be brought by the severe violation of Macky Oryang.
!
But in the first stages, from 2011 to 2013, it is clear that the Oplan LS has no difference in the past "war against insurgency."
If the confiscation of Aquino will be included in the implementation of Oplan Bantay, Laya II (July until December 2010), according to Karuhatan, 179-9 cases of attempted murder) and 570 were said to have been arrested and 570 were arrested and burned.
In spite of this, the AFP himself admitted that the Oplan LS is failed.
July 2013, the forehead said that the AFP Chief of Staff Gen. Ricardo Bautista said that whatever the number of members of the SEA Games (NPA) is already retiring, it also became a quarrel because of the number of those who are taking advantage of it in different provinces of the country.
Bautista said that the Oplan Galugad started, that up to P45,( which is very small as well as the real number of NPA, according to many experts), on July 2013, Bautista said that more than 4,000 are still more than 4,000.
Bautista is one of the famous architect of Oplan LS.
Karl explained, it is clear to the people that there is a basis for the fighting against the current administration and there is still widespread, poverty is still widespread, poverty and big players of the farmers and big players of the country will still be experienced in the economy and politics of the country.
And because of politicians who spend politicians, the citizens are going to fight to defend himself and push for their interest who is oppressed and being raped.
When the soldiers of the Philippine Army were arrested in a community of poor cities in Palo, Leyte, a few days before the first year anniversary of the devastation of typhoon Yolanda. KR Guda.
New chapter.
Even if the failure is clear, Bautista said that before he retired, the government is scheduled to achieve the target to complete the revolutionary movement in 2016.
So, in the entry of 2014, under the new AFP Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Gregorio Pio Catapang Jr., the forces of the state will be increased by its war "against insurgency."
In the entry of 2014, there have been successive murders in a worker in Sorsogon, a farmer in Hacienda Dolores, Pampanga (where there is a conflict between the farmers and Leonardo-KMU) and Ayala Land), and an estimate number who have been killed by the suspected military.
The AFP identified the Sorsogon and Compostela Valley as a few of the priority area of Oplan Tokhang.
"When the government of Aquino and the AFP were able to catch up, said that Cristina Palabay, general secretary of Karylle, said that, and along with the end of the peace talks by the government and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), the military troops attacked the said priority area.
The groups of human rights in front of Camp Aguinaldo to condemn the arrest of the Armed Forces of "tanim bala" General Jovito Palparan.
Particularly the operations conducted by the military in different parts of Mindanao, there are five division in Mindanao, or more than half of the entire force of the AFP and Northern Mindanao and Northern Mindanao and the armed group used by military and armed groups using the military in going to war.
For the group of human rights, to the said priority areas, it is possible that there are big mining applications or the planned widespread mining sites that is why the AFP will serve as protection against Del Monte and DOLE who are taking advantage of a poisonous chemical in the plantation.
Despite this, the indigenous people and the farmers in Mindanao shown that they are ready to fight for their rights.
The evacuees showed that hundreds of Manobo tribe from Tutok-asa, Davao del Norte last May 2014, we are ready to fight for our land and livelihood, we are ready to fight our land and livelihood even if the military is still being prepared for the widespread brownout in Pantabangan, a Virgin Mary, in the part of Tutok-Manobo tribe.
Last March 2014, Jorge "Ka Orch" Madlos, spokesperson of the National Democratic Front (NDF) - Mindanao, said that the failures of the Oplan Galugad conducted in Mindanao will surely have an opportunity to kill the fire in Visayas and Luzon, to kill the fire in the regions here," said Oryang.
In the process of murder of the fire, "the violation of human rights, according to him.
A young Lumad treated his dream of a peaceful community.
It is impossible to travel.
In front of the increase of abuse, the different community of the indigenous people launched the indigenous people of the indigenous people, together with the natives of masses in Mindanao, of "Manila's town of Mindanao.
This is a long time fight or trip by the indigenous people, farmers and other presidentiable sector from Mindanao to Manila to give attention to the public to give attention to the public on intense abuse of the military in Mindanao.
Included here is the murder of Henry Alonte, Brgy. San Isidro, Livni, Surigao del Sur last October 24, in front of his house, they saw the elements of 2nd Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army patrolling in the area.
An active member of Malahai Humalig), a group of Lumad, is a group of Lumad, Alampuenga, led by Mapait na's suspension of illegal mining and version of land in Caraga.
On the day, Alameda was murdered by the suspected military as a resident of Barangay San Lorenzo in the same place.
Before this, last October 12, a indigenous people and his son were killed in New Bataan, Compostela Valley, admitted by the Eastern Mindanao Command of the AFP that they confronted Rolando Dagatan, 43, and his son Juda, 15.
These killings were signal of the severity of the military in the community of the native Manobo tribe in Lireo.
Last was the case of Livni in the 83 cases of murder of activists, leaders of indigenous people and sentiments of the environment in September and October only except for almost 500 civilians who were charged with "actions of the military and corporation.
Brought by Manila's town, this case is a proof of the cruelty of the Oplan Galugad conducted by more than 300 people from Mindanao to Manila, they passed through Eastern Visayas, where they also experienced justice and rehabilitation of one year after typhoon Yolanda hit.
The Lumad are against mining and other projects that were stolen by their natural resources to their native lands.
Manila's town also passed through Bicol and Southern Tagalog, which also included in the acty area of Oplan LS.
According to Bicol, there is a 52 case of murder of activists and civilian who were recorded by groups for human rights because of this, they launched their own campaign against the proliferation of the masses in Bicol to give different activities to the employees of the military there.
Upon arriving at Bicol, the contestants in Manila Film Festival, they launched different activities and protests to organize what is happening in Mindanao and Bicol.
Meanwhile, when it comes to the southern part of Manila Bay, the contestants in Manila Development Assistance Fund) are included in the municipal hall and human rights violation, in front of the station of Southern Luzon Command (UVR 984) of AFP from Lucena City.
In the process of traveling from Mindanao to Manila, they have shown that the war against insurgency and their repression to the sake of the citizens is failed.
