Be strong in Pag-asa.

The good suggestion is already an assurance, but it is not a reason not to let them know, if everything will benefit.

How can you have a good life? Here is the answer: Be strong and has conviction for whatever travel to your mind, if you do not follow your mind, you will continue to be focused on your mind, you will easily forget and forget your promises.

It is better if you have faith and faith in yourself if you have something to do or stand, this is the one who gives you life and makes you happy to fulfill all your dreams.

The goal of a Filipino, real Filipinos, is given a good life and spirit of being a good Filipino, in mind, in words, and in actions as the Queen of Isnani, shrimp, and patriotic.

The mission.

Freedom to talk with the truth - aside from the improvement of progress - prosperity - the new hope that matter to our history and heroes - a new hope that comes to our history and heroes - the best thing to happen to the proper service - the best that is ready to stop.

For the illness, food that may be resolved in Balanga in earth is a good state of course, which is why the life is traveling in the glory - noon.

You are patriotic and having a relationship with your co-workers who would make sure that you have the importance and giving of your knowledge to make sure that all your ability will be pleasant to all of your studies and continue to improve the heart and improvement of your heart and to show your heart and to show your heart, because your glory is here, because your glory is here.

My praying for this is what I heard from my parents and now I continue to give my children to my parents and now that I continue to finish my children from the book of Areas well, of our hero Francisco Baltazar, who initiated the right hand-raising of my children.

The size of what is huge.

To be kind and luckily, in the decision, I am lacking.

This is a bitter result of the wrong that you have done.

The parents are pitiful for couples.

With the baptism of the youngest's youngest.

The child of the child is looking.

Some are probably because of the negligence.

When a lazy parents need to be lazy.

Today, this principle is a big help as long as we are in supporting and raising our children, we can do all of our homes and you will face a strong foundation of their minds, there is a strong foundation in their minds, there is no crooked or equal attitude that will join them.

As parents, it is our duty to correct and lead their desire to see and finish their studies, but for the formation of their real personality, this depends on their own hands.

The best sermon to all; is your own life.
