
The people who witnessed the Ampatuan massacre are among those who witnessed the Ampatuan massacre.

It is time to let the principle of law to be in position for all the witnesses against the accused of the heinous Ampatuan massacre.
In relation to this, Bro, of the-year-old suspect who is Andal Ampatuan, Junior, and Suaytono, they were riding a motorcycle in order to meet their lawyer in Shariff Aguak.
Joven died while having a deep injury.
There is still no idea why she memorized his condition or she is safe while being treated in the hospital.
Grace Poe.
The higher position, Bro, is taking the court's testimony while they are still alive and there is still no trial in the case that involved and there may be an evidence in the time that the trial will be done.
It is being made into a higher position to those who have witnessed or whatever is related to the case that is in danger or maybe for the financial situation, it will be a hindrance to achieve the price hike and justice to the court.
It became clear that the meaning of the position is clear, for example, Senator Miriam Defensor-Santiago said that Janet Lim-Napoles will court her in the middle of the threats to their lives as a witness or accused of 113 million pesos in front of the Priority Development Assistance Fund, Malhmir region and Disbursement Acceleration Program.
The danger in the life of Tapilan's life has happened.
He memorized that those who survived the ambush should not court her.
Other witnesses should also be brought to the case in making a higher position in front of what happened to die and memorized it.
Democratic oligarchy dominates.
The affidavit, Bro, even if the witnesses, are accused and accused, there is no value until it is not for the examination of the court.
For those who are calling the direct examination of the cross examination and its direct examination, the truth will come out and the truth will come out in the affidavit.
But for the higher position, there are all truth and there is no trace of lies on the statements of the witness, accused and accusing.
That is why the witness needs to be under a higher position, accused and he is accusing or become gay days to other reasons in relation to the Ampatuan massacre.
Those who are witness.
How many have been killed in relation to this case?
There are some who are and last are the cases of choking and memorized it.
If the trial in the case will not last long, even in the level of the regional trial court, it is not impossible for all the witnesses to run out, especially those who are the key to finally identify and punished those who have responsibilities in the massacre.
Where will this case be, if all the witnesses will die and are accusing before having the RTC to have enough basis or evidence in releasing a decision?
It is true that there are other evidences such as bad things or document so against the accused.
But the personal statement of the witnesses is very important especially in the things or issues that cannot be used by the evidences and documents.
Personal knowledge and teaching of the witness to those who have done the crime has nothing to hide and no trace of lies, is the strong evidence that is the basis for the just and new decision.
Action!
We wish in the court by Judge Jocelyn Sanchez-Reyes to conduct a higher position to all the witnesses and if he wants, to the accused and accused him to serve as a huge evidence in the trial.
For now, there is a case related to Mindanao and it appears that the killings are happening here.
But the killing or death may also happen even if in Metro Manila, there is a charge on case.
And because he could not endure the trial, the higher position would be more needed.
Judge Solis and Reyes, the ball is on you.
You need to do this to make sure that what you will make in the last days will not make it right.
Well, it's action!
