Band- Nallero, launched in Palawan the department of the agriculture sector.

September twenty 1, 2016.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, September twenty 1 (Pia) was launched a day before yesterday by the department of the agriculture sector in Palawan led by Regional Executive Director Atty. Cipriano G. Santiago.

This was done in Palawan State University (Police U) Gymnasium.

This launch is also the support of Bira RTEL.

The Philipines must be chosen by the Philippines of Palawan which is the province of Palawan which led to this activity because of it having a "Brown's Lapian ng mga Bayani," according to Doctor Marissa Romero.

In this challenge, the DA targets to collect P100 million pesos to gather sweet rice that would be given to prevent the institution that is helping the poor in Palawan last November.

In the launch of this challenge, Erry Padilla explained a celebrity of GMA-7 and the ambassador of the DA of foolishness of brown sugar which can count the following steps.

First, cook the house or order of brown sugar in your favorite table.

Second, take a picture and post on social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Third, put this kind of dollars, number Bira WN4, and number 1 billion pesos and challenge that it will also be done.

According to the DA, every $h summer is equivalent to 100 grams of brown sugar that will be gathered through the day of launch, August 30, 2016 and will last until October 31, 2016.

The launch is attended by the students from the indigenous people and college, rice harvests and Calers, owners of the cts, hotel and corn, farmers, and employees from the local government.

According to Doctor Romero of the PhilRice, they want to patronize the brown sugar because there are nutrients that we can use and to avoid having different diseases like cancer and diabetes.

According to him, through the consumption of brown sugar, we can help the farmers in order to free their production, and they will be able to help the children who are proud to be healthy.
