Filibusterismo are now included in the critical condition of women and revolution.

By Rolando B.
April 16, 2012.

She takes time with Ka Oryang (Lot Less Dalena, 2011.
Ka Oryang is known to be the famous nickname of Andres Bonifacio, the wife of Andres Bonifacio, who was included in his duty to be famous and killed by Andres Ordep, and when he was arrested, Ka Oryang is being talkative and killed to be able to get married with Julio Alonte, who was arrested and killed in the country.
The movie of Barangay Dalena, Ka Oryang, is the modern state of international airport, and time of the law by de Jesus. Premiere - and it's the time of the law to protest against the movement of the movement of Traels, together with the sake of the people while giving birth to his immediate death.
"

There is an attempt to hit the movement of the movement of women in the waves of politics in the university and the country that next scene is a white-tempered events in Diliman, dispersal order and death of the primary personnel (race of Albee de Rossi).
Suddenly, the law's declaration of military is red and red, and the scene in Christmas season and mountains can be found again, now they are aware that the staff of Ka Oryang is taking advantage of the sweet sweat and members of Hangbo.
This deceit of a woman who became aware and saved the primary life of a woman who became aware and suffered in the state of events (BTAC): Which can be considered as a hundred thousand pesos in the state of events, was given more obligation as a burden for the pregnancy, giving birth, becoming a mother while trying to defend but the woman?
The failure and negative conservation of the film fest season is a sign that the quality of life of an ordinary woman who became aware is not only unique but the last shot of Ka Oryang is going to die while the last shot was the attack of the baby, while the baby was crying and crying.
If Ka Oryang is not dead, there is no interrogation who will happen to anything that will happen, because there are many women who are going to commit suicide, because there are still a lot of women who are going to make the state of Ka Oryang, why there are still a lot of women who are going to make the state of the state of the whole present?
The lairs of students who are Sheraine Costales, and Karen Emano, are just a few of the medical team in Batangas Provincial Jail, which is indication that if the revolution remains to live and continue to live in the mountains of the state, it is possible that he had no hope to live and continue to live-in the state of the state.
It is important that Ka Oryang is an important movie in the interview of Dalston in the revelation of the lady Moral (Marilou Diaz) in 1982), no movie that has been attempted to do such as a type of women but also in the gate of his courage.
If women are brave, trying to make it inside and become a case of care for the children and families or those who are ready to die, or to the current resolution of the state of the state, the remaining bastion of the state, the remaining bastion of the state, and life has been killed by power.
That's why only life in the struggle is remains of the truth of the revolution.
