"Whmmmp!

By Tomas, Santos - May 12, 2015.

For giving importance to language, it's the appreciation of the people for their identities.
This is the primary objective in the back of the launch of the WILIsmol Family, a small project of the Presidential Communications Development Authority (SES) in Facebook that started last August last year as a celebration of the moon, and they continue to borrow from more than fifty million pesos.
The name of the project was laid on the combined words, "said," and "Tuwid na Daan" because this is in a Kalawaan and clarification on the Filipino language who wants to file a pillow for the meaningful course of course.
In one personal interview with Bombo Radyo Casimiro, writers, Filipino of the PCISPO, WILIGAA, the intention of the project was started when he saw his desire to release the right thing which caused him to look at and charged the comprehensive program compared to what he saw.
In total of the celebration of the month of language, it was considered that the Anti-Anti-ABB) released the PCDPS which quickly spread online so after the end of August, the WIsmol Family also had their own pages.
Aside from this, Casanas gave a chance to continue his project until the term of the current administration due to an unexpected supporting of people from the distress.

He will face a mistake.

With the wish of the PCDPS which was more than the credibility of the pages, their office is coordinating with the filipino language who immediately gave support to the project by giving an additional council of Casallo to research first before it was released from the official pages.
However, it is still not safe from the question and criticisms of the WIOS in spite of supporting the majority.
Casallo stated that they are naturally hardheaded that their minds will not be open to the father of the wrong knowledge and change what has been used to.
"There are a lot of wrong things that the father needs to do, what is the meaning of having a scholar if the result of what they are educated will not be listened to, because it's scary, because the Filipinos' culture of being smart," he said.

Fight the language.

On the issue of the arguments of the Filipino and English, Casallo insisted that they do not need to buy from the two.
He said, it is not an enemy of Filipino in English, because this is only one wrong mind that is usually a result of the issue about the most important importance of Filipinos who should learn and speak a filipino language more than his own language.
He added that it cannot be denied that other language should learn more, particularly the English order to improve the world, but this is not a reason to leave the Filipino language.
"It is important to learn in English so that you will have a fight against the international issue, but before you will be complacent, you need to become subservient, because at the end, there is no need to learn from it," he said.
Aside from English, Casallo also stressed that they are not losing their native language in the country because it is part of the lives and identities of the Filipinos.
"It is seen in the language how the people look at your life, you will know why it is important to learn other language aside from his own language, you have another recognition in the world and the truth is coming," he said.
