
Nevertheless, it means that the removal of this action from a person is being ignored, particularly against a person who is negligent, cruel or involved in the dirty corruption, and lack of proper service to the lead or to the people.
There are a lot of people from different countries that are being taken from different countries, the cruelty and negligence of the people, especially the dictator who has been in the Middle East, Berlin, Italy and it was too late in the Middle East, Hosni Mubarak and Moalmar Kathleen in Libya and many others.
In our country, the removal of former President Ferdinand E. Marcos cannot be erased because of his cruel leadership, corruption and cruelty to the citizens, most of all, when he needs martial law.
There are his care for those who are taking a cratic.
That is why, last February 1986, the people were filled with the forces of the military, the Reform of Armed Forces Agreement (Ram), which led to the former Minister of Defense, Juan Ponce Enrile by the former Minister of Defense Secretary Juan Ponce Enrile.
It's just a few days left behind in Camp Crame, the leader of the people, was forced to leave the Marcos family from Malacañang.
That is also what happened to the former President and now, Manila City Mayor Joseph Estrada who is more known in the call of Eve because of his much cooperation with his friends, friends and friends, who are all opportunists, and there is the amount of allegations of corruption and stealing from the country's funds.
Billions of pesos were also involved in the whole case against him, just a few days of action, he was defeated by the town of any filthiness of what happened, removal of it.
In our social media, now, the call of deported back against BS Aquino III. Many are being thrown against BS Aquino III, many are being thrown against BS Aquino III, many are the issues being thrown against the President.
According to the Commission on Audit (COA), there is a high level of 400 percent compared to the past administration, in addition to the destruction of service to the calamity, his shortcomings is deep so that if he will not take action, the solution will be done?
