
Frankly: What happened?
By Ellen Tordescription of August 1, 20162394-NUCD-Twitter last Monday, to his State-tandem of the Nation Address, applauded by President Rodrigo Duterte after he announced the said protest against the NPA rebels (CPP-NPA-NDF) immediately.
Why did not end the week when the agreement was taken back and fighting again?
In the said area said by Duterte in his SONA, he said that the war has no agreement with the CPP-NPA / NDF.
Even if they do not have an agreement in said place, we expected that a lot of view will be expected "by the CPP-NPA / NDF which will give a good taste, and goodness will be brought back.
But on May 27 in the morning, according to the military, according to the military, it was going to Sitio Pasil, Barangay Hungitan, the NPA attacked Davao del Norte after they were ambushed in Sitio Sebba (34, Southern Mindanao Regional Committee.
One CAFGU and Armed Forces Geosciences Bureau) was killed and three were wounded.
He said that he is expecting the NDF-NDF but no one came out last Thursday.
Jose Ma. Sison said the leader of the CPP in Netherlands for the past 30 years, that they waited for the order of the military and the police in the killing of the military and the police declared in the military and the military.
But there are still a lot of issues that are not clear to them like the privatization of the community of Lumad by that, according to him, it is said that they will not fight, but when it's for show, they will fight.
There is a different version of the military and the NPA in what happened in Davao del Norte last Wednesday.

Meanwhile, the visitors of the military continues to explain his decisions and programs especially when talking with the NPA rebels, in China and his war against illegal drugs.
Last Friday, he went to the camp in Asuncion, Davao del Norte.

He visited the wake of relatives who died.
That is where he said that he gives ultimatum at the CPP-NPA / NDF) to declare the said city on Saturday (July 30) so that he will declare a said ceasefire, if not, he will take back his declared ceasefire.
When he was not able to eat at night, he retracted his declaration.
The CPP said, they would have declared that they are going to have said that they are going to evacuate the fourth night.
Sison said that it should be Duterte who should learn to get hot-tempered because he / she has a very hot head, he said to his former student.
But according to him, the discussion on August 20 in OPLAN or, Norway will continue.
That's why peace is still hope.
