Irma, password, of the millennials, By, Ginger RL-October 21, 2016.
Social media and cellphone are said to be considered a sign of the millennials.
"That is the complaint of most parents to their children because even if they are in front of them, their children are being crushed on the cellphone.
As said by Benjie Paras, who is part of the new program Tell PS of tape, we asked to be in a copy of the Kennon Road and My Bae, together with other millennials, who was seen with his son Andre Paras and Kobe Paras, who were also seen by his son Andre Paras and Kobe Paras.
"I can see all of them because they have only one cellphone.
"When I saw that kind of youth especially when you are eating a restaurant in a restaurant, she is holding the gadget that was holding the gadget that was held as Basti, PAre all of the world, Benjie answered.
He already accepted the youth now, like what his parents said before.
Just go back now and he is the one saying it to his children.
Meanwhile, one of the cast of Tropas is Irma, who is also a parent.
It is good that his children are obedient.
Even if they have social media accounts, they are already controlled.
He / she said that she also had a 17-year-old maid who is also the millennials and the high school school before holding a cellphone.
She was allowed to make her Facebook account, but she has to know password because she is 18 years old.
"Povidine's," I was the "Can ally, even asked for his knowledge.
"As long as the rule, the Con-up of Facebook will take the top of Facebook but, dad, the" Campbell anytime we can check in a check, "Irma, stated.
He only had a check on the account of her child and she saw the cylinder tube of her child and as a mother, she was the first one who left.
"According to him, because you do not know who is talking to him, then you do not know what is happening between them," Irma said.
That is why whatever is her child's cellphone, she knows that she can open whatever he wants.
It is just a few of the experiences of parents who have children to millennials.
This is part of the stories of young stars of TIDPS which can be watched on Monday morning before the Eat Bulaga in GMA 7.
