
Who will be next?

After destroying the name and personality of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Senator Jinggoy Estrada, Juan Ponce Enrile and Vice President Jejomar Binay, who would be the next enemy of President Benigno Aquino III?
Anyway, President Aquino is not the only one who wishes for the Liberal Party but also the Nacionalista Party of Alan Cayetano are also meddling because they know many will be involved in 2016 election.
Similar to this, the strong the concept of fight in politics now in the Philippines remains.
What is happening to me is that what is happening now in politics in the Philippines, but of course, needs to spend big money.
That's why the names of Manny Pangilinan, one of the biggest businessmen in the country, is one of the biggest businessmen in the country, in the field of politics, that's why the politicians can target the good name and image to the people?
Naturally, this person will not just bring peace if he will fight with those in a position, because aside from his good allies, it has a ability to hit whoever is not good to him, which is why the politicians should know that Pangilinan is going to attend C 5 and Philippine Star.
But Pangilinan was really the one who will run in the election?, what if only MVP is not allowed?
Which is why who would be the next to be destroyed by the Aquino administration to those in the position which is known to be a threat to whichever candidate of the Palace for the 2016 elections?
It is possible that Senator Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos is possible?
Although the Marcos family and Aquino are severe enemies, it's as if PNoy attacked Bongbong?
Even if it is against the child of the child, Aquino will be brought to his territory by the Marcos dictatorship when he ran for a senator under Brgy. Genine Opposition in 2007, he was not able to do anything but follow the request of former President Joseph Estrada and the entire party because the elderly knows how to identify the senator.
In other words, the president of the Philippines does not know how to be indebted to because he always find a hole on the laws implemented by Mayor Estrada which is for the improvement of his jurisdiction.
It looks like the next chapter on the steps of Malacanang is on who will be the next victim of defamation.
Hopefully PNoy will follow the name and character of the people who destroy his words and promises to the people, "Daang Matuwid" what his administration is taking.
Hopefully, the president / she thought that all the instigation and whispers are destroying his image, that's why he might be able to go down from his position but no one is happy with him except for those who benefited from them.
