Port traffic, blame for the downfall.

The traffic congestion or constricted streets of Manila were helped in the decrease of the importation of the country in two consecutive months from May until June.
The data from the Philippine Statistics Authority is showing up to 35.6 percent of $30,000 pesos 15 billion which is importation last June from the $80s billion pesos in the said month in 2013.
It can also be seen in the record that the importation of 4 percent in the past May.
The continuous increase was seen on the importation of the leading business such as Industrial Subdivision, electronic gadgets, and other food and life which is damn "in June.
When the reports spread in abroad, whoever businessmen are only natural to worry about the classes of products or business in the Philippines, if there is no assurance that it will rise from Customs.
There are still a few reasons for the current crisis implemented by the Bureau of Customs (BoC), included in the anti-graft case by Customs Deputy Commissioner Jessie Dellosa and he stole a widespread "alert in orders" to thousands thousand pesos and one thousand pesos.
Another reason for the constricted streets of the pier of Manila that cannot be ignored is the implementation of the LTFRB in relation to the franchise of the syndicate that has no permission to run, along with the strict punishment which is waiting if they were caught.
The delay in the products being brought by the products was due to the policy of the LTFRB and the implementation of Mayor Joseph Estrada by the truck ban in Manila that affected the price of products and businesses.
Estrada's decision to remove the truck ban on Saturday is a good step on the implementation of the truck ban on February to solve the low flow of traffic in the city, but they admit it or not, the controversial prohibition of a constricted flow of the pier.
Its effect on the economy is ongoing while the importation are ongoing due to the lack of fear of businessmen, even the lack of favorite fried chicken for a popular tourist spots.
In addition to this, the severe traffic in North Luzon Expressway which lasted for a few hours has passed, which is believed to be, which is why President Aquino asked for apology to the commandos to investigate.
But the negative effects that is caused by the truck ban is served as the national government to pay their attention on the continuous jokes that will increase in our pier.
The process has been released and the business of the Customs should not be taken off by the Customs which should be a guarantee that it will not be a guarantee that it will not be enough, if the cargo trucks will not be given the turtle, as slow as the turtle.

Firing line / Robert B.
