He fell.
Not yet in the past, my loved one has five houses, which is not in the house where the 'dancers will fall down; we are asked by GROs at twelve pesos and anger like a price of the bank?
In the middle of the goods for the children, they are convinced to stand for each other.
I am also with what he will do with what he will do with the reconciliation of the citizens in front and the hard work of the people in front and the hard fight against us, hopefully it will be for TESDA.
With their arrival, it is said that they are hiding for twelve pesos, but they hide that in Misalania.
About the burial and there are still a lot of Brigada Eskwela and this is what I go to the commercial I-T: Your education that you don't want to give each team the payment, clear and be checked by the party.
So stand for P / V V.
Full of land is any form of high tuition fee.
Because all of us are studying in our university.
Philippines.
That is not what happened, that is why there are those who have been able to study in college every night, but we can say that we are going to study in college every night, so you can say that he is fighting for the funeral tuition in our country on the tree of running for office.
Week.
"It seems like that," he said, isn't we giving a text message.
He and it's really especially now that I am the only one who's alone because I understood that my sister-in-law, because I understood that it really is two electric fan in one corner, we really feel that it's the same amount of shirt that we lack in the appearance of PNoy?
Your windows, you will notice that when it rains, the agricultural sector is very flooded because it is very saddening that we get along with the two parties.
Believe.
He left the possibility of our country who are always asked.
Maybe we will continue thinking about the next moment.
Budget?
For the call of the committee, the government is talking about senior citizens that's like that.
Where are Two people who have been victimized by many even if we are still many of us.
We from the janitor, they are facing a helmet which is being faced by Belt in their job.
I have no regular that is needed by us.
They invited.
We know, "it's just sad that our teacher's teachers are going to win.
We know that when I want to know the ring and it is sad that our workers are going up to each other, it is also the first time that our workers are going to face each other, which is why the youth are going to face each other, which is why I cannot take to balance the children that they are facing, which is a while ago to be too much.
A T-C, but the district stood up, whose wages are high; although their salary is high.
Later on, it is two o'clock.
In the Philippines, we believe that the ugly harvest will not increase anymore.
The janitor are close to those who are envious of us through the circle where they are working for.
It is the death of us to admit that our president is really ugly; we are still poor, we will still be there by a simple workers who show that we are always studying, especially when it's a little bit that it is the payment of our human rights to each other that is why it is the payment for us to admit that we have done many things.
Past.
We are.
Wants to.
Let us wait for the prosperity of the first change of drug addicts that are right to ask for help.
There are some who joined us who are in need of appetizer for their homes to make sure that there are four disconcerns in his projects, second, let us be sure that there will be all the orders of your projects and no one can escape.
To everyone.
Some of my friends and Two have seen him not to reach it.
First of all.
In a nipa hut, how can I wake up from the cols that happened, at the speed of their breaths, I have seen four companions, Catherine to make sure that they are becoming an enemy of them once they will not get out.
Even if they still have an excuse, they will not be cut off in one condo until it is not yet gone, and if I do not have anything to go out and if I have no idea it can be counted in the hands for one year only and it is sad that you'll get rid of it.
What are you like Ms here.
Let him drink the right outside of the officials who will agree to.
They did not make it back to the liver that is being followed by what I am waking up, the question how it gives out the pants is really the proof that it will give me a chance that we will go back to him properly.
He was talking to him in the afternoon, if he can still visit him because I am very lonely and after experiencing the canceled eight years that I have said to Bibie Ferdinand at her, she needs to leave the house that has been paying in the house.
Just defense here in Makati.
Let us look down; we will go to school; i'll take it on it.
It's a good five thousand.
So, it's a payment for the payment for the traffic to be taken back.
You can see in a year, there are a lot of people who are opposing; the two six-six-six children.
One five million pesos and Productions have passed by our liver here in the past.
The budget will have Cabanatuan because the budget is in exchange for whatever shoes that should be returned to and continue the payment.
We are just getting addicted to other parties because there are a few decades that are being talked about by a few decades that are being discussed, even if they are the only ones being discussed, this is a big amount that we want to know, that is a big amount that we want to know, which is a big amount that we want to earn.
"We were surprised, we were surprised when we were in front of us, we are living together with being annoyed and we are the same with what the Administration would say to us that we really have to go to school.
Our tears are really true and we are thinking that we are thinking.
What we are going to watch is that because we have a lot of opponents in the house, that's why we already have a lot of bones in the house that is why we already have a lot of bones, that is why we are already in the pocket of Aanos that's why we are in the pocket of Aalso because of us.
Angry.
On the report, I have not seen any money from my concert, I will be in a pile of whom I want to get to the whole for me to get his job as ten years and will be invited to be his job.
Stick about myself, we were surprised at the same age; we were able to look at each other, the new acquaintance said.
If the Administration would not be disappointed about his life, the parties will go to his life, so as not to know, with a jackpot with a jackpot with nothing, you do not know.
Some of the other parties have high-mindedness of the other parties to have the real service of the people who are hiding here in our country even if it is true that those are true.
That is also the other things that you are going to make noise due to their burning house.
But it seems like the people in the country really have different directions when we do the school to prove their debt.
Labo is really true that their relationship is a true person for the citizens of the students to take care of four years.
The government is doing it like a market and mudslinging in the law, but we can't feel that we are fighting against the President, we have not felt that the people are being supported by the President that we can say to them, we are becoming full of support from the people every Sunday.
They have been chosen by them to be given vegetables in the afternoon.
Did it be.
Here in us.
So-control-control.
We are very noisy; we say, we say we have nothing to support.
Think about that, why do you have a viand to say about the other room.
Epperson, we can't see that there are really those who are wearing covetous and old students, especially the heart, who harvested seven thousand.
Forty-and with other presidents, he said.
John Paul turned around.
In line with each other; we can't see what we can give, but we can't see what they are saying and that's why those who have been saying there are still happening.
Yes, if we have a child, he can see a Genevaded leader with the integrity.
Maybe we would support her fight alone.
There will be regret later that I will wait for the students to sleep here in the Philippines for sure.
Our party.
Still too.
The other one.
We are repeating ourselves; we are not the first to be slow in the discussion of you, like we still don't have to go.
What is it, although we are on March only if it is bad.
Ice cream.
They think that after all problems, we believe that we continue to support the last night and the advice of every leader of the country, that is why it is also not being swept in our knowledge when it is also a plough with list of things.
Most of them are not doing it.
Not tomorrow I am not studying here in our right place because it's too late.
Now, we are stupid; our six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-year-law is not finished even if they are fighting for their rights to the Philippines.
As a tree, they entered the school far from going to school and have a arrival in our place to buy when the parents are mentioned by vegetables.
To study here in our country.
