
According to Umali, the projects in the last term presented.

June 22, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, June 22) the leadership of the victorious governor of Oriental Mindoro to his third and last term is the burial of the Provincial Jail in the town of Baninay), which is also stated by Glamang, Alfonso, this is the chief of Provincial Jail in the town of Banica's), according to him, the Provincial Health Organization (Commission (GAA), in the province of the capitol.

We should focus on the new position that they will build, which will lead to the governor because aside from this, the governor also mentioned the other projects that he wants to cover-up in the year 2017, the Road, Road in SMAS.

He said, according to him, he will also stay in the capital to lessen the electricity that they pay for, fix the Provincial Hospital in Brgy. Sta.

Isabel and brethren station in Brgy. Sto. Niño in the city of Calapan.

As well, the housing project is going to be started for employees of the Provincial Government and the plan to transfer the land of the government beside Oriental Mindoro Provincial Hospital (WBC).

There are flood control project that will also be done with the cooperation in the City Government of Calapan and thrown away from the evacuation centers in every town of politics, the governor said that this will not be one of the priority of the new administration because it might not be a source of the priority of the new administration because it might not be one of the priority of the new administration.

Romeo G. Infante, meanwhile, Executive Insp. Rouel Mena, Doctor Romeo G. Infante, about the capitol, for the citizens (KSM Beer), according to him to be 12, should also be given to 12 so that there would be more people who left him to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left them to become 12 so that there would be more people who left
