Do not rush and belittled the people.

In our district in barangays, it is like we are being used to fight against the words of the citizens against the government now.
Many are mad at various reasons.
It is said that the government is more inconvenience instead of helping them.
The release of this kind of feelings of the citizens should be guarded by those in power.
Maybe they can handle the canal in power.
Brgy.
During the time of Miss Gloria, pushed for the barangay business.
In this barangay business, the capital, income and expenses, be free from taxes.
Their story, as long as you get appropriate documents in the barangay, it is okay now.
That is why, there is a debt of gratitude for the Indians or the banks who lend money for several thousand pesos.
There are those who are worried that this is one of them who are from the barangay and they are pleading to create products and how they can take advantage of it.
There also built various stores that really have small capital.
If your capital is not enough for 10,000 pesos, just get a mayor's permit and barangay permits to succeed.
That's why Mother leader is very popular and many other things that will be given to small jobs and serving as extension of the public service.
Pay taxes.
Now, no matter how light your business is, the BIR will be sleepy.
You need to apply a certificate of Registration Authority BIR, of course, there is a payment for it and there are still many expenses since it comes to the BIR until you end your papers.
What is painful, in the provinces, there are only one or two to the office of the BIR, and this is an effective place for many towns.
If there is a 24 towns in a province, it would be replaced by all the same BIR Office to get a certificate of Registration Authority) for a long time before it is issued.
Here is the painful thing, if you say that you have started it even if there is no BIR certificate, be penalized.
If there is a receipt to your business, you will do a receipt and additional expenses.
You are not yet in the start of business, you are able to borrow money from the BIR only.
They are going to be a tricycle driver and operators who earn 100 pesos each one inside a day, it is the tax of the BIR.
There is no loss because of the BIR, as long as you earn, you need to pay.
And here the small citizens are very angry that they work hard to live so that they will not be a problem of the government.
Fine and punishment.
But the BIR is not the only problem of small citizens and businessmen.
It has also become a problem now when the Land Transportation Office (Land Transportation Office and Land Transportation and chuckled the Regulatory Commission.
The 1,000 pesos worth of small traffic enforcers are gone to 150 to 1,000 pesos and will increase the P1,000 to 10,000 pesos up to 10,000 pesos if it will be repeated.
It is a different matter of course the colorum vehicles that should be removed from the streets, many speculations that are officials of the government and this are the strong things going to the streets.
Yesterday, we already mentioned it to ultimatum.
Wash the LGUs.
The local government units also have their own policies, including the similar to Metro Manila Development Authority and those in the highway.
It is also very expensive and other punishment to motorists who are being attacked by them.
That is why, if the LTO and LTFRB arrested you, traffic enforcers and MMDA may join.
You will experience the downfall of the heavens here on earth.
The government is like a very big gang who will give you happiness and will bring you in extreme hunger.
Who would not go hungry in the height of a fine and length of time by the driver's driver?
Who operators are not going to go bankrupt because of the destruction of their franchise and is very slow?
Height.
Also accompanied by Bro, the increase in price of all goods.
From gasoline and diesel up to the food, along with rice.
If the government sets the alleged harassment of the motorists, including the price of petroleum products, this is becoming stupid in controlling the basic commodities.
The government always said that they can't do anything about the increase in price of goods, even the rice.
Even the goods that you love are because of the expensive travel of these because of the high level of the government here.
The trip is expensive because of the expensive products of petroleum, and because of the number of those receiving money and taking advantage on the streets.
Blocked by the SONAs.
The government of rice should watch over the price of rice when saying that the price of production is expensive.
But it is not common to the citizens that the government will not accept everything.
Until hunger and poverty will be experienced or experienced by millions of people.
If the government will not be careful, and he continues to let the policies of the people pass through, maybe it might fall into the canal without the time.
