Sunday, January 20, 2013.

Are you able to read you?

There are no condition and any grief if the sky is going to love with his children.

For each day, it became my attitude that when I go out of the house, you will build yourself in a new challenge and will be able to save yourself, because if you do not have a strong influence to make sure of your safety, it is easy to catch your safety, and the attention will be the first capture of damages from you.

In your proper order, whatever thing that you need to focus, is going to fight, and will learn how to avoid nonsense, and learn to avoid useless moments to avoid your mind.

Due to the lack of good knowledge, it creates intense anger and extreme anger that caused a non-stop argument, arguments, which can cause confusion, lack of hope, depression, and serious illness.

In each morning, a intelligence is prepared, there is a plan, and there are pictures that you will use for the whole day and the whole stability of facing challenges and not seen in danger in front of you.

Always awake, because there is also a new opportunity and there is no possibility that you can choose this.

The fulfilment of your goal and dreams will happen in the fares that you have, which will create your fate today, tomorrow, and if you are used to it, you have been used to each other.

Do not worry, we are lucky in the continuous blessing of our Day.

He is asking us for the needs to be used in danger and corruption that comes to us, the only thing that we have been saving.

This is sad news in Efeso 6: 13-18, 13 in any reason to get the whole clan of God, so that you can have the ability to spend on this day, and if everything has been done, it is going down.

14 when you're on the street, you are able to gather information about the truth, and for the sake of reason.

It is 15 At for your feet to eat in preparation for the stool.

16 won't be wasted, in taking advantage of faith, where can we be able to immediately put out the wild boar they are carrying.

17 At will be removed from the head of the safety, and will be able to pay attention to it, which is the words of God.

18, always pray that this will give all the fiber of course, and being observed with whole perseverance and doing everything that is correct.

We are not fully sure what we can make in the whole day, we need to use the whole world that was given to us by God to be ready and firm in the fight, that is why there is no weapon to fight for them, do not be a snake or a fight that would be to the detriment.

Let's wake up in the morning, make the consecutive steps of these ingredients in order to protect your safety because it is in our power to choose and fares to choose what is right and in the right way.

What is needed is that this is how they are going to go to the destination.
