Libra (September: The campaign against drugs - whether rich or poor, does not choose who is rich or poor.
By Fortun, September 13, 2016, there are up to those who have money and influential in the campaign against illegal drugs and it cannot be said by critics of the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte that all the poor are hit by the campaign.
In the early morning of Sunday, the 45-year-old younger brother of actress Noni Fernandez, who was suspected to have been killed in the area of an unidentified suspect riding a Toyota Fortuner, was found dead in the area.
There are still a sign that a drug pusher is Ma. Aurora Moalibis, and particularly identified as a sign that he was able to file a sign that the three arrested suspects were caught by the Quezon City Police District (QCPD) after the three arrested suspects who were caught with 80 percent of the party drug worth P120K.
This is the first time that a suspected drug pusher was killed from a famous family of Moalite, and it was by chance that a woman was possessed by a woman.
The siblings Yoyo and Ma. Aurora are the children of the deceased Antonia Moalibis, who is a British Baron, Moalera, who was the former chairman of the British Football Federation.
Last August, the famous radio-bust operation was caught in a buy-bust operation and former FHM Model Shop is caught in a buy-bust operation with his wife Emilio Lim, who is said to be the suspect who was said to be the suspect who was also suspected to be suspected to be the suspect in the rich client.
In the province of Quezon, Alcala was two members of the political agenda of Alcala to be caught by the agents of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) in a buy-bust operation in the house of the suspects in Likoy Rondiano, Barangay Furanao Balatoc, Tayaban, Barangay Furanao Balatoc, Tatayan City.
PDEA was arrested by Maria Fe, Alcala and his son Toni Gonzaga, who is both in the list of drug personalities of the Quezon City Police Office.
The mother and son Alcala were caught with 115 grams of methamphetamine that costs 113 million 750 pesos.

Maria Fe is the wife of Cerilo Alcala as the younger sibling of the former Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala and incumbent Quezon Rep. Vicente Alcala.

Secretary Alcala's nephew, Toni Anne, is also caught.
Suspected to be in the list of drug personalities Cerilo Alcala and his son Sajid, and even rushed to Lucena City Police last August 14, although the case was filed against them before their surrender.
I have been hearing the involvement on illegal drugs by the relatives of Secretary Alcala but the police cannot do anything against them because of the severe influence of the former secretary of agriculture.
But under the Duterte administration, the Philippine National Police (PNP) did not make a step down on its campaign against illegal drugs and all that should be hit by the rich and influential and poor people.
