Chaos in Mindanao will worsen.

Rudy Andal (Pilipino Star Ngayon), Nunber 1255; Usahay, February 26, 2015 - 12: 00am.

Manila, Philippines - President Aquino warned yesterday that if we will give peace to peace and the suspension of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, it seems that the conflict in Mindanao will worsen.
In his message on the 25th anniversary of the EDSA People Power 1, the President said that if the government give up the BBL, it seems that we just let the chaos and weapons come in Mindanao.
"We will never allow this to happen again and the sacrifice of those who were fighting in EDSA will not be worth it, including the sacrifices of those who were fighting in EDSA, including those who risked their lives in order to end the mass held in EDSA Culp which was headed by Manila Archbishop Antonio Cardinal Tagle.
PNoy also said, now we have the chance to change the story of ARMM because of many reasons.
According to him, there are many countries who prioritize the peace talks between the government and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) like Malaysia.
According to him, the leader of the MILF gave us their trust in searching for peace in Mindanao where he even talked with them to Japan after doing anything.

"To those who are saying to stop the peace site, and the construction of the Bangsamoro Basic Law, our question: How can they assure that this opportunity will be investigated," added the chief executive.
As added by the President, what happened to the 44 members of the Special Action Force (SAF) last January 25 in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
"We should not forget to go to our police there, not to spread violence, but to implement the law, they are perfect for them to achieve peace, but it is unjust that their support for peace will be the cause of violence," it also stated in the message of PNoy.
The President added that if we help the Lord in success to achieve freedom in EDSA 1, we will also help us now to achieve peace in Mindanao.
"In the name of Filipinos who are fighting in EDSA, and for all our fellow countrymen who have sacrifice and continue to save for others and the country, let us continue the fight towards peace and for the long time we have been hoping for.
