There is a payola in Hong Kong to pocket trouble.

It is all out war against illegal gambling in one city of Metro Manila but what is the information in lily's Calvento File, which is a huge amount of the payola in district director?
It is said that there are big gambling dens in the city and close to the politicians that is why they are operating in the city of many kinds of gambling.
Because of the partner of the DD in everything, nobody arrived at the lower part, the station commander wanted to rebel groups against their bosses.
What the officials are saying is the firing of their DD in the commander who got caught with gambling in their area of responsibility or AOR when they are doing their whole capabilities to stop gambling.
It was said that the officials did not like what reached their A-1 bill that their boss received from the weekly payola "their employer.
The station commanders are dismayed in the hopes of the payola he has received from her, but when the officials received that they also have a problem, this is where the officials are thinking.
If the information is true to pocket all 38 DD the money from the GL, other officials are pitiful.
Just think, 38 DD is just outside the "all out war against illegal gambling" and it is final all.
The station commanders and chief of units are really pitiful because they are just going to have lumps in their chief.
DD, General, sir, do not be too horical, don't be brave.
You will take you and give them what is right for them because there are also a lot of projects in their station or unit.
Included in the drama of DD was firing the official who was said to have been caught with gambling in the AOR and his personnel who were taking care of were taken care of.
If he cannot compete with the official he wants to remove him because of a strong sect of religion or someone who is proud of the city hall, he curses in front of his fellow official, especially when he is at the conference.
Well, perhaps, he thought that 38 DD is getting worse in his announcement that he is brave.
What he does not know, the respect and respect for him by the members of his policemen is rotten?
