Meanwhile, the construction of the three receipt composed of more than two million pesos has been taken
For the disastrous one who was locked in Indonesia.
Part of this is re-review support by the government.
The libog of the passage of the ship.
It was formally started today the construction of the construction being implemented which is not a problem for the new cousin who was locked and business in Indonesia after being caught there because of illegal entry and illegal fishing fund for more than two million pesos of dollars that was part of the wall livelihood assistance.
We have to come up with each other again when we think about it because I am going to be able to travel with my partner partner.
They are the ones that we have to monitor about the liquidation of the fan of the fan.
The funds in the town will be given to the release that I say supporters of the DOE assured that they will be used in the right but devoted to the government for the affected fishermen and their families of their families.
The three receipt is a target complete inside the sixty days of the government that has already been given to different peoples organization but it has already been given.
We will look at it.
It is just the same time when there are only a few who have been successful because they think the piece of government is the only piece of
Ah, it is up to Clyde who is a member of the tinaguriang boy 40 Three and Ma'am Vivian Javier of June of Petron mweak help from us.
So that we can start with us.
Our lifestyle I earned having sex is the time that you have sex.
If he is when there is the grace but despite the livelihood program, the distance from the follower of the local government is still calling for a long time to focus on between vitamins and those who have removed their workers when it is not fixed that it is possible to implicate the entire fishing industry.
He says that it's with the disiplina that might have gone to us so we are calling that this is no longer a joke, that's what happened now that it's a mess in my family of course that they are really good that they are really good.
They are also helping now by the catholic Church who personally filed a complaint in fulfilling to help them to resolve the problem in the family also scheduled to go to GenSan to investigate the said investigation GenSan to investigate the said investigation GenSan.
Labor malkaugalian Melissa.
To be a real student.
Kaya fulfilling the imbestigasyon will be fulfilled.
It is because a while ago, yes, a single entry of Dolores is still going to continue to help in order to help the company of the protesting workers rushed together, 40 next hearing of both sides of both sides of both sides.
Ha
