The Commission on Higher Education is worried about the rise of the number of gumagraduate of college.
It is said that it has an effect on our dialogue with the other good country, Mariz Umali is focused on a different country.
Bret we are dreaming of college even if they were able to graduate from what happened to be the culture of TESDA, he said that he had to get a idea or not to be able to study college because of poverty at times because it was really hard when you didn't finish anything when you didn't finish any of the time when you didn't have to finish it when you didn't finish anything
Just those who have finished her almost haven't been able to work really well.
I also want you to have finished more.
To improve the job that will be gained.
Because of the family we are quite struggling with it seems to be a really good thing.
College was able to study so I was not on my parent's financial support based on the report of the national utas impormasyon bobo at the estupsurings of the increase of radweings in Higher Education or college more than one hundred eighteen thousand were added to the number of the population in the country, there was no cousin who was there with me sir.
Yes two point five% is only raised by the number of every year in ten years in ten years.
Even the number of those who graduated from those who graduated from the teacher training kurso also down according to the legm from seventy one thousand Three hundred 40 Nine graduated from this course last two libong
It is organized that the slow success decline of the number of grades in college will get better, especially since we will be able to compete with another country.
It is said that this is worrisome according to the commission on Higher Education to find out that there is one.
It's going to be saved by those who are going to be able to
It is the same time when they get used to wipe that development in the students courses nahalata because it is the students courtesy that it is difficult for no one.
It's not that they're Maritime.
Or to be able to do it.
Puhunan there is a puhunan.
.
Bringing out a mother in high quality of education is the progress of a town but it is also right according to the commission on Higher Education that it is based on the required knowledge of a society so that they will not be able to save and just go through without their education, maybe they are still the ones who are still full of their education.
Because it's because it's going to be a long time.
How can't you help you with big domeng here here.
Will definitely cause those who will not get a job.
As a matter of fact, they released a moratpamamagitan in six courses in college including the nursing aidy times the administration of the Italian citizen and wife of chairman administrator Mariz Umali focused on four-four-four-four-four-four.
