
In the EDCA of the research of the global in Subic (3).

The United Sates Navy jokes in the anomalous contract of Global terminal & Development, Inc.
(Global) and former management of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA).
This is the truth: It seems that the SBMA lost the SBMA in the three ports of the former ship repair pasilidad of the US Navy because of the said contract that continues to exists even opposed by Deputy Administrator for Legal Affairs and Seaport Department of SBMA.
This past week, a US Navy supply ship almost cannot anchor because the Global does not want to.
Because they are not the person who is talking to the Americans for the services he needs.
The US Navy has its own bidding in the services and supply but want to monopolize all the Global when in Subic, particularly in the former SRF compound, the anchor of the ships, based on his contract.
Americans do not expect to approve of the Global because aside from what is against free business, there is a particular need for the Global and of course, it is natural to be a transaction where the more advantage.
The Global was strong because of the largest contact in the Senate like Senator Loren Legarda, those from Malacañang and even presidential kapatid Kris Aquino who recently was a visitor in Sehair Hotel owned by the Global, the family Gordon, who was also inside SRF compound.
It looks like the current SBMA Board is not an action against the anomalous contract that has been entered by those who have been entered because they are afraid of their position.
This is the truth: If the platform of the government of President Noynoy Aquino is really straight, he will blame the "choice" of the SBMA in the private company of the very large asset of the government that puts the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) of the Philippines and US.
The businesses are not only affected but also the security and territories of the country that they stole or occupied by China in the West Philippine Sea, which is why the immediate action in the pambucrocodile of the Global is proper.
This is the truth!



