The life of those from Pampanga is almost four decades, even those from the other town, apple there in their family's third generation that he is just the only faith of faith in your mother why you are in a lot of yours.
All of us or all of us.
Because I do not know how to curse.
They are able to become greedy because you taught me only for a moment only moment to learn when it turns out that your bacteria is fast because of your palm, sister jam in medications that she knows that I said that I said that I said that I said a big responsibility.
I don't want that to be the same thing that I said, that's what I like that?
The little ones are the ones who are the same.
Now I still don't want to be able to write my ex or visit my mother coming from doing that before going here here.
Alright.
It is up that I said to the different illness that Apollo and for these different ways of treatment is also the way he was doing what we were able to visit when he was riding with any valiente and the two-year-old son Marco there was a day where his father had been vomiting and took care of the school so she decided to bring her father in Quiapo there, which is why she decided to bring her father in Quiapo there. You will like to joke basketball here if you go to play basketball here if
Because it's close to it.
It is easier to know that and then we get used to it always here.
It's better that how do you first have nothing to lose, the patient's patients bring a funeral with a hilaw egg, which is why he is using his illness to pay for their illness to pay for their illness.
That much.
To watch it.
Llanes.
After the egg of the egg, he immediately brought him to his altar to marry him.
You should drink softdrinks which is a fligan.
It is then water mixed with your cold in the throat.
Or stuck in your mind in his throat.
He's going to be able to attend.
You are going to be able to do it anyway.
Okay to whom it is going to be.
It is no longer a deposit that I am riding on the arm everyday of the week when the people in the house of the grandchild are able to go through there but sometimes, there is a regular day to still go through him especially when needed to be needed.
It helps the best of his wife, grandchild Boni in his hopes that the people will find it hard for the mud that does not have a prescription from the doctor who does not have a prescription from the doctor.
Then there are still a lot of people who know the pharmacy I do because it has been a long time ago.
In pagkakayap or pagtatanggal of others who are not recognized by apostol pinahead of his ways, because he / she said that we might not be able to cause another observe of vomiting and diarrhea that may lead to math that I will know.
When we get back to his grandchild, he and his ashes were captured by his ashes, because of the sanctuary of apple the patient, while he will resolve alcohol from him because he will know where the alcohol is going to resolve him.
Domeng is preparing the one who will allegedly screw the blood of chicken.
So every one to make a bet buy a chicken.
Apple threatened by the part of our house so that she can even see what they will be able to do.
It was most andog about the whole body that they went down there until it was only here.
You make it look like looking down.
Putong experience.
Just the only one who is going to be able to do it.
Point a point to a point.
What kind of pain is that his stomach is painful then they are free for free.
Just the water proposed, he was an envelope so milk
May we have to see you do it.
She can see a lot of light.
Rinse you don't force it as well as you can do it.
Jane is being cut off before they can count even if the victim is no different if the victim is already old, which is lower low.
No one is expected to be whatever abubot from what he is able to help her save their health after he is the head of the bakya using her patient but they are not yet finished because they also need to drink the remaining pork people who are part of the body of bacteria and after that, they will eventually be able to drink the remaining pork people who are part of the body of bacteria and after that, they will eventually be able to drink the remaining pork people who are part of the body of bacteria and after that, they
But why have gained weight in the early time we still have to depend on the albularyo first so much to be treated in a hospital though our department of health can be free but of course many additional expenses like buying medicine compose of the doctors in public hospital to buy those doctors in public hospital in order to buy those doctors in public Hospital in order to buy those doctors in public Hospital in order to buy those doctors in public Hospital in order to buy those doctors in public
Toro Indians to you so can't reach more people and the faith that there is no naayos payment for it is based on the donasyon is based on the donasyon.
Because of the lack of medical service from the government there are some of our countrymen who do not see a healer this way of treating our ancient beliefs depending on the location where this is a point of removing it is a good element, but it is effective so this kind of treatment is still effective, but it is effective so this kind of treatment is still effective, but it is effective so that this kind of treatment is still effective, but it is effective so that this kind of treatment is not there. What is being said but most of the patients who are being treated, are being treated as a letter but most of the patients are being treated if they have been saying testimony the concept that they are texting and they will recover from the doctor because of our stars doctors against there.
Closest to.
Shown in the meantime.
Party smile looks like it will be finished.
That they get caught near them when there is illness especially those over life but because your health should not be risking your health.
From there, it should be murder of those who continue to be equal.
