Ah
It's okay not to sit there.
Or what do you do with that.
Yes, you are tired of the same time as well as the kids, "I am here I am going to be there a little far away from you sad that I am a little far away from you, because I was able to call back to the same time as well as the kids!
'isn't father ha ha?
Why let us go to hello yes yes sir ha ha?
Yes, yes.
Ha hello ha ah yes we eat you eat that we have to eat you eat that you have to take a bath in the week.
Yes yes you eat what you eat that you eat that you have to eat.
Ha yes you may lead now yes yes.
'asaan you now say I may lead you now, "
'here, there is now sitting ha ha, what in the jeep in the jeep yes to the house at home ah, sister is at home ha yes.
She was sitting sitting on the other hand.
He might have been sitting on the same time with his child earlier when I thought we were no one, even if it was the same time for your daughter who would be able to escape or please the chairman now that's why I said that it's because I reported that there was an agreement that he had previously caught up with her Hello.
Yes.
'I don't know it's going to be an excuse if I don't know where I don't even know where it is anymore.
Ha yes, you can hear yes, you are gambling with the same time as well as it is all you are not okay with.
Ha
Not ah you did not take a bath yes, he did not call a mense.
"It's a Brad thing that your child is going to do what I fare tomorrow, I will fare tomorrow, don't you even do better mhm!
Yes, there is no matter where it is possible that there is a yes, yes, there is a yes, but I read yes I read yes I read that you have to leave the money?
Yes yes yes yes.
Yes yes, yes yes that it is your child who has been hit by a while with a while with a companion who is with whom you can see me ha ha ha yes, yes, "yes, yes," yes, yes, "we are going to be in the computer shop at the computer shop at the computer shop we
He said in the house ha ha ha you see you right away.
Yes where you are there you are in your jowa ah you are there with your jowa ha go to your jowa yes to all of you who are going to take care of your breath that day when you come here ha yes I go here ha yes.
Yes yes yes yes.
Ha hello ah computer we are what you say hello hello at the first one on the record what you say you are saying.
Three why yes there are three things you can also do with the 'yo' right?
Hello.
