This tragedy brought up the first time he was riding the first one to have written when they looked at the same time, if they were able to make more than that they were able to handle the amount of other canmainoid, but they were not able to rest with a lot of other canmainoid, but he was not able to rest with them, he said that he was going to have a chance to make it appear that they are going to be at stake, but they are not able to rest with the
This is also the meaning gasoline station in the Philippines.
For him this is the kind design as they say in his fight with the deadly that is going to happen.
Just hide him in my name.
In the thirst of sex pumapayag, she said that it was just a password right away from the patient.
Your fear is that there is over by the alamin that someone has already gone off and did not say what kind of status that has already been done.
Again in the terminal Remate, there is a spell of a pansit.
She's going to be a good one.
I said I wouldn't allow that as long as there was no fight against the order of the candidate for his cancer last year, he tried to consuming last night what was really going to be a big change in which I knew that it was a good change in the house that I was about to lose the bait of the house that I was in good November.
Admits scan again.
There is a huge change of the concept of the concept.
It becomes a aktibo that is passive now that he is here no longer a GRO.
So that means the condition I have friends who are not dong binselling us.
Researching believe that it is an insult to me 'that he saw me at my burial case and other users of the Americans have a good result in the body, the basis of the seize canavese complication at the party copy hit the party, the one who needs to make the strength of alcohol.
Because many ah, there will be a lot of remedy in their tomfoolery James and the young parents of the teenage girl, and from fulfilling the heavy price of medicine yes Three at four of their children, which is why they are pushing the House bill number coding.
Tomorrow maawain paggamit ng medical caninis in the meantime.
This reached the first Reading duty of the congress is the good thing that is a new administrator now Only who became dating President Rodrigo duterte of the support of your medical believe that we know that it is out of your medical.
It is said that it is said that it is a brand automatic enemy of digong isn't here that they are still marijuana, which is why they are still not jojo to develop the one to develop.
The beginning of the new hope in their shoot is still far away from fighting for the legality of the use of last night.
Because it is severe apart from this here.
We exchanged in the morning when we caught up being attacked by the society Filipino.
They wake up early to be a mother to sail to Makati medical center scheduled to undergo a check-up in the check-up.
Gaga patingin at the doctor mean it is really a budget night without worry about it.
But he needs to be a regular one.
To go to the situation of this situation when we return the monitor of the medicine that we pagpasok over and over dalawang linggo to monitor this without a Catholic change that happened, in the Corporation, which has been squandered by medicine.
Julia did not let go of the interview again.
Filipinos will not give a statement.
Because of them, we are very happy to be attacked for coco themselves to be their patients.
This means that the opinion of strawberry entertainment recognized by the department is the use of the suspects on drugs for those who have already numbered their lives through gathering said nagmamalasakit permit.
But doktora firm will be a big help to those who are like julia the man who helps the man who helps too much pure electricity in the ah karelasyon, the enemy in politics has been approved in politics.
Why do we not get away from this yes yes.
Congressman Albano of the abela is pushing for the ouster purpose Skahit Seven in the fantasy that the only customer can't make a center that is the only one who can make it because you have to be able to use it.
Now when there's a bisinal that's okay but it's the one that's here that I don't agree with that.
According to him, it is at the point of growth clouds to discuss the house bill apat na apat Skahit given by the doctors who are suspicious, the law will really be reviewed.
But there are some politicians and organizations who are protesting this law just like senator tito Sotto?
One of his advocacy before Senator Tito Sotto is starting to fight against drugs, according to fighting for drugs, it is not possible to do so expensive by facilities after you will allow the plantation now.
It is not after the research you are going to do the quezon.
"It is the same time that the power producers are very good at this point and other countries are not bothered until now, there is a sudden petition for destroying here in Iligan, sumariwa, for the current law that is why there is no empirical data, which is why there is no empirical data, which is why there is a chance that there will be a chance that there will be a chance that there will be a chance that there will be a chance that there will be a chance that there will be ation para sa maawain na paggamit ng mga nagmamalasakit na paggamit ng paggamit ng mga
What you are going to do is if you are asusurtive sports sports sakbay a
You will see I am able to make a sense of using it in this
It passed by the seize handa na harapin ang kagandahan at walo ang we can only see that it is not practical down by a law yet.
It's even getting an attention to be monitored before mahal you spent and then it's not praktikal and then it's not praktikal.
That panlabas and pisikal.
As part of the country in the petition aims to improve the health of the people that doctor Bernardo wants to put in the right use of caninis as medicine we will try to be spending on fired from those who are fired from him.
God is very cute testing.
'unpesating isasagawa ay hindi Enough na gawin na sa matagal na tumakbo ipis in bed Tess here I have a adverse epekto ng apat na dalawang itaas o isang biktima na rin ng diyosa Caticlan estudyante publications.
To approve of the Philippines in the position of the nutrients for the ensure that we have enough challenges that used to be used here exam or testing before it was taken out to the public Kiefer false abuse four katao in the heart conversations.
The Philippines will worry about the expenses of the Philippines.
It is the Congress that is new to court that there will be no abuse of abuse of this law.
They will be given to the station that the law of the church is being changed by the person who might be addicted to the law about so clear that you can't sell that can't be allowed to plant the scientists, until they are still in the process of researching what is more serious effects to believe in the body for now as the worse effect is the depression and praning.
Every time the night arrives, julie house can't avoid julia house, julia says that he can't squeeze his sleepy Hoy when his eyes are really going to take a long time to see the beauty in others that you have a child who is the one who will be the one who will be the one who thinks that maybe you have a child who is the one who will be the one who will be the one who thinks that they have a child.
When I can just let it go on how that is.
Sleepy from mother is lacking enough.
How can I face a road.
Because I remember when we first will save you teary eyed me.
After the last founsupport you need to get along with a deed of hagdan down down down.
When it was the same time for a long time.
Especially the evaluation to know if the medicine is effective to julia for her to choose to choose.
Currently, girlie is looking at the possibility that tested other alternative medicine for his son ha ha.
You really know that the ismol really give the money of the people when you left, you have to save what we ate canavese 'oy, he's all of the apple
When we accompanied by Juliet zero.
This is where I saw the child.
It doesn't matter to the good face.
Of hope.
Julia's complaint is going to be a cigarette next and because that's where he found out that the entrance of him is a child every time to wake up in the morning and the whole day with his only child with his only child.
Fear of what you feel.
According to the relatives of that.
It is the same time when you see it when you see what he looks like the beauty of his appearance together when he released the beauty and then others feel that you have a child that you have a child who has a child.
Maybe that's probably the beauty of mothers in the meantime.
Present there is probably hope for the child.
Because of them the message might give medical help to them.
The problem in America is going to do this and they don't have the money going to this here.
