
Fake cigarettes, reporting to the police.

Posted By: Amor Virata noong Enero 16, 2017 sa opinion

Once lost in circulation because it is said that the widespread fake cigarettes of different brand in Balintawak Market in the part of the bunga stand.
The vendor of the fruits said that I spoke to the police who were selling fake cigarettes for a long time ago, the police who covers the Balintawak Market, which is why the police are blind in Balintawak Market, which is why the police are blind here.
Often, the fake cigarettes usually gather the street vendors who are selling EDSA.
The victims of this most are jeepney drivers.
At the amount of P30, they have a pack of Marlboro, who can be bought P70 in the main graduation.
The foul smell of the chicken and pork in Marilao, Bulacan, who entered the exit of Marilao, the left is surely the passengers and motorists, especially if the sinasakyan is just ORDINARY bus, because the foul poop and rotten contents of chicken in a river in the said place will be arrested.
That's why the smell of the river was foul which threw the poop and rotten inside of chicken, the water was not flowing even if it even rained because it was barado.
Don't they mind its effect on the health of their citizens?
Is the Municipal Health Officer here is blind and deaf?
All the passengers of the ORDINARY bus were able to shout in too stinky.
Do not sleep!
You go out to your office and langpain in the foul smell, I just don't know if you still swallowed!
Police in PCP-5 of Pasay Pacman Grabe a police assigned in EDSA, in front of Kabayan Hotel.
The police who "did not do anything but catch the taxi drivers who are squeezing the passengers in front of the said hotel.
He said it is prohibited!
Why are "the passenger jeepneys who are saying and ride, are not catching up and not being able to ctan?
Why is it only a taxi driver?
It looks like the suspicion is right, so the jeepney drivers are free, there is a status!
Report it to court DRAGON Lady - Amor Virata.



