
No one has resigned, the happiness in DAP will continue.

Senator Miriam Santiago said that it may be technical versation of the case they will face those who gave and receive Disbursement Acceleration Program.
In the technical malversation, there is a use in the money money or other property of the government in a goal that is different from the public purpose that should be used by virtue of a law or ordinance.
And this crime has to be a death six months and one day only until two years.
Minimum of the death Prison Coreccional.
Now who will sign in producing the funds of DAP pulled out from where and used to others or anywhere?
And who are those who receive?
The offense strongly stated that Miriam has been saying that the actions of PNoy in DAP have been arrested.
That is why PNoy can be under the process of impeachment in Congress.
It is just a problem, numerong game or paramihan of the osa in the legislative chamber and Senate rule and not the nutrients of the case.
Right o WRONG, as long as an ally or bosses, there is no sin.
And the ini-impeach will remain in position.
In this situation, the children of the tipakers will remain in the roof of the money money and the country will suffer the situation.
A big problem is a big problem in filing a case of impeachment.
First, who will file?
Second, if the discussion is record, Butch Abad does not want to release papers regarding DAP.
How about the evidence that will be used in the case?
Is the documents and testimony used by the SC in making decisions about DAP?
With who will file a case, the senators can't count on because they are in 20 to receive big amount of DAP.
It was in more than P30 million pesos to 50 pesos-P100M to be accepted by them.
In the 290 congressman, it is only 13-15 who did not accept DAP that is in P10-15 each other.
Child of towa, we have nothing to hear from Justice Sec.
Leila de Lima but the one who is going to be the one for the three senators who have been charged with the Priority Development Assistance Fund scam.
The three eggs will also be charged with DAP.
The three are pitiful.
Tsk!
Tsk!
Tsk!
The face is going to be RESIGN NA only by the face being used in the government that no one is passing through but Tuwid na Daan.
He added to the rayduran in the impeachment.
Even if it is clear 13-0-1 vote in the Supreme Court against DAP, there is no government official connected to the research to DAP the resigned position.
Until now, they are insisting that they are doing what they are doing in DAP and they will be tested to prove it in filing the SC of motion to reconsideration.
"It's from Malacanang."
What knows that the SC is going to reverse his own decision?
Because the SC is really history the reverse of several times in the cases that will be decided on it.
Like what happened in the case wanted to be the city many municipalities in different places in the Philippines.
What who knows that within two years of the remaining service of the brains of DAP, is that they will be replaced with all the Hjudges in the SC and will be in favor of them the decision in the end?
Siya, siya!
DAP STITUTIONAL is not UNCONSTITUTIONAL that is why the residents of Malacanang and their allies who fought against their enemies in the SC because the SC himself released the decision that DAP is not unsaligang.
Because this is not unconstitutional, they will still be able to continue to continue using DAP.
What they will avoid is what is against the Constitution made in DAP.
Included here is the rumble of the agencies of the agencies and use it to other goals.
They will also avoid making laws regarding taking and spending money that the Congress has no blessing.
They should not allocate funds pulled out from anywhere in order to meet the project under the unprogrammed fund.
They need to make sure that there is too much of the piled up taxes before they will be able to use unprogrammed fund.
You see, Bro?
The happiness of Malacanang is now sure that they are thinking of the people from the Congress that they can possibly use money from the country under DAP.
However, they will just be more careful now maybe they will be able to pull the enemies.
It is very good that their opponents are going to break out foul even if they do not want to release documents.
And they will surely be able to flaunt it even in the coming State of the Nation Address.
The drama: If there is no DAP, it is still squireland we are supposed to be in Asia.
Now, we are considered by other countries that are not agriculture but are bagong masipag alized.
And because of this name, the achievement of my beloved Philippines is far away.
Those who are hungry have started less, struggling and what is a result of DAP.
Where is the result of DAP?
Ngek! Yes, any complaints or criticism might be sent to the www.remate.ph or text on the 09214303333.



