The challenge of the PKP to the founsupport of the HR / IHL, object to the widespread campaign of the bombing of the AFP bombing.

Kawanihan in the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines December 10, 2013 was remembered by the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) as the 65 anniversary of the general Dekdeclaration about the people through the call to all the founsupport and protector of the human force to expose and fight the campaign of the surprise force of the Marcos administration and the aramdong force of the Marcos administration. It has been destroying the properties of the masses and agrikultural livelihood which is livelihood in the lives of the masses and causes severe livelihood trauma in the residents of the masses.

"It is a serious violation of the human rights and international law, the incessant bombing launched by the AFP under gerwill be launched by the Oplan Bayanihan of the Oplan Bayanihan," said PKP.
"The Marcos regime is very pretending in the ipmaraling support of this and human human beings while it continues to make the abuse of abuse and kalupitan of the people."
In terms of calling for a campaign against the operation bombing of the AFP, the PKP specified the vobombang made by the AFP last November 18, 21, 23, December 4 and December 6 in Davao del Norte and Compostela Valley.
Last November 18, it was completely 6: 30 n.30, the 66th Infantry Battalion in Barangay Mahayeach, Maragusan, Compostela Valley.
It was said that this was a whole day that the force of the residents of barrio to leave their homes.

At 10: 30 in November 21, the AFP bomb the Sityo Bunonly and other community in Davao del Norte using a 105mm knitting howitzer.
This was followed by the bomb of MG-520 helikopter around 4: 00 in the northern part of Davao and the town of Maco.
Last November 23, the AFP used almost two MG-520 which helikopter in order to deposit a bomb in corruption in Barangay Elizalde, Teresa and New Barili in Maco, Compostela Valley.
Last December 4, around 9: 30 n.30, the AFP bomb the Sityo Lim-Aw and Sityo Gakub in Barangay Teresa, Maco of 105mm-millimeter howitzer who force the farmers to evacuate.
Last December 6, the MG-520 helikopter in Sityo Binagyuhan and Sityo Barabay in Barangay Malamudao and Sityo San Vicente of Barangay New Barili in Maco.

"In their desperate kamtin, their inability to crush the BHB in 2013 and in the launch of gera against the revolutionary site, the AFP led to the brutal use of the bombing from the air and other ways of the incessant attacks in civilians," said PKP.

Before this, last August 29-30, the AFP conducted a massive bombing from the air in Mountain Province which was able to enter the farms, in the native systems of irrigation and surroundings in northern barangays of Sagada and part of Bontoc.
Last May, the AFP launched the town of Malibcong, Abra.
That resulted to the bombing of the extreme sikolohikal trauma of the children.

"In the past three years, the Oplan Bayanihan of Aquino exposed that this is no difference from the initial brutal campaign military such as Oplan Bantay Laya and II of Arroyo," emphasized by PKP.

"It continues to be mercilessly breaking by the resyunbuilt armed force, police and those who are responsible for the human people who are tumatared to poor community where the citizens and protesters are fighting against the abusive system and opportunistic system," said PKP.

"The armed forces of Aquino are continuously conducting an ongoing force of murder.
Last December 6, a few days before the Valentine's Day, killed by the operation troops of 1001st DRC and the 71st IB, Pedro Tinga of Barangay Malamudao, in the town of Maco, "emphasized by PKP.

"As a violation of the provisions of the Comprehensive Agreement on paggalang sa Human Rights at International humanitarian Law (CARHRIHL), the Marcos regime continues to be jailed by the 400 prisoners political, including 13 consultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks," added the PKP.
"The hambog of Aquino insists that the ones who will be detained by the NDFP in the peace talks are further violating the Joint Agreement on Safety the immunity guarantees (JASIG) which is an obstacle to the continuation of formal businessmen in between the guusinong Aquino and the NDFP."



