Sunday, Enero 13, 2013, 2013.

How are we now?

If no one will speak, all of us are involved.

Almost 2,000 years have passed when a group of people approached HesuChrist, and there is a intention of try to try Him and be placed in shame, with the popular request of Him to show up a sign to prove that He has given him.
His response, written in Matthew 16: 2-3, is not like what they expected.

2 replied and respond to them: When it is a cover-dark you say, "this is going to be pleasing time: Because heaven is reddish."

3 At in the morning, "on this day, the heavens and threatening are red and threatening."
You hypocrites, please scrutinize the face of heaven, but you cannot scrutinize the sign of times. "

Jesus was able to show a lot of great miracles, and they had no trace of assuming that they were aware.
Evidence is there, but they rejected to accept it.
If they were called when they were right for them - hypocrites and those who pretend to be.
And he informed them the result of their lack of belief.
The lack of their spiritual understanding, that HesuChrist mentioned them, they were able to look blind to the one that should be seen.
The sign of times is there, but they opted to remain deny it.
Continue to sleep, sleeping, and pretending to sleep.
It is very blind, deaf, and pipi.
Despite the women who have opened the facts in their surroundings.

What does not believe and lack of spiritual understanding can cause us to be blind to the dangers looming?

The phrase of Jesus is meaningful for us on this day?
What does not believe or lack of spiritual understanding is causing people - and even in the whole country - to be blind to the danger that is obvious and will happen?
Do we really do not care and allow the warning begging to face and give proper attention?

Don't we have any understanding that this will also happen to us?

Let us notice what happened in Atimonan, Quezon, which is thirteen (13) people killed and deliberately suspicious murders.
It has been happening a lot of times before, not count.

It took away from the balana and has been content with the newspapers for a long time and was able to make it very angry with criticizing the radio and television these initial murders.
However, nothing happened, like before, the mouth remains to have a knee and most of our countrymen do not care, until these violence will be malibing again in oblivion.

What is really intended to be found?

What is really going to be ipinapahiwatig by these wonderful especially for our time now?
There are plenty of checkpoints being prepared for the roads and these are in the whole country, because of the upcoming elections in the coming May.
The maramihang killing happened from those who took the checkpoints of the police and tickled.
How are we going to ensure that the continuous murders will not happen again to us, when we are traveling on the road, and blocked the checkpoints of the police and members of the tickled?

The explanation of a police officer, if you are not guilty and there is no weapon to hide inside your vehicle, nothing will happen to you.

The question: Is there in those who are killed, do they have faults?
Did the other or according to those who killed they were mistaken for?

Let us not forget the massacre in Maguindanao (Ampatuan massacre), which is fifty-eight (58) people who were murdered, and the four-four (34) here are Joe dista and others are usually the citizens who just disappeared.
The maramihang killing has been possible and came from the lead checkpoints of the police.
During the 19th of November, it was still 2009, now it is year 2013, and there is no clear justice.
Why did this encounter?
Is it because those who have faults are strong and will ensure that a lot of votes will be sent to the coming election?
If this is not the reason, why the trial is slow?

If there are questions, it is also proper for answers.
And if there is a slow effect, it just proves that there are reasons that are occurring here.

If no one can make a fight and dig up for our sake, especially for our safety, how are we usually citizens?
Let us remember that there are a lot of people who are attributed to leave the right to handle guns or even armed people so that our own will be able to escape.
And this is extremely worried about the tickled, police, and private forces of politicians in the entire islands, and more than celebrate for this is the dangerous syndicates and criminals, because they are the only ones who have the right to use weapons.

Will we be able to do it now?



