Interviews _ whether you will be disappointed in the war "war" will fail. "

A week after the declaration of the President, the revolutionary leader in Timog Katagalugan looked an interview.

PW: What can you say in the call of Duterte that all of the war in communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) / NPA?
Jaime "Ka Diego" Padilla: Failed the oplan of the past regime, from Oplan Lamband BITAG 1 until the current Oplan Kapaypeace.
It is also not all out war like the kabuuang war of Cory Aquino will solve the armed arguments of the country.
Duterte is just a Mahahanay in the initial President who will fail in their attempt to suppress the revolutionary movement.
Armed hukbo is always ready to face any wrath of the Estado to fight for the rights of the citizens and completely accomplish a real, just and long-term peace.
PW: Who will hit the war of President Duterte and the operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP)?
JDP: The people are the victim of all the war of Duterte.
We are sure that human rights violations are increasing.
As a matter of fact, before all over war, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and Philippine National Police (PNP) launched the operations in the community that causes violence.
PW: Do you think, the government of the Philippines (GRP) will be robbed or the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights at International humanitarian Law (Carhrihl), especially when Duterte stopped the peace talks?

JDP: Remains in jail for more than 400 prisoners political.
He has statements about the arrest of the National Democratic Front (NDF).
The Mellor Command- NPA Southern Tagalog is open to taking advantage of the members of the NDFP Negotiour Panel during the time they will be able to clean the political station.
This is part of the NPA's duty as armed armed armed by the revolutionary movement.
This is assurance that the members of the NDFP Panel will not be caught again so that they can hit their own responsibilities while there is no peace talks.
PW: Do you still want to continue peace talks?
JDP: We still want to push the peace talks while there is a fight.
Here we cannot cry that our hands are not tied while the AFP operations are free to launch the AFP in our revolutionary.
Peace talks can still continue to discuss the problems of armed arguments and answer the roots of poverty in the country.
PW: What do you call Duterte?
JDP: We are calling Duterte to continue the peace talks to answer the five decades fight in the country.
As well, to see his kasalanan-seridad in the discussion, he needs to be set free political prisoners as duty in Carhrihl and make sure that the Jasig will protect the NDFP planet.
PW: What do you call the citizens?
JDP: Called the red warriors who continue to push the peace talks and take part in the national issues.
Let us show the Marcos regime that poverty is still severe in the country.
They need to act and participating in the announced of the porum to find out the condition of peace.
They can come closer to the Pulang station of the NPA or the revolutionary that the masses are going to like to discuss on the issue.



