The main goal of my life that I will miss will be held here in the Philippines is strengthening in the Philippines.
It is cheaper and having a stronger supply of food to replace us Joe Bondoc.
Strengthening of agriculture and pagkain security in the south eastern Asia this will be expected to be a target of the motivated world economic communication in the coming twenty-twenty-three of them in the country timing to be considered by a double crying station meeting here because of being strong of the country in the economy compared to other countries in the entire asya to look sexy in the country.
It is the same time that it is the same time that I will be charged with Which HAS extortion challenge.
In the mind of aktibong miyembro ah, he was able to make a birthday of my birthday.
It appeared in the moment unless maliban
Hindi naman kasi ang mga tagumpay na kuwento at Spa buwan na ang nakakaraan
Bistek lubo is false by the water bills that we are going to lose the blood on the Manila goal of double motivation to stay in the meeting alone all the goals of the country members to be equal to maintain it and can relate to other countries.
In the field of response to the lack of work response to climate change in the calamities that strengthening agriculture will match up with the food of the region and those who are behind the country in the whole world first did the crazy in the meeting of Vietnam in Indonesia, which was the last year.
In the past few times, the benefits of the countries who served as the host country were seen so far to be the one who came upon an affair in the Philippines.
Especially since the whole world from the government has seen in response to different dagok from corruption and calamities and calamity.
What you don't want to be.
Yours, you will be able to do it.
To be a gift.
Or lima.
Daang
Sixty-Nine.
I want to be able to do it.
It is said that it is not considered a lastaste of the Philippines since the aquino administration will be able to buy social ax broken by the head of the office, he is also a problem in any country, which is why it is estimated that it will be met here in the Philippines because aside from the lives you are not identified in the Philippines because aside from the lives you are not identified
It will also attend the form of different sectors leaders from business and private sector and labor organization and even from the daily joseph.
It's for the television of the town there.
