Even if there is a problem.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) It's been known about July 30, 2015 - 12: 00am?

Doc Willie, I just asked what you would be able to advise a depressed person.
I have too much to think and sometimes I can't sleep at night.
I feel very tired of my heart and mind.
I hope you can help me.
God bless - Linda hi Linda, many people are sad.
In fact, 10% of the Filipinos had depression.
I know it seems hard to fight the sadness, but it is necessary!
You can do that as long as you are persistent.
Here are what you have to do: 1 - it is.
Have to support the family and friends.
Mara-ming depressed people fought with their relatives.
It's like they don't have a friend.
You have to be able to give it back somehow.
Be humble.
Asked for forgiveness.
Talk to the friend and if you can live with close relatives.
2 years.
Read, watch and listen to happy out.
Don't watch drama, crying and horror on TV or movies.
You might be lonely.
Also avoid the panood of news at night, because it is all blood and killings only.
That is bad in the mind.
Just watch a comedy, cartoon and entertainment.
There is help in depression.
3 years.
Be busy with tasks.
Work and fill the time in the afternoon.
Don't wander at home because it's all sorts of going to the mind.
Do not be pitied by yourself.
Tell yourself, "I can handle that.
I will make you happy! "4 years.
It's going to exercise and eat it right.
Even if you are feeling lazy, you try to move away.
Biking, jogging or walk in the mall.
Eat the nutritious fruits and vegetables.
You can drink Vitamin B complex which is a nuisance to eat and to face sleep.

5 years.
Avoid cigarettes, alcohol and other vices.
There is no good maidudulot.
Your depression will worsen.
6 -.
Help others.
Visited sick.
Our feelings are very happy to help other people.
Help those who are poor, sick, imprisoned and old people.
This is the secret of the party.
Try to help others, and your depression will gradually be taken away.
7 - 7.
Pray to God.
What is the problem?
What do you need to fix in your attitude?
Usually we are supposed to change.
We admit it and ask for help from God.
Let us pass our problem and hate him.
He can fix our lives and remove the sadness.
8 years.
I do not immediately advise the drinking anti-depressant because there is a side effect.
If depression is really severe, you can consult a psychologist or psychiatrist.
But I believe you can fight that, friends.
Good luck!



