Monday, Hulyo 23, 2012, 2012.

SONA 2012 2012.

Third place in Kalagayan of the Bansa 2012 of Benigno Simeon C.

Aquino, III President of the Philippines.

In the bullshit congress of the Congress of the Philippines.

Stated in Bulwagan of the Mababang Kapulungan of the representatives Batasan Pambansa Complex.

City of Quezon, Metro Manila Ika-23 of July, 2012.

Thank you very much.
Let us take office.

Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile; Speaker Feliciano Belmonte; Vice President Jejomar Binay; former President Fidel Valdez Ramos and Joseph Ejercito Estrada; our respected magistrates of the Supreme Court; respected members of the kalipunang diplomatiko; respected members of the House de Representante and the Senate; the leaders of the local government; members of our Cabinet; are the members of the local government; those who are members of our Cabinet; those who are members of our cabinet; are the members of our cabinet; those who are unipormadong members of our cabinet; those who the military and police and police; both of my countrymen, and of course with me, are good afternoon to all of us.

This is my third SONA, and it seems like when we started to dream.
Just like when we decided to take the straight path together.
Just like when we started to get off the wang-wang, not only on the road but in the system panlipunan.

Two years have passed since you said, "we are tired of corruption; we are tired of poverty."
It is time to restore a government who is truly an ally of the people.

Like many of you, I became aware of the harassment of the powerful.

I was already a twelve-year-old when martial law declared.

Our world was reversed: Seven years and seven months ago, my father was imprisoned; three people were forced to go abroad; I became a witness to suffering many because of the dictatorship.
This is where my principles were able to take place: If they were disturbed deprived of the rights, he was the one I was taking advantage of.
If there is an abusive understanding, he will fight me.
If I see something wrong with the system, it is my duty to correct it.

Martial law has been over for a long time.
We were asked before, "if we are not, who else?" And "if not now, when?"
What we are having a response: We are and now.
The Democratic thing stole the discrimination and violence, we recovered in a peaceful way; we successfully heat the light from the most dark chapter of our history.

But let us not forget the root of martial law: The dictator used the constitution to stay in power.
And until now, the collision between the wants of the system is still ongoing, against those who want to continue worsening.

From the first day of our service, no one else welcomed us but the nightmares of the lost decade.

There is the case of North Rail.

When it really loves it, after the negotiation will be repeated, even loved.

Despite this, the benefits was lowered.
The thirnine tren sets three, and at the station, from five, became two.
What's worse is that the debt is being paid for us, now.

There is no pakundangang bonus in some GOCC, despite the financial loss of their agencies.
There is a billion pesos that PAGCOR has been asked for coffee for coffee.
The system management is there in the PNP set up the need for the weapons of 45 percent of the police, just to earn from the old helicopter that bought the price brand.

No one was left to spend, multiple stacked and the debt that needed to be paid.
A long-term list is long enough to punuan: 66,800 backlog in the silid-aralan, which costs estimated 53.44 billion pesos; 2,573,212 backlog in chairs, which costs 2.31 bilyong pesos.

When we arrived, there were almost thirty-six million Filipinos who were not yet members of PhilHealth.
What is needed for them to join: May reach 42 bilyong pesos.
We will add to all that is 103 bilyong pesos that is needed for the modernization of the right law.
In front of all of them, the left of our funds that we are free to use: 6.5% of the total budget for the remaining six months of 2010.
It is for us to boxer who put up with the fight when the hands and feet are tied up, the eyes are still holding on, and the referee is still an ally of the referee and the judge.

That is why in the first three months of our service, we are looking forward to the arrival of Sunday to be present to the Lord the nightmares that face us.
We expected to need "less than two years before having a meaningful change.
Will we be given enough understanding of the people?

But if there is one thing that has been marked in our race, and we have been proven for several times in the whole world: No one can't take a Filipino.
We dreamed of change; we have achieved the change; and now, this is common.

The road you fund is straight, it is a patag, and there is no lump; the only tongpats is asphalted or cement.
This is common.

The situation if the storm is approaching: The relief is waiting, and not the person waiting for relief.
Rescue services will also be waiting for someone to assist the people, and we are not the only one who comes to help each other.
This is common.

The wang-wang on the streets, just from the police, ambulance, or firemen - not to the government official.
This is also common.
The government of the former abuse, now, is truly an ally of the Filipino.

We implemented reform: Removed gastusing not needed, chased the corrupt, and showed in the world open para sa negosyo sa ilalim ng bagong pamamahala that the Philippines.

The former maysakit man of Asia, now, has been full of energy.
When we had a positive credit rating action, the others said, fluke.
Now that they are eight, it is still a fluke so?
In the Philippine Stock Exchange hintuturo, when we first nahigitan the 4,000 hintuturo, there are those who doubted.
Now, with a lot of all of the time high, even economic managers, it seems to have a hard time with the number, and I am also surprised: We are forty-four, and rarely get off the 5,000 hintuturo.

This is the first quarter of 2012, our GDP growth, 6.4%; it is miles away from predictions, and the highest in the entire Southeast Asian region; this is second in Asia, we are just next to China.
If before, we are always borrowing money, now, we are not teasing that we lend money.
Before, we have been begging for investments; now, they are going to be the frequent surge.
The companies Japanese, in a meeting we have, said, "Baka you want us to take a peek.
We are not the one who is the Pinakamura, but we are first in technology. "
Even the leader of another big bank in Inglatera, recently spoke to us, what was said, they were supposed to be tied to our compared to the peace of the financial situation.

In every corner of the world, it shows admiration for the commissioners.
According to Bloomberg Businesslinggo, the kasabihan: "Panatilihin ang mata sa Pilipinas".
The Foreign Policy magazine, even one of the leaders of ASEAN 100, said that we can be, at the kasabihan, "Asia's susunod Tiger".
Ruchir Sharma said, leader of Emerging Market Equities at Global macro of Morgan Stanley, kasabihan: "Hindi na biro ang Pilipinas".
And it looks like he is not a boball, because it is estimated that a billion dollars has been put by his company in our country.
Hopefully, the left admiration of the other country, will be followed by the local founnews.

We make sure that prosperity is up to you more.
Let us remember: When we start, there is 760,357 which includes Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program.
It is targeted that we are targeted to reach out to 3.1 million in two years.

It is only February of this year, the third million houses of Pantawid Pamilya will register.
Next year, we will be raised by the subject of this in 3.8 million houses; five times is the size of what we found.

The impact of this project will be long.

The students are not yet complete, but now, it's good to have shown the number.
Based on the list of DSWD: There are 1,672,977 who are regularly undergoing check-up.

We will add, 1,672,814 who are reduced against pagtatae, Polio, measles, and others.
Four point fifty-million students who are not forced to be absent because of poverty.

In health: When we arrived, sixty only two percent of Filipinos were on school in PhilHealth.

What's worse, cannot be assured if they are all among those who are truly in need of affection from the state, or just fortune close to the politician.

Now, 85% of all the citizens, it is a member of it.
This means, 23.31 million Filipinos have been added to the scope of PhilHealth since we give a mandate.

What is good here: 5.2 million is the hardest part of the National Household Tarbudget System, full and there is no payment for the benefits of PhilHealth.
Because of the No balanse billing policy by the Department of Health, the cure for dengue, pneumonia, hika, cataract, as well as treatment of those who are privileged to cancer disease like breast cancer, prostate cancer, and Acute leukemia, will be able to get free of our poorest countrymen.

This is the process of treatment for them: You will enter any hospital government.
You show your PhilHealth card.
You will be treated.
And you will go home comfortable without being released by a kuse.

According to one of the briefing that we attended, four of ten Filipinos, were not even able to see health professional in their lifetime.
In others, there is a lot more: There are those who say six in every ten Filipinos who are so far away from the affection of health professional.
Regardless of our basis, it cannot be denied: Alarming the number of Filipinos who are not reaching the health service of the government.
We responded to it.
From ten thousand when we arrived, the nurses reached 30,801 and midmisis that we have been deployed under RNHeals Program.
We add to them more than eleven thousand Community Health teams that serves as a bridge for more to be defeated by the doctors and nurses in the community.

And if the nurses were only going to go where their chief preferred, now, because of the right target, where they needed to be, they were being sent out: In places that have been left behind the hem of society.
Our health professional are sent to 1,021 areas which are within Pantawid Pamilya, and at 609 poorest cities and munisipyo, according to the study of National Anti-Poverty Commission.

Two problems are going to be addressed by this: Aside from the bad work and being given to work experience thousands of nurses and midmisis who used to get along with their knowledge, the quality affection for millions of our countrymen.

However, we are not yet satisfied with it, because we wish: Health health.
It starts, not to the hospitals, but within her own home.
Further knowledge, vaccine, and checkup the need to keep us from illness.
We added that our efforts to avoid illnesses that can be avoided.

For example: I mentioned the Mosquof this traps against dengue last year.

You know, the syantipiko tight in the investigation.
It is still early to say that we are sure, but are encouraging the initial results this program.

We tried the effects of this Mosqutraps in places where the highest incident of dengue recorded.
In the whole province of Bukidnon last 2010, there are 1,216 cases.
When the Mosquwere placed trapped in 2011: It looks like it helped because it went down to thirty-seven; 97 percent of the Reduction and.
In the town of Ballesteros and Claveria in Cagayan, there are 228 cases of dengue last 2010.
When 2011, it was only eight recorded.
In Catarman, Northern Samar: 434 cases of dengue last 2010, just became four in 2011.

It is just the start of studying.
But now, we should probably be able to thank Secretary Ike Ona of DOH and Secretary Mario Montejo of DOST, we have no longer a raise, maybe in the clapn of you, motivate them to motivate them more to research and coordinate.

We have a lot of things to be solved.
The high maternal mortality ratio of the country is disturbing.
That is why we make steps to address the needs to the health of women.
We also want to achieve Universal Health Cam, and have enough equipment, facilities, and personnel our institutions health.

In our response to them, the contribution of Sin Tax Bill is huge.
It was supposed to pass as soon as possible.
The vices will be reduced, more will be added to the funds for health.

What will be met with the youth entry to school?
In hiding the tree still so they will be able to learn the abakada?
It was still slumped so they were on the floor while fighting with a textbook in their classmates?

We have strong faith in Secretary Luistro: Before the next year, our inherited 66,800 lack in the classroom.
I will repeat it, susunod na taon "is that; it is only 40,000 ho ngayong taon.
We inherited 2,573,212 backlog in the chair, we will eventually be met before 2012.
This year also, the 61.7 million backlog in textbook will also be forgotten in order to reach, at least, the one with the ratior of the book in school.
Hopefully, now that the backlog in education is empty, we should try not to take a backlog because of a lot of students.
I think that the answer is responsible for this.

And so that our State Universities will not be left behind the Colleges, we have proposed 43.61 porsiyento that is raised in their budget for the next year.
It is just a reminder: All of us do, there is direction; there is a corresponding condition to add this budget.
They have to implement the agreement that is the agreement of the CHED Reform Roadmapa of CHED and the appropriate state Universities at Colleges, to ensure quality will be the product of the antopfund of the state.
If your grades are high in this assignment, expect that we will also double the efforts to meet the remaining needs you have.

Constant addition to what is happening in our budget in education.
Think: The budget of DepEd that inherited us last 2010, 177 bilyong pesos.

Our proposal for 2013: 292.7 bilyong pesos.
In 2010, 21.03 bilyong pesos is the budget for SUCs.

Taunan is added to reach 37.13 bilyong pesos that we have proposed for 2013.
But despite this, even now, there is a plan for a cut to piket in Mendiola.
This simple: The 292.7 is bigger than 177, and 37.13 is bigger than 21.03.
So if we still have to tell the budget of education or even tell that we lowered the budget of education, we just convince your schools to present a bunch of math klase for you.
And hopefully, with what kind of, "we plead, this is supposed to be a type of view that is indeed school.

When we took office, and start the meaningful reforms, some belittled the show of the government.
But also lucky, it will only start a flash of budget.
There are still some who do not want to retire in spreading the schedulibism; they are shut down the mouth on the good news, and the industry made your criticism.

If you have a problem before after the year, each child has a own seat and books, look at them, eye in the eye, and say, "I don't want you to study."

If you are upset about the 5.2 million poorest houses that can be entered in the hospital when the expenses in treatment will not worry about the treatment, look at them again, eyes in the eye, and say, "I do not want you to recover."

If you are angry that there are three million families who are going to come across their dreams because of Pantawid Pamilya, look at them, eyes in the eye, and say, "I will return you to lack of hope."

The time is over when it's just a choice of powerful is important.
For example, the former leaders of TESDA, given a scholarship voucher; the problem, there is no reserved funds for this.
Naturally, the voucher will be bog.
The one who was at: 2.4 bilyong pesos is being illed for more than a thousand schools from the government.
A person who is a administration is being handsome; the Filipino people will pay for it now.

Secretary Joel Villanueva entered; he did not have a shocking to it seems impossible to change in his agency.
Despite the big debt inherited by TESDA, 434,676 individuals, they still hope under Training and Work Scholarship Program.
It is also a concrete success brought by TESDA Specialists Techurship Program (it is harder to be bigkasin than the result).
Can you think, every one of the 5,240 sertipikadong Specialistas, earns by 562 pesos per day or 11,240 pesos per month.
It is bigger than the minimum Wage.

From the sanctity, up to the pagkabata, the system is working for the people.
We make sure to give birth to work with the energy of our economy.

Let us remember, to make it turned out, it needs to produce every year of a million new job for the new entrants.

What we created within two years: Almost 3.1 million new job.

This is the reason why the unemployment rate in the country is down.

When we arrived, walong porsyento at work rate.
It has been 7.2 in April of 2011, and even got off the 6.9 this year, in the month of April.
"It is not fair to dream that one day, every Filipino who is ready to attack bones, there will be a surrender job?

Let's just look at the BPO sector.

In the year 2000, the employment in this industry is only a limanthousand people.
We are mabilis forward: 638,000 people who are paid for BPO, and eleven billion dollars have put it in our economy during the year 2011.
The projection is, when 2016 comes, where I am going to be aware of you, 25 bilyong dollars will be able to enter it, and will be able to employment 1.3 million Filipinos.
Not yet included here is estimated to reach 3.2 million drivers, barista, sari-sari store, canteen, and many other people will benefit from the direct jobs that can create because of the BPO industry.

The construction of sufficient infrastructures is also a big part of our trabahong diskarte.
For those who have been able to vacation in Boracay, you have seen our new baptism terminal in Caticlan.
The plan is also laid out to widen the runway of it.

"It will still have to be brothers.
Before my term, New Bohol Airport is standing in Panglao, New Legaspi Airport in Daraga, and Laguindingan Airport in Misamis Oriental.
We will also be able to upgrade our international airports in Mactan, Puerto Princesa, and Tacloban.
The improvement of the airports in Butuan, Cotabato, Dipolog, Pagadian, Tawi-Tawi, Southern Leyte, and San Vicente in Palawan.
We are in Tarlac just to wait.

I have been able to shoulder the problem of NAIA 3.
It is not just an airplane that is taking off and landing here: Even the problems of anomaly, it also went through.
Secretary Mar Roxas has resigned words: Before we see each other in the next SONA, it will be resolved that the fragayang cops that we inherited from NAIA 3 will be resolved.

This June, the process started to move forward for LRT Line 1 Cavite Extension project, which will escalate traffic in Las Pi単as, Para単aque, and Cavite.
In addition to that, so that traffic in Manila will be free and speed up crossing from North Luzon to South Luzon Expressway, there will be two elevated NLEX ctor.

These will be finished in 2015.
The 40 minuto will be the only 40 minuto traveling to Clark going to Calamba time to complete them.
Before we went down to the position, the quality terminal in Taguig, Quezon City was standing, and Para単aque, and Para単aque, who parked the bus travel to the province, so that they would not be able to insert in EDSA.

It has changed the course of discussion about the ahensyang before it is considered a nest of failure.
I remember before: When it rains and Tarlac River overflowed, MacArthur Highway is drowning.
He will determine the asphalted; the road will take place until it is finally gone.

As a representative then of my district, I complained about it.
The response of DPWH: We know the problem, we know the solution, but we don't have the money.

I had to ask for my neighborhood, and I told them "if we don't prioritize it, no one will make it, and we will also be peperconscious."
Before, the "Hoy constant, awake!" In the government, why is it not doing anything.
Now the complaint, "Sobra is traffic, the amount that is being done."
It is also a reminder: We are already fixing these roads without raising taxes.

We will form the roads, not according to kickback or kursonada, but according to a clear system.
Because the burial of funds for projects will not block, it will not be broken away from the plan, it is a real road that will benefit from the Filipino.
When we took office, 7,239 kilometro in our national road network is not yet fixed.
One libong limang daang animine kilometro to this is what we are able to fix under the management of Secretary Babes Singson; in 2012 - 2,275 kilometro and will be added to have already finished.
Even the roads and curved dangerous, are being referred to and fixing using the newest technology.

Every year we need to complete this, in order before my term, every inches of our national road network, it is fine.
Of course, "don't add to the national road network.

Not only roads, but also the system, being able to fix the DPWH.
Because of following the right process of bidding and procupamasahe, 10.6 billion pesos is the one who saved their agency from 2011 until June.
Even contratista, aware of the positive result of reform in DPWH.
They said, "Ang top 40 contratista, it is said that he has already been able to attend."

Hopefully, we will not delay the construction of other infrastructure so that the growth of other industry will not be purated.

Associated with the development of infrastructures is the growth of tourism.
Think about it: Last 2001, the tourist arries in our country, 1.8 million.
When we arrived in 2010, it was playing in 3.1 million.
Imagine: In the long-length of their administration, they have added that the tourist arriYear, 1.3 million only; we have contributed half a year with that.
We are, it is only June of 2012 - 2.1 million tourists that will be raised.
There are more those who will pour in the sukdulan season before the year, so I am not a doubt that we will give the quota of 4.6 million tourist for 2012.
It means that it is 1.5 million tourists that we will add.
That's why, in two years, it will be a bigger growth of our tourist arriYear, compared to the add of our replaced within nine and a half years.

We are not raising the bank; we are just telling the truth.

But Secretary Mon Jimenez was not satisfied with this.
He said, if in Malaysia there was a number of 24.7 million tourist in 2011, and if in Thailand, it was estimated 17 million, with all sorts of beautiful scenery in our country, maybe not punches in the month if we dream when it comes to 2016, ten million tourists who visit the Philippines every year.
If the filipino people will continue to be united, like we showed the Puerto Princesa Underground River as one of the New Sman nagtataka of Nature, there is no doubt that we will achieve it.
Our statement in the world: "IT's mas masaya sa Pilipinas".
Even if Secretary Mon Jimenez is no more than a year in position, we have to cut the positive result of our reforms reforms.
We can say that when it comes to tourism, "Really masaya - para kay Secretary Mon Jimenez bilang ating Secretary".

If the discussion is growth, agriculture is at the top of the list.
Secretary Alcala work very hard to bring good news.
He visited all the provinces not to campaigning himself but to campaign for the program of the Department of agriculture.
Before, it is as if the leaders of the DA are taking care of the debt of NFA.
Dose bilyong pesos is what they inherited from debt; they inherited us, 177 bilyong pesos.

It is not that, we believe that 1.3 million metric tonelada is the lack of rice, and to address it, "no less than dalawang milyong metric tons of their imported last 2010.
They seem to be unlimitadong bigas if it is a pro-order of rice, but because it is too much, it is just rotten in storage.
1.3 million metric tonelada, it is only the first year, we have been reduced to 860,000 metric tonelada.

This year, 500,000 is just 500,000, with the kalabaw in case we reach the storm.
We just don't get tired of the weather, harinawa, next year, we can export rice.

Secretary Alcala said: The key here, the program in irrigation, and diligent implementation of the certified seeds program.
What hurts is, it is not a new knowledge; it is not just implemented.
If they have worked normally, where are we now?

Let us also look at the coconut industry and the cocotubig that used to be dumped, now, being utilized by the farmer.
In 2009 - 483,862 liters of the cocotubig is what we are being sold.
This rose of 1,807,583 liters last 2010.

Do not be surprised, in 2011, 16,756,498 liters - it can be repeated? - 16,756,498 liters of the cocotubig of the Philippines.
The coco coir is again, if there is no notice, now there is a kakulangan because he is trying to buy exporter.
We will not waste this opportunity.

We will still buy a new one to process a husk to get the only ones who are just doing from the coco coir.

Next year, we can profit from the coconut industry.

We have provided 1.75 bilyong pesos in order to stake and grow it.

My mother started the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program.
It is only right to end this program at the time of my service.

The system is being built in order to speed up the implementation of the reform agraryo.

The government is doing all the steps in order to be distributed in our farmers, these kinds of diniligan and wealth of their sweat.
However, there is still nothing to be stopped from planting obstacles.
My response to them: We will follow the law.
The command of the law, the command of the people, and my command: Before I got out of the position, gave away that all the land covered by the CARP.

We will ask what is happening with the energy sector.
Imagine: Before, the wireless in the barangay hall just reached out, "said the entire barangay.
That's why it's like that if they are proud of 99.98 percent of the barangays in the country there is electricity.
Even in service should be utilized for a long time being utilized by Filipinos, it is incomplete?
That is why, to try the ability of DOE and NEA, we provided 1.3 bilyong pesos to ilawan the first target of 1,300 sitios, in the price of a million peso each other.
When they finished, the funds of the fund allocated: 1,520 sitios, and they only spend 814 million pesos.
They have done it within three months, and there will be more to do here as long as the 36,000 sitiong no electricity.
With Secretary Rene Almendras, I am really impressed by you; as if you are not running out of energy.

In the service service, you are not just eveready, you are just like a complaint but you still bunny - keep on going on, at the same time.

The light in our country is prevail - light and separated from the crime happening in the dark corners of society.
The urge to narrow Filipinos, will not be able to cheat.
The decline of crime will continue in the whole country.
More than limandaan thousand crimes were recorded in 2009, more than half were reduced: 246,958 that was only 2011.

In addition to this, the former two hundred cases of carnapping last 2010, it was over half of them down; it was only 966 when 2011.

This is supposed to be brought by our headline.

We are not saying that there is no crime happening, but I think it is, there is nothing to be angry that this has been molested.
Raymond Dominguez who has been outside for a long time in jail, isn't it in just a span of more than a year, was sentenced to life and already imprisoned?
The two of his siblings have filed a case and are currently imprisoned.
There are two suspects in the bus bombing in Makati last year, one has passed away; "one, catching up bars.
He was able to osa more than ten thousand involved in illegal drugs arrested by PDEA this 2011.

We know that the fight of Pacman is not every day, and it cannot depend on the decline of the crime.
That is why we make the force of the police force.
"Right, when we arrived, forty-five percent of our police had no gun and was hoping for the anting while chasing the bad inside?

Someone who has won the bidding, we have to make sure that their products are quality.
After the process, and this year we expect this, 74,600 guns will be given that they can use in order to defend and take care of the country, society, and self.

I am going to keep us on the matter of national tanggrain.
There are those who have said that our Air Force, "all air, and walang puwersa".
Instead of taking care of the state, it is intended to put our soldiers in uncertainty.
We cannot allow us to stay like this.

Just after a year and seven months, we have been able to allot more than twenty eight billion pesos for AFP ModerProgram Program.
He caught the thirty-three billion pesos which was given to the said program in the past fifteen years.
Bumubuwelo is just going to be in the status quo. "
If the proposal of AFP modernization bill in Congress passed through, we can plan a pitumpu five billion pesos for the next five years.

The thirty million dollars given by the United States are already ready for Defense Capability upgrade at Sustainment ng kagamitan Program of AFP.
This is aside from their help to lessen spy on our coast under the planned Coast Watch Center of the Philippines.

The Armed Forces of the equipment seemed to have been canvas like knitting, armored personnel carrier, and frigates.
Sooner, the karelyebo of BRP Gregorio del Pilar will be aong in our shore.
In January, BRP Ramon Alcaraz is already tuned to the Philippines, our second Hamilton klase cutter.
"We will not be a fishing role; now, hi-tech and quality ship will look at the 36,000 kilometro of our coastline.

It is also good that if the hangar is going to clean up our Armed Forces, because it will come to those who will make it happen to our tanggulan.
At least, there is a partner that is the only one of our C-130 thirty-six years old in the air.
Two more C-130 will be operational again this year.
Before this year, we are expected to be delivered to deliver twenty-four-refurbished uh-1H helicopter, four combat utility helicopters, radio, rifles, mobile laboratory stic laboratoryo, including the bullet station Assembly for arsenal, including the bullet station Assembly for arsenal.
When 2013 comes, the ten attack helicopters will be put on, two Naval helicopters, two light lift aircraft, a frigate, and force protection equipment.

And we are not just in the weapon let the care of our police and army.
They also have lessened! Their burden in living because of more than twenty-two thousand houses have already been built under the AFP-PNP housing program.

This is not about fighting or firm.
This is not about the removal of the unjust.
This is about to achieve peace.
This is about our ability to defend ourselves - it is something that we think that is impossible.
This is about the life of a soldier-day-day to put up with danger; it is about his family waiting for him to return safely, whatever he facing.
Let us allow some benefits to tell the change of their life:

The video starts].

"Thank the Lord Almighty.
We were given this opportunity - given a blessing like this.
Second, "we are having a nice President.
This project is that he does not neglect us - police and soldiers - forces of our Philippines. "

"We struggle, Ma'am.
But I have made it really a way that they can enter the school].
"That is really, Ma'am, my mission in life to be able to study, I can give" the right education, that my child is not going to be empempated, not pitiful by the people, there is a parent who should support.
And, I am being thankful for the Pantawid [Family Program], Ma'am, because I learned something big. "- Eva Neri of CCT benepisyaryo].

"We have a huge help - what I know is the very front who benefited and even benefiting from the package" to the kategorya Z Package of PhilHealth.

We are grateful for too much and it is not better that my child had a pain, but there are PhilHealth who will help and ready to help our expenses. "- Kristine Tatualla.

"During the day, it was a father in a Oakwood Mutiny -" what we are fighting for, this is what we are waiting for for change and this is our chance for us to have their own house more Lao in the program of our president Benigno Aquino III. "

The video ends].

And now that they are taking good care of the people, our army is getting more popular to achieve peace.
It is a success to be considered twenty-two and three rebels who surrendered and returning to society, and 1,772 bandits whose violence was destroyed.
For example, the terror of the terrorist Doctor Abu, who will not be able to express his terror.

We are also saluting the return of peace in places that the gunfire has been deaf.
The result of the bayanihan: 365 barangays were snatched from the hands of the enemy, 270 to building the school, and 74 health centers have been constructed.

If it is just peace to talk about, I am going to keep us in the area that has been a long face of the dreams "not achieve kamtan.
Before our reforms start the ARMM, and you know, there are multo students there, who walk in a multo Road, towards a multo school, to go to a multo teacher.
The aparisyon was surprised by OIC Governor Mujiv Hataman: Four schools who were found to have a multo students; the teachers were also investigating that the name of the propesyonal Regulation Commission is also being investigated, as well as the staff of the government who did not nakalista in the iron ilya.
Limamfifty and five multo entry were removed from the payroll.

The former repeatedly turned away by the graba on the road just to profit from money, it is forbidden.
There is no cash advance in the agencies, to avoid taking advantage.
The ghosts in the botante list, will prove the soul.
That is why it is OIC Governor.

Mujiv Hataman, what we can say: You really are one of the certified multo Buster.

It was replaced, and was being provoked: Housing, bridge, and learning center for the Badjaos in Basilan.
The community-based hatchery, net, materials to clean the tubig eeds, and the 2,588 fishermen will be utilized.
Certified seeds, punla at night, cassava, goma, and trees bear fruit for 145,121 farmers.
Since that is; it is meant to be the 183 million pesos for the municipal fishing port project in ARMM; 310.4 million pesos for the stations of the firefighters; 551.9 milyong pesos for the araw-8 million pesos for the daycare centers; and 2.85 bilyong pesos for those who are in the daycare centers; and 2.85 bilyong pesos for those who are in the daycare centers; and 2.85 bilyong pesos for those who are in the daycare centers; and 2.85 bilyong pesos for those who have been in the the road and bridge that babtas in the region are going to be a road and bridge.
That is just some of the direction of the total 8.59 billion pesos which was given by the national government to fulfill reforms in ARMM.
I will also clarify, not yet included here is the annual support they receive, that this 2012 reached 11.7 bilyong pesos.

Even the former who want to lie down, can see the effects of reform.

We recognize as a sign of their trust the past seven months, when there is no conflict between the military and the MILF.

In peace process, it is announced and the discussion is exposed.
Comparing both sides of trust in each other.

Sometimes, the process is going to be complicated; it is just signs that we are close to achieve our alone desires: Peace.

A peaceful conversation is the principle that we pushed for in order to complete our Executive Order about mining.
The mind behind the nabuong person: Useful is our natural resources to improve the lives of the Filipino, not only now but also for the next race.
We do not pipasin the fruit of this industry, if the payment is the destruction of nature.

But this is only the first step.
Think about it, in 2010, 145 bilyong pesos is the total amount that got from mining, but 13.4 billion pesos or nine percent went to the nation's funds.
The natural resources, your property; we will not allow the cut to go to the Filipino.
We are hoping for the cooperation of Congress in order to have bruises of the law that might take care of the environment and will be able to cry just the benefit of the public and private sector in the blessings we will get from this industry.

Let us talk about the situation in Disaster Risk Reduction and Management.
Before, the government who should be helping, asking for help.
Now, the storm is still in the Ocean, knowing that the aid will be assigned, and there is a clear plan to avoid danger.

Whenever the disaster is talking about it, I always remember what happened to us in Tarlac during once storms.
With the strong rain, a dike gave up.
When our barangay captain woke up, his family was already carried away by the flood and that he had fun.
It's good that the whole couple survived.
It was just unlucky for the carabao that they were left tied to the tree; it was hanged in the strength of the water.

Many are also helpless from the hit of typhoon Ondoy, Pepeby, and Sendong.
There are so many casualties in the wrath of these calamities.
Under the newly-launched Project NOAH, we carried in the same boat the initiative against disaster, and the evacuation of the families will not be delivering the fluke.
Using the technology, the Filipino is already being given proper warning to prepare and avoid accidents.

It is a Real time and it is direct to benefit from walumpu six autoations Rain gauges and twenty-eight water level monitoring our other region.
Before the 2013 ends, our target: Sixty-autoweather Rain gauges and will be able to pass and twenty-two water level senensya.
We will be sending them to the thireight main ilog basins in the whole country.

Another change: Before, the agencies were her each chase of the number, her agenda, she was going to make her go.
Now, the culture in the government: Bayanihan for the benefit of the people.
Let's be the one we call here.

Before, programs are everywhere in the puno pagtatanim.
But after plant, they will just be neglected.
When the community sees that it is also looking for a livelihood, they will be cut down to make coal.

There is a solution to this.
There is a 128,558 hectares of the kind of six in the whole country; that is just part of the total 1.5 million hectares of being able to walk before we go down to his position.
The community is included in the bottom of the National Convergence initiative.
The process: Confusion of the tree, DSWD will be coordinating with the community.
In exchange for the wagas cash transfer, take care of the trees; there are also those who will take care of a new punla in the nursery.
Three daang thirty-five libong seventy-eight are the Filipinos who are able to get a livelihood from this.

In another program, the private sector also looked up, which gives special binhi of coffee and cacao in the community, and they are taught to take care of and make sure that the harvest is high.
The coffee is planted in hiding trees, which while standing, can probably be a higop of flood and will help us avoid the damage.
The company who gave a binhi, is sure that the harvest will also be bibili.
The community will win with an additional income, the private sector wins, the next election race will benefit from the higher tree.

Illegal logging has been a problem for a long time.

Since the EO 23 has landed, Mayor Jun Amante has been abat for more than six million pesos worth of logs.
We are thankful for him.
Just in Butuan this; what if all the LGUs will show this kind of political?

The trosong were confiscated by DENR, put it on the community who was taught to be TESDA by the charisma of the charisma.
The result: Chair for public schools that are handled by DepEd.
Think about it, the former source of the damage, now, it's a bridge for a better future.
Before, this is impossible; it is impossible if the government is blind in illegal acts.

So you have no conscience; you are repeating the lives of fellow Filipinos: Prepare you.
Your happy days are over.

We have already made the thirty-four employees of DENR, a PNP provincial director, and seven chiefs of the police.
We are also asked to explain a Regional Director of PNP who is deaf to my command and blind eye on the gigantic trosong passed by their scenery.
If you do not compose, we will clean you.
Even if you hide under your buddies, we will catch you.
We will also include your buddies.
So before we meet our path, I will negotiate again, maybe it will be better to change you.

From the womb, in school and working, there is a change when facing the Filipino.
And in case he choose to serve the government, the state of the state will continue until his retirement.
The government will look at his contribution as a public servant, and will not treat him the pensiyong he is also the capital.

Think about it, and I am surprised by this: We have pensioners receiving 500 pesos only every month.
How can he make it to the water, electricity, and food everyday?
Our response: When the new year comes, the monthly pension of our katandaan will not be less than the limanthousand pesos.

We are happy we will be able to address their needs now, when the welfare of pensioners open will not be gambling.

The face of the government is really different.
Our pay is joining the private sector for the entry level.

But when you are going to promote your classmate who chose to be private, they have to be left behind.

We will be able to catch that; but for now, our good news to those who are working in the government: Performance-base Innaipunlang ves.

Before, even if the management of an agency is a failure, it is still very enjoyable to be the most babang rating of the employee.
Because of social interaction, the supervisor is having a hard time to give proper rating to his personnel.
The good work is pitiful.
They are losing reason to galingan because the incentives of lazy and persistent is the same.

Here is only one of our steps to address it.
Since this year, we will implement a system where the bonus is based in fulfilling agencies to their target for the year.

It was in the hands of the employee key to his improvement.
The incentives, it may have reached thirty-five thousand pesos, depending on the show you show up to your work.
This added to the tapat-board Christmas bonus that you will receive.

We do this, not only to lift the confidence and show our trust in our public servant.
Most of all, for this Filipino hopes for the honest and good service from the public servant, and they are hoping that they are and they are only considered the boss of their government.

You know, in the beginning that there are those who will question what we say, "if there is no corrupt, nothing is difficult."
Until now, there are still some who are asking: They have eaten good management?
A simple answer, "Sicourse."

Let us think of what we came from: Before, like "wild West" the investments in the Philippines.
There is a risk of business, yet I am immediately risating because of what is not sure and inalied rules.

You are able to grasp using the right, you will be able to find out using the left.

Now, because the fight is fair, and there is a announced and not changing rules, the increase of confidence in our economy continues.
The entry of investment continues; the increase of work continues; the positive cycle continues to increase, growth of business, and increase of people who have been hired.

Because the government spending well, there is no tagas to the system.
Because the tax is well collected, the nation's budget is growing.
Every peso collected, surely the destination: This is a peso directly on the road, peso for the vaccine, peso for the classroom and chair, peso for our future.

Because the bridge is doing well, road, and building, they are built where it is necessary.
The pass is well, the course of product is faster, service, and citizens.

Because management is well in agriculture, the production of food increases, and its price is not hit.
The pay is stable, and the national economy is stronger.

It is real, the strong and strong economists of good management will be able to make the effective shield against the challenges that are facing the world.

We have been able to protest the obstacles in progress for two years, and now, we are exactly going to stop our own improvement.

We did all of this while each country is also surprised in different corners of the world their own problems.

We are not alone in the world, so while we responded to our own problems, it is just appropriate to guard some events that can affect us.

The events in Bajo de Masinloc became a resonant.
There are fishermen who enter our territory.
We confiscated the ship and confiscated from their ships, the endangered species.
As leader, I need to implement the law that exists in our country.
In the advancement of this, the Nine-Dash Line teorya of the Chinese, who claim almost the entire West Philippine Sea, and our rights and many other countries, including China, who are strengthened by the United Nations Convention sa mga batas ng Sea.

We showed further calm.
The ship of the right Dagat, as a sign of our clean desire, we immediately replaced the ship civilian.
We did not argue with the attacks of their media to us.
Maybe it is not a fired to ask the other side to respect our rights, like respect for their rights as a fellow country in the same world that needs to be touched.

We have the miron saying to let the Bajo de Masinloc just let us avoid it.
But if someone entered your yard and told him that what he was standing is to him that, would you agree?
It doesn't seem to just be right away from the others that we really have.

That is why I wish to the public cooperation on this issue.
There is only one thing that we can pas.
Please help me to hear the other side of wisdom of our commitment.

The situation is not simple, and the solution will not be simple.
Please trust, we will consult the experts, and to all the leaders of our country, even with our allies - as well as on the other side of this issue - to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone.

In every step on the straight path, we make changes.
But there are a few who are still trying to put it on.
While I am digging right now, there are whispering in a room and is asthmatic with what I say; looking for a hole to be criticized tomorrow.
They will say, "this is just words, and the straight path is not true."
They are also the ones who will say to let it go, unite; patawarin is the only thing that we have to move forward to.

I won't be able to accept this.
Magpatawad at kalimutan that the ten years have gone to us?
Patawarin is the only thing to forget for the farmer buried in debt because of our importation of rice, although it is possible to cultivate our own land?

Patawarin is the only thing to forget for the family of a police who died without helpless, because he was only baton while chasing the armed evil inside?

Magpatawad at kalimutan just for those who were orphaned by the fifty-seven victims of the massacre in Maguindanao?
Can they be returned by "magpatawad?"
Magpatawad at kalimutan all the liability of those who are submerged in the rotten state?
Magpatawad at kalimutan to bring back the old status quo?
My response, "Ang forgive, possible; the forget, not."
If guilty will not be liable, you will be able to make the misery again to the people.

The real unity and being able to be granted will only come from real and full justice.
Justice is the call for the plunder case filed against the former President.
Justice to give him a chance to face the accusations and defend himself.

Justice is what we witnessed during the twenty-nine of May.
That day, we proved: Justice is possible to prevail even if your opponent has a high duty.
That day, there was one Delin Flores in Panabo, Davao del Norte, who said, "Posible only the same law needs to follow the court interpreter like me, and of the Punong Mahistrado."
It is possible that the scale can be fair; it may be a talkative and be held accountable even the rich and powerful.

So next to the next chief Mahistrado, the people are expecting a lot to you.
We have proven that it is possible that the impossible; our job now, make sure that change will continue towards real justice, after our term.
There are a lot of damage in the system you need to repair, and I know it will not be easy.
I know how heavy it is!! "Carry a clear mandate; but this is the atas of us of the people; this is the duty we promised; this is what we need to perform.

We are simple to wish: If you are innocent, you will face the court, because you are confident that you will be acquitted.
If you are the culprit, regardless of your last name, or no matter how many will be assigned to your name, there is also an assurance that you have a responsibility for what you did.

Thank you for Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales, in accepting the challenge to be a real watchnation.
After all, he can refuse the responsibility and say, "I've been retired, can it be the others?"
But his concern for the country is in top.
Despite this, there was still a gift to him by a grenade in the house.
Ma'am, there are still going to be a challenge; maybe budget, you will already be able to call me to be called, together to be called, greedy united or communists to the dictator because of the zealous reforms we implemented.

I was impressed by your show and thank you very much for being an instrument of justice, especially during the midst of the impeachment trial.

Thank you for the two institutions bumubuo of Congress: In the Senate and Kamara de Representante, who will balance the people and seen enough enough.

In all those who helped using the process of justice: You passed through a severe challenge, criticisms, and doubts; with the nervousness that if we lose, you will be the first to target the enemy.
But you are not shaken.

Filipinos depend on you, and you proved that hope is right to you.

You did not disappoint the people; you explained especially our future.

Just a reminder: The fight is not finished with a corrupt official detached from his position, in a anomalous contract stop enforced, or in a office that is correct the regulation.
That is why we are calling the Congress to pass the proposal to amend the Anti-Money Laundering Act, so that we can further strengthen the peace of corrupt.

This is what we are enjoying now: Every nailawan and even lighted each other; every way, bridge, airports, train, and ports; every contract without a lump; the safety and peace from the city; every classroom, and the book that they were able to hold the new future - all of them were attacked by a new future - all of them were attacked by the new future - all of them were attacked by the new future - all of them were attacked by the new future - all of them were attacked by the new we have reached for only two years in two years.

We have to abuse these two years, and the previous nine and a half years we have to suffer.
"Is it not being pushed by the agenda of change?
Our similar goals, most likely, we are with the agend.
And if you're against us, maybe you're against what we're doing.
If they are against the agenda of change, can he say they are on your side?

The election is coming.
You, our boss, are our only one to follow.
My question to you, "Boss, where will we walk?
Will we continue to travel on the straight path, or will we even retreat if we retreat, back on the way to twisted and nowhere? "

I remember it when we started.
I am aware that I am aware of the weight of it!
I am among those who think: That is why straighten out this is a ouend system?

Here is what I learned about twenty five months of pagkapinuno: Nothing is impossible.
Nothing is impossible because if the people see that they are the only boss of their government, they will carry you, they will be guided, they themselves will lead towards a meaningful change.
The Philippines is not impossible to be the first country in the Timog-Silitems Asia that will give and give free vaccine against rotavirus.
It is not impossible for the Philippines to tumhair and say, "Ang Philippines is in Filipino - and we are ready to defend it."
The Filipino is not impossible for so long when there is a foreigner who meets a foreigner - the Filipino, now, is very honored by the whole world.
It is really the delight to be Filipinos during these times.

It was last year, I asked for the people, thanks to those who contributed to the positive change in society.
The challenges that we passed on, are not a joke, so it is only appropriate to thank the people who are able to shoulder, to repair the wrong caused by bad management.

With all the members of my Cabinet: Many, thank you very much.
The people are lucky and there are those who like you who are ready to give up the private and more quiet living to deliver public, even if you realize the replacement of it is a smaller salary, danger, and criticisms.
So thank you very much again.

Hopefully, they should not take offense because I personally name them: To Father Catalino Arevalo, and Sister Agnes sion en, who dumidered and taking care of my life causing them, especially at times the peak of challenges between us, many, thank you very much.

This is my third SONA, there are only three left.
We are going to work in the middle of our leadership.
Last year, my challenge to you: Get away from the culture of spirituality ibism; for every opportunity, improve the fellow filipinos.

We are aware of what we are enjoying now: You have not failed.
You came from the change.
You said: It's possible.

I face you as the face of a government you are the boss and you are still the strength.
I just report the changes you did possibly.

That is why in all the nurse, midmisis, or a doctor who chose to serve the barrio; in every new graduate that chose to work in the government; in every filipino Filipino carrying the flag where side of the world; in every government of the government, who is faithful to nagseserbisyo: You have to make a change.

Every time I will face a mother saying, "Salamat and my baby has been vaccinated," my response: You make it.

Every time I will face a child who says, "Salamat in the paper and pencil, in the opportunity to study," my response: With you to make it.

Every time I will face an OFW saying, "Salamat and I can again be able to grow old in the Philippines," my response: You have to make it.

Every time I will face a Filipino saying, "Salamat, I thought it would not be electrocuted in our sitio.
I thought I didn't make the light alive like this, "my response: You make it.

For every time I will face a farmer, teacher, pilot, engineer, driver, agents in call center, usually Filipinos; in every Juan and Juana dela Cruz saying "Salamat in the change," my response to you: You have to make it.

I repeat, it is possible that the former impossible.
I face you now, and it is said: I don't SONA it.
You have to make it.
This is the SONA of the filipino people.
A lot, thank you very much and good afternoon at all.



