Teachers of Batangas, are used to knowledge against climate change change.

June 05, 2016.

City of Batangas, June 5 (PIA) - teachers are Sumaunder training in Green House gas imbentaryo and energy audit training as part of the move of Batangas City to reduce carbon emission that is causing climate change.
The said training this May 26-27 is able to support the City Environment and Natural Resources Office of the cooperation of the Department of Education and United States Agency para sa International Development (USAID) Building Low emission Alterkatutubo upang develop ng Economic Resilience at Sustainability Project (B-namumuno).
Included in participating in the green house gas inventory is an 82 public elementary and 18 public high schools while there are 10 chosen elementary and high schools with the representatives of the business sector participating in the energy audit training with more or less than 90 Youth of Environment sa School organisasyon or YESO teachers.
In his welcome remarks, Oliver Gonzales said, City ENRO and President of the Philippine League of Local Environment and Natural Resources offensive ers (PLLENRO), the perseverance of the City Government to educate the teachers in this aspect of the patient and low emission development estratehiya (LEDS) of the city.
According to Dipalapag Paredes, the outreach Specialist of the USAID B-leaders Project, through training will learn the participants of the consumption of electricity.
They believe that teachers will help those who are promoting awareness or knowledge about climate change and GHG inventory in their students.
"This is ang unang pagkakataon that there is public elementary and high school involved in the energy audit and GHG inventory that has Dep Ed meyou.
"This is the natatangi of all that we did hindi tulad in other places voluntary," according to Paredes.
USAID B-lider "consultants Marina Mallis served as a resource speakers, which gave overpananaw in the GHG accounting and Jeanette Laurente, to talk about climate change and in the tuntionalisasyon of the GHG inventory.
After the training, the CENRO is going to monitor the completion of GHG inventory report and will conduct a child who will be made in relation to the implementation of those who will be loved by those who are truly in the different schools in Metro Batangas Business Club (MBBC) and USAID B-leaders in the launch of the impact of impact on the launch of the impact of the impact in the launch of the impact of the impact of impact. (Initiate, Mitigate, Mitigate, participate, adapt, Clean at transform), a public-private samahan of the one I had to assist and implement others; t other projects which aims to expand the knowledge of the citizens in climate change issues and the localisasyon of the LEDS.
Year 2012 when Batangas City was identified as one of the three piloto cities of the USAID Climate change at Clean Energy (CEnergy) Project for the greenhouse Gas (GhG) imbentaryo at Accounting with the city of Iloilo and Cagayan de Oro.
Paredes also informed that on the 15 of June, Gerry Bison visit the city, USAID Senior opisyal from Washington to conduct assessment.
(MCA / Rondaya Contreras PIO Batangas City / PIA Batangas).



