
Raid in Rice HOARDERS and illegal gambling in Batangas!

CIDG raided the storage rooms who store rice... Amen - because at least the administration of PNoy woke up in happening like this.
And the raid done, headline in all the news because the led is nothing else but DILG Sec.
Mar Roxas and Sec.
Francis "Kiko" Pangilinan.
A lot of the two secretary discovered - aside from the rice hoarding, they are having a chance to capture the rice stored of rice in storage.
In one doing nonsense is the called "change" scheme.
This is the NFA bigas being transferred to another sack to make it look like a good kind of rice.
He is being screwed up or other good types of rice when it is purchased in the commercial Retail outlet, like the market.
We are customers, delicious delight to what we bought, but the truth is, what we are eating is NFA bigas.
But the worst actions of the warehouse or rice hoarder is the way to feed us dirty and broken rice.
We saw the TV report on the TV report and the rice is suffering after being subjected to the cleaning, put up with us by the rice hoarder.
After all, the amount of rice is cheap, but because of the rice hoarding, there is a rice kakulangan so the price of rice will masterpiece.
We bet, this is content of the upcoming SONA of PNoy.
I hope that these raid will not be appealing.
I hope the Aquino administration will be true.
Madam Angie and sister VI one Madam Angie, who introducing themselves as "bestfriend" of Governor Vilma Santos, are holding a lotteng and jueteng operation in Batangas.
The center of Madam Angie is the Tanauan city, a partner is in partner.
Mike.
Paging, Colonel Christopher Olazo.
The STL bookies in Poblacion, Tanauan City and the old Biscocho and in Brgy.
It is equal to Matanda and Pantay child is Kap.
Lucido the operator of STL bookies.
In San Juan, the chief is Maj Pablo Aguda, the STL bookies of Kap is widespread.
Nelson and Fress; in San Jose are Kap.
Noel, Kap Ineo and Kap Indo and Ibaan are Acebo.
In Rosario, the baklayan of alias Marcing Legarte inside of the Tombol Cockpit in Brgy.
Quimpressed.



