
Timbitems launched against operations PDT and Oplan Musang of the AFP.

Maria Roja Banua reporters - NDF Bicol November 4, 2014,

The red warriors of Santos Binamera Command were ambushed by the two soldiers of 2nd IBPA in Brgy.
Anislag, Daraga, Albay and even accompanied by the operation haras in the very Tactical Command Post of the 2nd IB in Brgy.
Maopi, Daraga.
Meanwhile, in the Isla of Burias, he was suspended, the Jose Rapsing Command launched the taktikal offensive in the security patrol of the simultaneous troops of the AFP and PNP.

Sina Pfc. Dario Manawis and Pfc. Jerome Sambrothat and seized two .45 caliber in the ambus while a PO3 Johnson Ozaeta of the 5th Regional Public Safety Batallion of the PNP were wounded.
This is an answer to the full-todong operation military in two countries he mentioned.
In the hopes of "zero insurgency" in Albay in the year 2016 almost full of detatons and camp the place, the operations of the bat and together being widened by the operation PDT.
Meanwhile, it is the scope of Oplan Musang of 903rd Bde PA that they hope from April 2014 until present.

In the middle of calamities, the violation of human rights.
Killing and threats are doing the 2nd IB in Albay.
It took one less than seven (7) cases of human rights violations within the month of July and August year present and a case of murder of Edgardo Lopez of Barangay.
Bigao, Daraga, Albay last July.
This is contrary to what they are saying that they are attending the evacuation centers from typhoon Glenda last July until the current calamity of Mount Mayon explosion.
The crimes of the troops of the citizens are more than a nuisance and traitor in the interest of the people instead of natural calamities.

The troops of the enemy of the enemy is ridiculous with their allegation that the Bagong Hukbong Bayan in every successful taktikal of offensive will be ridiculous and you are able to join the ebakkers of the citizens in relation to the calamities.
It is high appreciation for the protocol of war for civilians.
There is a rumor that it is a rumor of prudent and the cancellation in spite of a large percentage of success if they will become in danger of civilians.
In the best of the ability to conduct a relip and other services, the BHB is still separated from humanitarian work of minobila friend.



