Tonight in the reaction two weeks before the official seat of paparating President Rodrigo duterte nine position for his cabinet is the vacancy admitting that they are having a hard time because of the low pay of the government while when they are already in the low pay of the government.
Tula-sea and department of kalakalan at industriya industry.
We will be with each other tonight one of the new members of the cabinet as here is the secretary leadership of the Philippine center for my excuse, Ramon loLopez good night in the 'yo unang nagsimula
One award is the reaction to thank you very much.
It is okay as if you are one of the cases that are really a cabinet member that we ran away from here in the reaction I can ask how passionate it seems to be passionate.
Of his cabinet.
President duterte and what is the process that we have given, that is why he / she is texting, "
Of August, it seems that he pretended to have said it.
What I might have because of our Silang taon na because we are going to vote Mico aytowhich is going to be the same.
Wanawan in how to speak to him and be able to give a offer of a president January.
I am exactly already able to get a lot of it.
Resources at all that I am with in the kinor isaalang-alang.
Also means yes, also said by the same thing.
Because I was on a petition then it seems to be WAS asking for it.
Para magkaroon ng mga pulong sa Davao ay si HAD, kaya HAD para putulin ang maikling kompetisyon na tinanggihan ni beside the appointment we can use as I know there is maybe mas marami pa rin sa pagpapaliwanag sa mga halaman at prutas ang mga only prutas at prutas.
I still don't know if I got that first already.
Maybe it's up with what I don't understand when I go back straight by the commuters I am going to understand so much to understand consistent bagama't I am going to be able to endorse yes but of course until you can't hear from the president in the kuwan I don't expect that I am going to be able to accept what it is and I do not expect that I am going to be able to accept what it is and that I do not expect
Kahit papaano.
I know a lot of those who refuse because it is because of you by low salary thirty but in the case in the meantime, it is Bon sing Bon a setting that aside and natambad in the meantime.
All in the sitemapa then the kabuuang situation is done.
Over the caring president.
They immediately assign passengers to choose to play a malaking bahagi at
.
Isang
Very good ha maybe not a drunk home in the mandato and the plus one that we can see you are hanging out of.
A commitment to serve at night ro is the small poor that will be allowed to come with the adobo that has a new business so that's why it's a new business.
Really effort that is said to be the offer of magtinda cat masses for the country do it.
Maybe I am also tired of sau so that's why it is.
Meanwhile, there is a drink of that, when there is no'n, it would be nice to take care of the picture from our audience what is really the situation of our first situation.
The medium scale is the solution of your chosen call when they are small businessmen who are really the small businessmen and what is called medium attracted to or yes Tom Tom.
A brother in not yet said businessman when the doctor seems to be having a chance.
In a lot of hide from the youth who will go to donasyon and those who have to decide to be the one to decide on the previous
Isang
Siyam Nine apat na anim na porsyento ang apat na porsyento.
There is a cry ceremony ceremony daang
With the filthiness of business here in the blog Mico we say we talk about it.
91 percent I mark at limang piso is the definition of the markado lima.
Three milyong piso is the one who will be the one to take advantage of the same time as well and capital of athens and Solenn hes
Dado and all the asset.
Or what these businesses are included in that are the Mico stores who are the store sari-sari store eatery before in soap many more and maybe we can tell others who are not included here in the Philippines but others who are not able to register the same thing, but the registerd who are willing to that is such a automatic and pay for that during the day of the feast but there is a calling Panfilo Barangay 2,27ro business, which is why they are encouraged to have been paid for the tuition and those who have an advice to register with the tuition and what has the advice to register with the tuition and what has an advice to register with the tuition and what has an advice to register with the
It is as if President will be able to reveal and will be exposed to the super sexy in the meantime.
Your medium will be the ones who have signed the article to fifteen milyong pisong Excise estudyante in the teacher what is your resume matapos and parody of fifteen wants to have a big table without a big table in the family of the family.
They are killed their sales even if we are still talking about a lot of things with us.
