Philippines-universe we are here this morning in our port call and if there comes no other but the hetheor the malayong Eastern pamantasan and I am behind the try sports icon of lazy, but aside from being able to port, if we know that they have a deep love in the yellow, which is why we have to know that they have a deep love for the yellow effort that they are doing so that is why we have to know the contribution effort that they are doing so that they have to know the contribution effort that they are the lazy raws here in the Philippines are increasing in the Philippines, let us know that this morning this morning.
Philippines this morning with the director of the community extension serbisyo at fifty no other but a doctor who ilokano magandang Morning honey and of course the director of estudyante Tagalog but no one else but the director Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning Morning
Sariwa and sariwang ulunan who wanted to know how fast we were involved with the sports icon who chose the city right because it was smart and aggressive teritoryal when he said that he would protect his family for harem.
And it's going to be the same thing.
This is appropriate for sports because it needs to be Malile aggressive to protect your territory when he saw Campos many masterpieces.
Our wolves are made of picimanok and the lazy who can only be found in Mindoro is appropriate for the level of relief in order to spread the culture of Filipino but siyempre siyempre.
It is good here but said that they are going to stay away from us not just being able to be traveling some sports is if it has been doing an effort to take care of the concert of hits dalawang buwan what we are doing to make sure that the lazy raws are going to help this now, we wait for the research on daws now.
Our biology admit it's the center center.
With a song kasabwat don't put up with the song kasabwat huwebes and still sabado even if it is still possible.
We have to be on the ikatlong spot now that we are called to be
Project.
The tantos project will fill the number that I am going to join as well as we will also want to be aware of all of our students unit for Spati to also get distracted by how Sir funds are going to be distracted by the lazy raws here in the Philippines.
In a thriving number no, it was tumatitable like that because it was understood that one daang bago became a apat daang
Now, but there are bente out there are the increase of lazy in the features that the project is already getting old, and not a website of what is right?
This double number.
It is a conclusion that we are a guide to be able to goodbye to all of our abuse what the government is doing for course to help here in your ingin they have an expert.
That helped us and compared to our research okay president of a support bukod together we have been supporting Mindoro to those who are calling the manager for more than those who are called by the manager of our manager.
Those who are watching the right one.
Two libong lima they launched a resolution to take a resolution that they are going to take a resolution.
A portion of horsey has to be given for the Tampakan.
And the match is supporting some needs of grades of grades.
How is the effect like this to us to us.
There is also a documentary that made him hints out of the right upward ward ward.
JUST to impress ka of the awit of the
Consolidation effort of university Paquito ang kampanya ay nagsimula sa dalawang libo limang daang
The present time in the present time.
By regard o magpadala ng ating mga
A umiiral project.
We change those that are going to change.
He now now.
We ipa-reserve.
Enenpal.
On the screen phobia.
It is talking about the use of social media so much more to know about the lazy is right because it is only in the Philippines that it can be found in the national pride and want that and that he will not be an excuse to pagpasok pagpasok.
Filipinos see that we should take care of it because he is part of our culture and others are the ones who are.
It's the content of us thirty two of the barbaro and we also know that it is only here in our country to see the lazy raws so if they want to coordinate or volunteer to increase the bad visit you have to visit the page that you have to visit the page that you have to visit the page that you have to visit the page that you have to visit the page that you have
It's a matter to volunteer.
Click name now so that we can increase the clothes and I take a bath with the juicy for the date of the good Morning Philippines.
