Sabado, Hulyo 14, 2012, 2012.

Only Pag-love Ang true love is composed of it, two souls that have been one of the care and great in each other.

Saturday morning, like before, many patients in the clinic of Barangay Kso.

My name is Rosalie Cruz, and as a nurse assigned here, it is my duty to find out the situation, beat the heart, breathing and some questions about their illnesses before they check the doctor.
I was in the beat patient, when an old man arrived rushing and wishing to remove the weave on his wound on the right thumb.
According to him, this is excellent, and pleading to rush the treatment because he wants to reach his engagement in 30 minutes.

I asked him first, and for a few moments passed, I got to know his condition.
In my opinion, he will wait more than an hour before he faces a doctor who will look at him.

Every time I kept looking at his seat, his restlessness was noticeable and often looked for his outfit to watch.
For the reason I am not busy with a patient, I thought to take care of it to know if the weave needed to remove his wound in the thumb.

The wound was great, so I easily talked to a doctor to remove the weave.

I prepared the tools and some pantreatment to completely fix it.

While I was washing his thumb, I asked the old man why he hurriedly left.

His response to me, is that he needs to reach the right time in the home of the Matatanda (nursing home) to catch his wife in the breakfast.
I got to know what his condition was.
He mentioned to me that this has been living in the home and his wife's wife for senile (Alzheimer's disease).
In our conversation.
I asked if his wife was worried about an accident he was going to catch up when it arrived at the right time.

A calm response to me is that he will not notice it, in fact, even I have never known him for the past five years. "
I was shocked by what he was exposed to and that it was a reason I asked him again, "At you still continue to go to the home every morning, even if he doesn't get to know you?"
A healthy smile was his exchange and he squeezed my right hand again, along with the statement that, "he didn't know me, but I knew him anyway!"
I tried to stop my tears.
And when he can leave, it will take the initiative to attack and setting paths on my both cheeks.
I Nausal to myself, "this is the kind of love that I would like to happen in my life."

It is a matter of times, it is a matter of times that will

The Tfirst thing Pag-ibig is not physical or romanistic.
True love is accepting whatever is included in a relationship; there are no conditions, threats, reasons or reasons and any father.
What the past is, what will happen, and the unreliable.
This is not pipti (50 / 50) duty, rather than sanded percent of appreciation, compassion, and ibayong love for each other.

Jesse Guevara.

The city of Balanga, Bataan.

Posted By Jesse Guevara.

And 8: 46 AM AM.



