
Thursday, July 17, 2014, 2014.

The political political duty.

The political political duty.

Gregorio V. stars Junior.

I do not personally do that, because those are my possessed political work.
They can only see that it is personal that it is because my stuff is a poem.
But I am not tumutula for myself.
That poem is part of the task cursing, political activities, poem political.

That is their accusations, accusations or criticism, or perhaps always see me.
That my poem is my personal crusonly, which is as if it is not a political duty.

Yes, I have personal poem, which is the subject topic in love, but the majority political, which is the subject topic in society, poverty, struggle, women, revolution, uring worker, rotten system, and will be taken advantage of change.

The only form is probably the personal, because I ought to opt to the poem in different social issues, including beliefs, principle of ideyolohiyang my tinanganan.
That poem is usually in anyong fitting and size, that for others, it is hard to do so they just settle for free taludturan (verso free from the Spanish language or libreng verse in English).

The form is probably the personal because that is what I chose to use.
But the content is political because I would like to share the comments I commented on the business, including the associated principle that I celebrate, I want to hug those who wish for change.

What is seen is the form and not the content.
But if they are just reading that, it is not the form that will resonate in their spirit but what is stated in the poem.
In the bread that is good to be wrapped, it will only be seen if it will be nice or released when it is eaten.
Like this poem should not only look at the form but we also have the depths of it, in order to be expected if there is a bit or good to be able to break a poem.

The poem is a pagmumreport.
The plea to change in order to cure the poverty of most citizens is a duty that is hard to perform but it is necessary.
Hard work and intelligence to be given to the masses is the need of unity in order to change the system of society, to change the equipment in production, to change the relations of the people without taking advantage and without being raped.

I will continue to be in the poem in anyong fitting because I will continue the accustomed form of Balagtas and Batute, those who have experienced the experience and batikan in playing words.
Balagtas, who was going to tha a long poem Florante and Laura, and Batute, who was going to tha a long poem at around East.
Two fiction are all political and able to curse anyone who will read this in their duty to the people.

I dream to make a poem like that by Balagtas and Batute, a poem too long, but it is a topic in history and struggle of the kind of worker.
I think, when I have done it and it has published I can die happy.



