"Yolanda" and the modernization of the AFP.

A tweet.

A lot of life is changed and super typhoon "Yolanda will change."
His effect is not only to the person but also in the institution - including the Armed Forces of the Philippines or Armed Forces of the Philippines and most likely even the modernization of it.
It can be recalled that the focus of the leadership of the government is called the "minimum credible defense capability" or the ability enough to defend our country.
Before the typhoon "Pablo," Ondoy, "etc, the AFP is the primary expected to snatch and save the victims.
But "Yolanda" is different "- not only because of assigned in history as the strongest typhoon and the widespread damage that brought the Philippines to the map of the world but also because of the biggest gathering of the countries that brought help or and equipment to assist the Philippines.
The difficulty of the ability of the government to respond to the calamity that has this intense and extent of damage.
Although the AFP was immediately able to respond to the first hours of the future future of "Yolanda," the tools that are based on the Disaster Relief (HADR) are lacking enough.
There is a need for more ships, airplanes and helicopter that can bring help not only until the airports and seaports but direct in barangays who are affected by it.
This was the big challenge to the government.
Also the cause of the cut bridge, a tree, post, and cable of electricity that became a hindrance on the roads, and destruction of communication - still lack of receiving help, 10 days after.
In the influx of many help and equipment from different countries and private organizations, the very large needs of the victims will be solved.
This calamity is a lesson to see what our government should have, including the AFP, to be able to meet the calamity.
This means additional funds for the Philippine Air Force cargo) and helicopters; Philippine Navy sealift sasakyang pandagat; and 6 hours 6 Trucks of the Philippine Army.
In front of the worsening threats of security and freedom of our territory in the West Philippine Sea, the government slowly buys a few fighter jet, attack helicopter, missile ship, missile ship, and radar system to add to the external defense capability of the country.
But the tension is not subsiding, the declaration of China of his new Air Defense Identification Zone (AIDG Z) exploded.
In the AIDG Z of China, all entering the zone (make the north of Taiwan; Timog of Korea; and Timog-west where Japan) needs to be introduced and follow the ministuning.
Although the East China Sea (ECS) is the subject of this, South Korea and Japan are affected.
The airplane equipment and bombing are still flying, including America, including America, against the declared laration of China and sending the latter of his aircraft carrier in ECS.
In front of this new tenlesson in the Northern west where the Philippines is just where it is, it is not impossible to be affected by the chaos.
This will advise more than the desire to accomplish the "minimum credible defense capability" of the Philippines.
This is in front of the feeling that the "Yolanda needs to bring" Yolanda "for the equipment of the AFP for HADR.
It is not so again to ask for funds because the Disaster Response can't use humanitarian Assistance at Disaster Response, which is needed for the defense of our territory and preservation of the prime and assurance of our limits.

Hopefully our leaders will see the same needs and give priority to the strengthening of the force that the country will not be able to depend on other sectors of society.

We may be able to tap in order to force the commercial air at sea lines at the bringing relief goods, medicine, medical propesyunal, and workers and using rehabilitation operations and internally Disnaglalagay Persons.
We can use the ships owned by the reservists of the Philippine Navy like now.
Other countries might help the medical, relief at rehabilitation operations.
But only the AFP will defend our country.

Push for the long time to be delayed and it is just proper to modernization of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.



