The NPA-Rizal fight against the Division Reconnaissance Company, successful implemented launched.

Macario Lialon Narciso Antazo Aramil Command - NPA - Rizal January 21, 2013, 2013.

A government government has been implemented by the NPA - Rizal is the ambush against the members of Division reconnaissance Company of the 2nd ID headed by Lt. Guzman last morning of January 18, 2013 in Sitio village Barangay Sta Inez, Tanay, Rizal.
The fight lasted for an hour which resulted to the death of a (1) member of the soldier and the root of the two (2) their colleagues, the DRC, which includes the most iling soldiers who are skillful in the fight and in the launch of combat and strike operation, while the members of the NPA are safe and without one of those who are safe and there is no one who is going to be the one who is safe and there is no one who is going to be the one who is safe and there is any injuries was injured.
It was launched by the members of the NPA in Rizal as a compima in the call of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines last January 15, 2013 in the Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB) to immediate return the worst of the military to be launched by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) against the BHB and revolutionary masses to the end of the temporary sabayang ceasefire in the end of the temporary sabayang ceasefire in the end of the temporary sabayang ceasefire in the end of the temporary sabayang ceasefire in the end of the temporary that day, and as a punishment for the openly violation of AFP to the human rights of the masses in the area.
This will serve as a warning to the younger officials and soldiers of military and CAFGU that just magbagong life and do not follow their officials that they are just doing bullets in the operations.
You have the whole opportunity to help but have a debt of blood in the revolutionary movement and citizens.
The units of BHB in Rizal will not allow all the form of abuse in life and livelihood of citizens in the entire province.
All the members of military, CAFGU, intelligence, and other active working with the enemy against the revolutionary movement are primary target of the units of BHB, and will surely take a long hand of the revolutionary justice.

The whole revolutionary movement is saluting in the rivers of the units of BHB in Rizal for defending and taking care of the ranks against the intensified combat operation of the AFP even during the time there is a declared ceasefire.
It is also a tribute to the revolutionary masses in the area that gave their hot support and the young officials of the soldiers in giving information that helped to be successful in order to be successful.

Long live the Partido Komunista of the Philippines!
Live the Bagong right Bayan!
Live the Pambansa democratic Prente of the Philippines!
Live the filipino people!



