Simple focusing on the love I thought was that it was being shot by a brother who was a victim of ligaw bala or a stray bullet to Stephani, who was fighting for death in East avenue medical center and we might talk about it again when she is about to talk about her sister, Jackie Manabat in the meantime.
And what I am going to do is that it is the same time when Kol is going to look at him for the update in the situation of mark and then of course we can be with him as a tree later with Diane control Alan Purisima, he has a six-six annual medical center.
I will be able to sum up with the same time when he / she is able to sympathize with his / her / her / her family / her husband or blood in the total open of the television now what is the situation of your nephew now of your nephew's situation now.
TV series.
My nephew is now that we are really mano-mano, which is why it is a woman who is going to be able to make it, which is why they are already parked, which is why he
He knows you are going to be alive.
Yes, he / she agreed to be able to attend the kind of room over and then a aral medikasyon like that.
It is the same time when it is possible that it is in employment bet like icecreis that yes, this is the only room that he is selling and I am given all the right medical attention of the healers.
Rody is not in solo with four five but we have to be there by the doctors in the nurses yes that what the doktora Apuyan is going to say is okay.
It is still the same way, sir because it is the child who needs to fight back when he is a child.
A tablespoon if in case his condition is going to be stable as well as what I again have light his head because I am planning to be here in the kaliwang side of his nose side of his nose.
It is sad to be the mother there you are balong that the incident happened.
In the abuse there.
You will be able to tell him exactly.
He finds out that we can get you to tell us maybe we have pictures of it as if I have a cecelebrate you have a lot of fun with me with Marlene me with Marlene.
Because after we eat the labing-onse, it was the same time when I started shooting the twelve thought of us because we were not used to firing me, but I stopped by my farmers when I stopped with us in our surroundings in Quiapo for a few years that we stopped our family now. During the height of the gunfire, we thought that we went out to watch the paputok on the phone call us in the phone.
Our father and his father were whole family when I was laughing by the war in the envious when we reached there because we were not watching the air that we were surprised at the air that we were surprised, suddenly, suddenly stefumba, suddenly, suddenly, suddenly, suddenly, when we were suddenly surprised.
What we thought of the smoke was just the smoke that we were able to carry out of the smoke carried by a sibling why he even dumudbled even side of the head of his head.
It would be the same time for what I looked like I could ride a ride for a ride.
We rushed the palaspas but he ran immediately here in the abela that we found out right away from the head his bed yes yes to his head.
Oh the first incident of your family statement ah passed through this heavy challenge.
Yes, yes.
That double the head of the double head.
This is how you are able to bring up with the same time she is carrying the same time with her brother Martin Martin.
Or bandits, it is very difficult.
Really hard.
No I can't look at my nephew, the heart will be crushed crushed.
"This is going to be this.
She tried to be a father.
.
He will escape because their child needs to be the only child of his child when he has a child.
But if I will be crushed, especially when I will be crushed.
Even more.
