
My visit to the 10th Scout Ranger Company.

One of the bitter events about my capital units, the 10th Scout Ranger Company, is the one who dissolve it in 2003.

I was one of the first binalitaan of my staff that the company they belong to break and they are transferred to other linya companies.

The first thing I think is that a few of the troops might make their astray when they mix with different units.

There are a lot of things that are now going to enter my mind at that time:

Maybe there will be no mentor in their trusted NCOs?
Maybe they lose discipline and be stubborn in other units?

The management of the Philippine Army's explanation at that time, the FSRR needs to be there.
There are so many questions I have before why there is a need to break but there is no official that I have tinanungan to give then a bright answer.

How about it, the tigasing opponents of the state were not collected by the state during those times, why was it surrounded by the First Scout Ranger Remendent?
The terrorist Abu Sayyaf will still be there, NPA and are since various secessionist groups in Mindanao!

I was able to regret my saved tired and sweat to lift the ability and confidence of this units through forming the knowledge in war, liderato skills of NCOs and integrity of it.
It is because it is not able to do overnight and it is necessary that it is an actual experience and challenges that he is giving an unidentified debt to study for our warriors.

We also realize that Scout Rangers is the most easy to call to fight the most political opponents of the government at that time so we are also saddened to be able to avoid some of the Ranger companies.

Anyway, likas na sumunod muna si We bago magreklamo si We.
Even if we were murmuring before, the burial of not more or less ten companies to merge to other units.

If examined, FSRR is not jailed but being allowed to fill up the companies.
The point is that we really might be able to add the strength of FSRR as a Whole and do not break it.

According to the recorded in history, it happened in 1991 that the former deactivated First Scout Ranger Remendent was blown away again because of the AFP liderato saw its importance in fighting against the rebels and terrorists.

Because of the intense burial of our company, I opted to tell LT Mon Gurand to send me the memorabilia of the units especially the Best Company St.
Who knows, the 10th SRC will be able to do again.

Every time I get news from the condition of the troops since then, I have discovered that they are in different parts of the Philippines.
I am glad when they are nakikilalang good and reliable NCOs in their own units.

Two of them, SSg RoselTayros and SSg Rodel Bonifacio becomes the awartion of The outstanding Philippine Soldiers (tops) given the infant bank Foundation Inc. and Rotary Club of Makati-Metro.

In 2012, SSg Arnold Panganiban and SSg Jose Legaspi were able to take a pet First Sgt. of 11SRC and 10th SRC, according to tively.

Meanwhile, most of the troops were still warriors and were able to take a pet Platoon Sergeants and staff NCOs.

Reactivation.

According to what I expected, the 10SRC was drong again after more or less three years to break it.
Because I have been transferred to other units, I did not have a chance to visit and isabit again the streamers in their company kulay.

When I learned they were transferred to the battlegrounds of Bukidnon only a few weeks ago, I took the opportunity to visit and restore the streamers evidence of kagalingan and contribution to the history of the war of First Scout Ranger Remendent.

I am not reluctant to take the mud pass to their lungga for at least, the part of the units will be returned.

This is part of my mission this Christmas season.
Misyon accomplished!



