
Corruption is behind the lies of 503rd Brigade and PNP-Cordillera.

Diego Wadagan NPA-Abra, Agustin Begnalen Command Ika-2 of February, 2013.

Partners corruption and lying are in the back of the hungkag statement of the 503rd Brigade of the Philippine Army, and the PNP-Cordillera in relation to some events recently in Abra, that has something to do with the NPA.

First, Connie Santiago Valera, 29 years old, of Poblacion Lacub, Lacub Abra.
Cordillera Police Director Chief Superintendent Benjamin Magalong that Valera is a high leader of Ilocos-Cordillera Regional Committee of CPP and number 5 in the 4th quarter "Order of labanan" of 2012.
Connie Santiago Valera was not official of Agustin Begnalen Command, and definitely not a high leader of Ilocos-Cordillera Regional Committee of CPP.
It is a modus operandi of the AFP and PNP that the high officials of CPP-NPA-NDF are the ordinary citizens that are suspected to be suspected or directed by the members of the revolutionary movement, to be piled up with "reward money" worth some million.
It can be recalled that the government of PNoy appointed more than P400M for the reward for the arrest of the leaders of CPP-NPA-NDF.
That is why some ordinary citizens are the arbitrbuilt suffering and being made of high-ranking officials of CPP-NPA-NDF.
On the other hand, the berblood criminal General Jovito Palparan is just prevailing, which is not arrested even if there is a small pile in the head, because of the dried number of AFP and PNP to him.
Second is the alleged four (4) NPA who were killed in an encounter between the forces of 41st IB and the NPA in Lagangsome, Abra.
It is true that there is a fight between the forces of 41st IB and the NPA under Procopio Tauro Front in Manipit, Kayapa, Laganga few last 9: 15 in the morning, as 30 of January, 2013.
But contrary to the statement of 41st IB and 503rd Brigade of the Philippine Army, no NPA died, or even injured.
On the other hand, there is no less than 2 soldiers of 41st IB rushed to the hospital after the said fight.
But the bigger issue after this fight is the illegal capture and hold of 4 common farmers from Kayapa, Lagangsome of the members of the AFP.
They said they were together in the barrio in order to find a bee on the 25th of January, 2013, in the day itself of the fight, but only now returned and threatened by the AFP not to tell about what happened to them.
The people who have the masses are Anacleto "Killthis" Tugade, Ceferino "Boying" Poclani (Barangay Kagawad of Kayapa), Jemaking Esmie Bageng, and Bonifacio "Pacio" seems.
The relatives immediately looked at the 503rd Brigade HQ in Barbarnito, Lagangsome of the said missing masses, but the AFP said that to the NPA look for it.
None of the NPA, and the NPA does not do the arrest and especially those who killed the non-killing individuals, unlike AFP and PNP.
Can they not be the one to be called by the 503rd Brigade that were killed NPA?

Further, before the fight, the soldiers of the 41st IB beaten Mayor Alcantara Alcantara, a youth from Kayapa, Lagangsome, Abra.
Mayor mar Alcantara was suspected to be from the support of the NPA.

Again, the officials of the AFP would aim for the number of 4 NPA who died in the fight, the submit of the beautiful reports for their promotion and limpak money in their retirement.
Further, the goal of the lies to be able to perfumes the wide citizens, while more likely they are the ones responsible for the loss of 4 people from Kayapa.

The institution of the PNP and AFP is rotten in the depths.
The officials of them are corrupt and liar.
More than anything, they are not fighting for the interest of the people, but the interest of the few offers kind and foreign monopoly kapitalista.

This is the reason why the Oplan Bayanihan continues to fail and pushed the democratic revolution of the country, towards the stages of the involvement until the huge success.



