
A gun-shooting and legal fight against China is a gun.

In the last news, it is not just surveillance ships and the fish ship of China is seen in Scarborough or Panatag Shoal.
China has one big gunboat.
The ship is a night.
And there is a front of our BRP Gregorio del Pilar who also has their knitting.
He means something.
The two countries are the same serious in their claim that they will territory the said island.
A giant China is not able to do the Philippines if China makes it because of this.
And the Philippines will not be able to do anything if this is the first launch of war.
Because, it is not even an airplane equipment.
There is a helikopter but it might not be able to return on the verge of gasoline on its just going to the place.
Most of them are flying casket because they just pickup them from the junk shop from Vietnam war.
It was our vy that the ships were alone.
And the painful, it is a pain that they seem to run out of diesel or bunker fuel, which is why they have faults in the sea.
The coast guard we are very iliiliated fishing.
They might be first sunk in a little bad weather than the fishing role that is being made in the washbasin or pond.
On the other hand, China has the airplane, ships and other weapons as strong as the weapon of the Americans and Russians.
With many of their soldiers, they just pee, too, maybe the Navy and coast guard will be drowning.
We really don't have a single single, Bro.
We only have a gun-shooting.
Where is SUncle Sam?
The only hope is the help of Uncle Sam, of the Americans.
They sold us the ship BRP Gregorio del Pilar who also dug up from the junk shop.
They are also selling us of armalayt.
They are also selling us from the junk shop which is also helikopter.
And when we still have a flying fighter eroplano, it's also from them.
Tora was the one to call on that plane.
But what is there in the Americans is their reconciliation with us to work together with the Philippines and United States if there is a war you have been involved with each other.
However, the Philippines of the soldier sent back then in Korea, in Vietnam and in Iraq.
Deaf and Ngayon, boxing of China and Pinas in Scarborough Shoal is looming.
Despite this, the silence of the Americans is deafening.
Maybe, they are deaf and blind to the destroying of China and Philippines so they don't have a reaction.
But what surely seems, is, no one can depend on the Philippines help at the time of war.
Not a cent of Americans will be sent to us to help the Chinese.
Now, are you very obvious, Bro?
There is a exercise, now, Balikatan ehersisyo.
But the target seems to be those who don't agree with the same as what we mentioned now.
It's a child of towa, what is that?
There should be no war even when, we don't want the war.
Everyone should go through diplomacy and a peaceful conversation.
Even if we have a strong force military who will be able to make it across China.
Because when there is a war, funds will be consumed for the kagalingan of the people, our lives will become complicated and there will be a lot of killings.
Our living will not be normal if we are all going to work together and we will also find something like this is happening in China.
It is settled in United Nations because we do not want to war in the Philippines especially since the Scarborough Shoal is just near us and we want the peaceful and placate relationship in other countries, the government of President Noynoy Aquino is moving for filing the appropriate case in the United Nations.
Under the United Nations Convention sa Law ng Sea or UNCLOS, we have the right to Scarborough Shoal who owns it.
This is due to the jurisdiction of 200 mile exclusive economic zone according to the UNCLOS.
The Philippines will be filed against China to be decided by the international court the case.
There is just a problem.
What if China does not want to cooperate.
Is it acceptable to decide the appropriate court of the UN in favor of the PINAS?
Because the court is really hard to decide when the opponent does not want to be occupied.
In the criminal case, then the court will be able to decide if the opposing side appeared.
It is a problem if there is no one being dictated so the case has been archive.
Showing of the government for example, the struggle and the same occupied in court and China will be occupied by the court and won the first in case.
How will the Philippines let the control and property on the islands after?
It is that we do not have a force to yard the islands when the flag of the Philippines is finally built there.
If it is not going to do this, it will continue, Bro, the arrival of the claiming in the area and may not be China the next season or criticism can be called or Tex in passing 14303333.



