
Coordinated operations in Rizal, disappointed by the NAAC-NPA!
Celebration of the 43 anniversary of the BHB in the province, success!

Macario LiES (Ka Karyo) NPA Rizal (Narciso Antazo Aramil Command) April 08, 2012.

From January 2, 2012 until the present, the forces of the military and police are conducting the eight bugso of the operation in the province of Rizal in the framework of the Oplan bayanihan of the Marcos administration.
A coordinated campaign against the Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB) was launched by the forces of the 16th IB-PA, 76th IB-PA, 59th IB-PA under 2nd ID-PA including Maneuver Battalion of the SAF-PNP.
It is within the operation of the operation of Montalban, San Mateo, Baras, Tanay and the Luncity of Antipolo who continue causing the damage to the life and properties of the citizens including the farmers and setler to be the ranks of the national minmajority of Dumagat and copra affected.

Active fighting and taxi offensive will be offensive here by Narciso Antazo Aramil Command (NAAC) - NPA-Rizal.
This is also a response to the request of the masses to the ones who will be punished by the NPA to punish the armed force of the resyunbuilt state in the widespread violation of human rights.
Above all, it presents to the 7th anniversary of the NPA.

It was a lot of February 15, 2012 - a MIS-encounter in Sto.
Niño, Tanay, Rizal, the troops of the 16th IB-PA and 59th IB-PA that resulted in the death of one upcent and wounded three others.
In order to cover up the fight between them, the 2nd ID was sent out of the nap and public encounter between the NPA and the force of AFP.

It was a lot of February 19, 2012 - the NPA disappointed a attempt to attack a government's attempt to attack the 16th IB headed by Lt. Bagbag in Sitio Kinabuan, Sta.
Ines, Tanay, Rizal.
The NPA earlier fired the victim who was seen as an enemy.
The front of the ranks of the enemy was immediately hit while his other colleagues backed out and recklessly fired even far from the position of companions.
PFC Agcaoili was seriously injured in this fight while there was no walti on the side of the BHB.

It was a lot of March 3, 2012 - the troop of the NAAC-NPA was harassing the detachment of the 59th IB-PA in Sto.
Niño, Tanay, Rizal.
In the fear of the soldiers and CAFGU and thought that the NPA was going to enter their camp, the trails that ran and left their detachment.
Just got back to it after being assured that the NPA is far away.
In the report of the citizens in the area, one is dead and three are injured in the ranks of the soldiers.

A lot of March 23, 2012 - (Gabi) was shot by a tim of the NAAC-NPA members of the 59th IB-PA in their detachment in Calawis, Antipolo City.
Two are injured in that operation.

A lot of March 30, 2012 - the combined troops of the 16th IB-PA and 59th IB-PA and 59th IB-PA, Calawis, Antipolo City, was identified by one-year-law.
Three soldiers were wounded in that operation.

The taktikal that are going to be intense to be the one who gave up the eight bugso of the coordinated campaign campaign.
One of the tereyn and wide support of the masses in the province have been certain that the TO of the NPA in the province are successful and the units of the NAAC-NPA are safe from any harm.
Along with these TO and active fighting, the masses are selling the masses in the midst of the ongoing attack of the enemy.
Along with the success in the activity of the military the success that has been achieved in the works of the masses.

The celebration of the 43 anniversary of the BHB was launched last March 29, 2012 in the territory of democratic Gumanner nong Bayan in the province.
It was attended by more than 100 people including from the unsuran and baseng masses in the countryside.
This will be implemented in the middle of the sudden outbursts of military operations that failed to stop the celebration of the anniversary in the area.

These are the success of BHB in the province clearly determine the outcome of the Oplan bayanihan of the Marcos regime.
Like fierce Oplan BANTAY 1 & 2 of the Marcos regime, who did not succeed and completely failed, the Oplan bayanihan aims to crush the revolutionary movement will surely be disappointed.
The NAAC-NPA-Rizal will meet to push forward to the digwhichever town part of the total effort that I am experiencing in the national scope from the national scope from the anticipated defense.

A lot of the 43 anniversary of the new armed town!
Long live the party of the Philippines of the Philippines!
Live the filipino people!



