
To whom is the Estado? By Matti Gervas July 25, 2016.

Since then until now in the government Duterte, Frederick Engels's writing is meaningful - which is good and transfer to the Filipino language.

Ka Luis absolutely denied him, or Luis Maria B. Martinez, the printed recently of the works of the Family, private properties and Estado that he translated to the Filipino of Origin ng Family, Private property at the State, a klasimy author of Frederick Engels.

It took three decades before it was published.
Once Ka Luis was honored by Manila Critics Circle in the transfer of some authors of Renato Constantino like MIS-Education ng Filipino and Roots of Subservience.
Aside from this, he is also a writer and speaking.
He became a member of Kabassigned Makabayan during the decade of sitenta, became a leadership student, act on the ranks of workers, and he became a home to picket line up to martial law.

Ka Luis presented the importance of the Orextended of the Family in the present time.
He said: "The Orextended and other authors who belong to the called Marxistang duck are offering a new perspective about the social community.

These are stated that our current status is not eternal - that the world is not a "valley of luha" which is our fate until the grave result of the "first wrongdoing."
In the advancement of history, he added, the person can reach free, peaceful and abundant life where there is no taking advantage of people in person and will become a big development of everything as the basis of the free development of each other. "
For Ka Luis, Orextended is important to see the true characteristic of the state.
He explained: "In the Orextended, saying that the state will be ibol in the society but it is just a consequence to separate.
This is accepting that society has been duped in a rift, in pretending to go from sides or kind, and to not crushed the society in their arguments, the state needs to be destroyed - the state.
Only and the state, since the end and the hit, was to be able to take a bit of a kind - with a ariarian.
It became furniture in taking advantage and oppression of the kind of non-arian - the sanctuary of the farmer and workers. "
Although this is, it shows the Orextended that sometimes the state of the people is sarcastic, which will be seen now in the postura of the government Duterte.
Ani Ka Luis: "Engels mentioned Solon that he pulled out the pananda and pledged to the ground and the Griyegong had been paid for debt and made slaves in other towns."
However, Ka Luis also says that he does not know where Duterte will be able to do his proposals.
The removal of six incidents in the country which is inheritance of colonalists is deep.
These kinds of transactions are clapping, he said, to solve criminality and traffic because they are also benefiting from it.

"But we will know about the endo or contraktuwalisasyon what they will become the charisma.
Add the Land reform and anti-mining.

Anything regardless, Duterte needs our whole support.
The strong support of the people is his only one to catch up with the strength of the political stations and foreign. "
It is not only Orextended which is Ka Luis.
Some of these are communist manifesto of Marx and Engels, Wage, presyo, Profit and Wage-Labating at the Capital of Marx, The German ideology of Marx and Engels, Formen or Engels, Formen, a few chapter of Anti-Duhring of Engels, and The WOMAN tanong of Lenin.

He also has to be the other author like political attacks and John Eaton, Feudal Society Vol.1 of Marc Bloch, Ano ang nangyari kay History, Studies sa Development of Maurice Dobb, and free translation of Maurice Dobb, and free translation of Webutil ng Nations of Adam Smith.

Now, he is being brought to the condition of working Class sa England by Engels.
It was amazing though, but the transfer was only a personal passion, and last 1976, he started.
Ka Luis speaks, "because I am having a hard time understand the works that are duped in the language foreign.
I need to consult the dikinaryo so that what I am reading is to apol, so I am being brought to the Filipino language. "
A lot of the translation of Ka Luis is a letter-in-hand or is sealed, and labu-labong piled.
There is also a disregard, it is being eaten by a mouse or inanay.

"I also don't mean it again that there is an aininterest to release the author."
But, of course, his joy is still full when the translator has been printed, read and understood, especially the workers.



