
PNoy and politicians bring a gun: BIFF a challenge of war.

Pebrero 13, 2015.

The Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter (BIFF) challenged the politicians and even President Benigno Aquino to go to Mindanao and fight in a war.

The BIFF did the statement after the hearing done by the Senate and Kamara regarding the Mamasapano encounter.
Last January 25, more than 300 members of the PNP-Special Action Force were attacked by the terrorist Zulkifli bin Hir alias Marwan where they killed him.
Despite this, 44 members of SAF were killed in the incident aside from the wounded personnel after the forces of the BIFF, Moro Islamic Freedom Fighter (MILF) and other armed groups in Brgy.
Tukanalipao, Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
In the hearing in the Senate, the former called terrorists, particularly Senator Alan Peter Cayetano is the MILF and BIFF because of the brutal and inhumane killing of the police who served the warrant of arrest of Marwan.
Despite this, BIFF spokesman Abu Misri Mama said in the interview with the Philippine Daily Inquirer that they are not terrorists and rather fighting for their rights.
Mama's response, the SAF troops and the government of the United States are the real terrorists because of attacking them in their land.
"We are hindi terorista.
Ang mga We ay nag-aaway ng lehitimong sanhi.
Ang mga Soldiers, SAF (Special Action Force) at US government ang mga terorista dahil nanghihimasok sila sa aming Land at gustong agawin ito sa US ", pahayag pa.
Mama's challenge to the government officials, they are also weapons and went to Mindanao to fight them.
"If gusto nilang giyera sina Really, Aquino at These pulitiko ang dapat magdala ng mga baril at martsa sa Maguindanao".
"If Come nila dito, ibibigay ni We ang mga ito kung ano ang gusto nila.
"We magpapakita sa kanila ng tunay na giyera na malayo sa kung ano ang nakikita nila sa mga pelikula", pahayag pa ni Mama.
In a separate interview with Mama, he admitted that they were holding some equipment of the killed members of the SAF.
Contrary to the first of the MILF said for the side of the BIFF, Mama said they have no plans to restore the guns and other things that they took from the killed police.
Yesterday in the hearing in the Senate, MILF peace panel negotiator Mohagkanyang Iqbal will attend the first time.
In his statement, Iqbal said they are separated from the BIFF.
Even though Iqbal admitted that some of their personnel were involved in the encounter in Mamasapano, he said that a misencounter happened and again insisted that the desire of the MILF to push the peace talks for the Mindanao.@@



