Zumbathon titulo was shared by 4 By Ramil Cruz Disyembre 18, 2016 shared in the primera position were Jazz Pablo Villanueva, Marites Generao and Ricardo Montecillo at zumba marathon in the park program Culmination aktibidad in the park Program Culmination activity in the park program of San Juan Government Center grounds.
1-2-3 are Villanueva, Churchhil Ocante and Liz Navidad in the kababaihan's 18-40 age group, while 1-2 are Montecillo and Michael Poblete at Men's Men, Yen pino and Margie Chua, Yen pino and Margie Chua, while in the lalaking division, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pelos, Mark Pel. ayo and Dino Dimaano went away and Dino Dimaano.
The top Three winners of P1,000 will be blessed, P750 and P500 cash exchange of Philippine Sports Commission program, pananaliksik at the development division chief Doctor Lauro Domingo, Jr., who was awan with PSC chairman William Ramirez, and game joy in San Juan City coordinator.
"A lot of telling me that I would make a lot of it so I thought of zumba to lose weight at the gain of mas maraming kaibigan.
I never thought that I would win here in the zumbathon of PSC, "bulalas 37-anyos, Brgy.
Laborer, Quezon City sari-sari store and mother of two women Villanueva.
Dimaano was also the one who was hit by the Wackiest dancer for the additional P500 cash, and the mukha ng Day is Marjelie Sta.

Barbara, 24, of Santa.
Table, Manila with P500 too.
In badminton, the top Three winners have a reward reward in advance among the advance among the division of NCR campaigner Jasmin Jill Dumasig of TUP-Mla. and San Juan City National High schools, Mary Ann sabit and Louisse Joy Perono; and among the lalaking Christian Bocanegra and Marvin Realita and Joel Llanera and Joel Llanera and Joel Llanera.
Nanguna, two and pumangatlo in the baguhang ners group "May Chrishia Reign Decada of the fight Elem.
Sch, Shania Klein Banan and Daniel Acle; and the boys "Mark Anthony Racelis of SJNHS, George Mmalayo and Lean Angeles Bonifacio.
The Team SV of QC, some of the members of the members were Charles Momog, Christian Gallares, Joshua Mendoza, Aldred Octavio, Audrey Valenzuela, Ypril Tapia and Allen Esteller.
Team BVA-Mlais Second and the Team Pasding of the host city.



