Where more intensified offensive by the military against abu happiness is not the only isolated place the enemy of our troops can also be the defective weapons.
This is said to be the reason why it reached fifteen soldiers in the encounter in Patikul Sulu last month payment for the second month payment for a second month, causing a second reason for a second month.
August bente Nine fifteen soldiers were killed in the encounter in the abu sayences in Patikul Sulu in Patikul Sulu.
All of them from the company of dalawampung fifteen right?
In the report of the military fight in the position of the abu Sayaff, those who were already waiting for a number of soldiers were really killed.
But there is still a problem that is why the soldiers have become a disadvantage more at a disadvantage.
This is the guns of the soldiers who are fighting for the abu Sayaff.
The complaint of the soldiers many of the guns fail to fail.
While it was raining by a bullet from the abu Sayaff, their gun was having problems.
Most of the tramp and the new issues of the dog didn't explode a kind of afternoon so that's why it's a lot of
I said.
The guns don't have problems that might not be like that many have died.
Two days after the bloody encounter sent by the iimbestiga team is any of the two days.
Eight aso was examined.
A case is a machine gun and a emuri ng bible
It was not a firecracker hit at first.
It was very cleaned moving.
It is the same time when he is able to find out but one of his white bible doesn't really explode because the part of the skin is damaged by the skin, which is why there is a damage that the imported of the barrel will be damaged, especially if his end of the barrel has already been damaged.
Yes that his group should be given port that is why they find that there is a lot of substitute that we have a lot of substitute.
But if the new Arthur and tisoy are talking about I have no defect in the dance sport of our us.
It came out in the investigation of the Filipino says that two are the primary reason why he fail and having problems with the guns of the soldiers who have been aban in the disappearance of their guns because of the continuous operation against the good and second few soldiers to use a Petroleum jelly as lubricant guns that should be used by the Petroleum jelly as lubricant guns that are supposed to be used by the Petroleum jelly as lubricant guns that should be used as well as a few soldiers who used to
In our investigation, it looks like the troops took a long time or operate.
A lot of dirt and garbage are the greatest that we discovered that's what's the tendency of the gano, the gun is really going to stop the gun that the soldiers really complained about their plans to go against them because they were the ones who were planning to give them because they were the only ones who were planning to go.
The roaming sport of my plans were examined but there is no problem for the friends of our soldiers to be removed by the Philippines to replace the bullets that we are planning to follow the reason that we are going to follow the reason that we are going to follow the reason that they are going to follow the reason that they are going to be
