Fight the zika, it is important to protect himself, according to DOH DOH.

Disyembre 10, 2016.

Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, December.
10 (PIA) - it is expensive to protect each other because it is a pananggalang to fight any pain that might infect him.

That is why the Department of Health (DOH) is strict, especially in spreading pain brought by a mosquito bites, the zika Virus infection.

According to City Health at Sanitation Department- Program Manager Dr. Teresita N. Dolor, the zika virus infection is a kind of infection which is achieved by the bite of a mosquito (aedes).

This is some of the symptoms of the people who have chikungunya are having a fever, aching joints, aching headache, redness of the eye and pleading of the skin.
He said, one of five people are having symptoms that it takes for two to seven days.

These complications are like microcephaly, a condition where the size of the head is smaller than normal size of the head of a saearth.

It is called aine-Barre Syndrome, a rare but serious condition that is being attacked by the immune system of healthy kapal ng cells which becomes the cause of weakening and numbness of the body.

According to Bolo, the pain is being taken if it is achieved by the person through a bite of mosquito aedes aegypti which has a zika virus.
This is what is called biter or the sun bite.

As well, through sex with the person who has zika virus may get the said disease, Bolo added.

According to some research, the zika virus can be seen in the kind of liquid in the funny people like blood, saliva, pee, amniotic fluid inside the house child during the time of cooperation, semen, liquid in the brain and spinal cord.

The official also said, it can be avoided by using insect repellants, wear clothes with a long manggas and pants, use the window, to use the water and equipment that might be storage by the water like pail, pots, tires of the vehicle and side of the roof of the house because of this. Mosquitoes usually lay their eggs usually lay their eggs.

There is no vaccine against the zika virus the only way to fight it is to drink a lot of water and rest.
If there is a fever, the doctor might drink medicine.
If there are symptoms, bring to the nearest hospital for a thorough research of the doctor.
(CIO / LTC / PIA-Mimaropa)



