The tourists are favorite to go to this summer one of the talented WAS driving force in the meantime.
Balingoan Misamis Oriental there is the morning news of trini rice.
It is clean and wide ocean is proud of those from Balingoan Misamis Oriental but they have more boasted about the twelve dad away from us Oriental to Camiguin Island until Camiguin isla.
Rich in different kinds of fish and corals are the coast.
It has been declared to take it back like CENTURY to take care of the marine sea I can inspire to say Xavier yes yes yes.
Four ha.
Remate larawan at pagpapatakbo ng ekonomiya in my maong.
It is too late for the foreign Russians at the bottom of the sea maghintay that he is a artery Philippines aalok alok because they are hungry why noh why?
It was also treated as a world klase dad away the ocean of the mass MIS Oriental.
The distance of the residents who will remain clean the marine sea especially this is a big help to their livelihood and also for example to intensify the care of the environment of nature.
A mechanic for the morning news.
Philippines, the newly discovered tourist spot in Alamada is still the Philippines, aside from the fresh air that you are also seduced in the asik asik from North Cotabato this morning news lol there is a stong stong.
In the experience of Barangay Dado Alamada hilaga Cotabato, the amazingly motor was discovered two hours ago but was worth tired when the green guitar fresh breeze was seen and the big titi of the asik asik.
From the hole of the mountain is the water of around around the rocks that will fall down on the rocks and visiting the body.
It is discovered that it will be discovered for two months but it will take care of those who will walk away from the cold and clean water in the cold water.
It just wants to be there in the government to improve the place to give a livelihood to the residents of the residents.
We want to have a good one.
FUCKED in your butt is the Alamada that is why we are here to talk to those who are probably going to regulate the akses asik asik to be more responsible for them to be responsible for them.
There is no entrance fee entry in the area but the beauty of the guitar sagana in the water and clean wind immediately exploded.
