The modernization of PN and PAF.

I hope that our Philippine Navy will be real armed sea in the next year after the Department of National Defense last day express the plan of buying two srastikadong ship from Italy.
These modern ships, Maestrale klase frigate, has the ability to set a subbed in both ships and to drop the airplane because of the various weapons that he has including the various weapons that are already called by the air and lumilitaw missiles, torpedo and automatic knitting.
It is more than strong than Hamilton klase cutters who sold us of the United States Coast Guard recently.
These ships are confiscated by the Italya for their armed sea in 1982 and they will be able to retire in January next year.
Though the second 1.7 billion manong ships will take care of P11.7 billion, this will help the maintenance of security in our seas especially now that our relationship with the People's Republic of China is not good.
As a arkipelago, the government should be strengthened by our armed sea.
Our hukbo is hilarious because our army is more than stronger than the vy and air force when I am more confident the value of the last two forces mentioned.
It is because the government has given more attention to insurgency which is a result of poverty which is the greed of the pul-politicians and businessmen.
If the road of our government is straight, it wouldn't have been insurgency and we had a force military to respect our neighbors.

18 senators are lucky to receive P1.6 million as Christmas gift from Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile.
Despite the fact that many workers are not being paid for right and without Christmas bonus, here are our lawmakers and there is a tumatinting Christmas gift.
It is no wonder that many of us are meant to be a senator.
It is because their life is delicious compared to our small ones who will not eat if the bone will not be beaten.

I wonder why the tricycle are allowed in our main streets like an example of Maharlika Highway.
Aside from this becomes the cause of the slow flow of traffic, these are very dangerous for passengers, drivers, and some of them are now together.
Aside from being rude of most of the drivers that are going to slow down, many of the motorcycles of the tricycle are against the mother-nature because they are extremely smoke.
The smoke of the factories of the factories, decrepit bus and jeepneys are added.
The tricycle made the pollution and the heat of the world or global warming.
It's really here to us, "live and the OWN risk" the kodang not written (unnakasulat code) that everyone is following.
Like "wild wild West" yeeehaw.



