Only a small contribution was so sent home.

Posted By: Sabrina Pascua noong Agosto 16, 2016 sa Sports

Four wins in a lot of games.
In spite of this, the TNT Katropa still changed a import and sent home Mario little!
Where do you see that?
Is it not a nakagigimbal?
Those other teams were able to mix and finds it hard to rise in the paninindigan but still not changing the import.
But the Tropang Texters is a different class!
They are really determined to flourish in the Governor's Cup Cup.
Because coach Joseph Uichico thinks that little wouldn't be brought up by Little until the TNT Katropa will not be brought to the finals.
This import might only end up from the end and hit in the end when it is really didikan!
Because, Little is the one with the most babang scoring average in ten imports playing in the torneo.
He is not overumaapaw as a rebounder.
But the TNT Katropa won't be in the first four games, isn't it?
These success is due to the locals.
E, four times have been awarded as a player of Game Jayson Castro.
"Hey, the numbers are almost triple almost triple.
Castro is very small than Little but he has been able to deny the game.
And if the situation is going to look at it, Uichico and the coaching staff of the TNT Katropa is right.
That's why the Tropang Texters took Mychal Ammons who debut in the game against Blackwater Elite in Saado.
Well, at the beginning of the game, the Tropang Texters did not go away from the Elite.
Blackwater is even the only one who has been able to escape.
But this is a result of the incident that Ammons is still going to adjust and Castro is not able to play for a long time.
But in the ikalawang kalahati, Catsro has already put it and the game of Ammons has been good, that is why the TNT Katham is completely crushed by Blackwater, 109-89 in order to remain clean record 5-0.
Alone now at the top of the paninindigan the Tropang Texters after losing the Mahindra in Phoenix last Friday.
And Uichico does not regret the changing done.
Because he sees Ammons has a good future to make 16 points and got 18 rebounds against Elite.
I hope the TNT Kattives really won't regret because of their sent home little.



