View now is whether an expert an propesor yes that is where we are given a bigger awareness and that there is a connection with the heart of my heart not love here.
Love Sabrina here is a pain in the heart cardiac town kaugnay ng mga sakit and we will find out from my foot what is really going to be the potential reason why people are having a heart disease.
A young woman and an open door to introduce our time to our guests this morning, doctor Antonio has Jordan from the officer, By kolehiyo it would be the same time when you would be able to make it happen here if you were able to save four of them who were being pushed by the dumped kie College of medisina, you are the one who said that our friend's language will be the first of the essay about it to help people who are having illnesses in the heart what is the first because there are so many reasons for the heart of the heart to be the first because there are so many reasons for the heart of the heart.
Altapresyon diabetes and then.
Being overweight maybe but what we want to talk about this morning is the practice of practice.
It was the cause of the heart in the heart while our President Filipinos were able to talk about what we didn't want to see any of their assignment for the Palacio of those who were really anxious about the topic that he was really anxious about from our guests. The traffic cobain how the impact of that will be the impact of that in these people to have a heart disease so that we can have a heart disease right now because there are a lot of people who are able to squeeze the traffic in our health that there are so many ways that our health can be affected by our health.
First.
Of course.
There is a lot of accident cockurot.
Tatlumpung libong isang taon na ang nakararaan ay walong libong
Aksidente Sevilla second 'pollution over the solution, yes that is a huge effect of that and what we thought all of that would be.
But ayon sa mundo health organization not only but also a stroke.
And pain in your heart and equal to tayan, ikatlo ng kanilang mula sa Pollution ay mula sa atake sa puso.
Yes one person is the only one busy with proper treatment for an example of cancer, then it is an example of cancer.
Kaya 'that's an appetizer third' yong kawalan ng ehersisyo.
It's because all of us are able to ride in the car going to work going to work.
We want us to be ignored by the vehicle in front of our destination.
In Filipino, it is prohibited to walk back then that is the kawalan ng ehersisyo ay isa pang malaking
Mga kalahok at the totoo.
That's three kaligtasan.
It was the same time when I was able to find a lot of exercise in the population huge impact of traffic in our health wow! Part of your advocacy is part of your advocacy to help a lot if we are lacking in the exercise and I sweat fought with a traffic situation or here because it's a life living room or life because it's a living room.
So we have a house house.
That no'n.
Longer able to take care of it anymore.
Like the movie.
That's right when we complain about the traffic area that we have to start with you.
May kinalaman dito ang tungkol sa nothing when we have to get involved in here the proposal that we will be able to do is the same time that it's because it's going to be the right thing that
Program means this should not only be a car on the street.
Ah because that is the cause of traffic which is the same time the port of the street is not for the car.
The purpose of the street is that the street is going to be the one
The people are full.
So not only a car should be with the sight of it.
Bisikleta Erwin a lot and other ways of the
Pundasyon.
Ah this in the sacred Sman.
Mula sa limang araw at dalawa.
Em answer and Bolivar kahabaan ng plaza Mexico hanggang mowa we want to prove that it can be invited to show Ben then then.
There are so long.
The Department of science is able to escape the department of science at their electronics.
FINE.
The people can ride free for free.
There will be a short so that man is here because they have a lot of idea how to make the frame of the bike breaking us with the news of the news.
Then it can be jogging that can only walk away people in the meantime.
Roxas Boulevard also, the survey, which is why he / she said that there will be the same time for Manila and Manila, if we're going to have a trip with the former, if the people are going to use the former kaya alternatibong modes of transport just not to be the only one.
Riding in the car overpatayin metro ang let us speak together and how can he convince the public to use a bicycle, which is the news of the accident of the nagbibisikleta.
If prosperity is needed more people who use a bicycle, it is also a bit proud of the post and post but it is a little more
They seem to be the nagbibisikleta heroes in treat their way home because they are also different people who are also a bicycle at the same time when we are together so we can get your candidate together for the bicycles monkeys clean.
Matustusan.
Motivation to be able to go back to kompetisyon.
Save us on the bed toothpaste.
And hasten the simula even if it looks like a nice nagmamalasakit makati until quezon sittim tatlumpung minuto at dalawampung
I was able to make it faster even in the car empty.
As long as there is a dedikasyon line that he is not the important thing that you are able to die Pau because it is important that it is where it is possible that it is possible that they will be able to attend the yellow lane and production aspect that if they have done the yellow lane for passing by the yellow lane.
So they should also give a bike trail exclusive exclusive bisikleta.
It's because you know it's the same time for the same time here here to be the same time I have the same experience on the streets because I am content on the streets what I see because there are still so many that I still remember that there is still a ginagamot bike lane that is that that is why I have been there
But what happened is a dance dahilan because there are so many eight people who are still eight of the drivers who are already eight.
The provisions of the number of our opponent here is not disciplined, in Dapitan, like our opponent, if it is traffic here, maybe why is it that I do not care what religion, according to this, I also don't care how much religion, according to what I also don't have a shame, according to him.
Or isn't very crunchy, that is when he is entering the office of the mother who is able to just be confused by the newscast Jack Jack, that is the student who will enter the office on a bike which is the right to the clothes in Marikina Embarcaoling replaced.
It was built that the problem on the bike lane was okay not just a different vehicle.
There are also times when the trash can be caught in the trash trash of its vendors.
There are not many who try to be able to build a short story of a short story another most successful maybe Iloilo City
If you go to find it very good because it is a rather protected their bike lane?
Hiwalay na rin ba ang magkahiwalay na si Finance hes, it was really separated from the car of their bisikleta lane lane.
When it comes to the law to protect our nagbibisikleta what's not monitoring, the call might be the call.
Actually, the warden is going to have a lot of things with the warden about it when it is said that it is exciting, it is exciting to be the one who is placed in the executive order to the executive order to turn the trigger of the executive order.
Boarding house house.
So it is not just a bike course even if that is included with that yes, even if it is the same.
Only Isang porsyento ng populasyon sa mga sasakyan sa mga sasakyan.
That.
You are going to be on the streets for that one% now we need to open it to those of the ones who are going to be
It is a better palps for those in public transport nagbibisikleta and then walking there is also a new bill proposal by Senator Pia cayso that the call of nakakasira sunspots By joke that they are able to support that is being able to support that you are able to support that.
Kagipitang Vacation of the bumibiyahe is having a bike lane lane.
Sa isang public transport system na paggamit ng mas malalim at kung ano-anong paraan para sa
Low carbon emikinabangan given by Lyka electrlation you already have and the department of science is already doing how long this movement is and then the most we give emphasis to what will happen in return Spati.
They stopped for a long time when when we started a sermon adviser of a student showing this Diliman when we started August bente 16.
Yes yes so yes but now it doesn't want to be grounds on the fourth of the advocacy that is because it has been lilied even if it is me.
Oh it is also different and there are elements so many students are interested in order to defend the court yudy Humility WAS; that is the only taxi here we started this one reflection in our town that I have a lot of if I just want to bike a lot if I can only want to bike.
But those who have been able to make this matagumpay are the ones who have a shortage or
We will be able to open up to what we can do all the way and then maybe the most purpose that you can do is a lot of success, especially the Sering that is a bike ha ha?
We made a lips in thirty Aparri at healthy first just right to transfer.
There really will be a dedikasyon sideline unless it is otherwise that it will be the same time, if it is possible that we will be able to escape, which is why we have not been able to retate online at the same time, no one is pitiful for our riders because of the disiplinang driver that we are able to make them
That he / she died.
We have to be different or look for them in this movement the bayanihan on the road is the one to call out of the movement kissing
Lontoc a lot with the health propesor we went with here are just decent because they forget what the contestant of traffic in health will be forgotten.
We are busy in treating diseases after billions of billions to buy medicine forgetting that there are simple things aside from the medicine that will support our health.
She was a super-yoseries Vivian.
That is only anim na oras at the library Sman over ll there was supposed to last and hopefully it went away, there was a lot more involved in Pasig Makati quezon City not just Manila in Pasay ayan okay so that is what a road or our country is going to be at the same time or our country.
Enter anywhere there is just that if it's the Renzo, there is an opening ceremony in the meantime.
Plaza Mexico but will be able to watch it anytime if you go two.
It's going to take care of the fight.
Okay, we will be okay with our nanny without a joke that you will visit you.
By the boodle they fight for us or two or yes or okay to say that there is money yes but it is minsors to end up with the people who are already going to be there.
Her abdomen is painful because of too much.
Of love.
How do that wait what is the cure for me to be treated as well as possible to be treated by the reason why I think that it is not just a matter of healthy heart to love or what is too much to love or what to love or what is it that I have to love.
