
Emulated the revolutionary life of Tiamzon!
The democratic revolver nation is going to be able to attend!

Lurrrle Gypsy Zabala Brigade.

National Capital Region Kabassigned Makabayan.

March 28, 2014.

The Kabassigned Makabayan-Brigadang Luess le Gypsy Zabala Zispsy Zabala Zabala Zabala Zabala Zabala Zabala Zabala is the arrest of the US-Aquino to the leaders of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines, Benito Tiamzon and Wilma Austria and their colleagues.
There will be no one to deny the openly bullying and desperation of the government to stop and crush the revolutionary movement in the arrest of the two leaders rebels.

In the call of the peace talks, this estadong himself is the one who is sharing the door to discuss reasonable and long-term peace in the country.
Turning our backs on the root of why there are armed incidents that are happening and the process is rushed.
Instead of put the comprehensive Agreement on Socio Economic Reforms that all the democratic wishes of the citizens like the true reform agraryo and national industriyalization are put on the pagpapababa of the weapon or united with the national Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines.

The resyunbuilt government of the US-Aquino will go backwards in the act of the collector of the leaders in the revolutionary movement in the desire to idemoralisa and our ranks.
He did not have old age and learned from the previous government that he was able to escape and in the bullying, which was swallowed by their failure.
Proof of this is the meaning of the brave statement of Ka Wilma Austria while wearing the handcuffs "Binabati of the 45th anniversary of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan.
It continues to be growing.
The AFP won't be defeated! "

The resyunbuilt government of the US-Aquino to the youth Filipinos are the life of example of a simple lifestyle and thorough struggle for the interest of the people.
More than catch up and look like the eestablishments should be emulated by the youth in the character of the couple Tiamzon.
The same intelligence from the university of the Philippines-Diliman are the Tiamzon.
Both of them are a product of Kabassigned Makabayan that first movement in the new type of national democratic movement until finally join the Bagong Hukbong Bayan and the entire time offered their youth, intelligence and strength for the success of the rebolsolution end of taking advantage of people.
Even their relationship as lovers until married, they completed and not convicted in order to abuse it in interest and kagalingan of the people.

In the trust of the masses, they will go forward the revolutionary movement in its status now - it is strong rooted on the masses, high in challenges and continue to be abusive because succeeding.
They were able to gather in being raped in Marxismo-Leninismo and the laying of four of them in prlocked and in the malakolonyal and close to the social panlipunan of the Philippines all members and not members of it in pushing the reasonable revolution.

Contrary to the expected of the state that will be made or the digmang town will be ended because of the incarceration of the couple, he doused in the jablab that the youth and citizens are driving.
This is more strengthened by the principle of principle to be held by Kabassigned Makabayan.

It is huge that roles are set on our shoulders especially when we watched it in the upcoming season to go forward to the digmang town in the etary hiatas.
The balangay of Kabassigned Makabayan is open to the one who wants to follow the footsteps of Tiamzon going to the fields ready to receive the youth revolutionary.

Kabassigned Makabayan is very proud to have members like a couple Tiamzon.
There is no possibility that we can take a glimpse of the democratic revolver town until a communists society if this is such a revolutionary life and that the one who is left behind by all members and will be members of Kabassigned Makabayan.
We disregard the bandred red and head to the path of Filipino who will win all of the taking advantage of the oppressed!

The couple Tiamzon will be set free!
The youth, the Sambayanan will serve!
Join the Bagong Hukbong Bayan!



