Meanwhile, sir, sir, can make it look at the same time, I can spit it down to the matter where he is going to be able to do the same thing, but I can also open yes tomorrow I will see him tomorrow tomorrow.
Yes, you do not feel just as if it is already known that it is cold if there is only a pilay
For you to be apilok, his line of other kinds of magang, which is when he is at least lunes, the same time, which is why he / she said that he was going to have a haircut, which is why he said that he might have been an allergy, even if he said that he might have been an allergy, "he said that he might be able to call the same time. Barangay san san pedro said that he said that he and his coward were said to be a coward, then he said that I had a coward before he had a coward.
Mhm.
Yes, that should be in the head.
.
If it is a distance from the medicine right now, there are only those who are going to say that it's only because there are only those who are just not complex that it's not the right thing that my hand is not right, that's why I remember that I remember that's why I remember that's what I remember 'that's what I remember' on your tomatoes that's why I remember that 'what I remember' on your tomatoes that's asking for your tomatoes that's why I remember that's what I remember that the commercial commercial of the commercial is directed to smoke.
I don't know that it is said to be down, that's why it's still the water that you can't even like that you haven't become like this, "you still haven't like this
'I did not know that it would be a Vitamin bitamina?
Yes, yes.
Yes to come from.
What's like the crisis in the hand.
Well, it is the same time that the same thing is that it is going to be the same time as well as possible.
Yes to what kind of view there is the same time that I am going to be able to make sure that I am mayro, that's what it is not complete that I have tried to lose the vehicle who is riding swelling yes.
It's not complex that's why there's my own hand which is the lungs two fingers on the right to get involved swelling.
'that's that I don't eat I can't eat my hand I can't move my hand like he's a single payong I can't make it so I also tried no matter what I was like, not complex real two I said yes to my own yes.
But it was great enough that it was said that it was a lot of fun.
Or tatlong 'that's when she said yes to say yes, yes, that's what she said.
"It's not complex before we have a lot of that, I will be able to do something like that, but I am able to find a bomb hails of the bomb hails.
It is the same time that the case is going to take place then Marlon is going to be able to do it.
Yes I can't make it hurt in the head of his mother's remittance that I am divided by honey I do not have to casual maybe only half of the pain seems to be the pain of Yoko eye pinakasal 'ata.
Yes, yes.
'you don't try drinking I also drink that I also drink that.
Yes, that's why it was a good problem that was severely reprimanded, I couldn't even have a lot of time with him.
