Failure and corruption in measles and measles.

The Department of Health is hurrying with his appointment against the quick spreading measles.
DOH is now calling for all the other branches of the government to help against the disease that can return and deadly.
The Department of Education and local government are among those implicated by the DOH.
Even the private doctors, nurses and other medical professional are also calling him to help.
DOH has said many medicines that many and the vaccine against measles are enough.
But now this is becoming clear because of the ranks of the barangay health center, the statements are shot about the lack or lack of vaccine.
Thus, many of the barangays health center are taunan if you walk for a vaccination despite the fact that it has been used to be a child who should be bakfront in due time.
It appears that the DOH or the government is just lying or namboball about having enough vaccines in pain that there is no certain medicine.
No doctor, there is no NARS experience of all the excessive lack or lack of appropriate health professional in the barangay health center.
"That is why there is no doctor, a nurse or other enough knowledge in reconciling with health centers.
Thus, even if there is enough vaccine against the disease, there is nothing to make a vaccination in due time.
The barangay health center can't count on the finger that only the "inang lider" or have no idea of the medications that the volunteer will be the ones.
Reconciling with the complaint of many mothers, not just showing up the health center, especially the doctors.
Instead, the mothers who went to the private clinics of doctors, even the doctors of the government went to the private clinic of the doctors, to be vaccinated there.
But it should be paid so much.
Where are things coming from medicine for the vaccine of the "government doctors?"
Is it from the free supply of the government or in the supply of the medicine companies so expensive?
With those who pay for the medicine not only for the vaccine but the iringilya, bulak, consult and very setting.
Lack of vaccine and vaccine admit or not by the government, no one is working right now to the people saying that their living will be convenient.
The families in the barangay can count on the finger saying that life is light and they can be vaccinated in private clinics or hospitals.
Thus, the father and mother are forced to find a source of income for "finishing" just for the daily expenses.
Especially now, kontraktwalisasyon is now spreading employment for employment only for five months and it takes a year before finding employment again at the job cause kontraktwalisasyon.
The government itself is the one who is leading the kontraktwalisasyon in doing this law for this, the called Herrera Law.
Because of the misery for them to live their family, the mothers or father are not able to respond to the call for a vaccination that is being conducted when it's rare in the drop of rain.
Family drivers Kabsome of those who are having a hard time in making a vaccination are the families of the drivers of tricycle and jeepney drivers.
Everyday they are crying in poverty to earn for their families, especially with food and willpower of children in school or taking good care of them if it is only a little child.
They are crying in poverty because of being consumed by the expensive diesel and gasoline their income and the policemen and traffic enforcer live in extortion.
They also suffer the search for electricity, water and others.
The products of petroleum products, electricity, water and other batayang needs because of the very high tax being illed by the government here, except those cheating of companies or have control of the businesses mentioned.
The lack of life that the government is currently a big reason why these will not be able to go to health center to vaccate, especially when a vaccination in carrying this program.
All blame despite all of them, the government has an interest to blame the people in the spread of calamity.
The government says that the mothers and father are negligent and this is the one who should be blamed why getting sick, nababalda or dying in measles are the children of them.
Change is the need to lead the government to change in response to the disease of measles.
Among those who have to do what is being crushed in corruption and negligence in health program, employment of doctors, nurses and others who will take care of the people.
But he should also focus on the policy of the tax, petroleum, electricity and other causes of poverty and being sick.



