Loyalty in the pound: Reflection of Simbang Gabi Day 2 - Disyembre 17, 2014 - YEAR OF THE mahirap!

Is it measured by the loyalty of a person?
There is a story of a priest who loves to be able to spend a bit of those who are married.
Once he was interview for the wedding, he first talked to the man: "If the sincerity of your wife will be given importance to money, how much its equivalent?"
"Fr, the value of his loyalty is php 20,000."
The priest once again asked, "Eh, his being understanding, how much is worth it?"
"Fr, her being able to understand is php 10,000!"
"Here, it was the last question," said the priest, "Yung beauty of your future wife?"
"Fr, five pesos!" The man answered.
"Why is it only five pesos?"
"You want to know, then you can't look at it outside my future wife!" The young man answered.
The priest came out and peeked at the appearance of the fiance.
When the priest came back to the room, he handed two pesos to the man together, "this is the two peso, you have a change, apparently, only three pesos is worth of his beauty!"
Siblings, those who have a couple of prices in your partner are the beauty of your partner, how much is it?
If his value is just a peso, the call there is FIDELITY or honesty!
The fideology ity is from the word Latin FIDES that means faith.
Meaning, honesty is possible only if a person has a strong faith.
We heard this second day of Simbang Gabi the record or Genealogy of our Lord Jesus.
When the names of what we heard were very long.
Maybe many of us are still sleepy while reading this; but only one message wants to convey it: That God has been faithful to us!
He became faithful because he fulfilled His promise to safety through history.
God has been faithful to His promises.
But the fact that this is in need of answers to us.
Our response to Him with a deep faith, masidhing hope, and earnest love.
We truly people have weaknesses in our own.
We have a heart salinfected and will usually be cheating in our loving God.
Goodnews... God remains TAPAT despite our continuing infidelity and he will never cheat on us.
May this cause us an inspiration to keep our love for Him!
Let us live with loyalty and do not take a heart salinfected!



