
Alarm in Syria, fear of migranteng workers.

By Darius Galang Pebrero 9, 2012.

Map of the country Syria in the Middle East.
The fear of the air strikes any day this week in Syria, where there is a conflict in the removal of the President of the country, Bashar al-Asmalungkot.
The country is currently on alert level 4 because of the chaos.
In the middle of this chaos, many Filipinos are in an uncertain situation until now it is hard to get home because of the failure of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the embassy of the Philippines in Syria to take care of their welfare.
It is the situation of Syria Uthat at all, the Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) criticized the leadership of Migrante International, the role of the government of the United States in the quick worsening of the situation in Syria going to a war-civilians.
The US and allies of the government in the panloob issue of the country are direct.
"Like what happened in Libya, the United States has been full of coalition recently to oust (Syrian President Bashar) al-Asmalungkot.
The forces of US-NATO (North Atlantic Treted Organization) is already waiting for its humanitarian mission.
But the United Nations and the Arab League were blessed by the military League and air strikes in the said country, "Garry Martinez explained, the chairman of Migrante International.
Migrante is worried that it is possible to happen in Syria the bloody interbenation of the US in Libya.
"It is legitimate the call of the citizens of Syria for change, which they think is useful in their country.
But any force should not interfere, and the citizens of Syria should be allowed to resolve their issues, "Martinez added.
Migrante International is pounding in the government to help the OFW caught up in the war in Syria.
(Contribution) grief of the OFW in a press conference yesterday, some of women OFW who have gone home in the country presented their plight in the middle of the conflict in Syria.
Content of their stories is difficult for the escape from the employers, lack of food, and lack of communication with loved ones even inside the embassy of the Philippines.
According to OFWs from Syria, their employers did not allow the Filipino employees to come out of the house.
Shelly Mae Cruz stated, from January last year the suffering of the OFW trying to ask for help from the embassy.
But when it reached the embassy, it was door as if they were still in jail.
"It's like we just let it go there almost nothing to eat."
"It's the other almost a year there and still can't come home," he said.
It is the story of the OFW, a little of the rasyon in the food given by the embassy, it is disastrous that they are still divided in a small piece of chicken.
At once, they have eaten a spoiled luncheon meat.
"It's really hard.
"You can eat really what you don't really eat," Elizabeth Golong.
Due to the severity of war in Syria, Filipinos who work there are more in danger, according to Migrante.
It is also difficult for communication because the employers confiscated the cellphones of OFWs.
Arelito fa Duenas shared that he is not able to almost talk to his son Analyn, which is until now, he is in Syria.
Martinez asked, "Bakit our embassy did not borrow their equipment in order to be used in communication by our countrymen?"
The story of Jocelyn Orpiada is part of the story, who has been included in the detained center of a citizen who is a victim of rape.
"When he got to get out to go to the embassy, and got a taxi, he was still raped by the driver and threw it in a crowded place in the slightest scus.
"It's good that someone was concerned to help him and brought him to the hospital," he said.
Apparently, there was no investigation that happened and the raped was not yet caught in the said Filipina.
According to the DFA, Martinez criticized the DFA in the proper treatment of OFWs in Syria, aside from the lack of fixing papers and quickly return to the Philippines of this.
There is deployment ban in Syria since 2009.
But in the estimation of Migrante, there are more than 18,000 Filipinos who are still able to enter it out of illegal.
In the conversation of the representatives of Migrante and some relatives of the OFW of Ricardo Endaya, Executive Director of the Office of the Undersecretary kay Migrant Workers of DFA, it appears that the department has funds to purchase the natitirang kontrata of the OFW who was caught by the deployment ban.
But it appears that their working in the country continued.
It appears to be given "working permit" of the embassy the Filipino workers who are illegal.
Endaya also presented to the meeting with 1096 OFW the handcuffed process to go home.
Endaya made sure that there is appropriate budget for the airfare of the pauuwe workers.
Up to $2,000 to $4,000 in every OFW is the total deployment halaga.
But the execution of the OFW who is allegedly due to the slow process and lack of budget will be taken away by the execution of the OFW.
Only two batch, who have a total 798, the country's returned.
Endaya allegedly denied that the giyerang civilians spread to the entire Syria and need thorough return to the Filipinos.
For now, there is only one repatriation efforts for Filipinos who are in the cities of Homs, Hama, Idlib and Daraa.
Martinez met him again.
"They say that" peaceful "and" it's not complicated "in other places, even if we have a fellow countrymen who have been able to register to go home.
Can we still wait for the violence to spread to other places?
What is the basis of Alert Level 4 in the entire country of Syria? "
Martinez's help challenged Pang.
Benigno Aquino III has immediate release a position regarding the situation in Syria, for the sake of thousands of Filipinos left alone there.
"If President Aquino ever supported the measure of the United States, and he did not release a position against this, he seemed to have the tear of death to our countrymen who could be criticized by bombs from foreign forces," he said.
The call of those who came from Syria is simple and fresh in memory of the started conflict.
Elizabeth respects, "we are calling the government to help those who are left in Syria especially those who are still unable to go out of the house and haven't committed a way to go to the embassy."
Migrante also commented, the DFA has not even given any financial assistance for OFWs who have no brought home but themselves.
Aside from this is the lack of true reintegration program that will give them a job.
"We will never get tired of calling the government Aquino who has no support for the Filipinos caught up in the chaos in other countries, and don't care about lack of livelihood in his own country," Martinez said.



