How will smoking stop smoking?
By Kuya Rom Nobyembre 21, 2016 Dear Kuya Rom, Kami of my wife is a new wedding.
My father-in-law is kind.
He said that we lived in their house first.
My relationship with my husband's family is okay, except for a issue.
His father loves to smoke inside the house.
My wife told my father-in-law that I have hika and allergic to the smoke of cigarettes.
I told me about my family, because the truth died my grandfather with cancer in the throat and the root is too smoking.
My father-in-law is listening and cried.
He continues to be smoking inside the house.
I won't be able to share him.
I avoid taking care of him.
I do not want to have a crack in dealing with her.
Brother, what is good advice in a chain-naninigarilyo?
How can we tell him?
How to stop smoking? - Jim Dear Jim, Ualready, an old man like your male male man is usually not listening to the person who is younger than him.
Second, you will not tell your father-in-law, because he is home and he can do what he wants to do.
The most beautiful thing you do is to be independent in your own home.
Smoking creates nicotine.
Nicotine is addicted, so it is hard to stop smoking.
Whether your father-in-law wants to stop it, he cannot do it, because it is possible that he is a nicotine addict.
His body is always looking for nicotine.
Smoking is one of the biggest cause of the disease and death.
Every year, thousands of people are dying because of smoking.
Smoking is the cause of 50 pain.
This is 90 percent root of cancer in the lungs.
Even the people who are not smoking are affected when inhaled by the smoke of cigarettes.
This is bad for the woman pregnant.
The smoke of cigarette is causing illness to a baby, and it is sharing the boy's infertility.
What is good advice to a person who is addicted to smoking?
First, he needs to see and admit that smoking is bad for his health.
Second, he will regret his destroying his body.
Third, he decides to stop destroying his own body.
Most of all, he will be humble, he comes to God and he is glad to give him ugly strength, because he cannot stop smoking through his own strength only.
Get to know and Panaligan is the Lord Jesus.
He was Manangan with the strength of the Lord Jesus and strong built this point: "I can face any condition through the help of Christ who is nagpapatatag to me" (Filipos 4: 13).



