I can see no apology or apology to the advice of that Philippines araw-araw Inquirer Inquirer.
Because of how they show pictures that it is a bit not good that they are looking at the taste of some of their readers.
There was the same time when he was able to take a picture of it.
That is the masayang he will explain Chief Justice Corona when he testified in the senate and he was going to put them in the title because their title of their photos were placed in the senate.
Taekdies do a character witness.
The offer of the prosecutors of the government was placed in the offer of the
A character witness is quite bad to be there in others because it is made to look like nonsense nonsense.
The witness is just all nonsense.
You know a little ally of President Nonoy aquino, Senator Serge Osmena said that he is convinced that the fool is being deceived or vicente or vicente.
That many of our countrymen are really not able to do that again.
It was said that it was the same time to ipa-up with them that he and his properties were taken away from many times and that's true and that's true that you just talk to your relatives who might be living there but it is not yet registered to you but it is not a name of many of us but it is happening that it is not usually done by many of us but it is happening that it is usually happening by many of us but it is happening to happen.
Or that Senator Chiz has also bitten her.
He proved that it was really, that it was really living nine.
Ah demetria pinakamatandang sister who is a player vicente.
And both of them were bonsais afficionado, it would be the same time if they were a womanizer.
Or apparently the size of the land we cleaned and the one that you are popular to visit him there is the very ally of President noynoy aquino little Conchita Carpio Morales ngayong
Closed vicente is a credible witness o hindi in the eyes of some who are observing and even if he will not come near because Ma'am who defended his age in his speech in his speech of his speech.
That is not good at the end for us to change my friend's opinion of insults where he is now beginning to start.
In this appearance in the meantime.
Middle of the old man because it is not good that it is no longer in the judge of the media okay that you find out that you
