Credibility of the elektional 2013, questioned?

It is broken by a broken process.
Long queue.
Missing names on the official list of the voters.
Missing signal.
Counts wrong Quick counts.
This was the scene of the election yesterday, May 13.
Not included here are the incidents of violence, harassment, and other irregularities, from the elections until the closure of the elections, sending the results of votes in the precinct until the Commission on Elections (Comelec) in the local and national level.
In some inaklawang places in Metro Manila and neighboring towns, witnessed the tap and volunteer of Filipinos Weekly these problems.
On Twitter feed from hashsummer number of PWvote2013, we were also reported to monitor the defense of the defense election tanod the media like Bulatlat.com, Tudla, Kodao, Davao araw, and others are already in the media like Bulatlat.com, Tudla, Davao araw, and others

Reports from the provinces also entered the provinces of the defense of groups watching the election.
Through reports that this was shown the appearance of the election batbat of irregularities and problems.
More than an hour after the election closed, Parish pastoral Council, an official citizen arm of Comelec in the election, partial, partial at the 1,418 precinct.
In this resolution, the vote of the candidate has seen more than 14 million votes with the highest vote, Grace Poe.
The reaction of the election tanod, the statistical was identified by having more than 14 million votes.
"(T) the KBP transparency server flashed on national telebisyon a numerically improbable total of around 10 milyong boto para sa itaas senattutorial spot While Reporting Only ang kabuuang 1,418 precinct.
Ang mga ito ay significant, bilang pinakamabigat na 1,000 botante kada presinto ay dapat na bigyan ng kabuuang bandang 1,418,000 pinakamabigat na boto ", pahayag ni Kontra daya.
The PPCRV took it back to the said number, and said that there was just a formatting just the case, and they were resolved with such a problem.
Kontra daya reported that Smartmatic also fixed the source of code in their part as a response to the release of a very large vote which is not realistic.
When the votes adjust; it is more or less 4.8 million votes that Poe got after the adjustment.
But the PPCRV is not enough to explain how to get this figure.
It can be recalled that this has happened during the elections that 2010, when it reached a point that reached 153 million were kabuuang rehistradong botante in the pagbibilang server - which was more than the population of the Philippines before.
Smartmatic quickly fixed the source of code.
Suspicious for Kontra daya is the sudden sort of Smartmatic in the source of code being used in the number and process of votes.
According to them, the Smartmatic is terrifying in the source of code, and it can be bagu to change the source code.
Despite this lack of real source code review of pagbibilang at consolidation server (CCS).
"(T) public Can ay hindi niya alam kung ano ang sistema ng Smartmatic para sa talnakahiga at pagbibilang ng boto Really.
Lumalabas IT na nag-iiba din sila ng pinagkukunan ng code sa spot, Which ang Which na sistema ng Whole election system, "said Kontra daya.

Meanwhile, the presensiation of an official of Smartmatic in the data center of the PPCRV at the Pope Pcustodial Center in Manila is adding to suspicion before the wrong Tally happened in the afternoon of May 13, said AES Watch.
Ernie del Rosario said, IT expert of AES Watch and former IT director of the Comelec, who is worrisome in the presence of Albert Castro Rico, who is global service direct of Smartmatic in Asia Ocean.
He is also the project manager of the foreign teknolohiya supplier in autosugatang elections in Autonomous Region para sa Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) in 2008, and one of those signed in the contract for the poll autoation between the COMELEC and Smartmatic.
Nelson Celis approved by AES Watch and former President of the Philippine Computer Society, Del Rosario.
He said, "Smartmatic HAS walang business pakikitungo sa isang mamamayan" arm na dapat mag-ehersisyo ng kalayaan lalo na mula sa isang dayuhan.
Dapat ipaliwanag ni Mr. Castro kung ano ang ginagawa ni WAS doon ".
"Wala pang ibang dahilan ang alam ko kung bakit ang taas ng operasyon ni Smartmatic sa PPCRV server - PPCRV gamit ang CCS (consolidated)?" Said ni Celay.
Del Rosario said that any interbenation of a foreign company in the operation of the civic arm of COMELEC in the election is suspicious and should be serious to investigate.
Del Rosario of COMELEC is dating leader of the poll working Group in the poll Autoement in 2008 who resigned because of the authorities of the Comelec regarding the exchange of the quality of the autoelection elections that should be implemented.
In the press conference of the PPCRV today, according to patrol etta de Villa by the PPCRV, the presence of Rico of Smartmatic should not be an issue in their data center.
The Smartmatic should really be there to observe the process.
Ana De Villa Singson said, media director of the PPCRV, which is also found in the actual data center of Smartmatic.
In the reports of the nap and the statements of the PPCRV, it seems that they are saying that the problem in the wrong Tally should not be an issue.
The Comelec said that it was "TINY fraction" only by 78,000 pesos S machines in the same number of polling precinct destroyed.
Comelec Chair Sixto Brillantes said that it is also up to 200 pesos.
But the Filipino Weekly witnessed the scene witnessed by the Pinoy Weekly, of the election tanod group and even a nap that is more than "TINY fraction" the problem of the recent election.



