What do you see there around your house you are internal organs or comments that you have a favorite to know but how that is that.
It was only then that the mountains were able to catch up in the blue waters of the sky everyday this is the one who win the town of tadian Mountain province a mountainous pobist in the norte ha here born the child of Maximo and Solenn was the tanawing who would like to greet him everyday but the color of those who would like to greet him everyday but the color of those who would like to greet him everyday, but the color of those who would like to greet him everyday, but the color of those who
I was able to stand a siren that I was still missing for a long time.
Now what do you see now right now.
Longer able to take care of it anymore.
Hashased far from the hospital was not treated by the accident of the child this worsened until his eyes were affected by his eyes.
Neth was the blind mark of the parents of the child who reached the school that he was able to enroll in the school without a steady process in their place in their area.
But the child deliberately persevere, she is trying to come to the looked sibling going to school to school.
You will be able to spend the stones that way and I will see that in class even if he does not see the lessons in pisara yes, mayor sentensiya of Sima, Sima!
Position themselves.
Longer able to take care of it anymore.
He would shoulder even if his sibling was complete because and maybe I can be taught as a regular teacher not yet school I taught him to answer but I do not how he is going to write so much that he can still suggest that he is still able to find out that he is still able to suggest that he is still able to suggest that he is still able to suggest that he is still able to
One morning there came to be a good news a news changed in the dark world sexy back then the arrival of mother was full of mango when I killed her and my mother asked me to study on the night when she told me I wanted to study over the night when I wanted to take a trip over the night when we wanted to go to school with me.
It's the same time.
The good news came from the boss bago position para sa bulag-bulagan at the research that is giving free education to the children who are blind to visit the children who are blind to visit and employer.
In the endless love that the situation is not just free for food and home to hang on me but most of all of this is free I dream if you don't even see if it's not possible if you don't want to be there.
Ha.
Dalawang taon na ang nakakaraan.
Good good.
She was wearing the help of help.
Yel.
He stayed there.
When you come here to us just what will you feel like these cases here.
That accompanied you to be happy to be able to study someone else.
It doesn't get blocked.
In the love that we should not have a disability, they are taught to stand on his own feet restricted to eat alone washing his own plate ha yes, that is how tired like that, that is why he is tired like that.
Do you say there is probably in the intensity that they really do the normal few too late that they are an ugly klase status in joy.
Visiting aktibidades ang best pero sa Beijing over o sa ilalim ng mga French they are free to finish without a fear of invitation to go to the party my question is my question.
We saw a threat to each other in the meantime.
't you have to kara me.
Simon Simon.
"Sister sister is going to be.
Then you only have to see me know that I am me.
He sat next to what a job smells like foul yes because of the disciples of course that they are using not what they are using as well as he gets to know me I smell seven.
Thousands and that are being creative by the children so I thought before I salute the teachers who taught these children.
The love I brought to the ikalawang palapag of dormitories to know the picture of the children of that then.
I was surprised by the one who is hardworking enough ago that it would be the right thing.
One anim na okay why at home this is the other ituring who is there, Norah Lorraine plunderenta, one if zero apat na miyembro Three taon is what I am at least one hundred bente.
Sixty libo one hundred dalawampu Three pagkakawatak-watak By Smaging this is the answer to the answer.
It was said if they would respond to using your allowance not to not think of us to give jose.
At Wally apat na apatnapu't isang sanlibutan Tikboy Smaging apat na limang
Apat na apat na Center para sa some of the dragon in the fight at seventy
What she has written now.
Wow.
Will come true to the counter.
She was already preparing for a while.
Sixty Three pagkakawatak-watak By Smaging apat na Nine.
Dabo Sbagama't fifty walong libong limang daang eighty Nine Nine.
A rat has a Nine like these children who are taught to fall in your picture in a presidential vacation that he got after he was hit by measles, he was still a child in the abdomen that is why the pressure was not really here in the ice out that's why it was the ice that I had to get out of here in the ice, which is why it was the ice that I had to get out of the pressure, which is why it was the ice that I had to get out of here in the ice that it was not really amazed because Juan wasn't really amazed at the school Juan in the hello chemistry mother when I was Nine years old, I would remember that I was going to look at the school at the school, jay Sonza students, I would also like to study but I could not do anything else, I would also like to go to school but I could not do anything else, I would like to study but I could not do anything else, I would like to study but I could not do anything else, I would
Thirteen-anyos Marta was the last one he was able to handle and was able to find a book from when he approached the freedom on the occasion to the occasion.
In the other bedroom sweet music again in what I heard or the new month he was able to watch it but he was not an audience and the musiyou coming from the guitar of a blind teacher.
That Rolando pitagan wife of Ditse mark and music teacher can read wet.
Those of them.
It was not born to be blind on my pillow that his two eyes before the young man, Rolando when he finally went blind after an operation so that's why he was the only one who was extremely sweet and regret that's why I did not know the doctor, that's why the doctor beat me, that's why they didn't know that they would be the only one who had a doctor, that's why they didn't know that they would be the only one who had a doctor, that's why they didn't know that it is okay to do something okay with my response ah kung ano man ang gusto i-go easier then but it's gone that it seems like yes, it seems like you are going to take advantage of it as if you are going to fall into it because you might fall into it as if you might fall into it as if you might fall into it.
Rain thought it was the end of his world but everything changed when he met all ha ha ha ha?
