Paris attack in the PINAS.

The government and citizens should not relax about the threat of terrorism saanmang part of the Philippines.
It might happen again, for example, the forehead is simultaneously bombing in buses and different parts of Metro Manila and bombing also in the Light Railway Transit in Blumentritt, Manila.
As well as the bombing of a ship of Super Ferry 14, including the 120 people, including many students and teachers, outside Manila Bay while traveling the ship from Manila going to the Visayas and Mindanao.
The bomb in the said ship is the worst made by terrorists in all the countries in South East Asia, especially in the ocean.
400 + PATAY on the record from the year 2000 until 2007 is more than 400 people died.
There might be a double number of those who are killed if the victims of terrorism will be included from the year 2008 until now.
Among the victims were the ones who were about to kidnap the ransom, those who were beheaded, "and binomba and shot, especially in Mindanao.
If the tremendous fear of the citizens will be included and the loss of jobs and the future of thousands of thousands, but any million citizens, child of tokwa, terrorism is really severe.
Thus, as long as everyone can do it, the bombing and shooting of the terrorists should not be repeated.
And if it cannot be stopped, it is only a little and a small victim of the evildoers.
The soul is vile because they do not choose victims who are victimized and it seems that civilians who are innocent and helpless are destroyed.
Don't ignore the authorities, especially the military, who are not members or supporter of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, the encountered and they killed in the fight in Mindanao in the past few days.
Among those who were killed were the two alleged Indonesian that could be pagsasanay by the "terrorists."
The flag of ISIS might just be used by those who were killed to be so confused by the authorities in the character of those who were killed.
However, the citizens should not be able to believe in the statements of the authorities on the number of failed statements of them on the matter.
If not a failure, these kinds of statements are intentional so that whichever interest in the matter is not alarmed while there is a solution to the problem.
It is only then telling them the whole truth if the journalists and people who know about the events have been served and all, for example in the investigation of Congress or the reports of such the United Nations.
Americans, Pranses are taken care of and helping against terrorists are really needed because we are having roads or thousands of foreign targets of them.
Especially foreign active in fighting against their "inang organisasyon" in other countries, like ISIS that can be found in Iraq and Syria.
Americans, Pranses that 130 people in Paris attack, Russians have already reported 240 people through a bomb on the civilian airplane in Egypt, Arab and others.
An example of the understood controversy of the foreigners happened to the bombing of the Bali, Indonesia which was the match of hundreds of foreigners and not Indonesian.
It ran and hid in my loved Philippines one of those who have made the bombing in Bali and no other but Marwan who was the match of our Special Action Force 44 and wounded many other policemen of SAF.
Crowded places reminders of the authorities, be careful in crowded places.
Because these kinds of places are usually targeted by terrorists, there are foreigners or nothing.
Malls, churches, feasted, bus station, train, ship and plane themselves.
If they cannot avoid them, being vigilant, quick communication and strict cooperation with the authorities.
Remember this: The authorities cannot afford the fight here.
They need the citizens not only in the actual struggle to fight but also in intelligence before any attempt for terrorism, while it is happening and after the incident.
It is a good example happening in Paris attack that everyone became active in following the footsteps of terrorists from Paris, France up to the countries Germany, Belgium and others there were conducted by the arrest of the said attack.

Ultimatum / Benny ANTIPORDA.



