
Kasalukuyang PMA Honor System System System System.

At least, I can present the little dog of the puzzle explaining to the question bothering the minds of many of our countrymen: What is the accusation of the Honor Committee which is from 8-1 (guilty vs. Not guilty) has been 9-0?

Even I myself was confused how that happened that there was a chambering 'in the Honor Committee trial.

The 'chambering' or executive session when there is a dissenting vote is not part of the hakbang during our time where the lihim balloting and what the result is, then.

In what I mentioned in the initial articles, there were changes in the Honor System after studying the PMA about the planned hakbang that was appropriate for the current season.
This is not surprising because even in the United States Military Academy, they also had changes until they establish the current system of the prevailing rules of the Cadet Honor Code.

Just accept that we also need the PMA of positive changes that are appropriate for the needs of the season and the purpose of all this is to continue the main purpose of it to produce the leader of character that will be able to produce what is right all the time.

She and kasalukuyang Honor System System System.

What happened to the Honor System in PMA has a big change.

First, it was removed before accustomed to the stracisasyon 'which is the one who chose to live with the Cadet Corps after being sentenced to guilty verdict is given a cold treatment of all the cadets.
In exchange for this, there are many who tried to system like the Remediation 'which is just given by the mapikon and re-indoctrination of the offenders and allowing them to join the akademya.

Para sa ilang mga dahilan o isa pa, they also had a problem here and that is why decided to do uling separation from the Academy is the sentence for the Honor Committee trial.

There was also a big change in the system of the Honor Committee trial.

According to the part of the interview with Colonel Rozzano Brgan, Commandant ni Cadets, in the Philippine Daily Inquirer, "The procedure napagkasunduan ng By lahat ng kadete na sinundan ni By ang Honor Committee na nasa isang 7-2 o 8-1 na boto, ang mga miyembro ng komite ay mapupunta sa isang jury type executive session termed chambering".

Col. Bralakay: "IT ay tulad ng dagdag na paliwanag kung saan mapupunta ang lahat ng mga ito sa ante room at pag-usapan kung ano ang mga dahilan kung bakit sila ibinoto o hindi nagkasala.
"This HAS ang kanilang patakaran mula nang magsimula sila sa ika-apat na klase taon hanggang sa unang taon at lahat ay tinanggap na rin ito ng pagkukunwari".

According to a junior officer who was a former member of the Honor Committee, no one was forced to report to the secret balota after such an executive session.

"It is only talking about the point that can be used in the decision in the letter of the final vote that he is standard on the decision of Committee.
There is even a chance that it has been 7-2 after the chambering and it is respecting the Honor Committee. "

The said official added, when in the initial voting, 6-3 (guilty vs Not guilty), no one needs' chambering 'according to the agreement with the current Honor System.

Is it a chance to speak, Lagura: WHO LIED?

According to the statement of Commander Junjie Aniceada, Cadet John Lagura said that one of the members of the Honor Committee member "forced him to change the votes.

This is the part in his affidavit published in the article of rappler.com:

"When WAS siya tungkol sa pag-iwan ko ng HIM, 'Lags, come here first here,' at lumapit siya sa akin at hinayaan kong umupo si HIM sa upuan sa harap ng mesa ko.
Sabi ko at tinanong si HIM, Cudia ah..... what happened?
Be Tagalog or you are going to be Bisaya?
Sumagot siya, 'Tpet Not guilty my vote for him sir,' at tinanong ko si HIM, oh, why did he have to be guilty of someone who was Not guilty, cleared?
"I was sinagot amber sir, it would be so listening to why I was Not guilty, and I also pressure sir so I changed, sir '.
So, sabi ko kay HIM, he's a waste, smart and nice'at sumagot 'yes sir'.
Pagkatapos ng pag-uusap na iyon, hinayaan ko na si HIM ".
(Tinanong ko si HIM tungkol sa kung ano ang nangyari kay Cudia.
Hindi raw ako nagkasala, sir.
Tanong ko, pero kung bumoto hindi ka nagkasala, hindi ba dapat siya awalang-sala noon?
Sumagot naman siya: I-chambers na si WAS at WAS ang humiling na hindi nagkasala ang aking mga nagkasala.
"WAS naiipit para mabago ang boto ko, Which WAS kung ano ang DID ko, sir)".

According to investigation done by the Commission of Human Rights, Cadet Lagura was able to deny that he was forced to change his vote.

About the said issue, it was presented by Colonel Brerson in his interview:

"Acces sa Cadet, WAS HIS OWN voluntary volition (sic) na baguhin ang HIS vote mula sa hindi nagkasala matapos niyang Heard ang paliwanag ng iba pang miyembro ng botohan Committee".

Here that is now having problems, who of their two failed in the statement given?
(She is planning to be named Lagura).

According to Col Brairo, Commander Bodeada is going to investigate about his allegation.

Questions.

Whatever is going to happen in the investigation of the PMA about the affidavit of Commander Bodeada, there is still a remaining question that should be brought up:

1 -.
Who is the member of the Honor Committee who went up with sensitive documents in the media?
They are the only ones who have access to the said dokumento like the loss, Delinquency reports, Honor report and the Written Appeals of Cudia.
You want to say Ms. Avee Cudia?

2 years.
Cudia in the PMA and as one of the clever in the class is so long, is it really that he doesn't know that there is a system 'Chambering' or 'Executive Session'?

3 years.
Who said to Ms Avee Cudia in the kalahating katotohanan about the Executive Session '?
The said trial is just for the cadets and kailanman being publicized because of the refusing of the PMA that the accused will be embarrassed.
His information has additional tract, as expected.

To the conclusion.

For me, I also stand my belief that Cadet Aldrin Cudia is guilty of the Honor Code.

I also believe that the Honor Committee did the right process according to the current rules of the Honor System that he was a guide for the trial to Cudia.

If the current Honor System is not appropriate for the Constitution and if Cudia's rights are abag, the said issue is better to resolve the Supreme Court that he has pinal arbiter on the issues related to the law.

The most important to all, should also remember that the Honor System is just for the cadets but the Honor Code should be popular and stand for the time to join the new officials in the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

If you are marangal or not, at times you can meet with some corrupt and bully-bully powerful creatures, there will be tested and will be known.

It's hard to fight but when we get together to make it right, we can afford to give hope our country.



