Bible Kristiyano: Reflection on 3rd Linggo sa ORDINARY oras A - January 22, 2017 - YEAR OF THE Parish Parish Parish Parish.

In the coming Sunday, we will celebrate Sunday by Biblia or Bible Santa.
This should start January 23 and will end up in January 29.
But for the reason that we will not be forced in January 29, San Juan Bosco, I ought to advance that now our celebration of Bible Linggo.
Why is it that Biblia is important to our Christians?
What is the meaning of Biblia?
There was a grandmother who was reading Biblia and while she was reading, she was watching her grandson.
The child was amazed at the panood of him.
It came up and asked: "Grandmother, I know that means Biblia!"
The old man was very happy and asked: "What, that is a grandchild?"
The child answered: "The meaning of Bible is in five letters of this: Basic Information bago Leaving Earth!
When will you leave this world a grandmother? "
What is the Biblia?
How is the right reading and understand it?
Where should it be used?
Last few days, there was a lawmaker who used the Biblia as proof that God is allowed to death penalty because the Son of Him himself, Jesus, was sentenced to death penalty.
Is this kind of thinking right?
The truth is even in the logic (lohika) I cannot see the meaning of this kind of rape!
Like in boxing, he made a big weakness that instead of his opponent, the referee was hit!
What should be considered in the reading of Biblia?
"There is a" Bible Christian "who loves to use the Bible to know what God wants him especially to solve his prolema.
Sometimes his business is bankrupted and like his nakaugalian, he will consult the Biblia.
He took it and closed the page opened.
He was greatly shocked by greeted the Mateo 27: 5 saying: "Hudas and hanged himself!"
He was scared and asked the Lord: "Lord, is this what you want me to do?
And he tried to look for it again.
While his eyes were closed again, he opened the Bible and his index finger turned out to Lopened 10: 37 who said: "Humayo," he also almost passed out of fear when he opened the Banal Aklat.
The greeted of his talata: Juan 13: 27, "whatever you need to do, do it immediately!"
And you know perhaps the next... he committed suicide!
The Bible is not like "a book of guess" telling our destiny.
This is also not like the "Best Seller" book in the National Books store.
This is not only contains history or standard in good living.
The Bible is the word of DIYOS!
This is the book where God stated His love and loyalty to the person in giving us safety.
In the Ebanghelyo we saw how Jesus was able to study the whole sigasig!
Bibiliya is the lectures of Jesus to us in the current time.
Do I have time to hang on reading the Bible?
Maybe there will be a "summer" the Bible that I bought or is now aware of the amount of dust because I have not touched its place!
If I work hard to waste a lot of time in reading Wattpad, why is that a page of Bibiliya I don't long term read?
They say: If you want there is a way... if you don't want to, there's a reason!
Let us make a habit of the day reading the Bible!
Let us remember that we are talking to God.
In reading the Bible...
He is the one who talks to us.
When will you let you talk to Him?
But it is not only enough to read the Bibiliya.
More important to reading is seen in the Word of God and the lives of it.
There are christians who will mockery you because they can mention the neighboring heads and berstomachs of Biblia.
The question... is they going to live with it?
Whether you are Sahead from the first page until the end but you do not make it and they are living together just so that you are "wang-wang" making noise that there is no good choice in the safety of your soul!
Read it, get rid of it and live!
This is the way to be called true "Bible Kristiyano."
Three ways to be alive is the Word of God in our daily life.



