Frankly: The Americans are fipitik with Duterte By Ellen Tordesillas August 14, 2016, Malacañang did not know how to cover the major, major failure that the President did about the ambassador of the United States, Philip Goldberg and the given aid to $33 million.
Presidential Spokesman Ernesto Abella said, President Rodrigo Duterte said that he is gay "gay" and son of the puta, Goldberg and son of the puta. "
In front of the soldiers in Camp Lapu-Lapu in Cebu City last August 5, and it was on broadcast live on TV and radio, while he was saying that he was fixing the V. Luna Hospital, the hospital of the military, he entered the visit of the U.S. State Secretary John Kerry.
This is what the President said: "So I said Kerry, we were with Secretary, Delfin (Lorenzana), we were talking to (U.S. Secretary of State John) Kerry.
He is fine, we fought his ambassador (Philip Goldberg).
"His ambassador is gay, P.I. I am pissed at that.
Meddling there in election, pagbibigay ng pahayag.
You are hindi SUPPOSED na gawin iyon ".
Goldberg here in the Philippines is still until October.
He added: "So," yun (John) Kerry, nu'ng he went here, we were eating.

We even left, Delfin (Lorenzana) of $33 million.
This is okay ah.

We disrespected it again so that this will settle.
It was apparently money.
It's just money. "
Of course the Americans were not pleased.
If China was insulted by former President Noynoy Aquino, compared to what they were doing in Spratlys in what Hitler did was just up to words, the American was different.
The State Department called the chargé d "affaires or the official managing the embassy while the ambassador (home ambassador to the U.S. Jose Cuisia and no mother, Patrick Chuasoto about what Duterte said.
Abella said, Chuasoto explained the pagkasabi of Duterte.
Abella said, it is not for the public what the President said about Goldberg and Kerry.
"IT WAS inabot sa isang tiyak na manonood at sa mga komento na si Interior E na naka-confine sa isang manonood," he said.

I don't get to tell the Tagalog what Abella said because I don't know what really means.
It is up to you to understand.
The U.S. issued issued.

Embassy in Manila last Friday of the statement, the $32 million of their aid was not before Duterte thought it was given as a suyo to him.
He said that before that he was on appropriate "and with" that's what they continued.
It is, it is squeezing ducks.

The U.S. Embassy said, giving aid to this is tied to the record of the "human rights," takdang proseso "and" rule of law ".
How "that is," that is the words irritated Duterte?



