Iza, Hilda By Abante TONITE Entertainment Staff July 26, 2016 met in Miss.
Philippines USA is Hilda Colonel and Iza Calzado.
Iza is one of the ones who is the one who is in the meantime with Marc Nelson at Redkayong Beach theater para sa Performing the Arts.
Margie Moran and Hilda Colonel el are judges.
Iza was said to have long been said to be the Hilda Colonel of his generation, which was confirmed by Hilda and said that he has a blessing of Iza and son who treat him.
Hopefully, they will have a project together and they are really going to have the peg in skills and beauty of the local aktres.
It is also the wealth and he is accepting despite saying that the hairstyle of his hairstyle is not the same age, Piolo Pascual will continue to continue with the new project with Regal Films which is Once In A panghabang-buhay o Northern Lights the title.
In New Zealand is said to be the shooting that will start in the moon.
Santos is the same with Piolo, but not Judy Ann but Yen Santos.
This is not his first movie in Regal because they have already had a long time ago with the Think In Love, Joyce Jimenez, who is just so earned from the box office.
Oo, Cesar G! 2013, Anna Larrucea!
And according to a asssitant of Director Peque Gallaga, at Costa Rica, the former child aktres living with her husband.
Sana, we can make a feature story about them....
It is true that the brother of Aljur and Vin Abrenica who is Allen in ABS-CBN is being investigated on Sunday in La band?
Let us wait for if Allen passed and if it was like his first siblings, he would be followed by their pananalo in the burned ihang realidad show.
Maghintay at makita si Let.
Larawan is back, The Musicale in SSetyembre 21 playdate so it will be solely by Hermano Pule who will be pe-Premiere in Cinefree as closing film.
It was said that he was still shooting and was still fixing the post of a very large project Larawan so it was likely to be in 2017.
Relaxed and beautiful bond of Senator Grace Poe's hair in the opening of the Senate yesterday.
Senator Loren Legarda is the consistent in pagkaposteryosa.
And Senator Bam Aquino is more similar to his uncle Ninoy than the child of Ninoy, Noynoy.



