
Hitsuris the bandits: What kind of Lakas to the Armed Forces of the Armed Forces.

Since there are a professional Army in Europe on 1800s, the regulations that he is taking advantage of the unusual discipline of the consequences that are presented to defend the umusbong countries.

The next to the regulations of the military like the right clothes, cut and killed are showing an unusual discipline which is expected in a professional who will be involved in the military.

Pagpapasunod in the same standard of cut and uniform is important for a units of the military when it is to maintain a unique unit pride, disciplinary standard, and comradeship of the troops.

Since the Philippine Army was presented last 1897, regulations like the right haircut and uniform were slowly written.
General Antonio Luna is known for a cruel leader in the field of enforcement discipline, including wearing the right uniform and cut military.

The American soldiers have been raised on the level of discipline military when the USAFFE was completed before the second Filipino stadepend on.
The training of the soldiers will continue again in the right discipline when the war is finished but the soldiers immediately put up on going to war in gerilyang Huk in 1950s.

The bandits look like the bandits.

In 1950s, the soldiers Scout Rangers are allowed to weaken the hair and look like the bandits because of them, sensitive mission like looking at the fort of the bandits and the killing of its leaders.
As a matter of fact, the Musang Francisco Camacho Cpl Weenee Martillana Martillana was committed to the killing of the bandits Huk, Eddie Villapando, because they also asked for her hair and pretended to be civilians while on the mission.

Scout Rangers is also accustomed to the haircut of hair last 1970s and 1980s because of the special mission where they are joining the ordinary people in the countryside to be contacted the bandits that are mixed in the community.

To be killed in those who are killed.

For me, the discipline of the soldiers should be iraling again like the right pagsuot of uniform and following the right appearance of a professional soldier.
First, the use of pursuing hair is missing while on the mission because of the experiences of enemies in the tactics of war of soldiers in the past few times.
For example, the mission of the Musang is the 'strike mission' (direct action mission) and not similar to the Special Forces living in the countryside and inorganisa of CHDF or CAFGU to defend people from the bandits.
Just common sense that the Special Forces will be able to agree with the people who are killed when they go through the acceptance of them.
They are killed in the culture of the Filipino Muslims are going to cough the bigote so it is practical then imitate their appearance as an agreement to their culture.

Second, even if the hair of the soldiers can be long, they do not know the words of the netibo in the area.
Especially when it is unlikely that the hair or bigote will be unlikely if the bandits have already learned of passwords and countersigns.
The stories of war are now on the internet, including the counterinsurgency warpamasahe.

Third, everyone should heed what is stated in the AFP Transformation Roadmapa where the management is hoping to take responsibility and proud of Filipinos their soldiers.
Who is a good Filipino to be proud of the soldier who look like the bandits Abu Sayyaf or NPA?

Fourth, good leaders should be wide-view and learn from the experiences.
Sometimes, you cannot identify who is the soldier or bandits in the encounter if the different units are mix up.
This is my bitter experience when I was going to steal the students of SR Class 145 who encountered the bandits Abu Sayyaf in Tuburan, Basilan last year 2002.

At least, there is no direct connection to his hair and the courage.
When I was a tenyente, I completed the group of soldiers who didn't want to get haircut and I headed as in the spearulo of the operations against Abu Sayyaf.
In the fight, I can see that rushing behind the rock or the coconut trees' warrior's tree.
It also did not last long, wanted to get a haircut of other cut bandits.
It was just a form of my buddy.
For now, my opinion on those who want hair is cute and just a form of FB posts.

Thereunahan, I do not agree with your twisted belief and arguments about the bandits like the bandits.
If you force it, it is a volunteer to be an assault element always in your units.
It is better if you will be your leader, beside the fight and I will be able to clean the warrior 'base on your appearance.



