
Fake Pacman and "for the sake of free LIVE show.

The whole town celebrated the show shown from the boxing of idol Congressman Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao.
The trainer of Chris Algieri said that Tim Lane said that it is time to sleep and retire in boxing with our Pambansang Kamao.
Algieri was even the one who almost went to sleep soundly six times in 12 round fight.
Live, Pacman.
"It did not open May some establishment did not opened when there was a payment for watching Manny because of the doubt that they would not profit.
It's because it's because it's because the first fight is being shown by Pacman.
Before, before, their customers are going to steal their customers early to watch because Manny converted to his opponent.
Along with this, the audience of the audience of their merchandise appetizer, drinks and then the fight is over, the customers are still there to be serious.
The last fights, since he could sleep on the tsampunches of Manuel Marquez, it was a sign of lack of "kilig" in his fight.
There is no LIBRE in the coming of us news, there are many places that are formerly giving free live movies of Pacman who became "greedy."
"That is why in the big municipalities and cities, there may be two or three places free cinemas for the people.
The captain, councilor, barangay tanod and families of them were not baleng, the very first on the list to watch as long as they still have their position and even just standing.
"It turns out, there are no more occasions that are politicians.
There is no Priority Development Assistance Fund and there is no Disbursement Acceleration Program.
Anyway, it was a big payment: In 100,000 pesos every place.
PDAF and DAP are all parts of the taxes of the citizens.
In free watching, politicians are questioned by the citizens in their own oil oil.
Politicians are not able to spend their own money for the happiness of the people and their commission or income from PDAF and DAP coming from the movie "free" and be given debt to the people.

It was closed up in some areas in Bulacan, Nueva Ecija and Baguio, because of the lack of politicians who were transacting with Pacman's free boxing, many tricycle drivers who were able to watch watch the regular show on television.
It's Aydul that they will dul Pacman no matter what happens.
But there are those who have lost interest every time they can see the television in between their trips.
Manny is going to be beat up?
But even if Manny is bruised and helpless, it will be okay because he reached 12 rounds alive and nakatayo.
Hehehe.
"It turns out that, child of towa, Manny just looked like what they watched.
They also wondered at first why Manny became a Chinese enemy and was not a American Algieri.
What is such a waste, they are asking the bawnderi and they see for Manny and in the midst of the fight, they don't know how they make up when they are charged with their poor ones.
Play with those who have been eke in the fight of Tpetual ander that they cannot pronpronto the name, they just made up watching the game game.
It was because Pacquiao was able to find a winner.
It is not beat up and their aydul is worthless but his opponent Americans.
The child of tokwa, the rutheness of Pacman was still there.
Still arap to watch the struggle in the ring of our own Lord ng ring.
Yes Manny is the Lord of our ring, not "those in Harry Potter movies.
Where Sko Mayweather?
The child of tokwa, is looking for Floyd Mayweather's awakened.
Before, before, after Manny's fight, Mayweather also joined a scene.
But while we will still be able to find it, Mayweather doesn't have a reaction.
It can be recalled that Pacman said that "Yes" he is in the fight against Mayweather even at the time that the fight against Pacquiao-Algieri ended.
BAWNDERIPUSTA Sabi of the drivers of tricycle, they will be asking their bawnderi for their operators and income for the wife in the fight Pacquiao-Mayweather.
Even if there is no free movie from the crooks, mayor, gob, senator and from Malacanang.



