Sunday, April 13, 2014, 2014.

Other types Tpet 'Pag Pacquiao Ang Laban.

I still feel the silence around not just because it's been weeks now and day of palaspas.
People went to church early as remembering the loved day of God's suffering.
But, I really wanted to see Pacquiao's fight and Bradley Jr. so I didn't go to church.
Anyway, we have not been able to church my family for a long time.
If it will be the week, then they will be held out of such fights especially since it is Pacquiao.

Yesterday, I thought that the tinaguriang "Pambansang Kamao" of the Philippines will win.
I thought that he would again recover from his great defeat to Juan Manuel Marquez who is one of his most difficult opponents.
Marquez, who was lucky to drop Pacquiao on 2012 on the fourth fight, in the sixth round gave illness to the feelings and pride of Filipinos who admire too much of Pacquiao.
Pansamatalthe shocked was the force of the town at that time and one who lost his trust to Pacquiao some of the fans because of his anib in a new religion, because he was allegedly not wearing his rosary and because he was not doing the previous style where he had been killed.

In his recovery in severe peeling, he defeated Brandon Rios too much of the insults of him.
And in the end, he also admitted that Pacquiao is really intense so in a article that I read maybe Manny will win again in his reopening of Bradley.
Marquez, he does not want to fight Pacquiao so he wants Bradley to win so that he will still be competing and to recover from his defeat against Bradley.
Mayweather Junior, who also does not want to fight Pacquiao is allegedly taught Bradley how to beat Pacquiao.

And now, because I am free to have watched in the live streour fight for the second time I hoped that Pacquiao will prevail.
The start of the announcer that was accompanied by the people in the actual place accompanied by the said place.
The two boxers seemed to be quiet because maybe they are thinking about how to start and finish the fight.
They are thinking about what will be the outcome of their career if ever one of them will be defeated.

That is why the fight made the fight against each other.
Inside 12 rounds, Pacquiao became still aggressive because he was the one who was the one to be blamed for this fight and perhaps he thought that he needed to beat Bradley because of his words to let him go to him (Bradley).
In this fight, it seems that I noticed that Bradley did not happen because he had a hard time beaten by Pacquiao because he almost hit Pacquiao's release for him.

I noticed that Bradley seemed to use the style of Mayweather, who was using the size of the body, playing with Pacquiao and was very pissed.
But Pacquiao did not falter because if it was war, he could be defeated and his popularity could be more weakened which could be a dealer in his re-retiro.
Pacquiao has been hit several times by heavy punches but the latter is more back.
One of these is consecutive punches (8 consecutive) that hit Bradley's face.
In one corner, the reaction of Pacquiao's mother was noticeable while watching the rosary and a libr.

The fight was finished within 12 round and the decision of the judges in favor of Pacquiao was unanimous.
And in the end, Bradley admits that Pacquiao is really intense because he has not been able to drop it like what he thought and he said he was not going back to any opponent.
Manny Pacquiao will reap the belt on Bradley where Bradley said (before the fight) that Manny will not even get it.

The happiness of Manny here in the Philippines is scattered on Facebook especially those who watched the big screen of free like this in Taguig, Marikina and different places of our country as giving fun to people.
The surrounding was also a few hours.
Every time Manny Pacquiao has a fight against our audience, and our country.
Surely, it will be talked about within our country.



