On the first day of Rio + 20 in Brazil: Nature, don't sell it.

By contribution June 20, 2012.

Kalikasan Partylist is against the length of "Green) who is pushing big countries and corporations in Rio + 20.
(Nature Partylist) the environment should not be made in order to sell to a few: This is the message of the members of Kalikasan Partylist which launched this morning by protests in front of the embassy of the US in Manila, as a cooperation in the Global Day of Action in the opening of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference of the second United Nations Conference
The Kalikasan Partylist opposed the length of "Green wherein the big countries are pushing for big countries and corporations in Rio + 20.
In order to achieve the balance of progress and the environment, the market needs to be corresponding, "and pro-reasang technology, concept and product is the 11 susing sector of the economy: Agriculture, water, forest, infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism, tourism
Those who are pushing for its pushing that the world goes to the Green champion of the amount of two percent of the worldwide Kakadiri domestic produkto or GDP.
But instead of being able to ensure it in the states, the travel that you are planning to attend is the investments of the corporation that is based on the dictates of the market, according to Frances Quim, general secretary of Kalikasan Partylist.
Included in the Green, the person who will put the prices in the course and services of nature (like the wind, water, animals and plants) and plants) and pro people (like the native farming) so that they will easily be able to make them in the market.
This means the more privatization of the pro hopes of technology, services or product through the Public-Private samahan, he added.
The Green aims to be brought by the policies against nature and against the people who will open the new corporations of big corporations, said Quim.
"This is not the solution to the related problems that are currently in the future of mankind: The crisis of excessive production, the greenhouse gas of corporations and countries which becomes the cause of the climate of the world, and destruction of the environment of the world," he said.
For Kalikasan partylist, the Philippines should build a national economy, defend their natural resources from more destruction and corruption, and push for the real development for the people and nature.
Rio + 20, a assembly aims to be the author of the world's path, will happen from June 20-21, 2012.
This is the first major gathering of the government of different countries after the first Rio Earth Summit in 1992, two decades have passed.
Some of the leaders of Kalikasan Partylist are in Rio de Janeiro to bring the call of the Filipino people inside and outside of the pergency.
Included here are Quimand Clemente Bautista, Jr., their president.



