
Kulob, mouth mouth, blown up or the killings of the abang kind of kind.

By Rolando B. Tolentino Pebrero 11, 2012, 2012.

It's a review of insane (Lawrence Fajardo, director, 2011) in the insane, the one who will kiss the lives of nagbibilyar and gambling, selling barbecue, ukay-ukay and guns, the passengers who are waiting for cigarettes, gay personalities in the street, gay prostitution, brothers in the van, galamay, brothers in the van, hands of the van. The police, and other creatures, people who do not know aside from the arbitrbuilt moment in the corner of EDSA and Pasay Taft - are being detained as an ordinary life in this country.
Consult together, the time of the movie is not an ordinary abrbuilt moment.
This is a connection for a long time life of the citizens, city and country under the culture of impunidad.
Violence doesn't care because of the sisteattack, it's a billionaire ikong history of those in power, and the flow of it in the daily life.
The problem in the movie is presented everyday to the flow of violence and culture of impunidad without connecting the history and society that gave birth.
It is possible that the passage of the city will be reviewed, even if it is the primary road of the city, its traversing, which created the polpolitical power.
There is a traffic enforcer but it is not fully fulfilling his duty.
The policeman is gangster who is exned by arson in the community of poor people who are in the city.
The ambulance and investigator are coming to the scene of crime to make a post-mortem report.
No implication in the life of the state.
During the time of Lino Brocka, this is simple: Poster and portrait of officials in the office of the mayor and ordinary citizens, image at the altar, picture of Rambo beside Marcos, for example.
In the insane, there is also a staging of action, like the scene that the bloody with a gun is taking the EDSA while the pamilyar sige "Bawal cross, deadly" is also in the scene.
The result, like the whole of the movie, is that it is a pasater or mixed with a ginagaya ation of real.
The political commentary is not sharp because of the MMDA, Metro handsome, Noynoy Aquino, Palparan, Willie Revillame, and other Figura of the actual power.
And the worst problem of the movie: The representatives of the abang kind.
In the culture of impunidad, activists and mamamahayag are identified as political victims.
But the anticipated kind of citizens are also part of the victim who is in the amok instead of being able to choose to improve in order to improve the pagdanas of the civic justice, running amok, and just making excuses who are both anticipated to be victimized.
This is the burgism that you are going to give in the indie Cinema, the given representative is the only one who is humble for this one who will be locked up in the peusiatbird: The capacity of the abang kind of consumer his kind of consumer just to be able to give up a chance to explode and be given a chance to explode.
The result is a massacre, that even a similar kind of father in the terminal will be a witness to the pagkapatay of the young child, as well as the driver who is a brother in the van with his more maycapable sibling.
The film was very different because of the frages of the personnel, scene and stories, and in the kulmination of the relationship of them in the moment of insane.
It is very different but with the gastos of the abang kind, that it seems that we are just watching the pamilyar of a neighbor who is squatter, snatching and shoplifting, trouble of pagtalon jotroso in UP, and other spektakulong ikinakamay in the body of the abang kind.
There is a vobosong happening in the insane, because the road is the Sityo of the nosy life and death.
No redempsyon, which is a virtue of indie Cinema in the present.
But there is a need to change, like the movies of Brillante Mendoza.
There is a change because the director, an artist, audience, sabjek attacked in the film is also included in the mold of the state: People who are not recognized aside from the opposing source of the source and society included.
There is a difference of pagdanas based on the verge of position in society, and the "ubusan of the race" (in the case of the film, ubusan of kind), which is a result of the resolution of historical and panlipunang problem is dangerous.



