A big part of the production of coconut production in the vague comes from the future though, I mean the cocolisap the entire province two years ago, the coconut industry was still alive in their annual shaken Mariz Umali was the one who said the said.
In the province of quezon not by the eyes of those who are traveling to be full but even stomach stomach.
Taste the intense sibings noticed and Lucban longganone.
Read a cane and the will of quezon because of the wide fields plantation.
Their primary product before there is no other but the coconut coconuts.
In fact, a large part of the production of the coconut meat in the show there is coming from quezon but the worst of the province has been put in danger for several times.
Two years have passed by the rats of the coconut trees in quezon.
One of the most affected is the town of Tayabas.
More than a road and thirty trees of five utong pon was the one I mean before because of the affected talinghaga because they would not be able to study the cocolisap or Coconut or Coconut or Coconut.
At the set set up.
The nutrition of the nutrition will be cold on the leaves and a result until it is just wood to destroy it.
Estimated to be more than half a million trees of coconut, I mean the cocolisap there in the process after the inihanda at twenty-four Coconut edukasyon was able to recover because of us near a program that we had a kumpirmasyon of the track of typhoon Glenda to get rid of the rats and winds and wind and because of typhoon Glenda may have been the big help of the rain and winds and because of typhoon Glenda may also be helped because of the strength of rain and wind and because of typhoon Glenda may have been given to I really, really have the cocolisap that I will be able to give us trees.
Here in the annual yugyugan over while the value of Coconut industry is celebrated with those from quezon.
It started to be a simple kalakalan patas in our discussion a lot and engrande now that this is now a lot of fun.
In front of the municipal hall, colorful colorful.
Alamutian of things made in the coconut coconuts.
Those who prevail prevail in your parked asul.
The unique products of thirty-nine towns also accepted the two of each other like the lambanog I am sugar.
Is Hindi JUST an epic walastik ang mga tao na nabiyayaan ng economic transfer 'yong
It is also early this year of the unafirst yugyugan sayawan dayuhin by the local government of getting to know this like the celebration of Panagbenga in the baguio and burned in cebu rotten superstar.
A poem, we have no one of Davao and the Mindanao in February dalawampung labing siyam na labing siyam.
Angkin ang mga itaas na spot.
For a long time the coconut tree contributed to those from quezon so the celebration of the yugyugan in the church serves as gratitude and reminder to the blessing brought by the full life of life.
It's apos Mariz Umali and this is it.
