There are many more news at this time.
They were in the office being shot at Fort Bonifacio the remains of the seven soldiers who were killed because of the encounter in the abu sayences in Patikul Sulu last sabado from Fort Bonifacio in Taguig, there was a life after patahimikin '
Luv will be almost twelve in the morning when the remains of the seven soldiers who died from the head board of the committee report on the head board.
In the encounter against the abu Sayaff.
She was going to be in the sabado.
Seven days the next one came to the paglulunsad of the red kabayo of the estranghero vely for this in Fort Bonifacio.
Meanwhile, the remains of the ikalawang Lieutenant Alfredo lorsa mga pangunahing
Makalikha ng alazan.
Buddypress pagsasagawa ng durante can be platated in grade isang limang taon na libreng legal na serbisyong plok panty Dario sa pribadong klase ng Dominador sabejon junior.
What welcomed them with five hundred members of the baka including the small scheduled uniform.
The police were clear to the police.
The burial of the bayani gave you the voice of your voice.
From the town of the town.
The soldiers were brought up by a soldier while the deceased colleagues were in formation of the deceased colleagues.
From brown hol, the libis marched with the lorie Torio after the cargo and every family in mourning the death of the morning when the rebels were killed in Patikul Sulu when the rebels were killed by julia and Juana tired of that.
Joey at times like this is saying that the mass was passing by the mass where they said it was an inspiration to be considered by the fallen soldiers who were included in their promised duty when they accepted being a soldier.
'ata, this is going to follow the video file or a linggo or the twenty-four hours of Susan watch the guns after it is in the family that's the decision for how long and where to do the wake and if the funeral of the heroes are or in their payment for their payment for their payment or their payment for their payment.
Those who are killed soldiers are just sorry for that.
