The ander of Filipinos peacekeeper shared that it was stuck in trouble in Golan heights on how they were able to set up the rebel during the weekend when they were held at the height of the sleep of the residents to take action with Errol on the chin of the residents.
Here is a senator for it to be here.
That's why there was a deadlock even the one who wanted breakfast symbolic that your gun was symbolic with them.
It was the same time she was going to be able to talk to the house that was not pushed by her shirt.
This was answered by the photo of the reaction when they found out that Eugene Golan heights kumander Iqbal Singh Singha surrender that the weapons of Filipinos peacekeepers will surrender the weapons of Filipinos peacekeepers.
The surrender of the weapon was given a condition of the album support allies of the artists but it was utong when they got out of the position sixty four of ten soldiers, where they were surrounded by the rebel Syrian without a huwebes.
They were showered with bullets for seven hours but Filipinos Filipinos did not shaken.
They were ededated the threat of the rebel who was going to be removed and they decided to escape and tried to escape.
According to the cut off of Filipinos, they make sure that the rebel days of the week will move away from the streets.
It is still a story of ramones added that the hidden landminahan will take a bath in their surroundings there will be distributed there but if there are Lagman that we are going through but we know that it is the smart students who are going to take care of it.
One half walked up to the Filipino soldiers.
Before she saw the colleagues and at least read the wet media, they were brave to escape and Greatest pagtakas.
Pumasok na sa pagpasok.
The Philippines against the Philippines.
I want to dual core too much.
But despite the continuing fill of Catapang in the troops, the poured of the bagong taon in Golan heights was going to be filled with them.
Fanny Catapang should be investigated by the mountain, which is a major general because of the changing decision and orders of Filipinos peacekeeper to surrender the knowledge to the rebel Syrian rebels.
I have to run.
