For J, a new acquaintance.

Marjohara Tucay I am really shallow.
I did not want to receive expensive gifts, flowers or any shape.
I said, it is only two things that will smile me: No matter how kind of chocolate and puCalasiao - "the small putong white which can be purchased on the sidewalk.
And yes, it was rice.
It's because we have bets with my friends not to eat rice whole week.
So that's how I have been longing for the end of that week and at least, I have eaten rice again.
Each of the excitement is mixed with excitement.
That's how it feels like when you see it.
Or being able to talk to.
It's shallow, but it's fun.
This is not like the heat that you feel like when I am in rally or being able to attend issues about the issues in society.
Or "can't be teaching workers, or talking to the farmers.
It is also a different kind of feeling, "happiness above the moral, happiness that is touching feelings.
Maybe it is better to be the excitement I feel when I see you.
"Those like that I falters every time our eyes will be a father, or that I will receive a message from you.
I know it's just that none of you are "that," I'm also not your type, but it's really just fun to feel.
You are exhausting indeed.
It's always because it's obvious.
Between the tasks, floating in my mind is your smiling face, and I will also smile.
Last one day, I did not notice that I was already a smile while riding the MRT.
I looked at the bad ale in front of me.
Why do I feel very little by you?
Honestly, I still don't really know you.
Maybe because you are really happy to talk to, and you are very open to things.
If it is possible that our topics are not going to end.
But it is also fun that even for a moment, even if it will be, I am bad.
I don't know if it's going to go anywhere with the excitement that you will give me.
I also can't read what's in your mind.
Or maybe I just don't want to read it.
It is also scary.
My friends said I have five phase because I am going through something every time I would like to - natuklasan, happy phase, rejection, ACCEPTANCE, and moving on.
And it's happening again, "that's why maybe, I'm also terrified.
Because I am in the happy phase now, and if only me, I do not want to leave this phase.
And because I do not have anything else to do but write, here I will be arrested all my request to you.
I have tried all the gimmick to express the feeling - from being able to hide and be able to pot until he is in front of the front and immediately.
Now, it seems like what I want to gimmick is like "the anonymous who will leave roses on the guard of Vinzons for one of the artist of Kule.
There is a good smile, in case you read it and there is even a little bit of hope for you, it is just a bag of puCalasiao in front of me.
You just leave with him to attend to Vinzons Guard in Vinzons.
I will be waiting and will hope.
Hopefully, all of these excitement will be taught.



