I'm a vegetable easy here here here.
Ha, just how much but we have no one to do with the same time with money!
You don't I don't have the rice I will buy rice one anim limang
'isn't it Three libo we have left me ha what Nine stay away from that beside you ha now that you are going to stay beside the noise where it is still raining that's why it's still because it's because the beauty of the game is still here, because it's actually placed up with the beauty of our game awhile ago.
Yes, it is the strength that you are able to make sure that we are not hung first because I am soaking wet with my jacket, I will talk to her white ha hello, "I can't hear ha ha?
It's still raining despite the mother of anim, it's because what I say I say is still lacking since we're playing yes, I'm not even able to see anything I haven't seen yet.
Is it that your jacket is missing you do not have a jacket I can't even bring up with my own trip.
I didn't even see I didn't see it.
Yes.
It is unlikely to be at first seventeen.
What do you do with that you do what you do.
Ha what time what time I am here outside here I am outside here outside here.
Eat you eat.
Ha
Not yet they haven't been cooking yet.
Your viand.
No one is still not able to go to the market, we are not able to go to the market we are not able to go to the market yet, there is no one I can't have rice right away from?
Ha hello you don't have a viand of relief because you might buy a dish in there.
I thought you bought a visa hamak sie sie.
Is it that I just bid from the 'yo I would just know about the' yo what I am going to buy yes yes.
Ha, it is impossible that we are going to buy you still have a voice that is just that Nine I don't know that it is just going to end your money ahead of please yes that yes yes.
That is why I am going to send it to the 'all of the same time as well as possible.
In ten 'that's the viand of relief, then the day before dawn, maybe it's possible that it's at five o'clock ah yes, yes a jeep there is a jeep yes why yes how much of the giving of rice much will be left in the money of money.
What time you will come home with that is an open topic anytime you will go home tomorrow anytime you will be able to serbisyo you because you have a serbisyo
Class ah.
Pamplona will buy the lie I will buy again I will buy it again.
I am ten of what is that.
Ten anyway.
