First Three of tanso to paddle because the exchange of shots between the forces of the government and the rebel other wings are still continuously the one who is dead while the affected residents of the need to leave their names are wounded while some of them have not been caught up in the wheel so that some of them have not been able to get caught up in the wheel yet if some of them have not been caught up in the wheel. The hold-hostage hostages were held hostage by the rebel but earlier and they showed some of them from Zamboanga City, Kian Cruz has a reporma.
In Jessica from the five original barangay who is called to be affected area so the conflict broke out in some parts of Zamboanga City but what is in the opinion of what we are talking to is that the soldiers are just going to call the faction of the elnella of the faction of elnella.
Eight o'clock this morning to shout open to the barangay at the smartest and reading that already.
Members of the faction of the faction of the faction of the faction of the
Soldiers in case the residents of the residents are located.
A little but around the morning out of the military since then one was just one who heard a shot shot a shot.
Along with this.
You are okay.
Satisfied with other satisfied that is already satisfied.
It is hard to be hard.
Show up to the military in Barangay Santa Catalina the ten men he spoke to me.
But these are anxious while the white cloth will be hit by the white cloth and seemingly hinted that it is often visited for so long to visit.
I am going to avoid the porinformation I am in the back of the noticed hostages a few residents of the residents.
Ice speak of the cabinet order of their leader Misuari no retreat even if it reaches a few days of how you do not receive anything to protect their station and state as well as the state.
Para
Already Teresa Teresa.
Arrives.
Sinabi ni Lopez movement course that armed said should not be humane even if there are still no peso even if they are reading troops or here in the espesyal na kurso para sa mga espesyal na kurso para sa araw-araw na ito.
Office it's easy to limitasyon together.
Telebis the opposition when the third day of doing something to think about five were recorded dead thirty-six passed by what we were saying when we were able to sell the guards of sleep, we did not know who started the fire but there was a fire but there was a fire but there was a fire but there was a fire.
