Mega drug rehab center umaalog at 127 patient (where are thousands of gumagamit and pushers to surrender?)

Posted By: Jerry Yap on Pebrero 14, 2017 sa opinion

We are here now in generation and time that there are more thinking of the problem than thinking about what the solution is.
When President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte started his war against illegal drugs, many asked, where to bring those who surrendered and drug addicts when the government is lacking in rehabilitation facilities.
President Digong had a solution to remove the Mega Drug Abuse treatment at rehabilitation Center (MDATRC) in Fort Magsaysay, Nueva Ecija with the help of a Chinese philantropist.
But it is not really losing criticisms or criticism that the president's program will not believe that the syndicate of illegal drugs in the country will be killed.
Before President Digong remove the Oplan Tokhang in the hands of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) many complained about the abuse of other hands of the police.
They said those who kill the suspected drug addicts and pushers of illegal drugs are the hands of the syndicate.
In total number of 1,189,462 surrendered based on the report of Rappler.
The addicts who surrendered, reached 1,110,113 while the pushers were 79,349.
Because Digong did not speed up and moved his cabinet, here, here is the new problem in the operation of MDATRC under the Department of Health (DoH) headed by Secretary Paulyn Jean Roibenta-Ubial.

Almost 127 patients from Bulacan and Nueva Ecija are being treated and they are taking care of the MDATRC who said there is capacity to 10,000 patients.
MDATRC was opened last 30 November 2016.
But until now, there are only 127 ones undergoing rehabilitation.
Secretary Ubial admitted that they are either "CAUGHT flat, unprepared nagulat" because of the speed of surgery and a lot of those who have surrendered and dealer.
But he considered the drug epidemic in the country is a "health problem."
He said, "Abusers are mental health pasyente na kailangan () cured".
"Then," why did the DoH not hurry up the process to put up with the MDATRC of those who have surrendered and pushers!?
"It is said that billions of funds, why not use to get doctors, nurses, mahilig logists, social workers and therapists?!
Are all the problems that will appear in the MDATRC, they will pass on President Digong before they will think of the resolution?
Where are those from DOH and DDB who are always sent to what seminar and studies in other countries in relation to illegal drug abuse?!
Why did they not put them in the MDATRC?
President Digong is going to think about how to solve the problem?!
Can you really work with the MDATRC, Secretary Ubial?
Well, you declare early while there is still funds.
You might lift your hands when there is no funds then you will scream "I gave up!"
Tandaan, Madam Secretary, "centerpiece" program of President Digong. "
I will just repeat, Madam Secretary, can you work there in MDATRC or not?!

Happy Araw ng all of you!

Today, you lamigan your heads, because for sure, traffic will be severe especially in Metro Manila.
"Those lacking the budget, do not apologize to Manila because it is said to be BAWAL.
That is why you are different from your places.
Probably like that in the places that are visited by a hapunan date.
It is probably better if the lovers just stroll in order to reduce vehicles on the road.
Anyway, whatever you want the way of the celebration of the heart, maging ligtas at maging masaya!
Happy Araw to all of you!

Secretary JESUS Dureza and Secretary lady Bello in the Manila?

Tomorrow, the discussion about the peace talks of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines (GRP) and National Democratic Front of the Philippines in the leading balitang Kapihan in Manila Bay, Malate, Manila.
The Peace Process Secretary Jesus Dureza and Labor Secretary Silvestre "lady" Bello "is going to be a guest.
We will be able to pray with Secretary Dureza at Secretary Bello while humihped hot coffee along with the delicious breakfast with the Café Adriatico.
Let's go!



