
April Fools' Day pagsalubong sa mga bagong PMA kadete: My personal na karanasan ang

April Fools' Day (April 1) is the tradisyunal day where the normal behavior is banned.
That means, the foolishness' and the praktikal jokes are authorized on this day.

The called reception Day in the PMA is also atating in April Fools' Day perhaps that the day most of the new personnel have been united what the reception means.

I am also one of the 'naisahan here because I thought the reception was a meal and like there was a background music singing of Luciano Pavarotti.
Eh, it is time for the reception Ceremony 'in the PMA right?
It turns out that your whole body will attract because of the med of various exercises that you will go through for the first time.
In addition to those, your voice may also be eliminated from the screaming of the "Yesss suh!" And "No suh!"

Secondklase Cadet (3rd taon) that I was when I experienced to be a member of the called pledetalye that he would be able to receive on the new cadets members of the PMA 'Mabevacuated' Class of 1996.

It was the heat that afternoon but the wind breeze was still cold when we were on standby on the arrival of the new Plebo (1st taong kadete) that we have a taste of the 'postyou military' for the first time.

In our conversations before, we want to make it up to our experience 'experience' in reception that we thought it was recovered and the delicious food was everywhere.

"We look at who is not drawing the face in shock and warshock on the first salvo of military training," said one boyfriend.

"We will see you tend to do not know what to do and maluha in marusimase," said one.

I can remember that we memorized the names of the topics we have to receive on that day.
What the pledetalye members are doing is the call of the apelyido of those who can be a member of the squad of their squad.

It's only in the orientation because, saying that we are going to call our family name when it becomes a member of the military especially with the Plebo.

Sometimes, it is also nagkakagulo in reception Day because of this.
For example, there are those who have first pangalan and apelyido that can be a replacement happening in the same time looking forward to the name Cadet Juan Melchor.

In the halimbawa of Cadet Melchor, the tailo made a mistake of his uniform.
Instead of Melchor put in the name patch, JUAN put in.

In the shouting of my like team leader, of course we read the name of cloth in the chest of the war shock 'Plebo: "JUAAAAAAAAAAAAN!"

Of course, plebo is more shocked because he does not want to mamansin.

"Sanato, why don't you want to mamansin hijo?"

Eyes widened in fear of what seemed like a ghost saw, the plebo: "Sir, I am not Juan!
"I'm Melchor!"
You are dead.

If the reception Day is memorable to us as a Plebo, it is also that way you are memorable in the ranks of 2nd Class Cadets that he raise and mentor on the cadets for the first time.

Both of us will be able to make the better cry in the Organized kaguluhan which will be held in Borromeo Field, the 'Sacred ground' of the PMA for the cadets here.

The reception Day is one of the memorable topic that is being discussed by the old retired General when seeing each other in any occasion.

If you see soldiers laughing in a corner, it is likely to be included in the discussion with the experience in April Fools' Day.



