
Lessons in every challenge, a challenge in BUHAY.

In every challenge and challenge of life, there are lessons that you will find.
Just like what happened to our countrymen in Zamboanga City after being attacked by the MNLF rebels, the flood was devastated by the flood.
Despite the events, the firmness and bayanihan of filipinos surfaced again.
In the name of restore the order and peace and according to the Philippine Defense Forum as and 28 SSetyembre 2013, there are a total of 18 soldiers and five policemen who risked their lives more or less 20 days fighting.
Meanwhile, 169 soldiers and 14 police were wounded.
Different stories of heroism and sacrifice are what we heard.
Just for example the Army 1Lt.
Francis Damian and Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jose Audrey Banares who are both among the casualties.
1Lt was scheduled to take a vacation.
Damian because his airborne Course just finished but he was a volunteer to go with the operations in Zamboanga City.
PO 2 Banares was scheduled to go home to R & R in his family but decided to stay with his units and participate in the Navy espesyal operations.
When the Zamboangeño found out that the soldiers and police were needed to cook food while fighting, "the first one did not hesitate to prepare for packing food.
Others of them are personally showing up those that happened in the force of the government.
For too many, the choice needed to be given a schedule so that the food can't be eaten.
It was reported that Lola Norma Lladores died that got hit by mortar in his home while cooking breakfast for soldiers.
The relief goods in the Philippine Navy went flooded in the Philippine Navy!! "Pasan-up soldiers going up to BRP Benguet (LT 507).
That would just bring them if it was not because of the devastation of typhoon "Odette" in Northern Luzon.
The relief goods that are going to be put up in Zamboanga is one of them and those help for Batanes are being carried away.
After the mission in Batanes, the ship continued to Zamboanga City.
Aside from relief goods and help medical, the different agency of the government is bayanihan for the stress debriefing especially to the children in evacuation centers.
In cooperation with DSWD, the Navy Civil Military Operations Unit-Western Mindanao has issued a movie joke and cartoons in a few consecutive nights that are very much liked by the evacuation centers-child or old.
The Football of the Philippine Marine Corps and the members of the Philippine Marine Corps were passed by the Peace clinic for the kabataangwoman and man evacuees in Zamboanga State Polytechnic College.
What is more and despite the fact that the big part of Zamboanga City is down and is still submerged, a lesson that we have shown in the whole world to keep his arms, stability and helping which is natural for filipinos especially during the time of calamity.
A lesson can be considered as readiness to the ranks of soldiers and police officers who are already in danger even if they have a chance to avoid.
The needs of additional readiness and skills of our government can be considered a lesson to ease, but to avoid these kinds of events in any part of the country.
Hopefully, cannot forget the mentioned that only some of the lessons that should be basis of the appropriate steps in the future.



