
Corruption in LTFRB (2).

It is deliberately saddening because President Aquino used to be used to his campaign against corruption and attitude "sounds," it seems that the only thing he gets focused is the former officials of the government.
Blind, he will be sent and deaf when it comes to the openly corruption of his own allies.
"As we have been able to talk to the bottom of PNoy, there is no one" drugtication "the corruption of his bataan unlike the previous administration with" klase "and not garapalan if they steal.
Inside Land Transportation Franchising the Regulatory Board (LTFRB) and Land Transportation Office (LTO), the joy of the plunderer continues.
"Just that, the player changed but their style is still the same in order to acquire money even if its replacement is the safety of our passengers and other motorists.
Just an example of the case of smoke-ibinubuga that the LTFRB and LTO are doing just a show in their campaign against the vehicles that are almost black smoke.
You don't need to be the way to smoke emission testing the so many public transport jeep and bus because even if you think they know when they are going to smoke each other in EDSA for sure they will be able to take a lot of last smoke-belcher).
The question is, why do they continue to be on the streets while the renewal of the vehicle is year years old?
On the passenger buses there are also so many that should not be allowed to sail on the road because aside from the materials that are already broken, the contents of wheels and almost tabdeaf are not safe because the chassis is already broken and suspension of them.
Aside from the barumbadong driver is the proper maintenance of the reason for the accident involving the passenger jeep and bus.
This is the reason why one of those who always blame the drivers every time involved in the accident does not bite their brakes or dili so they lost control of the steering wheel.
The question is why did they escape when they are being registered?
Why are they allowed to drive even if it is obvious that they are not safe on the road?
And who is an official of LTO named "Benjo" who is allegedly leading so many colorum buses?
"That is our hihimayin the next bigam!
For your suggestion and comment, it is only an email in gil.bugaoisan @ gmail.com.



