There are a long time full of crisis in Zamboanga not only soldiers who are stuck in the fight of journalists who also helped the dangers names of the place.
This is how many of us cocover media during the midst of the crisis in Zamboanga in the meantime.
Taking information of our work like the soldiers are also close to the center of the fight of the fight.
This is the stalls that they have grown up with here.
Santa Catalina in the back of us as if they seem to be using names here in the meantime.
Pamantayan at the top of the crossing children.
In the sidecar passed in there on the walls that were only in the top of the road only.
Now.
It seems that he knocked on a grief.
A few minutes before the mortar got hit by the mortar, which wounded some soldiers thread first to interview if some of my colleagues who were hiding, Yuri was my secret to the program that I was in the program that was why they had to cover this kind of situation that's why they pray that's why he is going to cover his shield.
It is parirable.
She was already in.
Shots of bullets get angry at the enemy are asking where it is coming from so so why is it so that's why they are going to
In going to find a way to be able to tell the walls that they really don't know that they are going to be harphayo.
In this kind of times, the work of the photos and video journalists are invaluable if we are the only reporter who have their information to make the video of the television and photos that will be seen in newspaper internet one person here how can they be seen in the newspaper.
I then do you and we are going to face it so we work it is necessary to just pray for as long as I will be able to bal at the beginning now.
God makes the teller of the teller, who will make sure that you will not be complacent that you do not need to be impatient as well as you should not be impatient.
In the difficulty of life on the level very dangerous for what you have already been cocomment here that I don't like this with me.
To be the one who is super.
They are very dangerous.
You have to be able to send me here I was hidden and I was just hidden over and over and over.
What I can do that they noticed a while ago.
Immediately live report from the punchline using our newest teknolohiya in the field of the place of digitel mobile oo God requirement of the genius just as big as a child, which is the latest of us, the right thing that you do not have the indibidwal By, this is where the welfare of each other means that the welfare of each of us will be wounded in our place, the welfare of each of us are also considering the welfare of each other. It was an GI-girlfriend acceptable to attack there when he was not contented when it was fifty walong taon samin that it was at the end of their titi, especially if we were already a family man with the cameraman so that we would be included in the baguio share that he would be with the new one.
Mama.
Sometimes our life seems to be a life soldier in front line also to bring the truth to the worst of what we cover, of course that we are really having a vow that we can see that we can see that there is really a vow that we can see that we
The enemies of land will also be once again that they will be able to fulfill the socks that we are really hiding thoroughly by thoroughly.
We strive that we do not know when it is the first baby to say that the children rarely come out of there.
