
A loss of the pound, a threat in DEMOKRASYA-2.

As an addition, the lack of sustain livelihood of the poor ends up with failure to give quality education and decent living their children and loved ones.
Aside from this, this is just more raped in their low IQ and EQ.
The lack of education for a hungry because of poverty is also a lack of ability to make the right decisions.
We add this illness and it will be impossible for someone who is difficult to do anything or deciding even just for simple things.
Benjamin Franklin said, "It is sa relihiyon ng kawalang-malay na si tyranny Begins".
If poverty is overwhelming, people are becoming dumb and having a illness reason to prevail the rich tirano.
On the other hand, the rich don't have this kind of problem.
They are all going to sustain so easy to them to buy proper food, good education, and the medical medical.
Often their IQ is high although I believe that because of their greedy, their EQ is also low.
Their being greedy serves as the strength to acquire more wealth.
The tear of it between the rich and poor is also the tear in their ability to influence the pul-politicians and businessmen who are in power.
In our country, only the rich are the only ones who have a good education and medical medical.
Education and health are luxuries for most people who are the only ones who can only do this dream, except if there will be changes in the current thing.
Because there is no ability when it comes to the economy, education and health are the ones of our fellow countrymen, democracy in our country is becoming very served.
Only the rich people have experienced this.
In fact, they are the only ones who have influence in our lives economy and politics.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt of America: "Democracy hindi magtagumpay maliban sa mga nagpahayag ng kanilang pagpipilian ay nakahanda na ang pagpili ng pag-iingat.
Ang tunay na pag-aaral ng Democracy, kaya't edukasyon "na si Maya" * "Kung you meant to take a bath in a private mainit spring, you went to the finity Resort, Indigo Bay Subd., Barangay Bagong Kalsada, City of Calamba.
This is just near Metro Manila and from here you are looking forward to the holy mountain Makiling.



