
Taking care of a revenge.

The criticism of the Catholic bishops Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) is right to the failures of the administration of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III to lift the quality and level of living of the people but it is saddening that this revealing seems to be a result of revenge instead of love in town.
According to a statement of CBCP recently, the steps of the current administration are lacking to stop corruption, spread crime and ease the poverty of the country.
The bishops are still eating the ongoing violation of human rights and extrajudicial killing.
They said, the revelation of the rights of the people is also being neglected for sure a career, decent house, akses in the right and young medicines, de quality education and the right to be the owner of the land farming (jab in Hacienda Luisita) while it creates a new rights (pahaging to the RH Law but a ").)
They also criticized the failure of the administration to pass the Freedom of Information Bill that will give back to the country to research and the transactions that the government let go of.
It is said that the administration is hilarious in FOI when the program de government is "straight path."
"Why are they afraid to entrust the people to the truth behind their leadership?" The prince of the Catholic Catholic Catholic Church will be forced to question.
I cannot say anything wrong with the criticism of CBCP because those are true.
However, what I wonder is that this is also the problem we are facing during the time of the regime of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo but why did not have any reaction to the prinsipeof it before?
I will remember that if the people are calling for those who are exposed to these kinds of prinying this for a letter to condemn the time of the regime Macapagal but their pluma remained stranded.
Their mouth is shut despite the corruption that widespread during that time, rather, they even dance with Macapagal (like they dance with a dictator Ferdinand Marcos in the first part of the time of her dictatorship).
It can be recalled that some of these kinds of favor received a lot of favors from Macapagal such as an example of grand Sports Utility vehicle (SUV) Mitsubishi Montero (which brought back after a hari).
So this statement of CBCP is that it is obvious that it is just revenge on the current administration especially if it is noticed that it was embarrassed when it was failing to stop the passing of Reproductive Health Bill that pushed by Pang.
B.S. Aquino.
Although the bishops seem to have a different motive for what they did, the truth in their message should not be oblivious.



