PH sports Institute LARGA NA By Ramil Cruz SSetyembre 3, 2016 in the signal and full support of President Rodrigo Duterte, the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) started an operation of the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) beginning in October 1 with monthly fund P25 million for 10 regional training centers in the islands.
The object of PSC chairman William Ramirez was revealed in the breakfast yesterday at the second day of Top level consultative Meeting on Development Plan para sa Philippine Sports Institute of Kachina Room of CENTURY Park in Malate, Manila.
According to him, the PSC focused on the talahugat and choosing the youth who might be the national atleta in the future that can give honor to the country.
"We have 10 regional trainings with focus sports," Ramirez said, who ask for every place, he has their own sports where the place is known, like Davao City will take care of the diving.
In Dumaguete City the Archery, in Zamboanga City was weightlifting, in Cebu City, Vigan City and Baguio City were track at the field, in Manila and Cebu, the taektness do and in Bacolod City and Davao probinsya the boxing.
The government sports agency also thanked those who are distributed to the meeting as well as invited to speak to the gathering that big help, he said, for the direction of sports program of the country within six years.
"IT is Really on my plano namin para sa US na malaman ang lahat ng bagay at para mabatid ang sitwasyon ngayon", Ramirez ni Ramirez.
"The President told us that We Really have to unite ang sports, pero hindi ko alam How.
We can do this so we can know all the facts. "
"I know there is a responsibility to own the Philippine Olympic Committee while we are we need to follow the law.
When we do not arrange, hindi na ako mananatili dito, gusto ko sa pribadong buhay, sasama ako at makasama ang aking mga apo ", Ramirez pa.
"Matapos marinig ang lahat, hayaan mo na lang na Come down at mag-usap.
JUST Butch, simpleng guro mula sa Davao na gustong-gusto ni Help hindi na si By ang aking sarili at ang PSC Board kundi para sa lahat ng US.
Para sa bayan, We Can, "he panapos.



