The two soldiers are getting worse while another soldier is wounded in the advancement of the boy in Tamque timog Cotabato and this is also a CAFGU in the harassment of the organization in the burial of the world who is in the back of the attack in the cut position of the cut position in the cut position in the cut position.
The relatives of the two soldiers who died in the explosion of the landmine in Tampakan timog Cotabato, were in mourning today, yesterday was also left by eleven wounded who continues to be observed in the hospitals there in the north of timog Cotabato, according to the barangay danlag Tampakan, this is also the day of the burial of the deceased members of the deceased who died. The france of the france and magdesisyon that Commander volleyball is going to be buried by the france.
It lasted four hours of February and a CAFGU was killed.
After what we have after a department, it seems that it's a landmark that is already placed.
In our apartment sinadya for the reinforcements that didn't have any reinforcements last one day.
The conversation happened to what happened.
That is why there is no such one that is allowed to be.
'oy yesterday we are in the palm that both of our colleagues pleaded with the military not to name those who died and injured in the arrest of the family believed that seventy two of the group of the group believed that the seventy dos was moving in the department and explosion of the landmine, which is the seventy two of the group who was moving there.
DepEd.
Kaya tapos na ang mga onboard I can't even point out if they really are
It's about the incident that it's going to be.
They even describe the number of them as they are going to be able to
Seventy two more plastic is the one.
Now that the attack of the rebel will give up sir John calls now the authority to be alert and vigilant to just talk to us police station there is actually a chance for us.
You are not able to see you yes.
Wait for the barangay from Barangay.
There are all of us Reporting system while six members of the entry surrendered to the troop of the sabado as the Thirteen pansubukan Batallion including you Marc twenty-one-year-old Maricris twenty-three years old, and we are still twenty-three years old.
Just scratch the allowed to speak, they could not take the next shot of the gun so he realized that he needed to give up.
Recently in the delicious birthday of the
Among you to be together with.
I was earlier here in the tree of their discussion.
Resident of the fight against the government.
Ha, oh buy a love competition in the box office ha ha.
Their minds in france seventy lima were killed by the soldiers who were ander regular presyo kumander, jay embudo entrance and members or elements, Carlo Tenorio daniboy head, which is why you should be Jonas modelo intelligence Ocampo Neil and colleagues.
This is also the sabado brought to his final resting place in its final resting place in its sour.
I'm going to Rey my child with you.
