
Aquino ET Al AT CIA, SABIT in Mamasapano trahedya.

President Rodrigo Duterte once again the failed operation wherein 44 members of the Special Action Force of the Philippine National Police were killed while they were hunted by the Indonesian bombing, Zulclient fi Binhir alias Marwan last January 25, 2015 or two years ago.
President Duterte is not satisfied with the result of the investigation conducted that he discussed the Lower House that happened in the Mababang Kapulungan.
The style is that their own responsibilities are taking their own responsibility, military and MILF so until now, there is still no clarity on who is really responsible for the lives of the deceased police.
Duterte also opened the operation operation of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of America that should be direct the blame to former Pang.
Noynoy Aquino and former PNP Chief General Alan Purisima because of hiding these two losses in the people the whole truth in the tragedy that killed 60 people, including 44 commandos members of SAF.
The truth is, when the said tragedy happens, we strongly believe, even our other colleagues in the media, in the statement of former President Noynoy who is said to be a legitimate operation, which is said to be hunted by the members of the PNP-SAF, alias Marwan in a secluded place in Mamasapano, Maguindanao.
But without the knowledge of everyone is anxious and has no own decision to ask one of the AFP officials what he will do after reaching him that the 44 police commandos of the SAF-PNP have been killed to pursue Marwan.
Aside from Noynoy and Purisima also connected with Pang.
Duterte is dating DILG Sec.
Mar Roxas why he let the 44 SAF and why he did not have any lesson to give justice to the murder of them.
They should only be imprisoned and rot in prison for the corrupt leader because instead of them should be the first to defend the rights of our soldiers, they are even those who are those who are harmed!!!
It is also SAKLA in Quezon City, it is also a PA Sakly dead there, it is just an accident that there is no one dead here in every barangay in the city of Quezon.
One alias Gaspar is said to be floating when there are problems in their illegal business.
Until now, this is still everywhere in Masambong, Baesa, Oriental, F.Carlos, Kaingin, Bukid, Wayan, Royal, Apolonio and San Fernando but until now, the police are blind and deaf.
Why is it that it is so yes to any criticism or complaints, text 09189274764,09266719269 or email in juandesabog.
Juan DE sabog / Johnny Magalona.



