Boobsie, life is colorful!
"My husband is a woman, I fire back, I am also a woman!" - Boobsie Wonderland By Jojo Cabinet June 23, 2016 Pinili we will review Boobsie Wonderland because of our feeling that his life is colorful.
True Enough, it is full of experiences that the life story of Boobsie, 14-anyos old when he went and worked in Japan as a cultural dancer because his family was faked to give a good life to his family.
Unknown to the knowledge of many, Boobsie aka Mary Jane Arrabis became contestant in the damdaming Sexy of Eat Bulaga last 2001.
He is the one who won Miss talent and ikatlong-year-old.
"Kuya Jose (Manalo) and Allan K. knew that I was contestant then by Eat Bulaga.
I haven't been komedyanteng, just Japayuki then because I am going to Japan early.
I'm a big body and good dance.
"Alas, I can't find" my pictures in the contest, "the regret Boobsie stated that it was a year ipinagbabawal in Eat Bulaga because of joining the contest of ABS-CBN.
"I have a contract that is isang taon in Eat Bulaga but it was cut off because there was a contest in ABS-CBN, we joined it.
"I won in the wanna Be, AiAi delas Alas, I joined Babae Po Ako, contest of Martes Vargas, then gag show.
"I win always heard by Eat Bulaga, that I ban Eat Bulaga," says Boobsie.
Boobsie got married in Marso 2016 but he asked not to talk about the "partner" he has a big contribution to his change-life.
Boobsie experienced the marangya lifestyle but all his hard work in Japan was gone because he was addicted to gambling.
Boobsie has been buried in debt because of the pusoy and not going to the casino.
He is thankful to God and in showbiz because he is able to pay all of the debt since his television guesting and show.
Boobsie came out when he told her to show up about her show and the Japanese she had been in a relationship with before.
"Many!
I am clever... it would be nice to have a relationship with Japanese because the virginity is not an issue with them.
Like, when they have intercourse with you, it is still painful for their bribe, putakti! "The serious story of Boobsie, who followed it by the malutong laughter.

; Seriously nagsasalita, Boobsie experienced a guy and they last for fifteen years but they were not benefit from their child.
"It's the thought of my husband, it's relevant, it's just a groin.
Hahaha!
"There are many opportunities (almost pregnant) but not completed.
"We were married, we separated because he was a womanizer, with vices.
We are still able to see each other now.
It hurts him (that I am an actor).
Like crazy, I am courting me again.
"I said, we have been separated for so long.
It's too deep "what we come up with in our partners.
Why are you thinking about that?
"I was the one who left him.
The news, womanizing, I went home from Dubai, I confirmed, he had a woman so I was able to give back, I was also a woman, "joking but the fact that Boobsie is going to be there.



