AFP against the wish of the Laude family to face Pemberton.

The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) opposed the wish of the Laude family to face the suspect, US Marine PFC Joseph Scott Pemberton.
This is after the American soldier did not come up with the two paunang imbestigasyon of the murder case filed by the relative of transgender Jennifer Laude.
The AFP said, he cannot grant the texture of the family based on the provision of Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) saying Pemberton's custody is still in the US.
The family should write the embassy of the US and Department of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
"Such is a matter of Beyond and ating control," stated in the nap of Lt. Col. Harold Cabunoc, public affairs chief of AFP.
In the second paunang imbestigasyon, the lawyer of Pemberton failed to submit a counter-affidavit.
Rowena Flores asked, Pemberton's lawyer, in the investigation of the prosecutor to scrap the complaint murder because he said it was no basis.
If the case goes forward, it should be made homicide and not murder.
But State Prosecutor Emilie Fe delos Santos answered that the camp of Pemberton should not lead the investigation.
"We will rule on probable cause matapos mabuo ang proseso.
Huwag turuan ng US kung ano ang gagawin.
Ang ilalim ng pila ay pupunta sa paunang imbestigasyon ", ani delos Santos.
The Laude family is disappointed with not appearing Pemberton in the investigation.
The suspect is not sure that the suspect is still in Camp Aguinaldo.
"What kind of government we have?
Marc (Sueselbeck), they charged (pinadedeclare of the AFP "di kanais-nais alien") but here, his case is in the future.
But why Pemberton does not face? "Asked Marilou Laude, brother of Jennifer.
The family administration has also witnessed the Aquino administration because of the lack of interest in the case of their relative.
"Don't you say we are small your boss?
Where is your straight path?
Just until you are words, "says Julita Laude, Jennifer's mother regarding President Aquino.
Harry Roque also said, acted as a lawyer of the family, who is not like in the rape case of "Nicole" in 2005 who submitted a counter-statement and the accused stayed up with the accused, until the present, the suspect Pemberton was still no statement and picture of the suspect Pemberton.
"Like what I said before, they didn't show Pemberton," said Roque.

Roque believes that the VFA will protect the suspect who is an American soldier.
Because even if the motion of Roque is to take a DNA sample, Pemberton opposed his lawyer.
For the group of women who are Gabriela who protested again near Justice Hall in Olongapo City, "just cool points" is the declaration of "Hindi kanais-nais alien" Pemberton.
"This declaration is useless under the VFA that allows the American soldiers to release the country even if there is no visa or any documentary," said Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
The group doubt, the office of immigration of the Philippines is no way to follow the American soldiers who are participating in military exercises.



