
How to use the 'Indirect Fire support' in going to war?
(Bahagi 2)).

At part 1 of my story, I have stated the called Indirect Fire System like Artillery and the mortar.
I hope that it has been clear to you after I have been masusing fy.

I understand that most of the civilians do not know how to use the direct fire support from Artillery or the Mortars.

To clarify more, it is best for you to watch this video of Balikatan ehersisyo which shows knowledge and kagalingan of our soldiers to call it is artiliron.

If you analyze, the work of people lighting 105mm Artillery is very difficult.
All the actions of the personnel needed to be coordinated.
Tandaan ang magic na salita ha: Nakipag-ugnayan!

What is the appearance in the area that the Artillery paikot-ikot will be able to eat?
Watch the video at the top where the mark of the target using the White phosphorus (WP) will be seen before this is a mother-adjust and asked to watch the high-explosive rounds.
I have experienced that the position is in the position as firecrackers in the position of the pipe and the tigsummoned of the direct fire support as Forward Observer.
A failure to think of this is prohibited here or disregard!

The question, it would be nice so the feeling if you were around the impact area?
Is it obvious the answer?
Of course, deeee!
I have experienced that in Shariff Aguak, Maguindanao when we are asking for 105mm high explosive (HE) rounds the MILF attacks in the detachment that I have been in the detachment in mid-term 0s.
I am still a sign of the dialogue that I hear from the soldiers every time the bullet is haging and landed around 150 meters from our position.
This is the sampol:

The Ilokano: "Aten ku!"

The Ilonggo said: "Hijo de puta!"

The Bisaya: "Gikolira Jud of, will be fatal ta!"

Our appearance is funny because of fear of being able to drop his own call fire support.
That is painful?

By ang paraan, with those who say it's okay to just drag the White Phosphorus, even if there is no Forward Observer, you will heal pre!

Even heard that we can hear the comments that the dota expert said that the patrol of Artillery is just fine, even if no one is talking to Forward Observer.
Susme!

By ang paraan, this is what we should remember: The White Phosphorus (WP) round is the speed of fire and other highly combustible materials that are around.
There is also a component that is poisonous to the skin of the people because instead of shrapnel, those who are flying in steel seems to be an iron that seems to be an iron fist for you!
Do you want to try?

By and way, look at the appearance of the hit of the White Phosphorus round in the video below.

If you are the one who will drag the White phosphorus and close nos like the victims?
What are now tsong, you are willing to just stop the system in exile the Artillery?
I still have a fluke?
We should learn from the experience of others!
Even if it is still pointing?

For a fire.

How are the simple procedures to deliver Artillery apoy in a malakas engaged unit?

Listen to you.
Don't sleep!

First, the Fire Direction Center (FDC) needs the grid coordinates of requesting elemento which is the Forward Observer.
Who give the grid?
Listen carefully ha.
It is not the Forward Observer itself!

That way?
Oo.
That is really way.
Can't text the grid coordinate ha?
Call the tactical radio.
It is going to read the FDC to confirm that the information given as the grid location, azimuth and distance of the enemy who wants to batukan Artillery rounds.
The FDC will surely be assured because the patrol might have been broken and so he moved to the position while they were fighting.
Oisst.
When a patrol, there should be an tactical radio that can be called!

Why did you need to be FO the person who was talking to FDC?
Of course, FO should directly talk and the FDC because it is a cause that they are talking about Artillery apoy!
Tandaan ang magic word: Direct talking!
Because, if there is a sense of pak and wrong is the one that was dropped, both of them were the first one at fault!

How do not have to talk to Forward Observer or Patrol leader who knows how to call for Fire hakbang?
Eh, sorry, you can't give Artillery suporta!

Bakeet can't give Artillery suporta when there is no FO?
You will also be able to find out what?
Of course, the FDC doesn't have an eye.
Is there blind to be the father of the target?
Maybe you will be able to attend, it can be a pro-bulseye even if there is a criticism!

I repeat it.
It is painful to batukan 105mm projectile, even if it is white phosphorus (WP) or high explosive (HE) that is!
So that you can feel the senaryo, you play the video at the top and imagine that you are able to boil the skin.

For those who still don't want to believe, the pilosopor mortero said and artilsheets, they are open to the subukan of people who want to try to pull their position when the war experts feel its effect.
ANY volunteer?

"It's going to be a puzzle.

There are many things that we think about all about the issue that is direct fire support.

Even as the saying is: "With great power, it's dakilang responsibilidad."

The training of the people who use Artillery and mortar assets are severe for war.
They are being raped by the knowledge that they are going through with the quickment training to avoid accidents and ensure that the army is affected by what they are doing.
It is the responsibility of the people who use it that cannot hurt fellow soldiers and even innocent civilians.
Magic word ha: Responsibility.

In a military operation, the units commanders are planning to do the belongings of the direct sunog and they are preparing the Fire support Plan as part of the Operations Order (OPORD).
If you do not plan it, you planned to have failed!
Why?
It is, the 105mm Artillery is not like in your M1911A1 caliber 45 pistol that can be holster at the side and bunutin, itutok and shot precisely like a duwelo!
Draw!

So, in the eksperto, that is starting to be suggested by the Artillery the engaged unit without being able to talk to Forward Observer, mind more!



