Criticized the secrecy of the Senate in the role of the US in Mamasapano -- PKP.

Kawanihan in the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines February 25, 2015.

The Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) encouraged the Filipino people to criticized the policy of keeping the Senate in relation to the involvement of the US in the operation in Mamasapano.

In the last day of public hearing yesterday in the Senate, it was exposed to the testimony of PNP Dir.
Getulio Napeñas was the big part of the military of the US leadership, training, giving equipment and conducting an operation of the police to kill Zulkifli Bin Hir (Marwan) in Mamasapano.
The military of the US gave "packages of pantik" regarding Marwan, said Napeñas.
Though the general police insists that the soldiers of the US are not included in the actual operation, he did not follow the statement of Senator Ralph Recto that he was with the US's statements in their tactical command post in Shariff Aguak and he gave him the actual footage in the bidyo from the drone that was flying in the area.

Nevertheless, the deep discussion on the matter is being called by the committee of the Senate, because of the rumors that are "diplomatiko and security."

The PKP criticized the policy of keeping the Senate on the issue involving the military of the US.
"What they are saying will be the contribution that they are asking for the anticipated occasions and security is not a simequal issue of national sovereignty, especially in a situation that seems to be using influence in the operation and being able to mando a foreign candidate in the local police and military or some of these units."

"Confirmed by the information revealed yesterday that the involvement of the military of the US was deep in the operation in Mamasapano, which is opposed to the initial statements of the Aquinos who were exposed to the foreign affairs of Aquino that's the operation of Aquino, the operation," said PKP.
"Aquino has long been lying his and his upches to hide the involvement of the US."

"It means that the US involved in the operation in Mamasapano of the worse violation of the sovereignty of the Philippines in different levels including the execution of the operation that was being constructed for spite of the training and the equipment, the meddling of the konduation and the tools, the meddling of the konduation and others," added PPits to the operation and others, "added the PPn of the operations and others," added the PPn of the operations and others, "added the PPn of KP KP.
The PKP also made the testimonies of the local witnesses that are among the walti policemen who are the police who are Caucasian.

Advise the PKP the Filipino people who protest against the planned exchange of Balikatan in April 5-17 who will serve in the ongoing interassistance military of the US in the Philippines and will lead to more cases of the meddling of the Philippines like the involvement of the US in the operation in Mamasapano.

"The annual exercises of Balikatan is no different but a tabing for the interbensyunisation of the US of the US," said PKP.
"The one who is called together in the operation is no different but bullying so that the AFP and PNP will be given to the military of the US and PNP for the operations of military, like the operation in Mamasapano last January 25."



