Bela, Camp win is the heart By Jun Lalin Agosto 11, 2016 for a long time without the cast of Ang Probinils of Bela Padilla, but still about the action of ABS-CBN starring Coco Martin who is asked by the other interview with him in the press conference of the movie Camp Sawi.
Because of others, the loss of Bela has a different reason for the said serye.
There was a look for someone who was insecure by her one of his colleagues in Ang Probinils.
"Actually, laking pasasalamat ko that I became part of the Probinils.
"It's also marked because it's really my role there, but I even reached 29 linggo that the original really, I should be there, 8 weeks I should be there," Bela explained.
It should not be discussed about his absence of the Probinils because it has been a long time ago and he is now busy with the promo of Camp Sawi.
Even about the heartaches of Camp Sawi, it cannot be said that Bela comes ill when it comes to show.
Lalakas is their relationship with the businessman / producer Neil Arce.
Camp won, it's knitting!
Neil is one of the producer of Camp Sawi and very supportive of it in the career of girlfriend.
What's good with Neil, even though he is also part of showbiz world, he is kailanman a stage boyfriend with Bela.
In the surprise of Camp Sawi, the young man was not able to stick with the girlfriend.
Irene Villamor was the director of Camp Sawi.
Direk Irene is not a newbie in the movie industry because he has been an assistant director of Miss.
Joyce Bernal.
Antoinette Jadaone is a CO director of Antoinette Jadaone in the flop movie to relax, it's JUST Pag-ibig.
If the relaks didn't feel too much, it's JUST Pag-ibig, the Camp Sawi is popular.
Aside from Bela stars, Arci Muñoz, Andi Eigenmann, Yassi Pressman and Sam Milby.
Before we know Director Irene, who is also the assistant director of Miss.
Joyce Concepcion, KC Concepcion pelikulang For The First time of Star Cinema that was taken a lot of scenes in Santorini, Greece in 2008.
Direk Irene was happy with her.
We have been with him when we got Schengen visa in the Greek Embassy.
Oras na iyon, nagsuot ng puting sleeve blouse and itim na pantalon na si Direk Irene.
His former is very similar to the other climbing up the buses, which is suddenly oppressed, so he is subjected to teasing that he is riding.
He was just laughing when we laughed at the joke that after we applied visa, he went straight to EDSA and would raise the buses to preach.
When we saw each other in the press conference of Camp Sawi, we hugged Director Irene in the malaking break given to him by Viva Films.



