
100,000 workers marched in the sun of doing a lot of work.

By Pinoy Weekly Staff May 3, 2012, 2012.

Up to 100,000 workers, along with different sectors of society, the marched in the entire islands to commemorate the world of creation.

The method of their remembrance: Protest.

The protesters headed to the entire country of Kilusang May Uno (KMU), Pang.
Benigno Aquino III, they said that they are "a puppy of imperyalisn US and kapitalista," and there is only a chain. "
The criticisms of the workers are severe in their alleged failure of admintration Aquino to give even a little relief to the people in the midst of worsening hunger and poverty.

In Manila, it was estimated that the marched reached 30,000, going to Plaza Miranda, Quiapo and foot of Mendiola Bridge in Manila.
They did not mind the severity of the heat and the pouring rain.

Elmer "Ka Bong" Labog said, the workers of the KMU, who became more angry with the statements of Aquino in the "dilawang" leader who met with the President in the morning of May 1.

"It is a Kapariwaraan of the workers's message (Aquino)," says Labog.
The leader-worker said that the statement of Aquino is proof that he is defending the interest of big corporations even the oil companies.

Elmer "Ka Bong" Labog, the chairman of Kilusang May Uno.
(KR Guda) "no one has even given the workers," said Labog.

It has been more than a decade that is the proposed P125 across-board Wage increase of KMU, but despite the severity of the crisis and increase of goods, Congress and Malacanang continue to be buried.

Aquino directly declined the said proposal for a meaningful additional salary.
"It is not DOLE-out that will come from the pocket of Aquino or the kapitalista but as a result of hard work and endurance of workers in our country.
The workers are not asking for alms, "said Bayan Muna Rep. Teddy Casino.

Casino also said that it is not bad if the P1.4 trilyon will be given, which is an estimation of the President who will lessen the economy, which is additional wages.
The workers are just worthy to get it.

"Workers will not spend the money in another country.

"It will be alakasin the economy because it will be used for the daily expenses of the family of workers and the education of their children," says Casino.

Former Bayan Muna Rep. Satur Ocampo explained that the government was almost left behind by the government for a long time.

"It does not leave" the (Aquino) government in the pattern of the government's response (to the call additional salary) while it is time - the burial of Wage increase is not acceptable.
"They are able to identify the regional Wage boards should be the one who should be asya, but Historically over dekada, it is always lacking" those given additional, "Ocampo explained.

Ocampo said, there is a year given an extension of the law in the additional salary.
So even every year, there will be an additional salary, if the given is always given, it is not becoming enough for the workers.

The confederation of Unity is also not pleased, recognition at Advansemento of Government employees (Courage) in the assurance of the President to give the last trancation of the salary Standardiisasyon Law 3 (SSL3).
According to the Courage, it is a very small effect on 1.4 million employees of the government to keep them in the middle of the high amount of living.

"Limited (the) P713 to add every month on the minimum salary.
If the inflation will be considered, it cannot punuan the lost amount of our salary, "says Ferdinand Gaite, national President of Courage.

According to Gaite, it is not new to wage additional salary for employees. "That is the last installment that started in 2009," said Gaite.

The Philippine employees announced the P6,000 to add to the monthly minimum salary.

Removing the EVAT, criticizing the suffering of the marched, the garbage marched in the expanded Value-Added Tax (EVAT), especially in the oil oil that they said adding to the suffering of the citizens.

"Yes, the price of oil in the market is gradually going down, but what if the next days are up again because it remains deregulated the industry and free to set the price of oil." Ani Joms Salvador, the second general secretary of Gabriela.

Aside from the additional wage increase for the workers, Salvador said that it was an immediate burial left for you to leave the EVand the products of oil because it might reduce the prices of goods.

Meanwhile, approximately 5,000 poor cities attacked the home of President Aquino in Times Street before he went to Mendiola.
They condemned the alleged right demolition in the community of the needy.

"Participating is the big number of the needy now because of no one to let the rest of the Aquino implemented.
He was worried about the lack of work and down to the poverty of the needy, "said Gloria Arellano, general secretary of Kalipunan of Damayang Mahihirap (Kadamay).

The Kadamay blame the project public-private samahan in the destruction of the community of the needy, like what happened to the Silverio Compound in Paranaque last April 21.

Aside from the call that a significant additional wage, they also presented their alleged to continue supporting the Aquino administration in the foreigner especially in the government of the US.
A kontingent of KMU and Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) protested in front of the embassy of the US before leaving Plaza Miranda at noon of May 1.

They presented the agreement that happened in Washington DC between the government of the Philippines and America.

According to the group, the result of the discussion is not fair because the Aquino administration allowed that it is still possible that the treatado of the military rebels and staying by the American troops in the country will be extended.

Along with the march and protest of the workers, a mass is the offer of the bishops and a Catholic priest for the workers, "Ang annual celebration of Manggagawa on the first day of May is a good chance to express the church, his concern for their welfare and the inhumane rules in the world. Doing a creation.
In this year, I meant to share some important teachings of the church, "part of the released pastoral liham of Archbishop Antonio Tagle, DD.

Tagle also said that the person is more important than capital and profit.
"The person or the worker is the most important part of a business or production.

Growth of material or financial parts of production is also important but should never be a reason to take advantage of the worker.
In the wrong care of capital and earnings, the dignity of the worker is damaged, including their family and the whole society, "he said.

Tagle calls that should be given priority and respect every person.

It was enjoyed by the KMU who said that the workers will serve as an inspiration to the message of the bishop in their struggle.

"In the time shown by the (administration) Aquino and kapitalista are the lack of concern for the workers, the statement of Archbishop Tagle seems to be fresh air for us," says Lito Ustluck, the second one who is the second head of the KMU.



