If GUSTO, there is a way SPNOY SA term extension.

The voting was recent in Yahoo Philippines about running or not by President Benigno Aquino III in an election for his second term.
Olats or loses PNoy, Bro.
Majority voters do not want to stay in position the President of ex-Senator Ninoy Aquino and ex-President Cory.
Here is the result of the recent election.
There is a total of 47,058 who wants to go down PNoy as President while 34,674 is in favor of his stay in position or power.
The question of Yahoo Philippines: ShPanginoong Aquino na payagan na tumakbo sa ikalawang termino?
For the favor, this is the line of words: Yes!
Kailangan niya ng mas maraming oras bilang pangulo.
For the counter, here is the line: No.
Dapat ay bumaba siya sa 2016.
PNoy is Olats.
A vote 12,348 is the only one who does not want PNoy as the boss of my beloved Philippines.
In other determine, Bro, 58 percent are irritated with PNoy while 48 percent are lucky in him.
A bigger SA SWS, Pulse ASIA, there are a lot of those who voted for those who voted for the sarbey being held by Pulse Asia and Social Weather Station with 1,200 "respondents."
What it means, Bro, will take care of you.
But the election in Yahoo Philippines is open to the public while the only mixed of the sarbey is the implying of the SWS and Pulse Asia.
Does it mean that the election is more believable to Yahoo Philippines instead of the "elections" in the SWS and Pulse Asia?
It is in you that the answers or your own beliefs and we are not within it. "
But what is clear, no one is talking about any percentage mistakes here.
The election was simply finished which was done by a month.
There is a SARILko May, the camp of PNoy, who is sarbey is made to borrow.
It is said that the Filipinos' desire to stay with Ninoy and Cory will become a landslide or landslide.
And this is what caused the flying debt of news for the second term of PNoy.
What his boss is going to be a voice, maybe this is what he will follow.
He said, hopefully PNoy will not replace Benigno Simeon Aquino III in the position to start 2016 until 2022 and more.
The party of PNoy is not a candidate in 2016 because the given time does not want to bite the masses.
If it will bite, "he will bite the truth in the election so that he can't enter Malacanang.
Remate survey Parang survey is also made by our pahayagang Remate about staying or not by PNoy in Malacanang.
Our question in the past week is: Right to change the 1987 Constitution just to stay in position President Aquino?
If you keep track of so many text, Bro, you will be surprised at the reaction.
Many are in favor of PNoy.
But there are more against PNoy... aside from the anger of sympathy in the Constitution just to do PNoy what he wants to stay in Malacanang.
In our worthless results, including what we cannot produce because of the limitation in time and space, around 75 percent against PNoy while only 25 percent is in favor of him.
If GUSTO, there is a way to PNoy travels to the countries in Europe these days, he is able to naturally about the issue of term extension.
It's a child of towa, he answers, too, "if it wants, there is a way."
And until now, he continued to hear his boss's voice.
Who really is his boss, Bro?
Many are doubting who his boss are.
But there is one that many are saying.
His boss is his staff who are ready to give him all the pupwede way towards what he wants to kamtin.
Surgery in the 1987 Constitution in the 1987 Constitution for the term extension.
There are three because the 1987 Constitution is saying that it is a way to review surgery.
It is one that the aaral Assembly or the congressmen are full of congressmen and senators as well as there is a duty to change the Constitution.
They might be able to heal it together or separate, depending on what they want because they want to ignore the intervention of the Supreme Court here.
When this happened, maybe it's not just a term extension will be the change.
Pupwede they made the government's system and break the presidential system.
"When it happened, Bro, there was no election in 2016.
And PNoy is going to be a minister who is most powerful official in the Philippines.
As well as the lawmakers, the lawmakers, who will become the chief Ministro of PNoy and the term of his KKK or ASUNGOT will be distributed.
Hehehe.
Martial law can also be at the number of troubles in my loved Philippines from the kidnappers for ransom from Abu Sayyaf and New People's Army, pupwedeng the bombahan anywhere and blame all of those "caused by martial law.
This is easier for the term extension because the end of the gun of the military and police will be used for staying in the power of all those who are greedy in power.
Worried!
I hope that nothing will happen like this.

Ultimatum / Benny ANTIPORDA.



