
Poverty, cause of the increase of crime Nobyembre 12, 2014 Written By Vic Reyes inilathala sa opinion Read: 8055 many, we still have a fellow countrymen who have no thoughts but to spread fear and fear in public.
They are spreading rumors through social media.

Recently reported in social media that there are already confirmed cases of Ebola in the Philippines.
Like expected, the gossip gave fear to a lot of people in the country.
With the many netizens, including the child, the rumors quickly spread.
It is natural to be afraid of the public, not without the knowledge of all that is very nakamamatay is the disease of Ebola.
In fact, it killed a lack of 5,000 people in some countries.
Most of those who died in the disease of Ebola are in West Africa.
How can you not be afraid, except for the said disease, almost half of the dinadched of the virus he faldie.
What is alarming, we have a lot of workers working in the whole world, including those in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said that those who are spreading will be imprisoned through social media by the wrong report about Ebola virus.
De Lima ordered the National Bureau of Investigation to look for the people behind the spread of the report that the Ebola virus is in the Philippines.
The Department of Health (DOH) denied the said online report.
The report has been viral for a few days.
Added to the fear of the people is the scheduled arrival of the Filipino UN peacekeeper coming from Liberia.
The peacekeeper will immediately be brought to Caballo Island for the quarantine of 21 days.
After 21 days, they will only be able to make it up to their own house.
The quarantine aims to ensure that the UN peacekeeper from Liberia has no Ebola virus.
After 21 days will be given a "bayani" welcome "of the Armed Forces of the Philippines the peacekeeper as acknowledging their" outstanding accomplishments "in Liberia.
Let us not forget that poverty is the number one reason why the crime in the country is increasing.
Many people have committed crimes because there is no feed and buy medicine for their loved ones.
As long as the poverty is there and lack of work will be hard for the government to stop the increase of crime and the case of corruption.
Because of poverty and lack of good work in the country, most of our countrymen are forced to find a job in another country.
Another painful truth is a lot of parents, especially in the countryside, the urge to their daughters who are married or just look for a disastrous foreign man.
Sometimes, we can't blame the young women who agree with the old dayuhan.
Even if you are educated because you find it hard to find a proper job and good salary.
If you find a job, it is contractual.
It is rare to be nareregular at work.
Before the new employee completed six months, he removes it so that it will not be permanent.
We repeat, as long as the poverty is there is also the different crime.
Are we right, President Aquino?
Complaints and reactions: MMDA, maybe there can be a footbridge here in EDSA / Muñoz.
In front of the chapel of Iglesia Ni Cristo.
Concerned senior citizen of QC.
I believe that the judgement will come to the three liar senador.-SC of Sampaloc, Manila.



