Protest to the permanent presence of the American government of the US in Philippines, PKP PKP.

The Partido Komunista of the Philippines called for the filipino people to express their resistance against the warship of the US in the Philippines that resulted to the permanent presence of the American government in the country which resulted to the sovereignty of the Philippines.

The PKP released the call after the couple of them anchor yesterday by three ships of the US in Manila, Subic and Cebu described that "three again slap in the sovereignty of the Philippines."
USS Decatur Naval yer yer in Manila Bay landed, while the submarintelligence USS Ohio in Subic and the submarine tender USS Frank cable in Cebu landed.
"It is the one who will anchor these vehicles of the US, it is clear that the government and military of the US are being treated as well as the Philippines, no one else but their station Nabal in Asia-Pacific and the act of Benigno Aquino III as an American gubergovernor command of his employers."

Just a few days ago, the USS Emory S. Land also landed in Subic, which is also a submarine tender.
This is the one brought by a poisonous garbage garbage on the coast of Subic through the contractor of the US defense last October 15, 2012.

The vessel of the American military arrived at the time that the sadmalungkot last January of USS Guardian and the big damage caused it to the flood of the pook Tubbataha Reefs.

"The government of the Philippines is fully kissing the filipino people in the refusal of being held accountable by the personnel of the USS Guardian and the entire military of the US in violation of the laws of the Philippines," dadag PKP.
"The worst is, the Philippines is observing the Philippines for the announcement during a day that it is working with the government of the Philippines that will conduct an investigation regarding the sadmalungkot of USS Guardian."

"It should have been antemated that the government of the Philippines is going to conduct an investigation.
The police should pass the custody of Amriths and personnel of the crashed and personnel of the crashed USS Guardian in the awotiridad of the Philippines in relation to the anticipated investigation of their responsibilities, "said PKP.

According to the PKP, the vessel of the military of the US in the Philippines will anchor the permanent station of 700 soldiers against the US who is under the Joint Special Operations Task Force-Philippines (Jappeals-P) of the US Pacific Command.
Meanwhile, Jree-P is based on an exclusive place in Camp Navarro, the station of Western Mindanao Command of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

The PKP insisted again the intention of the Visiting Forces Agreement, the mutual Defense Treons and other equal agreement between the government of the Philippines and the US.



