
It was maintained and continued to be able to escape in pushing the digmang town the revolutionary movement in Mt.
Sierra Madre-Timog Katagalugan in the middle of the brutal campaign of the domination and violence of the Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos US-Aquino.

"Geronimo" Ka.
Geron "riding NDFP-Mt.
Sierra Madre-Timog Katagalugan Disyembre 26, 2014, 2014.

The revolutionary movement in Mt.
Sierra Madre-Timog Katagalugan was able to maintain and continue to be able to escape in pushing the Digmang Bayan in the middle of brutal and widespread violence and domination of the Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos administration.
The Bagong right Bayan (BHB) was able to pull.
The baseng masses and organisadong masses are growing.
The revolutionary release of the common influence is larger and becoming stronger and deep rooted to the masses of the Partido leaders in the struggle of the people.
Carrying the saved success, and on the occasion of the 46 anniversary of the administration of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines, it is only right that everyone who loves them will gladly greet and members of Partido, all the red kumander and warriors of the BHB, and all the revolutionary force in the scope of Mt.
Sierra Madre-Timog Katagalugan, and the entire country.
We salute and honor all the revolutionary martyr and heroes of the people in their non-loveteam sacrifice.
While we are an inspiration for them to execute the responsibilities to bring the digmang town from the current chapter of the resolution I will be offensive to be offensive.

The presence of the BHB in Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK that is within the province immediate neighboring of Metro Manila, like Laguna and Rizal closest to the door of Malacañang and also of Timog and Central Quezon, is a thorn in the throat of the resyunbuilt regime in the palace of Malacañang.
The staying and diligence of BHB in this province in Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK seems to be a nightmare in the resyunbuilt regime taking advantage of the people based in Metro Manila.

The past campaign military to crush the revolutionary movement in Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK like the tradition of Oplan Bantay-Laya of the regime of US-Gloria Macapagal Arroyo failed.
Meanwhile, the current campaign of the domination and violence of the Marcos regime under Oplan Bayanihan (OPB) continues to fail.
The AFP Chief of Staff now General Emmanuel Bautista is eating his statement that he will do the armed struggle in the time of his service.
He also like all the past people like him who expressed to crush the revolutionary movement but they were all abigo.
The AFP Naobliga to admit to a nap that the strength and huge force of the BHB in the entire country remains in the former as of this, within almost five years of implementation of OPB.
Despite this being boastful that the OPB is allegedly a success on the whole.
In fact, the AFP extended the OPB to 2019.

It's in the province scope of Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK, proved that the mapanupil failed and violent OPB like the past people who are against Oplan.
The revolutionary movement of the Marcos regime of the US-Aquino cannot be crushing.
Instead of crushed, we maintained the presence of the armed town.
The BHB will continue to preserve himself and is being pushed away from the capture of the force of the AFP-PNP.
The number of units of the milisyang town has been added by 2 companies.
This is in danger of the regular units of BHB, something that strengthens the ability of the BHB to launch the taktikal offensive.

In the past two (2) years, launched fifty (50) anihilconsiders and atritbird taktikal offensive to the entire scope of provinces or four of it every month.
It caused two (2) platung (26 dead and 27 injured) in the ranks of the AFP-PNP.
The provincial troop of the enemy of the enemy included in the berdugong 16th IBPA, 1st IBPA, 59th IBPA, 21 and 22 DRC-PA, under 2nd ID-PA, under the 2nd ID-PA, will be given.
The advantage will also be punished by the abusive and destructive of the environment of the stone owned by big burography ya prador and foreign kapitalista like Rapid City Corporation in Antipolo City, JCR Aggregates and Rodriguez Rock, Inc. in Rodriguez, province of Rizal.

On the other hand, the baryong scope of the Partido and work politics will continue to increase.
The baseng masses is up to a few thousand in the entire sub-region of Mt.Sierra Madre-TK.
The organisadong base of 68 percent was increased within 2 years since the end of 2012.
The appointed company of the masses (GSM) was doubled by the farmers in spite of non-stop attacks of the enemy.

The announced anti paista, anti-pyudal and anti-imperyalist whose masses of the people against the resyunbuilt of US-Aquino are getting stronger.
The enemy has never succeeded in his campaign to get the "mind and heart" of the people.
The anger of the people is being blamed by the people who are hit by the severe kalupitan and violation of human rights of those whose troops of the Marcos regime.
The berdugong 16th IBPA, 1st IBPA, ika-21 and 22 DRC-PA, are now being asked for, the units of the AFP who primary law of OPB in provinces Rizal, Laguna, north and Middle Quezon because of their violence, rape women and destruction of the livelihood of the people.

Protests will continue to be launched at the foot and the mind of Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK up to the kamaynilaan to mark the strongly fighting for the price increase of oil, increase in tuition, bosses of the needy and destruction of nature caused by the widespread mining and the construction of the environment caused by the widespread mining operations.
The widespread kick to the indigenous people and farmers in UP Land Grant in Real, Quezon, in the land of arc in the Mauban, Quezon, in the 2nd claiming of the Pacific Coast City in the town of Nakar, Quezon and neighboring provinces of Aurora, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon and 2 barangays in Nakar, Quezon in order to Laiban Dam and Kaliwa Dam, especially pushing those from the countryside to revolt and fight for their rights.

The scheduled kick to those who live beside Lmercy of Laguna to build the circummataba road (C-6) and the planned extension of MRT 7 from Quezon City to Bulacan, even more push to the people to act and defend their lives and livelihood.
It's clear to the people of Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK is the only one in the opposing rejection and bad action only to protect the legitimate rights.

The possessed of Partido in the provinces is growing and the batayang organcomation of Partido will continue to increase.
The ideolopresented, political and organisasyunal leadership of the Committee of Partido in Teatrong gerilya, Komite of Partido in the Pragents gerilya and Komite of Partido in Kalunsuran of Mt Sierra Madre-TK and the organization of Partido in the ranks of the citizens in the barrio, community, factory and alliance with the people of the citizens in the barrio, community, factory, factory and allies and alliance and alliance with the people of the citizens in the barrio, community, factory, the units of BHB will be in the units of BHB.

More than 95 percent of the members of Partido in the BHB was able to finish school in the batayang course of Partido while the graduates from the ranks of the Sangay of Partido in the loquality is up to 45 percent of the members of Partido.
The study on the IKP was able to carry out the words of the prent gerilya, those who were benefiting by the seksyon and some of those who were shared by the branches of Partido.

The success that we have achieved in the past 2 years is clearly taking advantage of the statement of the AFP-PNP that the campaign of the domination and violence under Oplan Bayanihan against the revolutionary movement in the provinces within the sub-region succeed.
The AFP bragged that the province of Laguna is "insurgency free" is a deny reason for never lost the BHB in the said province since 1970 "s.
The prespresence of BHB will not be lost in the Lalawigan of Rizal and in the middle and Northern Quezon.
In fact, it maintained and was reserved by the BHB of his own and all the revolutionary force under the Marcos regime.
Despite the preservation of the force of the AFP-PNP of three to four battalions of the Philippine Army and 2 battaliof the SAF-PNP who supported 3 battaliof CAFGU and Regional Police Safety at Maneuver Batallion, which continues to be walted by the implementation of the BHB of the BHB, the revolutionary force will be maintained by the revolutionary force and pleksibility and successful and successful and successful and successful that will be implemented by the revolutionary force. The attacks of the enemy failed.
In the 56 fight between the BHB and troops of the AFP-PNP, 50 here is in the initiative of BHB while 6 are in the initiative of AFP.

The current politics and economists crisis in our country are getting worse in the midst of the severe crisis of the international dawed.
The bosses who will fall in and intense show the regime of BS Aquino in imperyalisyour US, more worried about the poverty of the filipino people.
The policies that are established by the rehiment US-BS Aquino does not progress in the livelihood of the citizens rather, especially the people of the people in the quicksand of poverty.
The worse crisis in the economy is taken by the crisis in politics.
The kilusang streak is spreading today.
The soundforce force is not the only time that BS Aquino will be forced to oust BS Aquino.
Even the ranks of the people who are churches, professionals, anti-Aquintelligence faction in the ranks of those who are aring kind and foreign kapitalista are the ones who will be convinced to oust the regime of BS-Aquino.

The current situation is very strong to lead the masses, the Oplan bayanihan continues to be disappointed, intensify the fight to oust the Marcos regime, fight the worsening intercurrent military of the US, the OPB will continue to disappoint the OPB.
We have to be strong to fight to complete the rekisitos in order to bring the digation of the country from the one whom I am going to serve for defending the next year.
It is most important to all that we continue to husalize the mobilisisayonof the masses to fight the oppressed and mapanupil regime and their grief to be gerilya of the masses.

All of the method needs to be done so that we will launch the appropriate type and form of antipyudal struggle and the jobs that are the masses for the support of the interest of the masses to further become aware of their thousands for the armed revolution.
In every campaign and mobilated masses, the price of increasing awareness and inorganisa for the revolution will increase.

Everyone needs to be active joined by the renbolonaryo and has been exposed to the sub-region in pushing the anti-imperyalist who are studying and offensive in propaganda to intensify the plea to dismiss the right agreement of the US, VFA and MDT, end the presensyang military of the US and kamtin the justice of the American soldiers against the Filipinos of the American soldiers against the Filipinos of the American soldiers against the Filipinos of the American soldiers against the Filipinos of the American soldiers against the Filipinos of the American soldiers against it is.
There is also a need to oppose an aggressive propaganda which is being held as preparation for the meeting of APEC in Manila in the coming year that there is a goal to make it happen that there will be something similar to the economists and talks about the Filipino people after three decades of liberalization, deregulation and denned.

There is a need to continue to strengthen the level companies that are gerilya.
In the scope of Mt-Sierra Madre-TK can be maintained by nine (9) until eleven (11) was so big that aspect gerilya.
There is a need to increase the number of BHB until the units of the BHB of the country which is the scope of Mt- Sierra Madre-TK which is appropriate for the units of BHB.
They have to continue to encourage the lessons that are youth to join the BHB in order to punuan the needs of officials in politics and abuse of Partido for the growing force of the BHB in Mt.
Sierra Madre-TK.
The operations that are occurring are needed to be sold in order to be held accountable for the sagadvarious people of human rights, sagdvarious destroying the environment and other serious crimes against the people and the revolutionary movement.
It is proper to continue to contribute the sub-region in raising the armed strength of the BHB to the entire town in its target to reach the 25,000 in the entire Philippines in order to catch up with the Estrada administration.
Kailansabay needs to continue to increase the units of Milisyang Bayan, units in Baryo, and units for his own Depensa and be trained and give weapons to them.
The masses need to continue to let the taktikal offensive, pantik, rekrutment, production spread of supply and lohons and other tasks in the revolution.



