That it was a sense of consciousness.

Marvin Joseph E. Ang Kilala is in the nickname "Pipoy" in his family, friends, and colleagues in the community.
Like other children, it is also simple that makes him happy - playing patintero, study, and helping the parents in the farm farm.
Pipoy is currently studying in Alterkatutubong learning Center para sa pagkakaroon ng mga operatiba ng elementarya at kabuhayan Development (ALCADEV).
This school is built by the natives for the education of their youth, especially since the public education of the government is not affordable in their community.
The agricultural is particularly tuon in their pen because it is the primary livelihood of the native communities in the countryside.
For them, "the land is life."
Pipoy wakes up the 4th of the morning to be ready to enter.
When the 5th of the morning comes, with his classmates, he will go to the field for their assignment such agriculture.
They will teach their teacher for two hours about planting, harvesting, and other activities related to agriculture.
7th and half of the morning, they are distraight to their school to study about the History, values Education, and Technology at Home economics.
He is also interested in drawing.
He immediately defeated any imaheng mangati in his brain - the rays of the air, the rays of the sun, the rays of the sun, which is growing through a branch of branches, their farm in the time of their harvest - whatever it is pleasing to the eye.
He even boasting, posted on the wall of their mood for some of his likhang art.
But everything was different when the military suddenly interfered in their community.
Through the Oplan Bayanihan of former President Benigno Aquino III who aims to arrest the rebels in the countryside, the level of killings, violence, and kick the native citizens in their land ancestors increased.
It was just like yesterday if Pipoy commemorate the incident more than a year has passed - how their leaders were killed in the community, Dionel Campos and Datu Bello Sinzo himself in front of them.
Emerrca found dead Samarca, the Executive Director of ALCADEV, inside the faculty room.
His hand was tied up, there was a part of a bullet in the head and there was traces of beating.
"I dream to be an organer of these like the Laktown] for if there is a snake that will take our land, I will protect my companions."
Pipoy has affected a lot in the consciousness of Pipoy.
This is also the urge for him to continue to drew - he often gets older than his drawing the people who are raised the fist and their late datu as protectors of their community.
Their lives are coming back to their place now - they have returned to their land and fixing their studies.
He gradually goes through his dream to finish school.
But for him, everything is not finished here.
The fight for Pipoy will continue, "until the presence of the military is completely gone, and we can go back to our previous lifestyle."



