
Pasistis the terrorism of the AFP, not spared from the bomb of the BHB-Masbate!

Luz del Mar, Public Information Officer Jose Rapsing Command, BHB-Masbate April 3, 2014, 2014.

March 30, 2014 - after two days of the bulabog and spreading fear of the common farmers of some barangays in the towns of Cawayan, Placer and Palanas, successfully ambushed by the Bagong Hukbong Bayan - Jose Rapsing Command (BHB-JRC) in the province of Masbate, the pay of a mixture of 92nd and 93rd Division the ance Company (DRC) under the 9th ID) under the 9th ID) under the 9th ID) under the 9th ID.
It was 9 o'clock in the evening, shot and got hit by the command of the command pampasabog (CDX) the vehicle of the soldiers in Sitio Pulanduta, Brgy.
Tuburan, Cawayan, Masbate.
This resulted to the death of the two soldiers and wounded six others including their official Cpl. Piñano.
Even if the incident is trying to hide, the two corpses and wounded ones who are wounded on the side of the road are not surrender, scattered everywhere in the destroyed vehicle and other traces of the people who are damaged by the chance.
Before this, the strength of fear of the military operations in the ranks of the masses is also a few days of fear.
Some houses were entered and searched by the military to look for "evidence" of supporting the masses in the BHB and revolutionary movement.
It is directly violation of the rights of the people because they have not shown any legal basis or search warrant for their emersenses.
It was also a big damage caused by the livelihood of the masses for a few days to search for them in the meantime.
The masses is not free to fulfill their daily tasks in production because of fear that the military troops will be blamed.
Even the annual happy celebration of the day by the end in some school was delayed for a few hours and engulfed with fear.
To cover up their failure, the military was forced to make the lies.
They hide the real number of their troops who died and injured.
According to them, they are missing and suspected that the two of their companions were kidnapped by their companions, namely Pfc. Erwin Emerson a and Gilbeas Mechica.
But according to the witnesses immediate after the incident, two corpses were seen sprawled on the road.
There were also some masses who were able to say that there were six soldiers who were put in the provincial hospital of Masbate who immediately transferred to Legaspi City.

The BHB-JRC has no captured.
The two soldiers who report missing and kidnapped were killed in the explosion of their vehicle.
They do not want to admit that their operation earned failure and demoralization in their ranks.

Seems to torong smoking the nose of the persons after the incident.
In their built tsekpoyate near the studied, while their weapons stayed fearful, they asked the civilians to be asked each other and tried to keep them.
A few civilians were not able to stop the sekpoynt because of fear.
In exchange for this, beaten up, they were disturbed and dinitine.
Meanwhile, they also insist on carrying a caliber .38 Dong Condor, a civilian on motorcycle, so they arrested him.
They are implying that Dong Dong is also a colleague of the BHB-JRC.

Forcefully entered and searched when there was no search warrant of some houses surrounding the ambush.
Spread the equipment, the rice, corn and other food from the containers in searching for evidence.

The military quickly moved out of the military operation to reach their mission of the burial of the revolutionary movement under Oplan Bayanihan.
Aside from the goal to mess up the celebration of the 45th anniversary of the question of the BHB, the soldiers also used their action to catch up with the masses that they can use the fierce face of the state.
They openly showed that it is not put first for them for the welfare of the masses, along with this, the flying of the airplane of Filminera Resource Corporation continued to fly with the marine mineral of Masbate.

The Masbatenyo, along with the filipino people should be united to fight the violation of their rights of paid abusive soldiers.
Force is the BHB of the people who are oppressed and fighting.
It will not be moved and the BHB of any oplan will continue to increase their try because of the continuous support of the people.
The BHB will continue to fight for the democratic rights and safety of the citizens against the tickled arization and abusive associated with it.



