
The Marcos regime will be held accountable for the death of the child of Aiai a--PKP.

The party of the Philippines May 20, 2014, 2014.

Salin: Hold Aquino responsable sa pagkamatay ni Andrea - CPP-CPP -

The management and the whole possessed of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) sympathize with the prisoners Andrea Rosal and his entire family in the right time passing by his two-day-old son Diona, after having a hypoxemia, or lack of oxygen in blood.

The death of Baby Diona had no doubt that Andrea was able to relate to the inhumane kundcommission of Andrea in his cell condition before giving birth.

Almost two months before he will be, Andrea Rosal in jail with 30 other prisoners will be maintained.
Since he was imprisoned in Camp Bagong Diwa, he did not receive any medical medical for those pregnant.
He was deprived of having a advantage in the middle of the high temparation of climate.
He will lie down on the cemented floor.

Despite having the order from the court, Andrea was only brought to the hospital during two days when her womb was ab.
One day after he mailuwal the baby, the police ordered, the military and the members of the prison who were able to bring him back to jail immediately, which he was directly against the situation that he was not completely able to face the birth and the trauma results of the death of his baby.

The PKP is one with Andrea, to his family, friends and supporters, to his lawyers, doctors and founsupport of human people, in criticizing the Marcos regime because of the inhumane condition of the burial of the medical medical of Andrea.
The filipino people are united in the peace of the Marcos regime, especially those who have been presented to the police and military, in the death of Baby Diona.

The PKP is joining the growing scream for the immediate release of Andrea Rosal from imprisonment.
He denied the actions of the kidnapping case filed against him in the assigned effort to give straight to the arrest and continued tension with him.
Just like what Andrea insisted, he was mysterious to be charged as a high exchange of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB) of the military uppresented by the military to beat their "success" for the arrest of her.



