Happiest person.

Happiest people (Mt.
11: 28-30) who is the most beautiful person in this world?

That can be rich?
Everyone is already in them and they can get the things that they desire.
They can match all the desires that they will be sent to.
That is being famous?
They and what many are being addressed and admire and admire.

They are in favor to go to pictue and will be able to make amends ograph.
They always give all the attention of those who look up to them.

That can be those who have power?
They are the king and leaders who will be given the ability to implement the law and their will to follow.
That is capable of titles and intelligence?

They are the brains have the ability to understand even the poor matter of science, politics, pilosopiyaand many others.
They are so the most beautiful people in the world?
Where is the happiness of a person depends on?
Jesus said: "You approached me, all of you having a hard time and have been pina!
That is it.
This is where we can find the real happiness... when it comes to Jesus, you will meet peace of life, when clings to Jesus, the life will be damahay.
But it does not mean he take all the pina!
It does not mean that all the problems will be gone.
It does not mean that it will be gone all over.
When we come closer to him he will change how we look at life.
He will change our views about all of our importance.
He will set up the wrong appreciation that we are holding.
Who is the most beautiful person in the world?

Not the rich.
True happiness is not the accumull of a lot of money and properties but the anger or slowly need... not the famous.
The real person who is happy is "and home" to himself and not seek the admiration of others to complete his personality.
They are the people they know the beauty that they can find on their own.
It's not the powerful ones.
The true person who feels the happiness of happiness is not in need of strength to follow others.
Enough for him to be through what he is doing even without words, he is directed by others.
Not the people in the eyes of academiya and university are wise.
The real father is the people who believe that God has a good plan on his created not even better to understand him.
The people who understand that life is from God and God will also return.
PS.

I am happy when I wake up without a cold!



