GMA again is blaming and terminate SCOL.
ANDUYAN.

There are really officials of the government that are already the peak of being useless, it is the socket of the nerve!
One of those, parekoy, this is Cesar Villanueva, the chairman of the pamamahala Commission para sa Government na pag-aari at makontrol.
It can be recalled that in the seat of PNoy, he attacked the GOCC official in the administration of GMA like SSS, GSIS, PhilHealth atbp. because they allegedly devour the funds of the country.
According to PNoy on his first SONA, the face of the said officials will be able to join because they have given their own huge bonus when the people are struggling.
So in 2011, PNoy appointed Villanueva to stop the said greed, but only last week revealed by the COA, the pangungsteal of the hijo-elected officials who were elected by PNoy will continue to be elected by PNoy.
In fact, the COA was returned by P2.13B which is already eaten by stupid people!
It means that it is a matter of time, Villanueva has not fulfilled his job as chairman of the pamamahala Commission para GOCC.
The thing is, instead of admitting his being useless or if there is still left a shame in the body, he just has to resign from his position, well, the hayop has an excuse!
Imagine, it's a matter of matter, that GMA is still blamed in the billion peso that is clearly seen in the administration of PNoy; he will devour!
In the interview of the media, the mouth of the impaktong Villanueva is almost bued while he is accepting that he cannot do anything because of virtue of an order signed by GMA before he leaves.
King-mother!
If "GMA signed that the contract and appointment were dismissed by PNoy because he was" nakakasira "to the people!
"Don't have an excuse, it's greedy!
Pus!

Up to the tagatanggap, I mean, Rizal Provincial Director S / Supt. Rolando Anduyan is the involvement of his name in illegal gambling in his "vendor op respanfied iti."
Yesterday, we took out the steal from the mouth of the personnel of the gambling lord, Bong Sola, who was allegedly a business partner, Colonel Anduyan in illegal gambling or bookies!
It is true or not the said allegation, the truth remains that it is exposed and the illegal gambling of Sola is widespread in the entire Rizal.
That is why Colonel Anduyan should be removed!



