
Digmang town in ST, being pushed in spite of the extreme tickled ization.

The town 7 April 2012.

Download PDF fierce the operations of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the region of Southern Tagalog (ST).
He targeted the prubination of Quezon, Rizal, Laguna and Batangas as well as the islands provinces of Mindoro and Palawan.

The killings like the massacre of civilians minors who are nangangdogs last February in Magdalena, Laguna.
The ebakons are forced and destroying the livelihood of the indigenous citizens in Mindoro and Palawan as a result of the operations to control the population.
The misery is widespread for those who will be suspended by the revolutionary movement in Quezon and Mindoro; it is recalled that the killing and kidnapping of the leaders of the masses in Batangas, Mindoro and Palawan.
There are many cases of illegal arrest and responded; moleting and disrespect of women.
The minors are forced to rut the CAFGU; and malicious connecting the faces of the leaders and organization of the people and armed revolutionary movement.
These are only a few examples of mention from the long list of the crime of the AFP against the people.

In the unsuran region, the many community of poor cities and factories have been sold.
The presence of the detatons of the military in the community of workers and needy near Laguna de Bay at the bottom of the tinaguriang "peace" and the community development "and the community development."

It is imsentra on the fields gerilya of the ST of the total 16 batalyon of the AFP under 2nd ID and Western Command.
The forces of the Special Action Force and public safety maniobra Battalion of the PNP and units of CAFGU are given by the 59th Cadre Battalion of the Philippine Army.

The Quezon was the one who was blamed for the region where the four batalyon of the Philippine Army were placed under 201Street and 202nd Brigade: 74th IB in the 3rd District; 85th IB in the 2nd District; 76th IB in the 2nd District; and 1st SFB in the 1st District.
Pinakamasinsin was presented by the enemy in South Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula (3rd and 4th district) where more or less six battalions of the combined force of the AFP, PNP and CAFGU were the ones that were shown in the total 57 camp and detatons.

The island of Mindoro followed that there were three batalyon of the Philippine Army under 203rd Brigade - the 80th IB, 4th IB, the strong force of the 23rd Division Reconnaissance coy and a company of Scout Ranger, three lament of the PNP and additional three battalions of CAFGU that have more than 2,400 personnel in the whole and scattered in the entire 54 camp and are scattered in the entire 54 camp.

Third is the Palawan that there are two batalyon of the Philippine Marines - the 4th and 12th Marine Battalion Landing Team - under Western Command, a battaliof Philippine Air Force (740 combat Group), a battaliof PNP and a battaliCAFGU scattered in 20 camps and detatons.

Meanwhile, the 202nd Brigade has jurisdiction of the prubination of Rizal, Laguna, Batangas and the 1st and 2nd district of Quezon, there is six lament in North Quezon, 1st SFB in Central Quezon, 1st SFB in Central Quezon, 1st IB in Laguna, 730th and 733rd CG of PAF in Batangas and 16th IB in Rizal.
Further, the 58th IB under the 5th ID is also the wallaunch of operations of operations in the end of Rizal and Bulacan.

Despite the excessive lead of the AFP in the force and kagamitang military, it is used to be the future of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan in Southern Tagalog every attack of the mersenaryong troops of the military and police of the hired US-Aquino.
In the unfintong report of the prubination and eryang military, the total 89 taktikal offensive past two years caused the enemy of 63 dead and 39 injured.
It was confiscated in these fights for the total 85 weapons which include 48 pesos, 37 pistol, 37 pistol and a lot of fun military like the night vision goggles, radyong communication, grenade and bullets.

All of the fields gerilya will continue to boil the military of the AFP that the rest of the rest will be removed.
Despite this and in the middle of poverty, it is successful to preserve more than ten fields gerilya in seven provinces of the region.
It was handled by a relatbird more and more husunits of the armed nation and pleksibility to avoid being able to prepare and low the possibility that it would be a winner while looking for a chance to be weak and a chance of a weak part of the enemy.

The armed town took advantage of the short time of the tone of operations of military operations to awaken, organisahin and pakilusin the masses, joined the production, joined the production, the local organo of the power politics and the revolutionary organizations of the people, and the training of the citizens in politics.
Because of this, the baseng support for the armed and armed struggle from the countryside while the strict discipline and readiness to fight for the hukbo is being implemented.



