
Be held accountable for the berblood 80th IB in its crime in the Mindoro oreno!

HIGOM MARAGAof Lucio De Guzman Command- NPA-Mindoro Enero 15, 2012, 2012.

The hand of the Marcos regime and his hands on the 80th IB, Phil Army of murdered Guillermo Castillo, 46, in Sityo Tuguian, Barangay Taycriticized.
Mamburao, Occidental Mindoro last December 13, 2011.
Lapastitems conducted the crime of the bonnet suspects inside the house of the victim in front of his wife.
The killing is another case of the succeeding ahudation killing of the extra Judicial killing or EJK] under the Marcos regime.
No one else was identified as the suspect but the operatives of 80th IB, PA that the presence of the spite of their place was noticed for several days before the crime happened.

This is a desperate measure of the regime and his berblood galamay in the military to silence the people defending and fighting for their rights.
Guillermo is active moving for the kagalingan of the prisoners political while it is also active in a collective of the farmer fighting for their rights to the earth.
He is a brother of Eulogio "Eli" Castillo, one of the Morong 43 who is detained now in Mamburao Provincial Jail despite the release of his other colleague.
Morong 43 is Filipino workers who have been arrested and developed in February 2010.
Since Eli Castillo was imprisoned his relatives in Mamburao became a target of the exchange of monitoring the operatives of the military.
The killing happened while the Peace Pilgrimage was launched last December 13-15, 2011 in two provinces of Mindoro which was attended by different sectors in the whole island as part of the commemoration of the worldwide Sunday of human rights.
LDGCGC- NPA Mindoro strongly condemned this killing.
Guillermo is a picture of a simple citizen that is the only desire to live decent from your own efforts in living in order to pursue his family while being implemented by his duty as a farmer.
The victims like Guillermo should be able to find justice, similar to the justice of the other victims of violence against his citizens.

We will meet all the strength and not being charged with the criminals in this crime and in many cases of violation of human rights that until now, it is still being added.
There is no other way to give justice but the actions of the victims and their relatives and living with the wide citizens who are pushing the comprehensive change in our society.
The long experience of the citizens proved that only in the revolutionary system justice can be gained by the filipino masses.
Justice will be achieved by the people under the flag of the democratic government Bayan who continues to be saved in the combined effort of the wide citizens and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines-MLM and the armed force of the Philippines-MLM and the armed force of the New People's Army or NPA.

The CPP-MLM live on the 43 anniversary of it!

Long live the CPP-NPA-NDF!

Long live the revolver solution!



