
NPA in Nueva Ecija, attacked.
Camp of 81IB and CAFGU, showered with bullets.

Alexander Guerrero Provincial operational Command, NPA-Nueva Ecija 16 Marso 2012 Magain attacked the commando unit here of New People's Army (NPA) in a CAFGU Patrol Base in Barangay Burgos, Carranglan, Nueva Ecija last night of Marso 15.
It is stranded there are more than a iskwad of 81IB that serves as Tactical Command Post (TCP) every time they launch a regular combat operations in the area.

They were shocked by successive explosions of M203 and rifle granada ades inside their camp, aside from the gush of shots from high caliber guns.
In the extreme shock, they were not able to make a shot until the operatives finally get away.

This is part of the campaign to be charged with 81IB in their murder of four companions last March 9 in Barangay Digmala, Bongabon, Nueva Ecija.
They sent out that there was a fight and allegedly confiscated guns in order to cover up their crime and brutality.

This is also a response of the citizens against the impending kick and extensive bosses of the land within the scope of the former Hacienda Bueno, and the community of the native Igorot in the boundary of Nueva Ecija and Nueva Viscaya because there will be the private expressway going to Cagayan Valley region.
Even more, they strongly opposed the plan of entering the companies in mining because of danger and damage it will cause in life, livelihood, and surroundings.

Similar to the past campaign military and troops of the enemy who have been told by terrorism in our province, need to be thorough expose and fight the mapanlinlang and violent characteristics of Oplan Bayanihan and 81IB as an paid instrument of the foreigners and local people who are taking advantage.
We do everything in order to be held accountable for their lengwhile list of crime to the people.

We cannot expect justice and true prosperity in the magdadalawang-year of the Marcos regime of the US-Aquino in the Filipino people.
Develop and intensify the launch of different forms and way of having a fight towards a complete free, progressive, fair, and peaceful society.



