If it is going to get Recto Tarlac, that is not a whites'
Ha how how are you how to the barangay ah, it looks like he did not proceeds to his case, which is why he should still be able to jump out that he is going to be able to jump out with him.
According to him, there is no chance for him to be able to do
Yes, it might be the same time as well as possible.
Yes to know that the church in person should be the same thing, that's why you've become a disturbance of the people 'over and your buddy proceeds to be the one who is going to watch it out that's why you don't have that right?
Ha, that's why I was able to make it through the same time with him / her to still be able to do the same time.
What is that shouldn't not be the same thing, it is sorry when someone else is able to meet the same time with his wife, right away from her husband's reputation because of the story that is not called in the office then if they win the office, then if they win the office, then if they win.
Yes.
It's a doctor that's why it's because it's because it's so much that it's too much taken from him as I said you should evidence that you're going to be able to make it
Yes that's all over the councilor here that there should be a rumor that I should not now have four inalam yes, we have to be there.
Yes, there is a lot of things that are going to be done then just like that, it is so sorry that it is okay that
Oh all of us talk personally I have a lot to say that's about the sermon gano, yes we all personally talk to us.
Ha
What I know is that it is going to be the same time Sevilla puertes' ata!
Ha hello garalgal you all have to come when we talk yes to talk personally so that you can know a lot of things you know.
Ha why there are many more hidden that there are still many who should know about that zero zero.
Ha yes there are a lot of food that we talk about just over and I have to say something.
Two Nine Three one Three why when we were told to do that, yes, as much as there is a game basketball right away, we say we are going to talk about it later or okay as well as time so you can tell me you can send me a little bit of relief.
Yes yes, yes there's a lot of sleep that I say I'm saying.
Please, if you are free even if tomorrow afternoon, I do not go to ron buddy, she does not even have a lot of fun with me.
Yes he is still in my basketball story all over the 'yo.
Okay, okay, okay.
Or okay, "when there's a time when I might be able to go 'I'm going to be able to go to my night-atas so that I can know what to do with the Juan luthat's going to do it.
They are going to learn a lot, just that I am going to pre-up with the same time.
