The military dive in great training after declaring the war of President duterte against the bagong tao s army.
But the founding chairperson Joma Sison firm is firm.
The tito should continue to continue.
We get news from Jett arcellana.
He / she is going to have him.
It is not just a simple training that the story is doing the point of quezon in Compostela valley.
It is true that they were showered with a bullet part of their preparation in the fight especially since they have all the war against the one who is being calm in the meantime.
By our troops on our troops.
How na react sa ganitong senaryo on the set-enroll.
And then minabuti here in the training, even the soldiers in Mindanao are ready to complete their things from the butang uniforms and a new hero who is truly replaced with the sixteen labing limang dindesigned better than five dindesigned better.
Why why.
Newton is stronger than the boss a little bit better.
The receipt to fight the anti-RH yesterday attacked the two roads they were in the Talakag Bukidnon they allegedly burned the vehicles and construction around two hundred members of empe the other vehicle and using the construction company.
They also killed the resident, lito Alaruan and held Teodoro Natividad Natividad.
According to the introduced friend of empe bird Mindanao.
Alaruan is allegedly a bandits that is why the civilians are sentenced to death in the war happening now that he is always always alive.
Civilians are getting involved even more when they fear that they lose the food of the military of armed rebels their aim to make sure that the three members of the twenty-eight who were suspected to have had a deposit of two trucks in mining, including the three who were suspected to have a deposit of two trucks in mining, including the three who were suspected to have a deposit of two trucks in mining, including the three who were suspected to have a deposit of two trucks in mining, including the three who were suspected to have a deposit of the development pagkakataong Antonio cabarles and Marciano answer brought the three to the police provincial office in la Trinidad for the tactical interrogation conducting a candle lighting in Cagayan de Oro, a group of the youth, in order to call the peace talks with the government to continue the peace talks in Cagayan de Oro.
Meanwhile, the founding chairman Joma Sison maintains that the peace talks should continue to continue.
In his statement, he said that the third round of formal is successful.
And it is set to be the fourth conversation.
Sison's recommendation to the President directly tahin the pakikipagnegosasyon Americans and other groups of them.
She released a chair chair.
