It is a wound order that we will be able to join this friday Morning maysakit colonel Benjamin house kooperize of Filipino harvest and we will talk about the one hundred siyam Filipinos harvest anibersaryo that is going to happen para sa darating na darating na ito.
Marked money to a good good morning question How good morning Francisco is also a good design.
In our listeners good morning, thank you and your own graduation for this we can give emphasis to the upcoming that you are a road and nineteen anniversary of our armed strength because of the thing that we are noticeable in the cecelebrate that we are going to be the one hundred siyam anibersaryo in march bente two anibersaryo in march bente two anibersaryo in march twenty two anibersaryo in march bente two.
This will happen in Fort Bonifacio.
Taguig City and those who have the primary stangal visit our president.
Or we failed to show him all over anim years because he had a lot of giving up to the Philippines then he had a lot to see him.
What especially to us in a program that we need to show up not only to him as well as our countrymen so much as well.
We know that it is one of the things that the other ones who are going to have become the priority of our President aguino to modernization what is here in the ranks of our armed strength ah, if we can give us a little more of his own alcohol, until we called a cellphone the same time we have been using an effective bible study for a long time, we have been using an effective bible study for a long time ago or even if it was a statue noong nakaraang fifty anim na libo kayo para sa carving bible.
Busy maikli or maya-maya but I am a little stronger bread at sixty painful Filipino but seconds question is why he is using Esposo and has panukala in Europe in Europe.
It is really a buhawi or a world klase that you are not going to put up with another popular bee NOTHING, God bless him now that we are called armored personnel carrier.
Bravo nando, bente one hundred labing-apat na nanggagaling mula sa mga nagkakaisa na estado para sa dagdag na pag-anim na
He has a demon demon kontrobersyal system that means that this is what they are going to have.
It's legal to go to.
Sofitel.
You did not earn the heads of the people because he was able to control the inside of his grave brother-cut system.
Talking to the table to produce mahigit dalawang libo
Ordered a video clip of it.
The new ones who are going to be able to do it.
Yes a little different class has been approved to run for America in two of them.
Now, one hundred labing siyam na anibersaryo ng all of your theme this year and yes this means that we have a purpinauwi now that the Perpetual jackpot did not change that now.
There is a jackpot of approximately serving and mga mamamayan secure bring bring advantage of the Philippines, there is really the job of the Philippines, many singing ALWAYS if you will notice the number of our community activities dahil that is one that will be given to the security twenty-hundred really
She will buy it.
Three Persons para matiyak na ang sama ng ugali mo ay
According to now we are even focused on the panloob security.
BUT ang ating mga patakaran Soriano na naghahanda para sa mga panlabas na banta o
It is because it is not like that it is not like before that how I will know what to think of our ander now that we have called orbit cooler there is an answer of what you have to answer.
Added na ang mga kaibigan ko ang tawag sa akin ng answer that we have a vision that there are bente dalawampung bente.
Dalawampu't five bente down the phone view of what is the point of view.
There will still be our vision to be a world klase armida attacked national pride pride.
But we give that ambition to Three supervisor.
What is happening now that it is change for the sundot?
We are in that way of the pederasyon that is called change that can be allowed dalawang libong
It is possible that we will be able to attend the same time, then we will have the air defense capability to say something to enter our external
He / she is a tambay of sleep, we have to expect Armie because it is the world class that he also has to be able
Tatlumpu't a lot of helikopter those who are going to waste.
Fights sermon, what you can see is that world klase will really be prod of our countrymen.
Now that is how many are our members now in the Philippines serving the Philippines carmelite said that we have eighty limang libo isang araw Ara Ara Ara.
It is not yet position nationwide Subong series of all in the entire Philippines, everyone has the troops to say it is said.
Thirty limang libong all of them.
The graduation of the one who is trying to akademya, some of the things that were added to you or the same.
It is an event that you know that we all know that it will be a bit of a waste that is not only a boss, which is why it is possible that we are going to be able to attend the same time, which is why we were able to attend one of the tatlumpu't two thirty-two dating officials who were able to buy it in different units.
Like really pero bukod sa Pilipinas military akademya.
We also have other sources that we have called a officer kandidatong school turned to look like a senator.
So there is still other sources of bad trip that it is said that it is good to Three daang observers dito.
Kaya to those who are interested in the College graduate with the artist sure Which is interesado in the meantime.
It is a guest website too much of the requirements so what we first put on the Hay thirty plus grduate will be your message to them or the adviser in the Philippines Arvin you know that we belong to the illness of wow, they are asking for the illness of wow, they are asking for the illness of wow, they are asking for the illness of wow.
It is really different when the question is a new graduate, why do we have an insurgency sir, what should you have the advice of us to do with the same time when my ander, who is my cell phone with the next job.
She was able to forget her abdomen.
Yes to the city every time an outing or moral responsibility bagama't it is
To be time for a while.
Much more.
You just can't talk about it when it's just like that, he said that he was all combined with a stronger strong man.
So right to not be mistaken as Sudan before sa loob ng basics improvement together
That will buy because of gagawin na tama na ngayon ay idineklara na we would sell to the boy susunod na buwan in different unit of renabuo bisexual, she said that I would be able to go with them so much every time they need to be charged in order to be with him here.
So we have to ram in the back of the program the public officials we have called a police candidate.
Course sa regular na record we are going to kolehiyo graduate you are dalawampu't dalawang limang taong gulang na matanda.
Filipino citizen.
According to only apply the height is the only height requirement, lima.
Limang zero anim na apat na apat na apat na apat na apat na
In our past five apat na apat na apat na apat at the opisyal now we did limang zero now.
Your taas is limang paa.
You're going to be able to eat the same time.
Yun ang simbolo felt requirements sa ilalim ng submit bukas na
Mga opisyal ng mga opisyal na opisyal na si Maricel bistado na ang mga opisyal na si Maricel bistado na
It was the same time that he was going to be able to find out a lot of rain yes but the good news was known how much of the according to what they wanted to hear that and when you entered the training of officials tinatayang bente Nine libo at home pay you pay for your house.
When you became an official that woke up when it was squirming.
Yes there is the minimum that you can taste sponsor By thirty dalawang libong
In monitoring rocks, a new tourism is his natural resources housing.
It is a patag or the Karylle Karylle opportunity to travel nationwide bird international
So Many benepisyo and another best even more than the same time.
The opportunity is given to his service like I am not all given the opportunity to serve
Dalhin mo ang side of a different kind of edrich or a nuisance that is called how long they will pass training.
They are going to be back to busal to us especially if you graduate a kolehiyo one difficult time, a mess of trouble that we bought a year, a year far away from the family a year left, but it is a Think like that is a need to make it happen so that's why it is still a need to do so, that is why it is just a need to do what they want to enter from the family of what you want to enter from the family of what you want to enter. Maybe they will be able to come home with you and you will be able to call me anyway, but you also have to call your break but also like another job at When simulan mo ang trabaho.
It is really effective sports sports promise you will be promised.
But if you are able to go to God with someone who is able to walk with you, she will go directly to the interview.
The normal delivery van of a person.
We are also looking at the same time, we are also looking for a cheap soldier who is going to buy teh
A bigger initior part of being asked for an official of the Philippines is better.
He has to be after I am able to stomach his lips so it turns out that he can do it.
It is said that it is the same time that it is the same thing that we are working on right now that is why it turns out that it is the same time that it is the same time for
With his very big or needs of the public Filipino beef dahil ang ating mabilis na paglaki ng isang bansa at matinding pag-eehersisyo ay
That is going to be.
The music you are going to give a producer lima is that we have impostora.
The internal center of temptation which is the same time for temptation.
We are ready to offer you know the number of the soldier because it depends on our congress what we can only do if they are actually going to be able to make it happen if they are able to make it happen, which is why they have to fill our country.
It is like that it is a good life that we just brushed it off because we are happy to know the big event in what is happening here what our police are not doing is that we can save all of our Filipinos. We have Malou matrikula right now that it is ALWAYS, which is going to be a paanan ng okay bago tuluyang Miyerkules na right hand is the message in relation to our upcoming anniversary in relation to our upcoming anniversary.
To our fellowmen nationwide that are listening to our national team now.
Liza Ano
Journalism in debriefing our anibersaryo in march bente dalawa.
Fifty television is already blind in the petiburography of course, please do not if he will be invited to me ha matangos.
Juan will be extremely eight eight.
Martin right away nagsisilbi sa mga taong umaaligid sa galante na galante.
Magkakaroon ng ALWAYS na sila ay ALWAYS sa inyo.
It was the same time when it was possible that By ngayong taon would like to end up after we have to ensure and problema like before in front of overfishing, the We Can Only do is strengthened that we will be able to fulfill it because of the bibitayan I am going to be there at the restaurant of basurahan.
Friends of the sister as a result of our armed strength watched that we have already watched How.
It's a good morning vote.
