Yes to support.
When.
Principal action sports at my start boy at the right time.
There is going to be a victory of it.
Money to buy obvious operator pick up on the other side of the phone is the one that I will have made no other if it is a Biscocho mayor Austria good afternoon to you if it is a good afternoon.
On the cross.
Our action sports as this week no one else but kocha Leo Austria.
It's a good afternoon in the 'yo quotes.
Ah, a good afternoon in the 'yo abroad wondered with bestfriend zipper after that, after that.
Hugasin is going to be washed.
Oh the game is very good there in the meantime.
Game Sspite of those who were able to attend the same time, Philippines four more of those who decide to play the game in the huling Three pangungusap pangungusap.
We really have to be in me indeed.
To be the chair chair.
It is not useful to really happen during the law maybe you feel more terrible noong panahong iyon.
So thank you very much for you, you know the visit here here are vacant more scared because it is exciting that we don't know who will win because ha ha often title to the ones who can really win the events because I know that we are just going to be able to win the events because I just know that we will not be able to believe the events because I just know that we will not be able to believe the events because I just know that we will not be able to believe the events because we just want to
Labing-apat ng biglaan.
They suddenly catch up and they are still different than anim points at huling isang minuto tatlumpung segundo.
Para bumaba By anim na puntos there we are going to go after he is there.
There was a decision of what last two sinimulan really, who can be the only one who can be mistaken as well as possible.
It was said that Pinggoy pengson carjack right?
That one of the project.
But here I really do this because it is here.
The length of what kind of conference will be the same thing.
Or up to it.
What's in there is sir for it to be there.
Much for the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime.
We have been suffering like you are my favorite here in the meantime.
This fight did not come up with seven games what was going on.
I have a xmpre decide that you said last dalawang segundo, we will meet me that we have to want us over and mundo at the same time.
Eighty seventy walong walang time that is a rock because of the passage of tulan.
Or yet to be able to do it.
Jaybee case is that right to go along with his presence.
And then there was really a lot of things.
There, the game has to decide and what you have got your Filipino tasa title after Many taon low-batt is going to comply with the decision apat championship as I am going to follow the decision.
So you are right there that this is the very first championship I have because of this is also the unafirst thing that I will be able to finish up with san Miguel wagas here in the happy die, bagaman when the four freebies continents in there is when I am grateful for the voices of Lea that I am not there because I am grateful for them to come back because of the confidence and trust of our boss ah after I am grateful for them to come back to my boss. It would be the same time for the same time if we would get back to that game really what we can really say because of the one who can't expect a lot to reach him before but I was the start when I was the beginning of the last one.
During the game, Alaska is also done until the semi finals finals.
I know that it was a tease of what was going to be a partisan contender here with the pereline because you can see it because you can see it.
How can they play really for me to be able to make it happen to me.
The most condition team here in the pipi that you will see the preseason immediately proved that until it comes to the finals you will immediately see what happened in Alaska, especially the unit of the team! Someone who helped us with the height is because that has to help us because
It is the Philippines theme during the time that that is really going to them by the implementation driving driving.
In the prayers of the Apples bang grant so that the character has helped a big deal here that the character has a different player who is also red and June mar.
It's all because they know that it's going to be.
In between negligent, there is no longer going on the same time that we have worked hard to expect many but they are still there and fight back and fight back.
Also also.
Prove that they are able to feel that they are going to be able to
It turns out that this is the Kamara so they are happy because it is all good victory of the championship of the championship.
Dencio mayro, I am just going to ask you to do something else?
Populasyon.
It was the same time he was able to attend the same time with the same time of course of course, of course I said that I won't be so confused by the friends game but it is still a time when we met a little bit of our team here as she is coming to the big lead after not a big lead to the big lead after not.
Which is after Cordon, you have to check on the game Sman.
In ANY case so it is up to it.
First, let us forget rizal is the chubby that we are going to discuss with our conscious cap but it seems like the user chance to return to the prisoners Uy even if we are still choppy, even if we are choppy, even if we are choppy, even if we are choppy, even if we are choppy, even if we are choppy, even if we are
You know this series where it is also a huge experience and a very big thing for us even if you smoke pre there in these events because I am always telling them to go through with them.
Before the dios who has the team Given and that is leading By as much as twenty apat bente bente twenty
Ha
So I told them ha as long as you are not listening to the final buzzer, the game is not yet done and I always tell them to the possible anytime because there are a lot of that kind of events in the championship game language that we are at the same time with the game, then that's where we're going to be there for the game, then they're going to be there for a while before they are allowed to be there. It was the same time when it was a lower tourist spot here right away, right spare Alaska because we know that they will sweep it as a classmate because it is still taking place.
You will be dispersal of the coaching staff.
Us for us to be able to do with us.
It was the same time when he was going to win, someone was able to pass there anyway.
BUT i will not also be able to do it.
It is negligent because we know that it is going to be.
Ha
When you are saying that fifteen, we are both in the same time when we are supposed to be able to make it, we can't seem to be mistaken for each other, we are not mistaken for each other.
Anton Anton.
That was seen what kind of taste reluctant to defended someone else to steal as long as they still have a score with someone who gave us a championship because it was also there.
Since I started here in san Miguel, according to me and I was given to the one who would be able to do the same time with premium our defense because I know that you have a good defense.
You will have a good offer to it.
DO so it appears to be coh in the old Alaska of the six of the six.
What do you have to worry about Ro, yes, it seems to think that this is just what happened before it happened before.
Maybe that might be the one day to enter my mind but as I need to not show up what is going to be done with the same time when the fear and fear of this event because I am my child in some lider in the team as I panic over and that's seven next 'that's seven next' that's where I am going to panic.
Just notice that our friends are just quiet as well as those around me there are those who are telling me like that no one will be caught but Remate thorough to see me by isang minuto thirty.
Nadine's tuba.
Or I will get involved.
It was very long before the one thing to awat not position was fulfilled there is a sariwa ngayong araw.
It is necessary to respect for the desire I know that they are tired because it is a operation because there is a pity that there is a lot of asking for the same time, why do they not know what kind of style they have touched, then last dalawang minuto nang awan or isang minuto luck to us.
You will see that when he is chased by Abueva, Abueva sinundot his strength as he gets on his strength of the strength of the strength of the strength of his strength.
Not prepare.
First klase will immediately see you there is still a lot of what his energy is still there.
Corp fall down.
Pola was still running after that, I really wanted to be the same, "I tell them these players in the frame she will be waiting for ages because it is still a lot of practice and Three oras.
According to yes but there is still a condition that our players are really going to say yes I am just chased by what I have to let go of because of the three in the last leftovers.
What kind of month I know is that the same time I will be able to eat the same time with the same time, but I am saying that I will be able to win the same time.
But I am confident it was the night that I was going to be able
That will be given to us because you are really going to work hard to find it because it is also a matter of time when it seems like there is a bit of a interbenversion of it.
It's really for us because we contact labing siyam dalawampung at the ubusin THING so i can Think karapat-dapat bagama't they are also a karapat-dapat person to talk to there but if I look at it, the beauty of Alaska has been thinking that this is how many people should put them in favor of winning the championship anintense one in the team and we are always saying that they are going to win the championship anintense one of the team and we are always saying that they are going to win the championship. It was a person who was very strong this very strong yes that didn't happen because it didn't happen because it didn't happen because it
So that is why?
It's up to game Sman so even if you are strong
DO, why is it possible that the player of the player smiled at the house of the karbon.
Yes, yes.
Yes it is the right dota one game up to you to offer how I can't remember if it is a demon nol ha ha.
Ayon naman kay HIM this month what kind of time did you get without a winner in the game one of the others who seemed to give you a review Obama WAS to mangyayari sa susunod na yes I am in the province I am at the province.
Lahat ay patas na laro ang isa "that we are of the new language about us
Kaya the position of what happened is that the position of the team of the team is going to take advantage of the determination of the team, even if they are telling them, We can matibay ness gym Atis sa iba pang laban na tourist spot which is going to be a
There is there to be there.
They really woke up over and isa sa kanila to ah really smell alcohol over a date we would be able to hit because this is a little bit big but here is a little bit of time when he will be able to take a while, daddy is going to have a chance to adjust to the serye ah when you have a chance to adjust to the serye!
Pero bakit sa tuwing may adjustment ang we are doing something bagama't ang mga kaibigan ay nananatiling magkaibigan.
What I am of course because of your gihiestratehiya banquet.
You will really see it.
Different things when it comes to sometimes changing status quo, he is not changing a taste changing the point guard so he has their own strategy.
I am happy because the same time with the same time we are going to be here in kissing there.
We were raped as well as we would know what we should learn about each other Which ay isang mahalagang room mula
You are busy today.
Bawat gawi sa araw-araw na pag-asa na We na sana ni We ang pag-aaral ng ating Barbie ay limang buwan na ang what "if you think of this to us at your job.
It's really Model you learn but it's going to be a lot of
It was good that there was a lot of Xavier, which is the same time with the same time with the same time when he was being questioned by the pagdiriwang and looks like there was a plan that I had a celebration before yesterday.
After the championship so we had dinner here in the shangrila ha there was a lot to go there, it was a squeeze family and then it was the bag eveready maybe the really ha ha.
Every Victory party we are able to attend is Picasso minsan nila the new one here in your company even if it is a payatot then it will be a Victory party Atienza Huwebes mar seems to know what the program is supposed to be in the ground but we will still be able to know what the program is in the land but we will be able to find out what it is in japan because we will be able to find it out of the japan because we will be able to find out about it in japan
We were surprised because the former friendship of there is competing with the championship that you are going to see and bente libong oo of course because we can really miss the Filipinos, they should really be basketball at the right time, which is why they can still go through the right time with the championship.
