Uy, thank you how you are allowed to be because we have not learned a little bit for a long time here I have not learned anything for a long time.
There are also a lot of changes happening here in the Philippines I have been otorete while we continue to launched the programs of prosperity here in the meantime.
Yes it is just one of the Philippines well first maybe I am going to look at it as well as I know that it is going to continue like what you have mentioned is carrying our money door, which is why our country is going to be able to give it to our country.
It is the same time that we are diligent, which is going to be implemented by the same time as well as the last year, because it is a little wandering pagpapatupad of the program.
It was because there was a exchange of the gift of the gift of gifts but now it's almost two years target.
To be able to implement it.
Para sa mga Three daang libo.
It was made to be ranting program, it was also a huge cut off but we will be able to implement all over the country that is to ease the same time with my affair with my father.
Some da, even if Glenda gets lo and Glenda.
And then that is what we are as if they are going to be able to attend the same time, if it is your brother, if it is the same time for them to be in Indonesia for as long as it is more prepared for the job of our Philippines if they are having a chance of cooperation and concern for the dangerous design and concern for the dangerous design of the dangerous design.
Meanwhile, the same time for the interest of growth of interest of the interest of our citizens will continue.
Maybe because the incentives might also be planted but it is also possible that there are a lot of things that also took place in order to buy the ibenta.
Plant coconut in their vacant land ha ha.
Ha more what you want is in the intelligence system.
They themselves will plant more than we give them to them.
It's a crops that they can put in their plantasyon.
What would I say during the incentives, we are giving the Coconut magsasaka in planting their own coconut in their backyard in their backyard.
Manila Manila, Manila, Manila.
It was the same time for the two young women I was able to get
Ha, this is a huge creature one foot that we have already done one four so that it is easier to be able to go through this because it is going to be a long time.
It is not going to wait for a long time ago that I will only be able to attend a long time.
To be able to pay for it.
Ah so when there is a limit of one paa so it is said that a scope of the five months of five months.
We can again pay 40 pesos in every per per per
It's full to tell that it's the same thing.
Not bababa sa isang taon ay they will get an hour apat na libo in a hectares that is already going to be.
Profit positive and many more interested in hilaga
Why do you in Cagayan to Ilocos.
In Pampanga that is not previously rating Coconut grove area, we have a program that is planting one million Coconut tree.
He also grew to love someone to spare money to go into him about the communication there with me with the wife ordonio yes, the grandmother said that it was because they had to be there for a while before there was a lot of coconuts in the region free now, but it seems that they are very healthy with the cooperation of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy of the advocacy sister ate at the 'yo ha, "sister, is a sister,
I don't know and will take care of it before I have to plant the cacao Coconut.
Yes, we really see the makakamit paglago of Coconut industry in Pampanga is very good.
Because it is better to LOLZ say because it is closer to Recto Manila yes yes yes.
But Shaina before said when you were able to get back to the part of Pampanga, you think it would be the same time that there was a tree when there was no coconut tree during the first few parts, we tasted that because it was the hormones of the delicious Coconut juice of the delicious Coconut juice of the delicious Coconut juice of the delicious Coconut juice.
It is a mystery noticed that is why I am indeed surprised then there is no one that I am going to have.
Yes there is one of the most delicious Coconut juice that we have tasted with a little bit of the Pampanga so we can see and also see no one really is there.
Why we do not here in the picture we are in Pampanga.
It is the same time when it is possible that it is possible that there is only one person who can pay for it not only in Pampanga but it is also possible that it will be known if it will be known by the region region Three that if ever in case
Ah, they are not damot as a colony and he said ah, he said that he will always be a target to fall here in the favorite city to limang more of Tarlac is on his way home with the postal area but what is good here is that they really spread the construction of the construction of the building.
Philippines Philippines, it was the Philippines.
To be in love with it.
