So when the father of Dina passed away as the eldest mother and father of their family in a week, you only go to school three days only three days three days to go here why do we have to do something that you will do that will make you think that will make you do something else.
Also the main livelihood of the mango
The tree in the remote and dark part of the forest is often greedy in the water.
Single one to be able to do one.
Which just finished the devastation of typhoon Lando in Mindoro if they only got a little bit to bend.
Residents are aware of the class as there is the biggest need during that day.
So they helped the young woman filled with her boat.
When we passed out of the forest, the class of teacher said, but Dina did not look back and continued to read reading.
Landed in a slump.
It was very good when we started to start using asan.
Rocks are hot in the feet but Dina did not mind it more hot to call the need of the need of the need of the need of the need.
You will be able to go through the stones.
We have only reduced for the five months in the old Hebreo and this is due to the water charge of the water of the water.
Your pocket put it here you still have you.
It's the same time.
No matter how strong no matter how heavy it is not to stop the walking walking.
Sometimes she did not complain and just became silent that it was carried away by the trails of the trails.
This is the times when you want to complain because the weight of you brought over is the length of it but when you see the rich as well as I think that they do not have a right to complain about it because they still get to smile in the middle of difficulties and they still have to smile in the middle of the difficulty and they still have to smile in the middle of the difficulty and they
Still happy.
We will be able to help you.
To be ready for.
Long ago, it was to be a good thing to do.
After two hours we have to go to the kamalig where the products are buying those of those that are the only ones.
Carefully counted every piece of banana, Dina
It is possible that it is possible for a hundred hundred pesos to varsity limang pesos to the tiger that he has grown up with is one of those who are tired of this in the meantime.
World to the world.
But in the end one daang 40 pesos is his earnings.
What will you give that to the one hundred 40 pesos you will be able to do with it.
Just a lot of things to do with the other day.
It's medicine and then it's a cure.
By the next painter that you said rice earlier when we first give help all one another.
One daang 40 pesos for two hours of returning to the mountain, there is a few tablet which is why they can buy a small sum of money.
No matter how big he has earned that the young woman is full of hope.
She was happy to have walked more than an hour going to the nearest pharmacy.
But when we reached the bilihan of medicine, it would only be the two of them who would be able to do it.
Ha
There were only two pieces of antibiotic that Tina bought from his money, his mother, whom he always said that he would not tell me ginang to buy a cure for the country, if I am buying you in the town, then they are always given to Dina and banana food that we are doing once again. He was helping us with Madam Kristel, whom he cooked for rice, then he / she cooked for his rice, then wash his teeth, then he gives rice sardines just so that if he will also come home from their door, if he will also come home from their door.
For teachers who care about the classroom of the call of duty to the classroom.
Just a lot of things to do with the other day.
Recently, the department of Education was told to have been told that his sacrifice in the stomach labo is already done.
His position is erected and he can teach in the mind to the better and better school that he can leave the man that we are the operator of the principal of the country district inomoney that we are going to be able to go down to the villa elementary school, which is why we are really there in the reality of life that you are getting older and the layu of the life that you are getting in the reality of life. Taking a distance distance walks away from your walks distance.
But teacher says the new offer was not accepted and he chose to stay in the remote Sityo of his bad before when you were assigned to public school teacher, you are thinking about the salary for his own oo mommy but now you are given a mass Comm. I also have left responsibility with Minda as well as I have left responsibility for them if I will be left behind after sampung taon who loves because I have to be left with the children now what I taught them to learn from me from me.
It is said that teacher is not a doctor who is not a bilyonaryo or powerful leader of the government but has the power of his inspiration.
