CAFGU overturned, Oplan Bayanihan failed!

You are Dencio Madrigal April 20, 2012 an additional proof of the failure of Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos administration in the province of Sarangani, the reversed of a snacks of CAFGU nakabinbin Nongpanginoon in the NPA, guerilla Front 71 last March 16, 2012.
Nongpanginoon is assigned to the detachment of Sitio Salimama, Brgy.
Datal Anggas, Alabel, Saranggani Province before it was reversed.
A big slap in 73rd IB and 1002nd Bde, PA is the baliktad of Nongpanginoon because it is the opposite of the used that they have been selling the NPA in Saranggani Province.
The baliktad of Nongpanginoon is proof that the influence of the revolutionary movement is getting stronger and it will flow until inside the ranks of CAFGU and enlisted personnel of the AFP in the province.

Nongpanginoon, who became an assistant team leader and four years of CAFGU under 72nd Cadre Batallon of the 10th ID, PA, was reversed in the NPA carrying his issue with the rotten rifle and bullets at the reason that he could not resist the rottenness, corruption, harassment and domination that exists inside their detachment.
Their official is being accused of P700 / buwan / people that they budget for food, which is why they almost have nothing to eat inside their detachment.
They cannot express complaints because they are threatened to remove from the service 'and sometimes they will be under the body contact.
In addition to this, their monthly salary P2,790 is dragged by the monthly medical fee of P20, kooperatiba fee of 1002nd Bde 50 pesos, budget for food P700 and various are based on the food that they receive every month.
The person in their camp is also existing inside their camp of their detachment kumander.
The wife of their fellow CAFGU have been raped for several times.

This kind of routine exists not only in the detachment of CAFGU which includes Nongpanginoon but in the entire organization and institution of the AFP because it is naturally rotten, corrupt, corrupt, corrupt, corrupt and fierce as he wants to be accustomed to the state of those who are asking for kind of big buritions.

Nongpanginoon also stated that he did not see the said peace, prosperity and respect for human rights of Oplan Bayanihan inside their ranks and the same in the community that the development outreach program implemented by 73rd IB and 1002nd Bde in the province of Sarangani.
It is not true peace that the troops of the AFP but violence, threaten, deception and domination of the farmers and indigenous people.

Nongpanginoon chose to be reversed in the NPA and not just a simple humimto or leave his service because the call and programs of the revolutionary movement for their snacks and military were reached.
He believed that his desires democracy, true prosperity, respect and acknowledging his human rights will be experienced if he is inside the revolutionary movement.

But nonetheless, he was not accepted to be a regular membro of the NPA because of the murder case of a former councilor of Barangay.
Datal Anggas, Alabel last March 15, 2012.
This case continues to be investigated by the NPA, guerilla Front 71.

Pending Nongpanginoon now is the inhumane pets of the NPA based on the principle and laws of digma that are in the protocol 1 of Geneva Convention, CARHIHL and the three important point of the disiplinang steel of NPA particularly in the inhumane treatment of the NPA, particularly in the inhumane treatment of the enemies that were captured, surrender and overturned in the NPA.
As well, it is in the process that sort of giving him a livelihood and associated with the support of the subsidyo -- free land that will be charged based on the program of the revolutionary government regarding the true reform on the ground.



