Domination and fighting against the Bikol.

They introduced themselves, soldiers, as servants of the government: The katuwang of the Department of agriculture in taking sensus in Brgy.
Sinungtan, Guinobatan, Albay.
They said they wanted to know who the poorest family was in the area.
But their movie sensus, according to the pledged statement of civilians residents in the area, is who supported the rebels.
They are saying that whoever is the most poor in the area, they are also supporting the rebels, but even the rebel New People's Army (NPA) themselves.

"They used based on the barangay hall," Fernando Paloyo said, farmer from Brgy.
Sinungtan.
July 22, this was 2011.
Next day, the military started to make the "poor residents."
When Fernando's time, to report to the military, he didn't stand up and went immediately in the barangay hall.
But here, it seems that he was subjected to an interinterrogation.
Fernando enters, a soldier dropped the door and he was seated.
The entrance to him, he says he will admit he is NPA, and he is the day the "Ka Pando."
This strongly denied, of course, Fernando.
Despite this, the military forced him to touch a placard that has written "Ka Pando" and "MGB".
Like a prisoner, like a criminal, he took a photo of the picture.
After that, he was asked to sign and are being given up by thumbprint in a blangmy role - for "his name is clean."
Until the article of this article, the military still remains in the area of Fernando.
According to the farmers in different places in Kabikrain, it is widespread and the tickled ization of their places is getting stronger.
The farmers have no other way to express their resistance to the presence of the military in the community but protest.
A voice Noong February 25, on the 27 anniversary of the fight in EDSA, rally thousands of farmers and members of militant groups in Bikol.
Together, in four provinces, they were shocked towards the sentered town to express: They are not going to build the umang guns.
They realize their rights, and they insist on it despite the shouting, in front of the threat.
In Guinobatan, Albay, the protestors reached 1,500 farmers and militants.
In Sorsogon, it reached 3,000.
In Bula, Camarines Sur, 350.
And in Daet, Camarines Norte, 300.
They are being presented to the civilians of 20 municipality of the region that will be visited under the terror of the Community Peace at Development teams of the military.
Included in the protestors are members and leaders of Karapatan-Bikol, Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, Kilusan of the citizens Laban in the tickled arization in Kabikrain, and others.

Vince Casilihan of Karapatan-Bikol said, they recorded 37 civilians - many of them are activists - who were murdered since President Aquino sat in his position.
In these cases, the suspect was all different elements of the military.
This is aside from the wide increase of different units of the Philippine Army in the civilian community.
Fear is surrounding many communities in the provinces of Albay, Sorsogon, Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte.
"Many of us, cannot be able to go then, leave their fields and houses because of fear," Felix Paz, leader of Kilusang Magbubukid of the Philippines in Bikol.
It is a tragic memory except for the anniversary of the fight EDSA - that the Marcos has already stepped on the Marcos dictatorship, although the militants remained in the first year anniversary of the massacre family Mancera in Sitio Mapatong in Sitio Mapatong, Purok 6, Brgy.
Free, Labo, Camarines Norte.
February 24 when fired at the house of the family Mancera by the suspected members of the 49th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army that they were chasing gerilya of New People's Army.
Benjamin Mancera was killed in beheading, as well as his siblings Richard and Michael.
"Kasuklam - justice has not been achieved by justice (for the family Mancera) because of the kultura of impunity surrounding the country, especially in relation to the cases of violation of human rights," Maricel Delen, coordinator of Karapatan-Camarines Norte.
Until present, Delen said, the citizens of Barangay are still wrapped in tero.
Free.
It seems like the camp of the soldiers members of the "Peace at Development teams" of the 49th IB of the barangay hall of said barangay.
The troops of Charlie Company are part of staying in Malaya and nearby barangay Pag-asa.
"The ander of this, 2nd Lieutenant Dominic Olayvar, is responsible for the illegal realization in the offices of Karapatan-Camarines Norte and Kilusang Magbubukiod of the Philippines last November 22, 2010," said Delen.
Despite this, and with the help of the organizations and people who are united for the hopes of justice and fighting against the tickled ization, Benjamin's wife Leonone Mancera to be held accountable for the maysala.
Leonone showed, and by the farmers protested including Fernando, that instead of being afraid, they will strive to unite the rights and justice.
They learn to tackle the voice, to fight.



