Monday, June 18, 2012, 2012.

Philippines Kong dear one tribute to our beloved country.
The land we came from and continue to offer the blessings and blessings, regardless, any of them, saanman, and will have to go.
He is not choosing any of them.
All of us are IsangFilipinos, in essence, in the heart, in the soul, and in deed.
Any present or gift of our gift, even if it is the heat of love, bukal in a heart help, absolutely compassion, haplit of understanding, and even things or material that will be given to each other, we can never touch.
Let us try to tighten handling, take care of or hide, this will be lost for us.
The present is missing the importance; and its power is no one's strength.

Pay attention to it, it pulled out and fill a hand of sand, when you tried to stop throwing it through when your fist fell, more between the fingers are falling.
Just present and let the palm be displayed and the fingers are able to stick, the fall of the sand will be stopped.

This is also our pair in life; when you are greedy and strict for fair compromise, especially you will lose.
If you are diligent or greedy, you will avoid and forsake you.
You are lazy and always depend on others, you will not be quiet and peaceful ever.

Like gifts, this is not hiding and let it be uma at the time.

They use them as appreciation for the giver and being able to give back to others.
And continue to give back again to others without stop.
And with a lot of people who are given this will return more than what is meant to us.

Anything that was given to us, is that it is not our property.

This is just to borrow similar to our borrowed life.
Everyone will be short and there is an scheduled end.

A big sin is not to use your talent and hidden traits.
It was given to you to use your character in doing good for everyone.
The true happiness that we desire is in service.

We take advantage of the opportunity of the role to value this gift that was given to us.
We patronize, arugain, and cultivate it to serve others.
Our country is a gift to us, and no one else like it.

No one will be happy than to love our own, from 7,107, who hang out pulo and those who are motivated by nature are just intentional to be nice.
It is being celebrated and we have touched it all the people, and wherever side of the world.

We accept that we are truly lucky in having a country Philippines.
Our land home and look at it again return to get back without interruption and pagmamaliw.

You, AKO, we all are able to gather the gift that this is given to us,

As the real Filipinos.



