Miyerkules, August 07, 2013.

To be a Filipino Filipino.

Don't let your wounds be replaced by a character that you are not.

There will be grief in life, and there are defeat.
Whomever can't be avoided by them.
However, it is more preferable to be defeated in some fight of struggle for your dreams, than to jump without any knowledge on what you are fighting for.

In order to believe your own path, there is no need to prove that the options of others are wrong.

There is no thing here in the world that has been achieved without reason: Each other needs to be studied thoroughly and pursue.
The person who has the knowledge of knowledge needs to be such a soldier who is going to the war: Talkative matining, without fear, pure loyalty and full trust in yourself.

If he will follow the tagubiling without a doubt, there will be defeat that he will experience but he will never ask for his fate.
Moreover, he is free to pursue that there is hope to be seen.
This is the bravery of the real Filipino.

The difference between the Tfirst, Filipino in the common Filipinos.

His present is extraordinary: The real Filipino knows how to wait, because he talos what he is waiting for.
While he was waiting, he didn't expect anything, in this situation, regardless of his accept - even if it was just most of a blessing - it was a blessing.
Usually Filipinos are paralyzed about love for others, or love for others.
The real Filipino knows what he wants - this is all in his life and where he is focusing all of his strength.

The common Filipino is a waste of present in performing as a win or lose, and it is appropriate for the result if he will be from the prosecutor or victim.
Many of them directly learned that the lack of hope.

The real Filipino, on the other hand, is just remembering about his actions, which is where he is sent to his goal that he is patiently being taught for himself.
He is not giving up or following the advice of others, but his own commitment.

With the real Filipino intentions are exposed: This is not a mind, one thing, or one in.
This creates a person to succeed in his goals and raising him from where he is located even if he is often madapa.
It is trying to be recovering and it is getting stronger to face any challenge that is being compared to what he is going through.
The intent is the wake up and gives him the direction to continue.

This is always the last fight: The isipiration of the real Filipino is not a plea and mapanisi in anything or events, because he was not born to win or fail.
He was born to protest, and in each fight he was late to finish here in the world.
If each of our true Filipinos will always leave his free ispiration, and if he offer his bravery to fight, his intentions are hayagan, smiles and addicted to himself.

In common Filipinos, the intention is hidden: There is always doubt, uncertainty and changing.

Often than not to finish anything you have started.
Hoping and there is always waiting for someone to help with his worries.
The attention will focus more on those without senseless, and vigilant in what others are doing.

Don't care about the events: While with porridge and piece of roof, taking care of it will continue.
Even if it is exposed and institutions that corruption and corruption in the funds of the country in all levels of society, remains UMID remains, the eyes are blind, and deaf to the grievance that rules the people.
A direct sleep, sleeping, and pretending to sleep.

Are you among the real Filipinos or common Filipinos?



