
Be careful of the food of brownies and cakes - PDEA.

The warning of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency against the cakes and brownies in the street are very worrisome today, particularly outside public schools not only in Metro Manila but in the whole country.
PDEA Director General Undersecretary Jose Gutierrez himself, Jr. warned the public to avoid buying the homemade cake and brownie being sold on the street, even in accepting gifts cakes and brownies from the unknown people.
Gutierrez admits that these kinds of food are cheap if outside will buy but you are not sure what has been placed ingredients in it.
The warning was done by PDEA after positive mixed with marijuana was eaten by the 17 employees of the Provincial Hospital of San Marcelino, Zambales.
According to PDEA, last week, a nurse received three boxes of the gift that contains a brownies as a gift to his birthday and said brownies said to be said by 17 employees of said hospital.
After eating, the health workers felt dizziness and hurting the body if they were immediately given the initial aid.
They immediately put a lot of brownies and when the result came out, it was found out that there was a positive that there was a positive leaf of marijuana as one of the ingredients in making a brownies.
PDEA is very alarmed here if they immediately issued a warning to the public to avoid that kind of incident.
According to PDEA-PIO Chief Director Derrick Carreon, whichever kind of food will be fed by this kind of food that has a ingredients of pinatuyong marijuana or dressing marijuana, it is possible to be addicted to marijuana.
The marijuana is said to be the one who wants to serve the drug station, and the whichever tasted or used to use it is possible to find a stronger kind of drugs.
Gutierrez is mixed with his personnel to determine who is responsible for it and where the factory of the said food is.
This warning of PDEA should not break especially the parents who have students in public schools where they are widespread selling food outside.



