
That the Disiplina is about to be the one.

Posted By penpowersong.

DISIPLINA Ni Apolinario Villalobos.

If there is no discipline in a home, the foundation of morality of children growing up is weaken, so they are losing respect for each other and very much to the parents.
The lack of this is the reason for the failure of parents to implement rules that should have guide the children growing up.
If the parents missed something, their children are also losing respect for the time, money and trying to refuse to acknowledge things that they need so that they can grow normal.
In the houses without discipline, allowing the children what they want... so because they want to, for example, the hotdog, hamburger and chicherya, the parents are very giving up because they love their children that they want to disobey.
If the children get sick or can't grow sickly, the other parents are funny, because of their wonder, and the blame the blame is dirty water and wind!

No matter how much progress is a country if most of the citizens have no discipline, prosperity is losing meaning.
The lack of discipline becomes a barrier to the development of other countries.
Under democracy, lack of discipline is the reason why people are having lamangan and greed.
Planted in their minds that the implementation of discipline is repression to their freedom so they are driving the rally to show their resistance to the laws related to it.
The judiciary is also not helpful that it is considered by the authorities in explanation of the laws because of their nonstop issue of Temporary restraining Order (TRO) because it is according to the Saligang Batas and democracy.... but it is serving as a hole which is being abused by the corrupt so it is being abused.

The country Singapore has succeeded in having a really true prosperity because of the abusive discipline.
At the start, the citizens reacted but eventually they understood the good purpose, especially since using as if it was a iron fist leading them.
The citizens of other countries are jealous of the prosperity of Singapore.... as long as it is just jealousy.
Not thinking or do not want to accept those who are jealous that the associated with the development of Singapore is discipline that these are envious of these jealous of being implemented in their country like the Philippines because it is repression to their freedom!

Inside a jeepney, a woman was excited talking about her tour in Singapore.
The other palhing of sandwich from his mouth is still relieved while talking about him because he's going along with food.
The clean DAW of the streets in Singapore, that is the only time the hotel is expensive.
When he ran out of the sandwich and content of the bottle of mineral tubig, he threw the wrapped of sandwich and basyong plastic outside of the jeep while he was running along Taft Avenue!
When he was accosted by his friend, his answer,... "doesn't matter, someone is cleaning the road!"
Now, who can't be cheap because of that attitude?



