Health FRONTIERS: Didn't come why it was two months delayed "my mens?
I'm going to be able to test it but it's negatibo.
Posible that's why my pregnancy test is wrong?
The siklo al siklo of every woman is different.
Menstruation can start every 21 or 35 days and it can last for two to seven days.
For the first year of the start of menstruation, it is natural for a long siklo.
While the woman is getting older, the siklo al siklo shortens and it becomes regular.
It is called "regular" menstruation when it is the same length of this every month.
But it is natural that this is going to change once again.
Yating period has a light o mabigat, painful or not, long or short but it is still normal.
When the mens are irregular, there are many reasons.
When menstruation is stopped, it is natural that you will think that you are pregnant, especially if you are sexually albums.
It is easy to see in the pagbubuntis test.
But the home pagbubuntis tests can be bought from the pharmacy can be mistaken depending on your use.
A maling positive (saying that you are pregnant even if not) can happen if you have to test after taking a mataba drug with human chorionic gonadotropin, you have ovarian cyst or ectopic pagbubuntis.
A maling negatibo (who says you are not pregnant even if you are pregnant) is possible when the time of taking a test or diluted your urine is wrong.
For sure, do it in the morning or in the first week after you missed a period.
Sundin ang pag-iingat na tagubilin upang maiwasan ang mga maling inaasahan.
Repeat this after a few days.
Better pa rin, magpa-blood test o magkaroon ng pelvic exam.
Ikumpirma ni This ang Whether ka man ay buntis o hindi.
If you are not really pregnant, the delayed or missed period might result of eating disuutos, it is too low of weight or too much to exercise.
The other reason for the missed panahon is that it is known to be identified cystic onagdadalang-kita - a hormonal disorder which is the reason for the pagtubo of small butlig in the obarrio.
This can also happen to women who have premature ovarian Failure.
Nagkulang din ang panahon na si By endometriosis kung saan ang tissue na nasa loob ng uterus ay lalong lumalaki sa labas.
One of the symptoms of it is the Squal buwanang al sakit.
Another posibleng pagmulan ng mga irregular panahon ang pelvic inflammatory disease - infection ng reproductive organs.
Meanwhile, the removal froids - non-cancerous disseminths in the matrona, is causing a mabigat na pagsisikap and pagdurugo pagitan ng panahon.
Drinking control pills can help you have a regular menstruation.
But do not do this if you think you are pregnant.
Consult the doctor to examine you and know the real reason for your problem.



