Home from the country, other than table there are again on the dalawampu't 16 Rio Paralympic pupusta video or not that they are sometimes the story of hard work and a song that he has been an inspiration to the fight vacation elementary elementary elementary.
The police was full of gratitude for the severity yes gold ginto often, Josephine Medina when he arrived in the country last night, the plundery six-year-old native of Albay cannot imagine that the medal is going to be answered in Paralympic in Paralympic in Paralympic in Paralympic in Paralympic in Paralympic in Paralym@@
Despite the late kakayahan on the left foot after being hit by the devastation, he / she was still calling the well-known candidate of Germany diretso and he was still in the same time.
He also became an inspiration to a song.
It was the same time for the child to be a child.
I entered it or there in what was going on.
I told the venue.
It's a squeeze if the song is going to be the song, it's the movement that said.
I need to give everyone ano man ang nangyari para i said i ibibigay ko ang aking makakaya para sa aking bayan.
In the victory he finished the setting here how almost baruga of the country freedom success in the late father who was also previously shooting, which died there was a matter of Saudi Arabia and did not have a chance to watch the child.
I have to be able to do it.
Intro, that is the sport that has been the sport to be a means of money since i WAS as mabilis na tao dahil sa aking polyo signal signal.
Josephine will receive one milyong pisong trace of Enchanted Enchanted.
The white sports commission Office of the bente libong piso will be given.
The rest in the mind of the magsasaka there is still no one in fact because it's the one who joined the open championship in Thailand next month in the next month.
It is a promise of fifty.
Apat Spati to all of our things.
It is a apat daang sponsors that is naiipit and we will not object yes to agree to agree.
Also included, Josephine came home to the last Filipinos who were going to return the medal to the parlamento.
The sweat is still happy that adeline is going to Ancheta winning the open cedie in spite of the failure of Josephine, the success of Josephine is also a success of their sector, which is the challenge that continues to be a challenge which is the challenge between us, which is supported by the challenge which is a challenge to us, supported by the challenge which is the challenge of us.
They can letdown an chrent answer yes, apat apat na apat na sektor right?
Action Lyn obarrio news para sa
