Children, teachers who have a conversation with DepEd, disappointed with Luistro's response to Luistro.

The children and teachers of alternative schools of the Lumad in Mindanao are disappointed that they cannot protect Education Sec.
Armin Luistro from the military attacks.
The iligtas Our Schools (SOS) Network, groups campaigning for the protection of the military from the attack of the military, who seemed to be hesitant to protect the children.
The reports of the abuse of the soldiers and schools are allegedly catching each other.
A conversation with a conversation yesterday, December 2, the SOS Network to Luistro about the burial of the department meyou used by the military to be occupied by their schools.
But according to Madella Santiago, abuse of SOS Network, they seem to have the same way of adultery to Luistro in talking with the group of Assistant Sec.
Tonisikay Umali last week.
"It was the first face of Secretary.
Luistro to us, after two years talking to the officials of DepEd.
"But it is irritating to say that he still needs to give him the complaints of the abuse of the military to the schools in Mindanao," Santiago said.
With a conversation, Luistro listened to the complaint of the teachers and istap from the Tribal Filipino Program, Alternative learning Center para sa nakatakdang libangin at kabuhayan Development (Alcadev), Salugpongan Tatanu Igkanugon Center and Rural missionaries of the Philippines with schools in Mindanao.
They announced again to leave the military to the schools of the natives in Mindanao or convince President Aquino to ask or prohibit the military to use the schools Lumad.
"I try to convey the matter but I don't know if I'll be able to hear it," Luistro's response to the group.
He also said that the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) should answer the issue of the rebellion school of the rebel New People's Army the alternative schools of the Lumad, also encourage the secretary to fix the documentary on the complaints and give them a copy.
He will also call a special meeting of Inter-Agency Committee on Children sa Armed conflict (IAC-CIAC) to be dining and talk about the complaints.
The IAC-CIAC was completed last year, by virtue of Executive Order 138, to focus on the cases of violation of the rights of the children in the time of armed arguments.
It is composed of the government agencies with the AFP and DepEd, but is in the leadership of Council para sa welfare of Children.
According to Luistro, it is said that this is the right agency to resolve the cases that were filed by SOS Network.
"Our agreement (SOS Network) will lead DepEd and we will become a bridge to reveal all their documents and statements and we will refer to it in (komiteng) Inter-agency," he said in the nap.

The secretary also insisted that there is no need to have a new memorandum.
They just need to add or amendment to be strict implementation of Memorandum 221.
"Actually, he is not a new meyou, because we have me221 (because) presented there is the basis: First, there is no recollection of private, NGO, or the public who can enter the men, military unipormadong personnel who are not following our guidelines," Luistro said.
But there is a exemption for "non-military activities" like "Brigada school" and still need to agree with guidelines.
For SOS Network, it is said that this is unlikely because it is part of the insurhest program of the government the "Brigada-school" and other civilian-military operation.
It seems that DepEd was abandoned by responsibility to protect the children.
According to the trusted source of Pinoy Weekly who does not want to speak names, it has been given a copy of the documentary on the complaint of the complaint.
According to the truth, the komiteng Inter-agency gathered last October and included in the table the case of Salugpongan.
As well, the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef) has a separate mechanism so that the "anim na anak rights violations" presented the UN and are also included in your me221.
According to said informant, the AC-CIAC is given a copy of this.
It is puzzled by the consequences that the children are supporting the rights of the children why DepEd has not acted upon and repeatedly the response of DepEd in cases.
"It was disheartening to what Secretary said.
Luistro on the dialogue.
After he heard the grievance of the children and teachers, he would spend the process of the burukrasya the resolution of this, "said Gabriela Rep. Emmi de Jesus, who also sat in the diyalogo.

De Jesus even said that Luistro should immediately face the matter because the security of the children and teachers are at stake with a conversation with a conversation.
Luistro did not pay attention to the safety of them in his refusal to ask the military to the community.
"He should show his strength as the secretary of DepEd, which is for him to kagalingan the child.
"We hold him accountable for the HIS department if something happens to these kids," he said.
The SOS Network adds that although they are disappointed, they will pass the documentary on the violation of the miiloes and insisted the garbage of me221.
"We will do our part and we are expecting that Secretary will also do it.
His commitment was Luistro and he did not pass to the other agency of the government resolving the problem that we were going to put on him, "says Santiago.
Part of the SOS Network of Manilaktown of Mindanao, the campaign of the group Lumad and groups of human rights in Mindanao to bring the issue of the widespread violation of human rights in Mindanao.
The more than 300 Lumad who have travelled from Mindanao in Liwasang Bonifacio until the world of human rights in December 10.



