
It is a series of violation of the rights of confusing the Philippines criticized in the Philippines.

By Soliman A. Santos SSetyembre 1, 2013.

The group who can identify the alleged increasing number of violation of the rights of the aktibistang against mining, after the latest series of murder of the native citizens in the Katimsuffered of Mindanao and loss of a activists in Nueva Vizcaya.
"It is clear that there are increasing violation of the rights of the aktibistang environment in the murder of anting Freis, leaders Blaan and his child Victor, well-known members of the local opposition in mining of Xstrata-SMI in Mindanao.
The victims were the 25th and the 26th of which was proven against mining who were killed under the Aquino administration, "Leon Dulce, spokesperson of Task Force-Justice para mabigyan ng mga programang maituturing na mental Defenders (TF-Jed).

According to Karapatan-Socsksargen, the wife of anting Freis pointing out that Kjailed who survived their family during dawn of August 23, the killing of Task Force Kitaco under 1002nd Infantry Brigade of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
Prior to this, it was also ambushed by the miyembrong paramilsion of Task Force Kitaco another child of anting Freis when the brother of his brother-in-law, Sonny Boy Planda last June 28.

Planda was seriously injured in the ambus while umaalingasaw was able to survive.

Meanwhile in Nueva Ecija, Karapatan-Cagayan Valley reports of the disappearance of Bryan Eyet, another one of a aktibistang environment against the entry of Australian companies RoyMeralco in the towns of Kasibu and Dupax del Norte.
The local police was arrested by the local police last August 21 and did not see when he looked for his companions.

"Eyet is the third confusing force of forced to lose while Kjailed Freis the victim of attempted murder since 2001.
We believe that the saharization of the community affected by mining is caused by the desperate attempt of the industry to make up for their investments despite the resistance of the citizens, "said Dulce.

It was announced recently by Anglo-Swiss Xstrata-SMI to reducing the operation of its operation and expenses because of the opposition of the citizens and local mining ban.

It was allegedly spent by P20 billion in Tamque project since 2007.

The operation of RoyMeralco is also stopped because of the barikadang hair of the local organizations since May 8.

"The continuous use of PNoy of tickled and violation of human rights of the makakalikasan is clearly connivance with the big companies of mining to stop the legitimate and democratic opposition of the community.
"We are calling for the Aquino administration to ask the military to the places of mining and file a case against the military and police who are involved in violation of human rights," said Dulce.



