Labing a crisis in Zamboanga City up to a road and nine died in the fighting of emotional spiritual factor and the forces of the government while almost two years were wounded up to the evacuation center, according to the TV and those who were in the evacuation center, according to the TV and those who were in the evacuation center of social Welfare are being experienced now in the sadness here is what my report is experiencing in the sadness here is my report here.
For the first time since the fight broke out in Zamboanga City, the airport opened once a plane only one airplane was allowed to be the only one.
In tears we met a few more kissing town of Zamboanga.
Because there is so much that you can come home from where you are stuck here you have a lot to forget yes to ilalim.
Sampung araw WAS Wesus is the woman in the saudi.
We also got along with the department of dancing to take a break to the victims of significance.
In a habit of living in the balitaan we are now in the children against all of my Hong what is available by the young old man but they are mostly young when they are social in the meantime, the time when we found out in Zamboanga City earlier, not like this morning when the strong rain suddenly poured out of the rain.
After almost two weeks, it was closed by the airport of the bank to allow it again now and we are with the same with the first flight that came from the city that came from the city.
Our decline of the plane.
President noynoy aquino is there to meet the passengers and conduct a inspeksyon at the airport reserve we are in their personal life that we are still not here so you should be sure of responsibility for the responsibility of the airport.
There are some who are slowly open especially in the places that are far from fighting in the fight.
But the downtown or the center itself of Zamboanga peninsula still wants to want to be.
Especially the fighting in some barangays continues to be continued.
And there are a few fires again on this day.
She got hit.
Until March however back to the increase that the word had been returned to.
Again, we will be able to make an bakwit advice of Salome's spit on the spit of the spit here here.
No one is really in the two to see each other in the cigarette.
Many people like him who are looking for life than sulking in the evacuation center.
Our siblings Badjao the entire day beside the sea and hoping that the fish will find a fish again.
To have something to feed their family if you love but will be angry if no one is not there.
Nothing.
You know now close to hold the one.
Voluntarily help you work hard to address the needs of the affected residents.
Even the personnel of the red kabayo were hit in the middle of the gunfire in the middle of the gunfire.
Going back to work.
The report.
Walang
But.
You are two of them with this.
The land in front of the nakaluhod gay doctor and does not need to remove what I saw beside me.
It was said that it was the same time when he was being crushed in his face with his face first step out of the place he left the area because I was WAS speaking of the ikalawang palapag ikalawang expression I saw him a little far away from the commission wound of course that's what he was going to be the top of me being the one who would be the one who would be the first one.
For now, the authorities still have a big hope that the sacrifice of the residents of Zamboanga is just a little more time and that their lives will come back to normal and we are giving a handa to expose a expose.
Seventy thousand.
We have three supplier here in her news but ten libo from the Philippines pesos so that we will eighty you until you can recover and that she will not be able to give back the first president in the meantime because it has to be the worst that happened in their history and in their past but this is probably the worst that they have happened in their history and in their past but this is probably the worst that they have happened in their history and in their past but this is probably the worst of the situation in their history and in their past the number of those who will be affected by the poor residents who are still not clear for a lot of the ones who will be affected by their lives are not yet clear yet when their lives will return to normal but all of this is hoping that will happen as soon as
