It was the same time.
Their reaction to hay is the positive feedback of the desperado meaning of four of them.
Best hand with disabilities is the progress of your relationship, according to him.
What is the story of your collective president doubt that will return back.
It is possible that it will be briefly briefly, okay, this is okay
He was able to start with a Tito boy who was asked to attend the Governor of the moment of the twenty-ten.
This is okay when the morning is lunes in the left morning, you are really required to be prohibited by the municipality in every daddy, there is a one who will be able to buy a chance with the people who can buy the public yes.
That is right, so that is really all the energy Yuson of the course with the office that is where the fence is going to be compared to the house that they are going to say that he is going to be a fence, I am going to be able to ask for a little bit of the fence.
My baby's cousin.
The sleek is also a phone.
July but it was not too obvious that it was not there when I was able to find a way before I was able to practice.
When I was still high school, he opered his price to implant with someone so I am not going to get dressed up straight and my left By batch was able to walk with my child. It is the influence of you to influence you but that you need to have a family isn't there a single wow or do you have a
Or maybe it is a first inuuna so that is not a priority, that is why you are helping you.
Of course, the love life or maybe because of that or maybe because you think you have a disability so I don't change to find a partner in life, it really doesn't have to go to my mind or that there is a love but it will not really have to go to school, but it will not really have to go to school, but it will not really have to go to school, but it will not really have to go to school, but it will not really have to go to school, but it will be
I still see you.
The husband in the cinema but drop drop Ricardo Delgado By.
Yes.
What is of your disability or case it is a better morning first of all those who watched this on the radio five, we have no money from the Pasig with a disability of Pasig a blessed day over and then I am still apat-anyos who also had a chance to have an affair with the Pasig.
I also have not been a barrier like the press that it has to be.
Live by normal and present driver and rider I am the driver of the motorcycle rider and rider of the motorcycle rider of the motorcycle rider of the motorcycle motorcycle.
What has been put on the brace there is nothing because my right foot is just often but there is no need to go on vacation as well as normal so that's why it is coming because we are already full of a group to help those with disabilities in Pasig but what is good because we are asking those who have become the officer because we are already impressed by the people who are because they are already impressed by the people who are because they are already impressed by the
You will be dididious if you really understand what you are going to do.
It's the condition of the people who works so that's why there in the video and the office says there is a need to be a disability far away for the rest of the class and then the represent of the 'isn't Joana yes and it will be a quick response to the needs because if it's going to be the
If there is no disability that you will respond to that they do not understand what you feel is right?
It is okay so you have a family Ricardo Diaz turn into two children with a woman with the woman.
Meanwhile, they were about to leave when you were supposed to be able to attend.
Or you are the one who is courting you do not think that I am apart from answering this because I have a problem with yes there is a problem with the yes that our disability has not really been a barrier to me.
Guess the title of the post of our segment is that you are also me we don't have a difference maybe you still have one gallon that I have just watched in life that is why they are going to be able to help me in the high kalidad that we are saying here in the high kalidad that we have been saying here in the high kalidad.
That's what the birds can do so report number before because there is still no law you don't know yet so Ano ang ginawa mong motivate to be normal because it is natural for a person to be a waste of rape joke.
Sa lima also and he is looking at others as if they are not the same and are most of them and most I am not saying that they will give up there again because of that every time I am going to be there.
They will talk about them because they are afraid of the rejection of this
Lahat ng panloob or so good that you said I didn't look at my mind that I didn't get worse.
So video develop a lot of my age before when we were in our place the time that it was that time.
What kind of age you were able to say was the same time he was able to find out criticism of the elementary grade which is why you understood that while I have neighbors who are also the funds that are also the funds.
So I have a neighbor if he got to really even if he got to do it.
If his shirt is brave, yes, I still have a neighbor who will beat a upit.
A distance wasn't while in the meantime.
He / she is drunk.
That in his chair of the pocket of his pocket.
What I am going to see is difficult.
That there is a pollution that two live in a glimpse of half once again from the waist down where you just saw that I had a motivation in life that I should not be the same, until there is an arkilahan of the bicycle.
I tried to take a bike I was able to bear while it was buried buried.
Until I was able to let it go.
Motorcycle.
I was supposed to be able to endure it as well as I mean it.
If they can also do it until there is what my principles started in life any of what they do is that I can do okay here with Vladimir Amadeo Police community which is the secretary Vladimir
A friendly morning to all of you.
It is okay that you said to doc to make sure that the other, the others who resigned to resign.
A happy meaning to say what is the right thing to do.
Potential of no obstacles right?
Walang
So much.
I am going to have a new one.
It's from what is your disability ha ha?
Finished with my disability.
Kya Genesis ipatupad sect para kay bridal buntisin April if you can easily believe yes in the case, he did not make a case of the case, he did not go through the body in order to produce ha?
It is just like that, it is just a low low.
You don't like milk.
Even before drinking milk really, that's why it's just in your family that you're going to fight.
