
6 Philippine military-inspired menu na hindi mo alam

Many are amazed how the soldiers will fit their subsistence allowance that is known as S. A.
(Subsistence Allowance).

If we are counting on it, any genius in Math will be worthless, it will not fit if it can be compared to the current presyohan of goods.

Mantakin imagine, the araw-araw kainan allowance we are soldiers only costs P90.00 or P30.00 every meal.

If you are going to go even at the cheap restaurant, it is alaws that can be seen eating P30.00.
This might be like this oorderin:

"A tasa rice, head of the thin galunggong, free soup and two tableketchup please!"

Anyway, for the soldiers, we have a strategy to make ends meet our small mess.
We are not complaining until it is really so.
"Don't say" huh? "
Yes, we make ends meet.
This is because of the called consolikarelasyon itinatago which is where it is a mess that is where it will lead to the purchase of food in buying food in the favorite stores and how he is distributed to distribute the whole 'people.

Because of our savings in our gulo, there are unusual menu that we are almost aware of what it is.
Read.

1 -.
Eleven (11).
What is that?
When said number Onse or labing the dish, that is a piece of hot dog that has ares a piece of dry.
Kitams?

2 years.
It's the morning (10).
That is new.
Oo, that is similar to a dry and a piece of matigas boiled itlog.
You are going to say it.
Kitams?
Dies!

3 years.
Or Tin.
Hoy, don't be green-minded!
This is the Odong as a sabaw and partner is a thin tinapa.
You will be together with the first one to be able to catch up with two viand, that is!
It's more almusal often the O-Tin.

4 -.
Pancourse.
Is the labo?
This is the call of the dish chicken no matter what it is cooked.
If Sarge bet is a bet, it is far away!
If in training, it is likely 20 kilometers to reach jogging.
Meanwhile, if it is in the field duty, there are probably 2-linggong patrol.
If the viand is chicken, the troops are already doubting the plan of C.O.

5.
Bicol Express.
This is generic termino of Sarge like you are having a lot and banging.
He budted with Siling Labuyo to molten lava of Mt.
Mayon is the heat to feel.
Masiram?
No, blocked!

6.
It's going to be a tsam.
This is all sorts of clothes to look like the leaves that are being picked up by the Chinese soldiers in the forest and being able to identify sardines and being able to find it.
Sometimes nail, night, alukgreet and a lot of other seems to eat pet animals.
It would also be nice and costly in the pocket!
Also ipon in the mess that is a menu isn't it?



