FDA: Be safe in the food.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) It's been known to be updated Nobyembre 15, 2012 - 12: 00am - 12: 00am.

The Food Administration (FDA) in the leadership of FDA Director General Doctor Kenneth Hartigan Go.
Dr. Go is a respected person who is a respected ist, it is assumed ologist and public health expert.
According to Doctor Go, the public needs to be careful in buying food and preparing for it.
This is to avoid the disease poisoning and diarrhea.
Buy food in the known stores.
We cannot assure the cleanliness of meat, challenges, and hotaso just made by side.
Examine it thoroughly not botcha and bilasang fish will buy.
Put a mark on the botelya and puts the ingredients of food like salt, sugar, and oil.
Also put a mark on the house with a mark like soap, for the sake of insects and gasoline.
Don't tell the said botelya because there might be a poison of your food.
Avoid buying pots or expired products.
There is no truth to belief that there is still a allowance for a few months that is a date of product.
Read thoroughly those placed in the canned goods.
There should be label (English or Tagalog) and what is placed on its mark is clear.
Read what kind of product it is, where it is made and until it is safe to eat.
Don't buy the quality of the nacei or rose because it is possible that there is a small hole that it is possible that it is possible for the school year to viruses.
Do not mix the hilaw meat in the cooked meat.
It is possible that the hilaw meat will be viruses which will go to your food.
Washed it carefully to the crossstove, knife and container food.
Be clean in your kitchen.
Clean the things that cooked.
Don't be inflicted with insects.
Wash vegetables and fruits in the flowing water.
9 - 'clock.
Cook the meat carefully.
There is a need for blood to be seen in the cooked meat because it is possible that it is a source of viruses such as if they are negotiating, salmonella and worms.
10 years.
When food is not consumed within 2 or 3 hours, it will bring back to the refrigerator so that they can't be eaten.
11 - 11.
Don't keep the heat of food again.
Just got enough food for you.
12 years.
Wash your hands before eating and before prepare food.
Being organized and clean is our primary resistance to the food poisoning and diarrhea.



