Mahalaga tremo By George Nava-True II August 31, 2016 was shaking my hand.
I have a Parkinson's disease?
I haven't been able to go to the doctor.

Because of my illness, I won't be able to report and use a spoon properly.

It is hard to stop my shaking.
I hope you can help me - Charles Kelvin Santos.
When the hand is shaking, thinking of a lot of symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Often, this is important to tremo, a kinakabahan system (neurological) disorder that can affect any part of the body.
It is common to see it in hand especially when it is used.

Because of this, it is hard to drink, eat, write or a string of shoes.
If the voice is affected, it's hard to speak.
Mahalaga tremo is not dangerous but it gets worse as long as possible.
The pain does not choose ages but it usually appeared at the age of 40 and above.
Shaking is slowly starting and gets worse when moving.
It might be one or two hands affected and it becomes too much when tired, in drinking caffeine or because of stress.
"It can also be affected by the head (" Yes "o" walang "motion ng ulo).
The mahahalagang tremo is different from Parkinson's disease where the hand is shaking even if it is not used.
In Parkinson's disease, we are not straight to the patient, the action is slow and hard to walk.
In mahahalagang pagyanig, hand, head and the voice is affected.
In Parkinson's disease, the trembling in hand starts and it might spread to the leg, and down and other parts of the body.
Usually the mahalaga tremo is the effect of the genetic mutation inherit (familial tremo).
With others, it doesn't know the cause of it.
If only a little bit of symptoms, it is not necessary to be treated.
But if it is already severe, go to the doctor to give proper medicine.
Included here is the beta blockers who often use in high blood pressure.
For example it is profranchise.
Do not use it when there is hika or heart disease.
They can also use anti-seizure panggagamot or cure for epilepsy like the primidone when the beta blockers have no effect.

Other examples of this are huge entin and topiramate.
The side effects of this are going to be sleepy and dizziness that are missing for a long time.

Tranquilizers will also help like alprazolam and clonazepam if the stress is being worried about the trembling.
It might be sleepy or tired because, here.

Follow the doctor's prescription because it is a habit to namumuo.
The botox injections are perfect in the trembling of the head and voice.
It goes on its effect until 3 months.

Don't use it in hand because the finger will weaken.
If it will be used in the voice, it might swell and suffer.
The actions will also improve through physical or Occupational therapy.
You will be taught by ehersisyo to strengthen and have a muscle control and koordinasyon.
If what I mentioned has no effect, the huling resort is Deep utak stimulation.
The doctor will be able to put a long and thin proproent brain connected to Pacemaker-like device (neurostimulator) that is buried in the chest.
It is trying to stop the part of the brain that has something to do with the trembling.



