Call to the youth on the Independence Day.

Business with us, innocent or not yet alive during the military's base of the United States in the Philippines.
We have not found the American soldiers who are stranded in Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Complex.
We cannot witness how our country will be placed in danger of the giykers of the United States in Vietnam and Korea.
It is reported that America has hidden weapons in our country before.
But we caught up with the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) to be able to attend the American government and again based on the country their military.
We caught up with the meddling of the Chinese in the islands of Kalayaan (Spratly Islands) and Bajo de Masinloc (Scarborough Shoal).
We caught up on how America and China are fighting to control the South China Sea or West Philippine Sea and entering their big warship in our ocean.
The colonization of China in the islands of Kalayaan is also directly.
Filipinos who are living in our ocean are not allowed to fish because of the threat of the Chinese.
And do not forget the destruction of our national wealth in the Tubbataha in Palawan last 2013 because of the sadmalungkot of USS Guardian who was damaged in almost 4,000 kilometers meters of bahura.
There is also the disposal of a poisonous chemical in our sea and violation of the rights of the citizens every time the annual Balikatan military exercises.
At the time, our national prime will be in danger because of the entry of foreigners, it is our duty as the people who tumhair and defend the country from invasion and violation of our freedom and sovereignty.
The actions of the citizens drove away during the early part of the decade "90 is staying by the base military of America in our country and we continue to resisted the VFA and EDCA.
We will not allow to make their weapon station and force to launch a war in Asia-Ocean.
We are not going to be able to go to the act of China's perception in our territory.
The Philippines is for Filipinos and will never be for any foreigner.
The time is called again by the youth and people who have love and concern for Inang Bayan.
Defend his wealth and nature, his freedom and prime from foreign pandarambong and destruction.
The role of the youth is important to our call and fighting.
A young age in the national release like our heroes Andres Bonifacio and Emilio Jacinto, who are all in their youth when they launch a revolution against Spanish.
That is why we are proper to go with and act on the 12 of June at the embassy of China in Makati and United States in Manila.
Show our unity in fighting for the foreigners and will insist on our minds.
A hair in the coming Independence Day.
Joined with the wide ranks of the Filipino lipos of celebrate patriotic and insist on the national sovereignty and integrity of the teritoryal.
No one else will defend our country but his citizens.



