
You Ramon: Communists, a hero of the farmer.

Bayan May 21, 2012.

Not a few were terminated when Ka Ramon passed away last September 1, 2011 at the age of 46.
The hundreds of farmers cried in their barrio and neighboring barrio, Pulang warriors and regulations of the PKP.
All of his burial stopped in order to give a revolutionary tribute.

Ka Ramon is one of the served leaders of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines in its branch in a barrio in Northern Samar.
He is one of the mayash that bloomed in the root of the Partido in the fat land of the countryside.

Though it came from the kind of rich farmers, Ka Ramon was able to put up with the poor task on the production on the ground.
When even member of the Partido, he is strict with a new figure and wholeheartedly hugged the principles of Partido Komunista.
He was met with his humble but determined and militant style and conviction.
He cares for those who are oppressed and being raped.

The spirit of Partido in any issue faced by Ka Ramon is always prevail.
He / she easily showed her unselfish.
Although the interest of their family will be ran over by the rent of the rent on the ground in the rice field and coconut plantation and even in the increase of the salary of the workers farm, Ka Ramon is not doubt in pushing the campaign and being a model to the implementation of the united rules.
He patiently clarified that his wife and relatives were able to clarify him and their relatives in pagkamajustice and kawastuan of the policy.

Ka Ramon was not able to reach the school when he was still young.
He has an age when you learn to write and read at the school of the literahe headed by the BHB.
Despite the limitation in reading and writing, he quickly touched the batayang principle of the Partido and he is strict hugged.
His understanding of the principle of the masses and linyang will be deep.

He started to act on their barrio when he was just a teenage boy.
At the age of 15, he joined the Kabassigned Makabayan.
Since then, Ka Ramon became a life of the revolutionary movement.
He joined those who were about to appear as antipyudal and became one of the primary founpakilos in their barrio.

Eventually, he became a member of the Partido.
He is thorough participating in the study and his awareness and knowledge will be prosperous for giving birth.
It did not last long and he was one of the leaders of the branch of Partido in their barrio.
He was elected to the management of the seksyon of the Partido within the kuluster of the barrio.
At times, the soldiers have presence of those in their area, he fails to the BHB and gives service as Pulang warriors.

The stand of Ka Ramon will never weakened for the revolution, even if his body began to weakened in 2009 because of cancer.
The interest of the movement is always content with his mind, the condition of tasks and welfare of those with their branch.
Even if he finished surgery, he tried to call him to call his competitors in order to inform his condition and sweating the worry of others.
He wants to make sure that their piled tibo and good ones who are entrusted to them will continue to be working.

When Ka Ramon was snatched alive, he repeated and intal on the awareness of his wife and five children who needed to be united and trust in the revolutionary movement.
He warned each one who continued to fulfill their revolutionary tasks.

The life of Ka Ramon allotted for others and not just for his own family will remain inspiration to the farmers he served.
His memory will serve as a tanglaw for everyone who is oppressed and being raped.



