Ebola remedy; Philippine Contingent, OFW is now getting advantage of it.

The government should quickly act on saving Filipinos from the ebola virus disease in the countries that he has.
This should not be hesitant or empty for a long time in making decisions to be saved by the 115 Philippine contingent in United Nations Peacekegumagapang Force who is able to station in the country Liberia.
Included in those who save it with a total 4,200 overseas Filipino worker who can be found in the said country and countries Sierra Leone and Gunia.
These countries, parekoy, are being attacked by no medicine and deadly Ebola and declared the government here which is the national emergency that their situation with the number of deaths in them.
The government of the Philippines should be like the other countries who have naturally their own citizens from said countries before they get tired of those who are sick and die.
For many times, it is always late, parekoy, the government in saving the OFW in the ongoing war in different countries until they are ipit, including the government.
The Ebola is considered as the strength of severe war which is in need of the forcibly evacuation.
If the government is not quick to decide and act, king-mother, it is scary to think that it will only take action if someone is infected and died by OFW.
Like what happened after a male OFW was beheaded by Libya and rape a Filipina nurse.
If the government does not act to bring home and keep the Philippine contingent and OFWs and are infected with them, it is terrifying when they are still able to keep up with them.
The government should be able to attend without any ability to fight the Ebola.
Maybe, Undersecretary is still going to be pests.
Eric Tayag if we were able to enter it.
This is also no clear program on what to do in case we have possessed Ebola.
Thus, while there is no bad news about the Filipinos in relation to Ebola, the government should act.
Or act on you, you are useless.
Pus!
Matter, Jun Briones.



