The PINOY by PNOY by PNOY.

What is the reason for President Benigno Aquino III and he wants to be in another place to commemorate the celebration of People Power Revolution instead of the original place in EDSA?
Is it just fair to do this to the places destructed by typhoon Yolanda where thousands have lost their lives and livelihood?
Stop Pang.
Noynoy is saying that the reason he wants to be with the victims of the cruel nature because it is not true.
If Pang wants.
Aquino to be with them to show his sympathy is that it was supposed to be before and not now that the majority of them can almost return to the help of the foreigners and private people.
What did the government help through PNoy's pet trust?
Well, most of them are really money.
How can the President and ASUNGOT can say that they have helped the recovery of the victims when there are many more until now the protesters because instead of helping them, they even became a victim.
The Aquino administration has nothing to be proud of that has been done in the Philippines.
It turns out that it was wrong, they were able to do something - the poor would be suffering and acquire money from the rich, especially the members of the KKKK to respond to relatives, Kaibigan, Kaklase and Kabarilan.
Instead of successful, the country is getting buried in poverty.
And to not be too popular, PNoy defeated the Filipino.
Wait.
Is it not that PNoy is just afraid to see each other in the "tagong ungan" the personalities who do the important duty in the People Power Revolution?
If they unite again to do the People Power again and oust Noynoy.
Nothing is impossible for the weather now.
That is why the President should think of or even those who have been concerned about his ears that he can fix the management in the country.

The new deputy chief of Manila Action is hardworking at the Special Assignment of Mayor Joseph Estrada, Senior Inspector Ness Vargas, member of the Philippine National Police Academy 2005.
It is a big relief for Chief Inspector Bernabe Irinco the appointment of Vargas to be a partner in the operation of MASA operation Chief Inspector Manuel Laderas.
Last week, the MASA was attacked by the MASA Rizal Avenue, Santa Cruz and Gonzalo Puyat in Quiapo where the 16 sellers of sex laruan were arrested.
What's worse, one of the arrested is the brother of the barangay chairman and wants to negotiate luhin.
However, the fight is tabting because everyone needs to give a lesson to stop their nonsense.



