Then you gave it over and over.
It is also warla we are grateful for your campaign so that we can spread to the public Filipinos especially with the common citizens, which is the priority that he will spend the heart through the marking order of our President Filipinos through the marking order of our President Filipinos.
It is about where it is still possible that the modernization of our armed forces will really continue to modernization in there, don't it is true that there is a long intention of our armed strength to have a ability to make our mandate that our country is going to be able to perform our mandate, yes to the territorial integrity of our country, yes to our country.
I have to resign later that the modernization is really already felt and come where they are forced to go.
A ngiti ay maaaring yamang marcos bring back where immediately when we started to do it, the modernization caused by saying that we are going to have a modernization due to what we have been saying for a while of our grandchild cereal in the ability to have my mom cereal in the ability to have a mom of cereal in the ability to have a mother of us.
By the teritoryal defense of the Philippines.
'ata sa tapat ng unang labinlimang taon at
Pursue about limang milyong budget hearing that if you are counting on it, we should have Three daang thirty a video hinggil sa first prevent will prevent us.
Pagkakataong fifty isa apat na anim na billion of our already received funds and we also have a lot of that that we have already received.
That projects will be implemented as it is avoided and in fact five hundred sixty-Nine project again what we can do with each other, two hundred sixty dalawa will be confident and my other practice mhm but the projects that have been before are the projects that have been before.
Just for the panloob security operations lumalayo the training that we don't really pay attention to.
Our territory.
"It's going to be here.
It is the same time when our love president is going to learn from since we can really feel his sincerity and he is impressed by the bus folder our modernization program.
There was a new law in Republic Act dalawampu't apat Nine.
'ata antimano is the commitment to this first law in the second decision life is the one.
Commitment by seventy limang bilyong piso.
It's been the same time to continue to continue to continue.
To move forward when your former is fast there in a handsome sir how can we still understand this territory distance from our territory.
Ah this is indeed the bag of our people.
Extended modernization program through the new law Republic Act at Three four Nine that we focus on now the concentration is going to complain about our ability in external defense.
My office is good for the assigned to make a program of the creature of the creature.
Like what I told you is cheating as well as the same time that we are going to be a territorial defense, we said the susunod na labinlimang taon sa loob ng limang taon para sa isang dahilan ng Three limang taon na ang nakakaraan ay we have perturbed concert any brand ata
Project on the unang tama.
And that is what bago These is in the fourth taon is like what I have said cheating is teritoryong defense mhm 'ata anga first.
Our dinedevelop here is the fine or intelligence surveillance of agriculture and means that we should be able to do something similar to the Maritime of our Maritime at the employer teritoryong airspace.
First we should see it first.
Ha what will happen to be able to enter and out of our space and in the ocean ocean the prisoners who go to this are the readers para sample of sample of the sample of the sample.
By says we have to just go ahead of a baby.
Ah we have a fighter aircraft of the airport for if there are eyes of eyes.
Enter our territory there will be met and alone.
And a lot of other projects.
Ha, the contract is first to be signed in buying a twelve fighter.
Fighter aircraft.
So kontrata.
Korea, it's also the same thing that it is.
In eight days.
Felipe camera answered that our surroundings are going to be the one.
Angas dokumento protesta as they say the same.
We will be able to speak to the products supplier at the look as well as where we are.
It is possible that you can buy the best treatment of the best treatment for our bosses, I just want to get back to the same time with him and then that he will continue to talk about it that we are panloob ability building that we did what we did.
In our first one entrance of a good decision or a hide in order to make it happen, it is possible for us to make sure that I will not escalate to make a few scenes against the government, especially in the part of our country, I said there are so many that we have chosen to be the ones who are the ones who have chosen the topic including the new bible. The robbers rajo shot a robber rajo shot the new regional but our soldiers who are fighting for the president plans for the President plans to be the ones who are fighting for the president, are not allowed to automatically buy a robber.
'ata new five in the new breakout included here is the one who will be able to attend the same time.
Our rescue kung there is such a Sokol helicopter that is a number of yes and is it that it is and is the same thing.
In my opinion, those who have been using this equipment are a big deal for the internal security problem even if it is the beauty that we are going to be with.
In our program, it is a fiesty '
This is the one who is going to be able to do this.
We prove now that it is the right approach in fighting against fighting.
Five thirty in our internal security problem is not really the solution to the meantime.
But the winning column said that it is okay.
It's going to be a solution and it's the lungs.
Following the ugat of the emergency.
Or not everyone will get in the building you can take him sitting right yes yes.
She ate.
But you have a bit of tantos in that there is no rosary that this is the sleeves answer that they are making some of those who are spreading some of those who are going to be able to make sure that we can be contented with the record of August in the Philippines that we are going to be able to get contented with the record of August in the Philippines, we are going to be able to recover from the record of August in the Philippines, we are going to have to go through the record of August in the Philippines,
School is the cough and then we have a target number on the target date when all this country is going to be able to do, we will be able to give up a lot of people who are at the same time, we will be able to give up a lot of people who will be able to improve the cover and right now that we know you should be ashamed of this in the Philippines.
The investor comes to the remains of our tourists attack that this is why we saw you live in the provinces of the nearby provinces, the other provinces followed by the increase in the increase of our puhunan since instead of other countries, I would just ask how they were preparing for the increase of our puhunan. It is the same time for the Philippines to be replaced by the Philippines, which is why ASEAN integration will be released in the next year
Ah, my child is very strict.
The apple of the Philippines is preparing for that.
It's a lot of those who have a lot of things.
It is a meeting that is being held for the preparation that the other units that are widespread in there and ha, are the different needs that we have to be able to do.
It seems that the effect is more secure as if we do not have to be able to do it anyway, we are looking for a way to find a way for it.
Even if it is possible that there will be an enemy of enemies like this with the help of our other ala hidden erald pregnant arab government agency right now that the role of armadong forces is doing a bag.
The security of the security.
Guard our minds.
