
The ones on the eve.

Do not know why I was very early waking up last December 31.
It was the last day of the month and last day of the year 2016.
After 12 hatinggabi, well, 2017!
It's a new year!
It was the eve when I was able to find it column.
I don't know why the order of my mind to write is like this.
And don't know of your taste of its content?
Because my mind is asking every time there is an occasion.
Christmas.
New year.
Birthday.
It's fiesta, it's etseous.
It looks like the preparation of the people every eve is more serious than the day of the event that will happen, isn't it?
The cheating of the attention of preparing is on the Bispears.
Any occasion, happiness or grieve, downpour in preparation of will - happiness or sadness?
"It's the very day, it's busy.
Like the feast, it is not able to be able to be cooked for the food to prepare for visitors.
As well as Christmas and New Year.
On the birthday or grieve, the eve governing everything.
It's true, "isn't it?
This eve of the New Year, I am not prepared for the Buena Noche but a small sharing of our family.
There are those who are ready to complete.
Kalderetang might be.
It's just Tinochicken and sweet.
"It's just that.
But the feeling is intense.
What will be brought to my life, in our lives of the New Year after the Bispears?
For me, the Bispears governing hope or we are hoping for what will happen in the day of waiting.
Anoman this, the Bispears are telling if we are right preparing, anoman is the occasion.
After Bispears is the day of the scheduled.
I completed what should be expected now?
If anoman is being prepared, when guests arrive, they are happy so they will?
Is my preparations right for them?
I have given the right taste of them?
It's amusing, isn't it?
You have too cleared yourself on the day of Bispears just to make sure that all of your handdays are full.
You have to spend it, tired, you are still on your own worried maybe your preparation is not right or lacking.
I was so grateful for what I wrote this.
I don't know if it's right in your taste.
After this, I let go of the water and have been making coffee.
Also thinking if the ingredients cooked for the New Year is right, my family will be satisfied with our sharing - at the time of Bispears and days of happiness!
NLETODO / ED VERZOLA.



