
Seminar of DOST, aim to guide the grade school students in the course to get to college in college.

July 01, 2016 Bhaby P.

City of Batangas, Hulyo 1 (PIA) - the Department of science and Technology (DOST) are scattered by the career of science (DOST) (science, Technology, Engineering at Mathematics) to guide the students in the right course to get when it comes to college.
Discussed in the said seminar the course that the grade 10 students might take in order to go through choosing track in senior High School and even the course he might get to get to college.
Some of these are the postones connected to engineering the Industrial sciences, impormasyon teknolohiya, medical at the biological science / pagkain science, science edukasyon, chemistry, pangangatawan at Mathematics, geography at lupa science.
According to Engineer.
Alex Sy, vice president of the Philippine Association of the Philippine Association of the Technology (PhilAAST) Division, required to pounce on the opportunities when they saw it and choose the postrace they want.
"When there is an opportunity not to release you immediately because sometimes you might not find it again, follow your will to what you want to do in the future," Sy added.
Dr. Jaime Montoya said, executive director Philippine Council of Health pananaliksik and Development that the engine of the economy is the feast and technology that is why the ability is needed from this to be good in resolving the problem and making the right decision.
According to him, it is also a big part of the right communication and personal skills that good manners like services, Comhilig, awa, continue to study and integrity.
According to Doctor Corazon Menguit, vice President PhilAAST Division D, the seminar like this is giving an opportunity to the youth to buy what race might be able to choose them when the time comes.
Menguka stressed that there are scholarships which given the DOST for the youth with similar financial items to continue their studies.
In the message of PhilAAST President and paparating DOST Secretary Professor Fortunato dela Pena, he said that the implementation of their office continues to persuade the youth of course in relation to STEM.
He said that a country umuunlad is needed the people who have kasanayan in the feast and technology so twice in a year, they are around to conduct a career planner seminar and the youth will provide an alternative on what kind of race they choose in the future.
He also praised the Batangas State University as one of the state university in the country who was able to improve the engineers.
With his priorities plan on his seat as the DOST Secretary said that they have programs implemented in order for some sector to develop.
In the field of health, their office will push forward to develop medicine from the fathers herbal and making medicines from the chemical galling in plants.
In the industry, the continuous increase of the process of products from Agriculture and Marine resources.
In the research, the development is expected by the new materyal and produkto design, widen the use of outilagay from R at D feet, those who use the laboratoryo, like the agency of the government and even private sector and discovering a good technology that will help the poor local government.
It is also lined up to increase the ability of the institution in the region in relation to R at D, modernization of facilities for the prime-in-law and technology, especially in the part of Visayas and Mindanao, and speed up taking a advanced learning in the S (MCA / BPD-PIA Batangas) in order to speed up the progress of the Bansa. (MCA / BPD-PIA Batangas) to speed up the progress of the Bansa. (MCA / BPD-PIA Batangas).



