Gathering in the table of Christ: Reflection para sa Solemasyon ni Corpus Christi year C - June 1, 2013 - YEAR OF Faith Faith Faith OF Faith.

Do you like to eat at mabilis na pagkain?
JLIBEE, Mcdonalds, Chowking, KFC, etc.
That is why mabilis na pagkain is because you want to ease your hunger immediately!
But are you happy eating when you don't have a companion?
Don't it be nicer to eat in those places when you are with your buddies?
It would be nice to eat when you're talking to someone.
Enjoy eating when you have persistence!
It's exciting to eat when there's a manlilibre in 'yo!
That is why we also call the meal is "gathering."
It means you have something to be with... someone along with you... you have to have an agreement!
This is probably the changing of us in the animals every time we are eating.
We are not just going to challenge each other or eating without a shield, we have a threat to do... we have something to be sharing!
The Banal Eukaristiya is not just accepting the Katawan of Jesus.
It is also pagbabahaginan because it is a sharing.
In the Banal Eukaristiya, God is meddling with us!
That is why it is hard to think that while we are receiving Komunion, the anger in our hearts is dominating in our hearts!
In the Irust reading, San Pablo warned the supporters of the Corin the sharing of Jesus in the last dinner.
Because he saw that there was his rules in the first Christians every time they would celebrate the last dinner.
Their mass then they are doing in a house of the secret and they bring their own allowance to defend after their celebration.
Perhaps there are some who do not share his allowance.
Sinararili it or just given to those who are close to him!
San Pablo got mad of seeing this so he ought to remind them in the true spirit of Euckarisiridiculed.
The miracle in Ebanghelyo happened because there was a part of five bread and two fish!
Perhaps it is a small thing but in the hands of Jesus is huge... as big as the heart of the person who presented it!
That is why he allowed him to share it to each person.
In our acceptance of communion, we will always remember that we share with others!
Don't think that we are just poor or we don't have the ability to help.
The church is clear about this: "No person who is too rich to not need help of others... and there is also no person who is too hard to not give help to others!"
If the Catholic "Katawan of Christ said" is the answer we are going to be Amen!
Amen that means that I believe it.
I believe that what I'm in front is not just a bread.
I believe that what I accept is not just a symbol.
I believe that this is the true Katawan of Kristong my Lord has his full of God and he will pray in my heart.
But more importantly, I also believe that the body of Christ is not the only "Banal Ostia" I have been receiving but also both beside me... my fellow who I love, my fellow enemy!
We try to learn how to get to know Jesus in every person we are able to meet and we accept them how we accept Him in the Banal Eukaristiya!
In the Taong of Pananfaith living with the meaning of Eukaristiya as the gathering of the table of Christ.
There is one we have grown up with.
The blessing we are receiving is one.
There is one for the sake of our share.
We will be a life Eukaristiya to others!



