Goodbye to Maestro August 19, 2016 This litrato ang huling pagkakataon na nakita ko si coach Baby and HIS pauwi sa Maynila.
My huling salita na ito sa HIM _ simple lang at tunay: "Thank you para sa lahat ng mga DID mo para sa akin.
Love, ALWAYS, coach Baby.
Good care at God bless "-- Ricky Brown Bumupoured immediately the ganti, acknowledging and grief when the news broke out that legendary coach Virgilio" Baby "Dalprudence, 92, yesterday, Wednesday.
He is the Maestro and alamat in the Philippine basketball.
Dalprudence raped the Roque Red Warriors in building a dynasty in UAAP - the seven consecutive championship from 1965 1.
There is nothing more irritating for the UAAP, the lima-peand of Ateneo this 2000 is closest. "
With the Roque dynasty of coach Baby then Sonny Jaworski.
After the Roque, coach Baby was also front of the Blue Eagles at the back title last 75- "76.
He raped the CrisRedmanals in some championship in the wild AA and National Open, before the Danny Floro squad enters the PBA.
Here, the skills of Dalprudence became identified when the Cris's Toyota agawan was completed.
Dalprudence was the first Grand Slam coach of the PBA, the Great taste and Purefoods were also brought to the title.
In total, Dalprudence has a 15 PBA title which has been a record and standard of the coaches to divide the now of Ginebra coach Tim Cone.
Cone's tweet (@ manilacone): "It's JUST ngayon Heard tungkol kay coach Baby.
Kaya naman nabasag ang loob ko.
Nawalan ng tunay na magandang lalaki si We at ang Greatest coach.
Miss na miss na miss ko. "
Cone put the tweet of hashsummer number of GOAT - Greatest Of sa lahat ng oras.
"Ano ang natatandaan ko tungkol kay coach Baby ay How malayo sa HIS oras niya WAS, at kung ano ang isang magandang ama nitong WAS sa HIS anak na babae.

"It's GOAT," he said.
In 2003, Dalprudence attended the Crisdaily Toyota reunion game in the Araneta inorganisa of PBA.
He is not going to reveal because the vision is being noticed.
In his 92nd birthday last year, hundreds of players, coaches, friends and fans attended when he launch his book.
PBA commissioner Chito Narvasa called Dalprudence as "Philippine basketball bayani" who is his coach and mentor, and "Father of all basketball coaches."
"Ischative mentor, an artist may maselan brush strokes molding obscure sa methoors, kasabwat Cage salarin" is the description of coach Baby.
"Buong HIS career, isinagawa niya ang Himself na may dangal, dangal, klase, kahalayan at respeto sa iba", part of the statement of Narvasa.
"Pa rin ang kabila ng lahat ng HIS narating at karangalan, nanatiling pambihirang humble ang lalaki.
Itinaas niya ang mga priority ng isang basketball coach kaya mataas ang naging inspirasyon niya Many iba na sumunod sa HIS yapak ".
One of the players of coach Baby in the Great taste, the hot-shooting Fil-Am Ricky Brown, one of the first posted on Facebook of pagsaludo in the former mentor.
"Tunay na iconic, Philippine basketball legend tulad ng walang ibang umalis na US sa lahat ng gabi.
"You Can pahinga sa kapayapaan ngayon, coach", according to the appointed "The Quick Brown Fox".
The remains of Coach Baby will take care of Ateneo College Chapel beginning this 4: 00 p.m.



