Zanjoe is going to develop with Bela?
(Very similar to the ex, Bea!), in the height of the ratings of Dreamscape Entertainment

Posted By: Peter Ledesma noong Enero 30, 2017 sa showbiz

Noong Huwebes, the Dreamscape Entertainment team on the leadership of the business unit head, Sir Deo Enmapa and Ma'am Julie Anne Benitez, who celebrate his birthday Three araw, which is surprised by Coco Martin and the surprise party.
The said mass is thankful for Dreamscape above, and all of their show from 2015 at ngayong 2017 is the same high ratings and every show of said TV production is loaded with patalastas.
FPJ Martin's Probinils of Coco Martin is consistent number of the primetime starring in the latest nationwide ratings 37.8 percent, 39.5% (Rural) and Metro Manila 35.3%.
The ratings of the double Kara which can be shown in the last two weeks and more than 35.4 percent is the piloto of the new present story in the city where Lodalio together with Jameson Blake and Mark Oblea.
And the belief that "My Dear Heart" super proud is super happy the entire team because it reached 31.5 percent ratings in Metro Manila.
Even if it is just being displayed by inspiration serye, it is discussed immediately in social media and often number one trending every episode, especially the piloto.
The ratings of the soap in the survey of Kantar Media Nodia, which is the length of 32 percent in the Urban is already on 31 percent.
The latest news, the scenes every night became anticipated in My Dear Heart.
Especially when the character of the protagonist Nayomi "Heart" Ramos; is taking parents Zanjoe Marudo and Bela Padilla as Jude and Clara; and grandmother, Doctor.
Margaret Divinagracia, it is the best heart that you are all skillful with.
The news is resonant that Zanjoe and Bela are getting along with each other.
The tsismis will be confirmed when Bela is brought by Zanjoe in watching the concert of globally famous that around Coldplay this April in Mall of Asia Arena.
That is why the actor who is an actor in his new nangungunang lady was immediately arrested because he also has a big similarity to his ex-girlfriend, Bea Alonzo.
Good luck with BOTH of the gyud!
Xian Lim MASAYA SA pagsalubong SA KANYA by Bea Alonzo SA "A love TO last" actor who will act with Ian Veneracion in katatapos lang surprise for Xian Lim, who is going to be the character of "Love Tor last" Bea was immediately welcomed by Bea in their sabon and thanked him the pretty actress.
"Thank you, para dito," says to him and he is in awe of it because even if it's a big star, it turns out to be a mess and true to himself.
Xian is excited for the entry of his character in ALTL.
"So happy to work with it (Bea), wow labis together with the entire cast lalo't the family of Andeng in Batangas.
They are the frequent scene of the actor because he has returned to Batangas to show Andeng and his true feelings towards the lady Batangueña, who did not express before because he did not have any offer to be a good future.
The problem is there is a forming good relationship with Andeng and her rich boss Engineer.
Anton Noble when they were together in Germany for the business trip.
So good luck who is going to win the heart of Andeng?
In performing as a ikatlong gulong with Ian and Bea?
He said there was a reason when he entered the scene and he was not just put in.
But if he will be raised, he will be alive with Andeng and Anton is just fine because it means that he is effective "the porment he said in the series.
The A Love To was being watched, kamakalawa ng gabi matapos "My Dear Heart" to love to watch all the televiewers in ABS-CBN primetime Bida.
It is very much irritated with the grandPASIKLAB by SHAIRA Mae Mayor Miggy SA "TROPS" because he gets close to Bae Miggy in "TROPS" even if the suitor Bae Kenneth is already there and serious about him.
Taki is intense or irritated with the woman who sticks to Miggy, Mandy (Shaira Mae dela Cruz) and pissed that he was pissed every time the two were seen together and the boss is calling her friend.
Taki also does not want to associate or involve him by the said girl that he feels a lot to Miggy that what he doesn't know is that he is still in the heart of the young man, which is why they are already making a trops Kenneth.
Then there is a boyish (tomboy) with Mandy's former, the beauty is still beautiful.
Well it is not impossible to happen that Miggy is going to develop this.
But the KenTaki (Kenneth-Taki) team and MiKi (Miggy-Taki) team continues to be waiting for this show of three and they want their chicken to end up together.
TROPS is being watched, Mondays to Biyernes and 11: 30 A.M bago Eat Bulaga on GMA-7.



