Ang pangarap na team ng producer CENTURY effective baliktad only received in front of those who were hampas to give up when President noynoy aquino feel the search for the water to sustain water at the amount of limang apat Skahit milyong piso.
It is possible to last for three initial research on until it is possible to
Now, the starving in the bulacan Pampanga and square Manila in case the steel in studying gave up in order to pay attention to my studies.
We can be with the telephone bulacan governor wilhelmino Alvarado tonight that is very early to you to tell you.
It is a good morning in the 'yo antoni yes and we can also be with the other side of Ambet double Asia, Bella administrator how you are so early with this morning with beauty.
That was in the morning with beauty.
Yes, it is the same time when the Commission of the amerikano is right hanging down.
In the first first.
I am not just meeting with the tito we are going to be with us.
Sanim bulacan Beyond is going to be for forty-40 Sam.
It's all about peace so we deserve to look at it as well as the right thing.
He was going to be a celebrity in hello.
Yes, yes, the most important thing is that the most important thing came out.
But for the real reason why we want to be irritated like the first one.
He is apatnapu't apat na taong gulang, there is a second one to take a long time to beat the beat agreement because of Tupas, around two hundred pesos fare fare.
Third
According to a little pass by lurking.
There were your servant for you to be and fourth and I think it is just the most important thing that it is because our motorsiklo of the net left so she is being sent to her and extra care of what we want to do here in the Dapdap I am going to understand that we are right to understand that we are right to understand that we are right to understand that we are right to understand
"It is expensive here if there is a little bit of a technical problem that it is because of the income that I have seen.
In the view of the beat, there is a meeting West valley fault line line line.
You will also get thin from the hundred who do not have the initiative to crack or cracked or cracked.
It might be a technical bicol.
Ah yes, sorry for the station, which is why I have passed through the past that I know that the place said that the place said
The dam were currently meeting though when I said four reasons for four reasons.
It is now timely now.
It will be fulfilled so we will have to have it.
Getting familiar with it.
When we say we have to be called the person to break up with and with that is where it turns out that it is the same time for the barrio that can happen to be four in the humiliated of the month of July of July of the July of the July of the month of July.
It turned out to be sibad.
According to yes, yes.
Ha there is something important to be able to save someone who is going to be able to make it happen to my own friend here in the morning with beauty, which is the meaning of the fifty-year line of the dam, which is why it is still possible that it is possible and stop using it, which is why you know that it is just that old time, that is why it is just that old and stop using it.
It was the same time for the first cloud in the first cloud to go to the bath right now to bangs that there is a lot of stambong unibersidad now, brother wound, all over the year wound.
You will remember to be criticized if it does not necessarily mean we can't use it so we have to rinerrespects that we are going to find a disco to do or that I will take more than one hundred years, which is why it is the maintenance of the pants over the pants of Alvarado, which is the province of the bulacan here, the province of the bulacan, this is the province of the bulacan here, which is the province of the bulacan here, the province of the bulacan here is the technical working group is going to be a technical working group ha ha?
What did you have a role and why did he even end up with him when he was a little bit like that, he seemed to have tried to be broken by fear now to our countrymen if this news was news.
The tunled was the dead after the person after the person.
If we do not do anything that we are going to take advantage of these kinds of money but it is a karimlan but it is
Bago pa man ang mga nakaraang administrasyon ay we already iris it and karyas dalawang libong Nine when Secretary Torres pulutong impression of fever Marikina kukufiled this kind of crack in the personality when they say that this is the crack of the length of the length of the banyaga.
Ilalim pala ng mga taga-aso ang ilalim ng aso mula sa isang aso at Giray may humpay na si Which ang kagustuhan ng Diyos na magpakamot sa Sta at laguna at fear before if this is the one who is going to move into a team in cebu John lapus, "four turned out to be the one who feared they were afraid of their fear.
