The 82-year-old history of CEGP.

As unique and oldest alliance with the presidential occasions in the country, the College editors guild of the Philippines (CEGP) celebrated their 82-year anniversary of writing, fighting, and will be favorable this year.
Since it was form last July 25, 1931, history became a witness for some decades of fighting for CEGP inside and outside of university.
It started with four presidential vacation before, its possessed by more than 700 presidential vacation from more than 60 provinces in the country at present.
In its long history, the CEGP of individuals who recognize the country gave birth to different field.
Some of them are Helena Benitez, Renato Constantino, Abraham Sarmiento Jr., Antonio Tagamolila, Emmanuel Lacwell, Ma.
Lorena Barros, Armando Malay, Lourdes Simbrain, Isagani Yambot, Satur Ocampo, Teodoro Casino, and many, many others.
And more of this, getting involved is ongoing - and not only witnesses - it is exactly the CEGP in forming the history of fighting citizens.
It is the condition of the presidential occasions of kampus Ngayon, like last few times, the campus press is now facing the threats.
According to Marc Lino Abila, national general secretary now of CEGP, they recorded more than 250 violation of freedom of speech from the university from 52 presidential occasions to attend the University of San Carlos in Cebu City this April.
Some of these were the linabibilang dog with Jesusa Paquibot, the UP outcrop of the University of the Philippines - Baguio, because of its written articles magdadalawang years ago.
"The court has already released the arrest warrant for Paquibot last August last year where he managed to post bail from donations of organizations and friends for his temporary freedom.
The case is currently being heard, "according to Abila.
The CEGP also shared, the case that the Roque Dawn of the University of the East will be facing because of its lampoon issue.
The paglalathala fee was not able to collect the adstration from last year (2012).
The earnest ist Technozette of the Eulogio "Amang" Rodriguez Institute of science and Technology (EARIST) is facing the threat of the close vacation vacation since March if the adviser is not accepting that the administration has taken care of the administration for them.
"It was said in the memorandum that the administration released that the adviser has power to get involved in all aspects of the presidential vacation from choosing the budget of the presidential vacation until the use of funds for the presidential vacation," according to Abila.
The operation of the Philippine Artisan of the Technological University of the Philippines (TUP) -Manila this semestre was temporarily suspended because of a blind item that was identified to the director of the estudyante affairs of TUP-Manila.
The staff also had a hard time to school that are all critical writers in the policies in university.
"Also face exchange of the editorial staff of the presidential vacation.
According to the condition of the presidential vacation, their estudyante regent, which was the former tree, turned out to be a presidential vacation against them, "according to Abila.
It was removed from the process of the cost of paglalathala fee The Chronicler of Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) -Taguig this semestre.
The administration also does not recognize as an official presidential occasion for the kampus of The Chronicler.
There is also a threat to close the presidential vacation of the University of Cagayan Valley.
The balangay of CEGP has filed a complaint on the Commission on Higher Education in Cagayan this price of this price.
They continue to talk to the administration in the present.
The conditioning of paglalathala fee in the students remains manual and The Angelite of the Holy Angel University (HAU) in Pampanga from remove this adminstration in the process of payment during 2011 because of the released lampoon issue of the presidential vacation issue.
"Even the other presidential vacation of the students inside HAU has also been manual of conditioning because of this.
They were able to get out of the operation of the presidential vacation since then that resulted to the low number that will be given newspaper for students, "according to Abila.
Target against insurhensya Dati of the military is being accused of the consequences like CEGP as a simisador of armed rebels in the Philippines.
Once openly accused that it is harapan or a member of the guilder of the New People's Army (NPA).
It was the year 2005 under Oplan Bantay Laya when the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) release the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), "knowing Thy Eneko" stated that the NPA considered the CEGP.
This is still ongoing under the Oplan Bayanihan of Aquino, according to CEGP.
This has received a lot of reports of harassment from its members.
Even its officials in the Pamwet office of CEGP received a lot of gratitude sments.
"February last year when the bensyon of CEGP in Samar experienced surveillance.
The officials were followed up to the house of a guider (call for the member of CEGP) to be able to pass the night.
They know that they are dangerous then that is why they are controlling the people they know from the media, "according to Abila.
Marc Lino Abila, is currently Secretary-General of CEGP.
(Pkanyang Pasion) according to them, there was a man asking the other house if they were there.
They were not able to sleep all night because of fear.
They helped members of the National Union journalist of the Philippines (NUJP) in Samar to safely deliver at the airport.
Karl Doceo, Vice-President and Visayas of CEGP is puzzled, why including members of the presidential vacation in order of the military from a copy that they got.
"A staff of the earnest ist Technozette was followed by the suspected agents of the military.
While the staff was allegedly walking, he asked the following him if he was a member of the presidential vacation.
He denied that he was a member of the presidential vacation because of fear and told him that he would not follow him, "according to Abila.
The Pioneer of Palawan State University (PSU), reports that the AFP allegedly issued a warning of the AFP in their school saying that the members of the CEGP are going to be charged or members of the NPA.
The staff of the presidential vacation are allegedly identified.
As well as the report of the residents of Cagayan Valley.
Abila added, in their very celebration of the 82 anniversary of CEGP, they have specified agents following them since the morning.
They followed them up to the venue of celebration in Visayas Avenue, Quezon City.
CJA scrap in spite of the openly harassment and threats of the campus press, the fighting of CEGP continues against the domination of freedom of speech.
Abila added, the use of Campus Journalism Act of 1991 (CJA of 1991) of schools to suppress the presidential occasions of kampus.
The CJA of 1991 was approved to protect the presidential occasions of kampus.
But in the implementation of the law, the opposite happened according to CEGP.
"Yes, the law has a positive content.
But the lack of kaparusahan clause or punishment for breaking here is giving confidence in the administration to use CJA of 1991.
If the admin wants to close close vacation vacation or do not gather paglalathala fee, or suspended a campus journalist because of what he has written, they can do it because they will not be punished by this law, "according to Abila.
The CEGP is pushing for the dismissed of CJA of 1991 and the law of Campus Press Freedom Bill of Kabataan Party-list in Congress.
But this is still not going to be enough to stop the violation of the presidential occasion of kampus according to Abila.
"Campus Press Freedom Bill will be a big help if this law will be served.
But even this, it can't stop the campus press kalayaan violations, as long as the education of the workers, as long as the farmers are busched, as long as the political remains, as long as the political will remain, it will be published and economists in society, "according to Abila.
History of getting involved in the very motto of CEGP who is "Tor WoodITE," (Ang writing is one of options) a long experience of the narrowing and side of the ranks of actors who are taking advantage of people.
According to its members, the CEGP has long been shattered by the CEGP or tumututol, "in journalism.
According to Abila, these kinds of violation of the presidential occasion are ongoing because of the crisis in society that will flow the issues in schools.
According to him, the national national issue is not separated from the university that is why the journalist should not be separated from society.
"If it will lessen budget in education, they will increase bills, he will report the presidential occasions of kampus and does not want to be aired by the administration.
Even in private schools, because the education is commercial, all sorts of bills are squeezing the students.
Report (this) of the campus mamamahayag.
"It's being picked up now (this) of the admin no matter how much it is you objective," according to Abila.
According to Abila, it is the experience of the presidential occasions that I will attempt to attack them when the contents of the presidential vacation are becoming critical of the issues inside and outside of the university.
"Currently, there are still those who say that journalists should not be biased.
But experience and history are taught to us who truly should change in society.
And if you stay in the middle or position of the nyutrality in the time of taking advantage and oppression, in the esgency, you are biased taking advantage of the advantage and oppression, "according to Abila.



