The classes in Zamboanga City were still not allowed to turn the operation on the day today, the operation of the military against the emosyonal bawat action we find out is the latest report there from our companion Jorge Bandola While who are in Zamboanga City, how are the events of that in the Zamboanga City.
Showbiz like I said to take off the military operation against the suspected forty-five members of the moror National Liberation Front.
Ilalim ng ilalim ng
Warty.
For just a little bit of part of Barangay Santa Catalina and barangay tanod after being shot after being shot.
By the guard civilians but I was expecting a lot since that when the class will open up now that the crisis management committee is not yet permitted to the opening it rains, it is said that the situation especially in the schools near the Zamboanga City said, doc but nood well at the same time.
The one or we were able to buy each other for a while and linggong ito.
The Zamboanga dog is this dog.
Of course, of course, the dayo turn to the dayo is still dangerous.
It's also the teachers and students.
Four schools were directly affected by the fighting burned.
The rebel rebels destroyed this also according to the doctor well while it is still a good thing.
The only students were not allowed to enter it.
The teachers who you see in your television screens idea are not required to report since today and for the entire week, it seems to be a friday to turn on the teachers for the bottom of the teachers for the bottom of them.
The debriefing management session is traumatized by the management session.
Will focus on this whole week in debriefing to be able to do this.
Session in the property management especially the pictures.
That directly hit by the war said that the doctor is ten thousand thousand thousand.
Those who lost their homes or home after they were going to burn Maribel table Catalina Catalina.
Their houses are more than walumten teachers who are also passing away because of four schools completely destroyed by the war.
In the spirit elementary school you can see DepEd of four rooms in order for a rental anuhan debriefing session with teachers in the teachers.
Though one road is not affected and sixty-seven elementary at high schools here in Zamboanga.
It is still not possible to be able to class because of the series that there is a lot of threats and planting of the improvise explosive device device.
Which is possible to be done by the rebels or supporters of it.
The doctor assured that the department of edukasyon will directly help teachers who lost their homes and not being able to aloobits help through a load of load.
Direct financial assistance according to him and it will be given by the government that it will be.
