Pacquiao: Grassugat boxing raise By Ramil Cruz SSetyembre 2, 2016 without eight-division world pro boxing champ and Sen. Emmanuel "Manny" Pacquiao the devaluation of the amateur boxing in the country and one of his immediate glimpse of the two former leadership, which is the resurrection of the two former leadership before the current administration has been pushed by the two former leadership.
Pacquiao admitted that he himself is the product of the said program of the former amateur Boxing Association of the Philippines (Association of Boxing Alliances in the Philippines now) at the time of the father Gemilianox Lopez Jr. and Emmanuel Lopez who said the country was key to gold medal the country in the Summer Olympic Games.
The Go-for-Gold Boxing and Park Park which was fulfilling the time of Jose Roilo Golez was implemented by the Lopez of the Lopez on the pedestal of the ABAP.
ABAP President Victorico Vargas and executive director Edgar Genaro Picson did not proceeds to accept the regulation since 2009.
"Then I was inspired by the program that" that's the Go-for-Gold case they have not pushed through, so we are talking about the Philippine Sports Commission chairman (William Ramirez) that we will restore the Go-to-Gold, "said Pacquiao io yesterday at the top of the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of CENTeting in the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of the Philippine Sports Institute of CENTURY Park Hotel in Malate, Manila.
"It's going to be ginto during the day I even fought there.
I was also on a few away.
I have to remember "that we have a lot of produce boxers.
"I have to say that because I boxer, we prayoridad the boxing, but (BELIEVE) in boxing we can still get ginto in the Olympics," he added.
"That should be the priority, we are not going to get de kalidad atleta if we do not start in talahugat.
We will not only choose that as long as it is.
It's really simulan in the youth, when it's still to avoid "that habit of vices with that."



