
The arrest of Palparan in the middle of the one-Palparan violation of human human people.

Meaning to the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines August 12, 2014 said by the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) now that the arrest of former Philippine Army General Jovito Palaran this morning was conducted by the agents of the guusinong Aquino in the midst of the ongoing and extensive abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national abuse of the military and the national minority is the minority.

"It has long since the justice of the thousands of victims of the campaign of the campaign tero of General Palparan in crimes and abuses conducted by the rebels, which led the troops of the AFP," said PKP.
According to the PKP, the campaign of Palparan is concentrated on the armed activists in the ranks of the farmers, workers, student and other inaaping sectors who are helping the organisa of the masses so they can defend their rights and promote their democratic interest.

The PKP referred that "despite the maaanghang words of General Palparan against the Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB), there is no single record for his record against the BHB," emphasized by PKP.
"He became a bulging in the use of terrorism of AFP against civilians and activists who count and treat them as armed kombatant."

Wherever he is to take care of, it is remarkable and direct questioning the death squad that is conducting kidnapping, tortyur and orderly supporters of the activists and suspected supporters of the revolutionary movement.

He and his staff are directly responsible for the kidnapping of tortyur and loss in 2006 at the activists of UP who are Sherlyn Cadapan and Karen Empeño and their colleague, Manuel Merlalay in Hagonoy, Bulacan; in the kidnapping of the siblings Raymond and Reynaldo Manalo, in San Ildefonso, Bulacan; in the murder of 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in 2003 in meanwhile, Eden Marcellana and the aktibistang farmers, Eddie Gallegedly in Mindoro; and many other crimes were mobbed by the human-year-old people.

"It has been implemented endorsed, supported and the AFP maintains the taxi that Palparan used against the people," said PKP.
He was able to take care of the leader of some battaliand division of the Army in Ilocos, Mindoro, Eastern Visayas and Central Luzon when he released the removal of tero, instead of abuse, hanging, forced to disappearance, forced to loss, blokeyo in the food and economists and military military pressure to the buu-in-law. "

The PKP referred that the regime of the Marcos regime should be emphatically enundated the abuse of the human people who did the AFP under the campaign of the domination of Oplan Bantay Laya and II.
"There is no one uppresented military is the one who will answer the more than thousands of cases of those who are sentenced to the murder and those who can't count the abuse of the human people who did the AFP."

"It is only a decoration that the public-year-in-law of AFP is just a decoration in order to cover the brutality that the ander did and troops of the konupil Oplan Bayanihan, which is focused on the civilian population, which is currently focused on the way that the general, Palparan," said PKP.

In Iloilo, the elements of 82nd IB of the AFP were killed by the 38-year-old farmer Gerardo Larbo last July 17 while he was harvested in their corn fields.
The AFP called him to be batant by the BHB.

"The violation of the human people of the people in the places where the AFP of Oplan Bayanihan, normally in secluded areas where rob and dambungin of foreign big mines, disturbance and plantation are already in the secluded areas of the farmers and the minority of the farmers and the minority," added the PKP.

"From the Mountain Province in the legislative illlera up to the Pantaran Range of the Talainpanginoon in Mindanao, the bombs and the units of the AFP are suddenly stormed by the people's community, the houses of the citizens, they are going to pour the houses of the citizens and they are accused of supporters of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan, they are going to be able to relax the schools of the citizens and they are accused of their supporters of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan, they are going to be able to relax the schools, the day and barangay hall and barangay hall and the barangay hall and their rights civilians and politics are being violated and are being threatened and are being threatened by the people and are being threatened and are threatened by the children and old people."

"General Palparan was arrested but his inheritance of the persons who were about to attend the murders and terrorism of the military are alive under the Marcos regime."



