An ordinary citizen is at stake in the peace talks of GPH, NDFP.

"If we fought, we were bad.
If we stay silent in a corner, we are still bad. "
This is supposedly the treatment of the soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to the Aetas in their community in Subic, Zambales, according to Nilo, a leader-natives who don't want to identify for their own security.
In Tales mula sa lupa: Compelling dahilan sa resume Peace talks, Nilo is only one of the ordinary citizens who insisted the return of peace talks between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines (GPH) and National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP).
In the said porum of the pilgrims para the Peace and Sulong Cahrihl last March 19, the other sector insisted the needs of the sinserong conversation of the two sides to meet the roots of the armed arguments.
Nilo's story is ordinary.
He was kidnapped and imprisoned by the soldiers in the suspicion that he was a member of New People's Army (NPA).
The harassment of the group started when they built a group, government of the natives of Batiawan, to fight for the land ancestors in the middle of the threat of a businessman.
"We just want to insist on our rights.
But we are accused of NPA, "he said.
Similar victims of violation of human rights are leading the call to Pang.
Benigno Aquino III has a serious return to the peace talks to the NDFP.
According to the NDFP, again, he has faults again because of the back of the GPH from the first of these positions in the revolutionary government.
Borador for the truce and alyansa in the statement of the NDFP recently, he presented how one of the historical meeting "of President Aquino and Jose Ma.
Sison, founstrength of communist Party of the Philippines, in Hanoi this year.
SEK himself.
Ronald Llamas, political adviser of the President, the proposal of it in a meeting when in Amsterdam last November 2012.
Llamas promised to be raised by Alan Jazminahan and other doctors who have the NDFP, and that Jazmina will become a candidate in the said meeting.
According to Jasig (Joint Agreement on Security at immunity guarantees), the NDFP insists the release of the GPH in 14 who is in jail.
Before 2011, the NDFP filed the borador of the borador for a general declaration for the truce at alyansa, under the called espesyal track of the peace talks.
The espesyal track is the negotiation between the two sides to speed up the peace talks.
But according to the NDFP, until now, the GPH has no more submitted to the point of a point of answer here.
Instead, Aquino gave only a short message that pushing a ceasefire without a clear basis.
To discuss the maintained meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi, meeting two sides in The Hague last December 17-18.
The GPH of borador filed a common declaration for National Unity at the Peace Peace.
The NDFP of the NDFP, including the point of clarity, including the lack of clarity on how to rebuild the Committee on National Unity, Peace at Development which will be submitted by the proposed sotransactions of economists.
The GPH sets a kagyat ceasefire, although the reforms that are going to be done are not yet presented.
Meanwhile, the NDFP of his own borador General declaration of National Unity is also submitted to the National Unity.
Inilinaw here is the committee for the reforms society will rebuild the same number of representatives from the two sides.
The basis of the truce and alyansa are presented.
Included here will be dismissed by all the equal agreement and tratado which is against the national sovereignty.
As well as the real reform on the ground and national industriyalization.
"Ang mga mayayaman na likas na yaman ng Pilipinas, ang kasanayan at pinaghirapan ng mga Pilipino at expanded market dahil sa naturang Land reporma ay magiging mustered para sa economic development", according to the borador of NDFP.
It is also stated that a mayor will establish the projects in 11 industry, including the industry of metallurgy, electronics, energy, petrokemikal, pagkaing processing, and others.
The will be shared by the property of big industry, 20 percent in the government, 40 percent in the local investors, and 40 percent in foreign investors.
While small and moderate business is just for the local investors.
Along with the program in reform business projects in the community to lift the production production, while the projects of the industry are still starting.
The "historical meeting" Ngunit in the said meeting in The Hague, said the representatives of GPH said that President Aquino is not awtorated to signed any agreement.
Llamas has also been elusive when the NDFP asked about his promise to be raised by Jazmina and other doctors that they are not authorized to talk about such things.
Again the two sides of February 25 and 26 in Amsterdam were again meeting.
The NDFP was prepared for a draft Communiqué for the meeting of Aquino and Sison in Hanoi.
But the GPH immediately said that they have no mandate to discuss the said borador.
The GPH is also a table of his own borador declaration, which is the NDFP of the NDFP again.
It is a priority to the critics of the NDFP putting the unilateral and siguradong ceasefire in the front of the declaration, which is allegedly destroying the whole outline of the negotiation.
It is also stated that having a Final Peace Agreement, which according to the NDFP is being neglected in the regular track of peace talks, wherein the politics needs to be put in order to discuss the cessation of hostitions or repostponed weapons.
The NDFP also said that GPH does not want to use the words "true reform agraryo" and "national industriyalization" because there is a hint of ideology (ideologically kinasuhan).
The peace talks collapsed again when the NDFP mapagtanto that the meeting was only offered in Hanoi by Sison and Aquino to force their side to the declaration of GPH about the declaration of the GPH about the declaration of the GPH about the "only one or two meeting.
The government has not yet declared the words that are truce and alyansa that he first proposed by the NDFP.
NDFP: They are not closing the door.

"We are challenging the government Aquino to study the two borador which is being pristed last February.
We haven't closed the door to the peace talks.
Just need to show (GPH) their sincerity, "stated on the porum of Randy Malayao, the NDFP of the NDFP.
He said, the continuous imprisonment of his fellow consultant is no sincerity.
Malayao was locked for more than two years, and was only liberated recently because the court decided not to basis the cases against him.
The GPH also invited the said porum, but there was no representante of it came.
Other than an ordinary citizens who pushed return to the peace talks, Estrelita Bagasbas, leader of poor community in North Triangle, which is built away by sentered business.
It is his story, they can't sleep well at night in fear that the police will suddenly gather.
"He called out" justice for the poor, "that the government allegedly denied.
Two relatives of the victims of the murder and kidnapping also spoke to call for respect for human rights.
The wife of Marilou Mariano of Doña Remedios Trinidad, Bulacan died in July 2011, when the soldiers of the AFP fired their hut, despite their scream that they were civilians and not NPA.
His son Norman was also injured in the incident, but after this, he was charged with the court of illegal possession of Firearms and frustrated murder.
Meanwhile, the wife of Marites Chioco continues to be jailed, Rolly Panesa, a security guard kidnapped last October 2011 at the wrong thought that he is a higher leader of communist Party of the Philippines.
Mariano and Chioco asked for help to achieve justice for their relatives.
Malayao made a promise, they continue to make the GPH, to follow the first of these disment in the peace talks, like the Comprehensive Agreement on Human Rights at International humanitarian Law.
As well, this will continue to push the batayang reforms that will solve the roots of poverty and armed arguments.



