Araneta By Ramil Cruz Oktubre 21, 2016, is not surprising, there is no wonder that there is a courage to declare the challenge to incumbent Philippine Olympic Committee (POC) President Jose "Peping" Cojuangco in the election in 2016 in the 2016 in November 25.
He is Philippine Football Federation (PFF) President Mariano "Nonong" Araneta, who expressed that will run for president when the highest private organization in sports in the country, according to a maaasahang source yesterday.
Araneta tried to take the side of Araneta but it was no response while writing this news.
Araneta is scheduled to submit, in his ikalawang termino as PFF president, his candidacy for the next week for quadrennial POC polls that there is no venue in Metro Manila.
For those who want to run for the 1st and 2nd vice-presidente, kayamanan, auditor and four board of director or member, there will be until October 30 to submit the intention.
The Secretary General was just appointed by the President.
In the breakfast of submitting candidacy since the second week of the current month, no one had said to fight with Cojuangco, who was dreaming of the fourth dikit-four-year term since the first elected in the position in the 2004 versus Celso Dayrito.
Cojuangco won a vote in his re-election against the late Arturo Macapagal of shooting in 2008 in 2008 in minanimasterpiece.
No one will explode with Coarist in 2012 when the 3-POC Comelec decides to decide former Congressman Victorico Chavez, Richard Palou and Br.
Bernard Oca i was disqualified by dating Philippine Athletics track & Field Association (PATAFA) and Philippine Karatedo Federation (PKF) President Go Teng Kok Kok persona non grata of POC executive committee and kicked out in general Assembly led by Cojuangco.
The former national football team captain is planning to be Araneta, if winning, to strengthen all the NSAs that are in the payong of POC.
The businessman and members of the Asian Football confederation executive committee sat on the PFF last 2010 after winning the election as a replacement of the deceased Jose Mari Martinez.



