Admitted to the relationship with Maine!
"I have been taken!" -- Alden By Ruel Mendoza SSetyembre 20, 2016 thrilled the aldub Nation nu'ng songs of Alden Richards when he was single a single titled Rescue Me in Linggo pinasaya.
Hango in the new album of Alden that Sis the said single ire-release in Oktubre.
Because of the success of his second album, "Wish ko May," the Pambansang Bae, who release the single one, which is why he has been able to kill his co-host Valentin Montenegro if "he is still single?"
Alden quickly answered it was "taken."
That's why the fans of Maine Mendoza a.k.a. became thrilled.
Nanny Dub.
In question who wants Alden to be saved and iniaalay is the single Rescue Me?
Alden answered: "I hope he is watching now."
Alden was so thankful for his fans to continue supporting so his projects continued.
"Sa panahon ng Diyos ay ALWAYS ang tamang panahon.
Just wait for it to wait, pasensya is key.
"Lahat ng bagay na gagawin ko ay lahat para sa mga taong mahal ko, at malapit na ako".
Alden was awarded again for the outstanding bentahan of his album which was Wish ko May.

The Wish ko reached 8-times, there is a lot of gratitude that is why he is so grateful for those who have no sawang supported his album.
"All awards are paalala ng How well na ginagawa mo at How ang mga tao ay inspired By Ano ang gagawin mo kaya't kunin ko bilang Token dahil pahalagahan ng mga tao ang mga gagawin ko sa lahat ng aspeto ng aking hanapbuhay.

"I hope while my life is going to bring the Wish ko May album because it's DID so well.

It was really too much memorable dahil hindi ko akalain na magkakaroon ako ng album na mag-e-walong beses na platum sa habambuhay.
Thank you really, really.
"Thanks sa mga taga-suporta at tagasubaybay.
Just to inspire that it seems to be BELIEVE sa iyo so much na ibigay nila ang lahat ng kanilang suporta na gumawa ng kanilang suporta para gumawa ng memorable sa iyo ".
Alden cannot mention his beloved mother who started everything for him.
"Siyempre, sa mga fans, sa mga taga-suporta at sa lahat ng naging nananalig sa akin mula pa noong araw na sinimulan ko - sa aking ina, ang aking pamilya, siyempre sa aking pamunuan.
I was so thankful for them. "



