
Ali supports the rich in Manythem.

Posted By: Almar Danguilan sa Marso 1, 2016 sa opinion

It is not surprising why the support of investors and children are full of Kosehal Ali Aienza in Manila, for 2016 elections.
What is why Ali is the only first firm and opposed the plan of the current administration or the city government of Manila to increase 300 percent tax in Manila.
The object of Ali was supported by the City Council of a few more cases like Councilor Rod Lacsamana, and Josie Siscar.
Not only in the city council showed the resistance to the planned pressure of the city government to investors and citizens of the city but, Manila Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada was dealt with.
He asked for the father of the city to be pitied by the "children" (investors and citizens) - not to continue the plan for misery of the people - the plan is the imposition of too much high tax in the businessmen in Manila.
Ali's suggestion of Erap, instead of increasing the tax, chase after those who are not paying and a cheater in paying taxes and remove tax exemptions.
Because of the fight of Ali, the planned 300% tax increase did not work.
Instead, the city of the city of 150 percent did.
But, the government is planning the similar number of 150 percent to be imposed after the election.
Oh paktay.
So you are here in Manila, well, you will be waging in voting who will sit.
Don't even give up to you.
Whatever, even if it was half of 300 percent imposed - it could be said that the resistance made by Ali was still successful.
It is also a big deal so the loss of 150 percent of 300 percent increase.
Oh, if Ali and some colleagues of the Council did not opposed it, it was huge 300 percent ihor and daughter.
It's good to be there like Ali for the people of Manila.
For now, according to the businessmen, they are still having a hard time because there are situations that they feel that the imposition of tax in Manila is not humane and fair.
Many have ended up with the extreme height of sinisingil tax, particularly your small jobs.
Like a small barber shop, it was charged by 20,000 pesos (buwis), and even the small sari-sari store was not spared.
The businessmen in Manila said, said that the officials of Manila are not fair and fair because they are small and loyal to pay tax, load of very much increase but the gigantic company of communication is being able to keep on tax.
They are able to keep on tax, maybe the BIR should investigate this - when Commissioner Kim Henares.
Huge communication company, is it being able to keep in tax?
Is it possible?
The rich is thankful because even if there is one, Ali Atienza is there and managed to make a hair in the City Council to stop the unjust tax increase.
They are also hoping that when Ali wins as Vice Mayor of Manila will fix the wrong rules and ways of collect taxes.
The taxpayers believe that only Ali will prevent only one of the solution to get down the pay of those from Manila now.
"What they should go after, should be the bigoras tax evound and not" those who are suffering to pay for the right taxes and following the government. "
A businessman said, didn't want to be identified.
"We are simply supported by Ali, because we believe that only he will be able to take a couple of the resurrection of the new Manila" statement of having a businessman in the city.



