It is not that we will continue to continue our night in the morning.
Doctor Leonardo is a Orthopedic we talk about the issues related to the turn of the bone and it seems to be embarrassed and others and others are still different and others and others.
A demon cleo or a demon.
Double know the way that the way it is.
With all the listeners in the whole world.
Thank you for the front of some of the busy schedule, you reached this morning that it was good that we were able to make the word bones as well as our bones.
He gets fired by a lover boy who is a Orthopedic time when he / she said that he / she's an example of his example to break off the butane cane canisters he got into but it was granted that it would be a waste of time but we are not really praises right now but we just have not been able to hit it right now.
Okay, alright, the children will still be able to take advantage of that on vacation then they have been sleepy or more physical activities which are the ones who are the ones who are those who are.
We can advise there on their vacation on how to take care of their bones and avoid limping or
Even if it is possible to avoid it.
Sometimes it is not ah to avoid it but you can avoid advise you are taking care of you.
In our walking, kadalasan is the one in the meantime.
Customer damages are the accidents in the bones and will also be uk-year-school in the fall of Margie, especially when we are old, that we are already an adult in the evening that we are going to be happy when we are happy.
Ha, there is no good balanse that is going to take place in walking.
O too much digma floor, you will be broken with your aura there will be a aura disease in the bone and our clothes.
You have mentioned that we are smashed especially when the group is getting older, while a person gets older, he / she becomes a brittle which is a popular trend that way it is more prone area in the bali of the bali.
Or because as we are old, especially when it is more of the women that they are not going to have a gift menopause that you are going to have or the women who have been operated on their ground.
You are aware of it.
It is the same time that the student is already low and forth before that when my head is okay or directly red, it's because that's the student who does not accept twenty pesos.
In our bones in the woman so the student is being down and down by a student post under the cervical menupausal because it is detached from their overpass and then Irosin ha easily.
That's a post process.
The old man is that way as well as we are getting old, we are not going to expect too much.
It is not too eating vegetables that we are always eating fried, always Come in a easy break because of that, it is fried meat which is no longer a waste of meat.
Funny that it was going to be hilarious.
It is but the athletes are open.
Their body is not able to strengthen even the bones and they are also heard that they are promised to lay a little in basketball halimbawa, suddenly one of his / her leg was cut off because the bone was still out of his bones.
I was able to give up the same time I was able to give up the video right now.
It is said that it is the same time when he / she dropped his body, his body is really uncertain that his body can't take a lot of his bones, he can't handle it when he broke down, but most common of the athletes or the athletes or
You are calling my period of bahagya using her crack on the rael of the ligamento that their movie is often being destroyed and inooperated now in the athletes, which is why it is happening.
Even if it is possible that the host of the tagumpay will be bad.
Babalik on the question that I also have in the narativ what is meant to be like that negative to think that it is not in a hiheal ha ha ha?
That if she didn't have to go to it.
He's Batangas.
There are blood strong getting older but no one is too much.
And even if it was possible that it was a disease that was called genouri is Elmo the lolie really because of the Acute ma-trauma that is the important one to drop basketball player usually happens to the basketball player, which is usually happening in the basketball player.
It is bad that he landed on the spin off by the napuputol of your genetic disease, there is the truth to stop here in our backs because there are those partylist nine.
Yes here in the back we have an pinabatid panganay if it is the right thing.
That is why the papers are having a deterioration, that is why I am twitching as well as I am.
Yes, yes, because that is losing water when you get old
That would be the kampanya like an example of the other I heard that their food was complaining right? Ililage will go after your last name, which is the minuto to be destroyed which caused you too much to play by the one that
Basketball is too salty or when you are fat overnight so it is easy to make the music out of your cartilage here in the knee where we are going to be missed in the knee of his body.
Ha
The head was cut off as the number of the utol had a lot of contact with what we acquired but how are those who are always texting the recognition that we have to impact on his bones because you are always going to send someone who is going to send you to do something else.
That is how it is.
It's as if you're always going to be able to text you.
The young man once again.
The young lady they are fighting there in the meantime.
Sixteen-sixteen.
Visayas cooler saw this really long time ago that there is a problem when you still have a text case, the heart of you who will be able to make sure there will be Calumpit in order if the focus of the constant use of cellphone texting is going to be there.
You are once more complaining about the disease that is not the one who will not be able to do it.
That is the only time we are able to find out that it is possible that there will be no effect in the long run those who pray that they will probably send a message or use of having an effect because there will also be a eight frial spondylosis call the call of the cervical spondylosis call the call of the cervical spondylosis.
I didn't want to go to church.
You.
Cellphone but don't text too long for a long time.
But that's when we pick up our usapan with Iya with the doctor near or English, is the advice that he can give to our countrymen who are not the chin to take care of their bones, please
It's the sandal of the bong in the meantime.
Turns out to be able to do it.
Of course, it is possible that it is possible to fire fire and stressful activities that you will happen to happen again okay okay.
