Paistaran: JaDine fans, reacted to the "PAINGAALANDko" by Loren? James!
By Dondon Sermino Enero 7, 2017 who Loren Burgos?
Well, Loren Burgos is the only woman who hate the galit of James Reid and Nadine Lustre.
And why do he hate the galit of JaDine fans?
Well, he is because the threat to the "relationship" of James and Nadine in the television series hanggang Met You of ABS-CBN.
Anyway, Loren is just new to hanggang Met You, as "ikatlong gulong" or "panira" in the relationship of James and Nadine in television series, luckily, if the photos that he posted on Instagram account will get a 5 komento.
And even if it is "their photos of Jake Cuenca that he has been with in the movie aware, it is just the same way of 2 comments nu'ng Oktubre 28, 2016, ha!
And in his photo that he was sexy-eyed last SSetyembre 10, 2016, it was just a matter of 17 comments.
Ibig sabihin, it is concerned about her Instagram destination.
But, because he is the "panira" in the James-Nadine tandem on TV, suddenly, the photo with James Reid, who is in a swimsuit and seems to attract James Reid of 188 komento or just too much of the comments that he received before.
"It's just that, most of the comments that he gets, mad at him.
The other, seems to have exceeded the right behavior and personalan that is really the one who ira him.
But, do you have to feel sorry for Loren, if suddenly, his life runs different?
That if before, it seems that nobody is interested in him, now, thousands are handling him.

And the truth is, even if you say it's only more annoyed with him, that he tinawed flirty and all sorts of hurtful accusations, that is still a big help, which is here, that here, he really has to be in showbiz.
In the post of Loren, who is with James, is very afraid of the discourse.
And yes, it is really just the anger that he is mad at and we are not sure if JaDine fans are really just like that, "@ lorenburgos1: Repost mula kay @ keapeph.
Only on number of ABS-CBN number TillIMetYou.

Peace JaDine fans, it's just acting!
Thank you. "
"That is the caption of Loren in their photo of James, who feels like his followers, he seems to irritate or seems to be using the situation, to be able to handle the reaction.
And if "that's really his intentions, he's winner!



