
Pagseteachers in the health of the Bulakenyo, the center of Gob's administration.

Willy.

July 07, 2016 Shane F. Velasco.

The city of Malolos, July 7 (PIA) -- the first of the priorities of the past six years of management of governor Wilhelmino Sy-Alvarado in the capitol's investments in health health.

Proof of this is the four billion pesos that his administration spent from 2010 until June 2016 for the hospitals run by the Pamahalaang Panlalawigan particularly Bulacan Medical Center or BMC and the five stistrits hospital.
Included there are San Miguel District Hospital, Balidon District Hospital, Calumpit District Hospital, Emilio G. Perez Memorial District Hospital in Hagonoy, Gregorio Del Pilar District Hospital in Bulakan, and the Rogaciano Mercado Memorial Hospital in Sta.
Maria.
According to Alvarado, it was opened to the BMC last August 2011 the Oncology Unit who treated the 4,493 patient with cancer through a young chemotherapy.
There was also an Eye Center here where the 1,652 Bulakenyong in need of treatment in their eyes was needed to undergo operation.
Others here are 4,592 poor people who are able to make a free mirror in the eyes.
The Hemodialysis Department is also fixed which treated more than 34,000 Bulakenyong sick of stone.
Aside from this, Alvarado also announced that it is scheduled to come to BMC the karadagang 30 new units of dialysis machine from the Department of Health.
The provincial government also entered a contract, under the Public-Private samahan in MSR dialysis which is a private company, to buy additional 40 new dialysis machine for BMC.
Meaning, at the end of 2016, the total number of dialysis machine will be 82 in the said hospital.
Meanwhile, the renobation of the building of the Department of obstetrics is also finished at Gynecology of BMC.
It is mainly placed in order for the floors that are formerly with baiting and centralized air conditioned that all wards of it.
The Pediatric intensive Cay Unit or ICU is also placed in order on the third floor and the neo-Natal ICU.
In relation to this, along with the improvement of the facility, the 22,379-79 of the poorest Bulakenyo in Philippine Health Insurance Corporation has been reported to the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation under the Point-C.
It reached 5,919 that the poorest of those who have various aid and help like a wheelchair, cane, crutches, walkers, and nebulizer.
(CLJD / SFV-PIA 3)



