
Parangalan is our martyr!
Emulated their journey to the path of giving money!

NDFP Bicol Chapter July 07, 2013.

The offer of communist Party of the Philippines-New People's Army-National People's Army-National Democratic Front in the rehiyong Bikol in eight companions who risked their lives in a defense against the 31st Infantry Battalion this July 4, 2013 in Brgy.
Calomayon, Juban, Sorsogon.

The citizens are extremely aware of the accumulation of Ka Greg Bañares (Frankie Joe Soriano), Ka Miloy (Pehing Hipa), Ka Nel (Christine Pucar), Ka Gary (David Llunar), Ka Nene (Romero Añonuevo), Ka Jay (William Villanueva, Jr.) Ka Kevin (Ailyn Calma) si Ka Kevin (Ailyn Calma)
Their skills and intelligence are offered to each other and intelligence so that the citizens of the citizens to achieve a society who is truly free, just, and progressive.

Frankie Joe Soriano, known by the masses and companions as Ka Ems, and Ka Greg Bañares' friends in the media, is the eldest child of teachers in public elementary in Libmanan, Camarines Sur.

Ka Greg was early orphaned by the father, so it was difficult for a common teacher to be able to study with three children.
In the meantime, from the school of the highschool in Colegio de Santissimo Rosario in Libmanan, Ka Greg of the aunt in La Consolacion College in Iriga City.
He also continued being an active sacristan in the church.

He studied AB Philosophy in Ateneo de Naga University, and used this knowledge so that the understanding of the principle of the principle of the people will be better.
Since even members of the Kapatirang plebeians and the League of Filipino Students in Ateneo in 1989, he became active in support for the sake of the youth and students, and he continued to be trained by himself as the founservant of the people.
He became a organisador of the farmers in 1992, the revolutionary works in the sentered town of Camarines Norte last 1995, and also the Bikdialect in Manila during the second divided of the year.

He was appointed to act on the songerilya as a councilor of Panrehiyong kawanihan in the instruction in 1998, and since 2003, he served a voice of oppressed and poor people who were Bikdialect as Ka Greg Bañares.
He was a councilor of Panrehiyong Komite of Partido in Bikol.

Wherever it goes, it is content with all the feelings and action of Ka Ems to increase the celebrate of the masses and those with them, they will give weapons of the right perspective, stand, and ways to push for their democratic rights and desires.
With the strict bringing and promoting Ka Ems of the revolutionary view and conviction, the trust of companions and citizens are confident that the revolution will succeed.

Ka Miloy (Pehing Hipa) is from Barangay Butag, Bulan.
Just a few hours after being a member of the youth of the youth in their barrio, he decided to join the New People's Army because he knows the armed town is the weapon of the people who are similar to the people who are struggling against the abusive state of big landlords.

In more than fifteen years of service of Ka miloy to the people, he deeply stopped cooperating with the masses and warriors of the armed town.
This is an important salik for him to progress as one of the talented red ander of Celso Mmatahimik Command and even a councilor of Pamprubinned ite of Partido in Sorsogon.

The red warriors are verbal about being a good ander of Ka Miloy.
The companions in his leadership trust because he did not make the sudden news of the operation of the enemy.
He sharp monitored the situation of the military in prubinned which caused good appearance to the enemy.

The inside of Ka Miloy became lighter because he was possessed by the sentiments of the mandirigany of his fellow farmers.
In the right way he can give up the criticism.
Good in dealing with the masses, calm in telling stories, this is the memories of Ka Miloy.
He also does not choose to deal with the struggle.
He always has time to connect with companions, but when it comes to the military issue, he is aware that he is holding a tight discipline.

Once the enemy of Ka Miloy was arrested, but because he knows the lack of giving of the revolution, he continued to move after being free.

As part of his duty as a councilor of komiteng prubins, Ka Miloy also served as a second secretary of the committee of a field gerilya in Sorsogon.
He acted as the ander of units gerilya of the said field until he is being rled.
Ka Miloy died that handling his gun was strict, proof of his grip on the armed struggle.

"Christine" Ka Nel "Pucsya is a picture of a real communists.
Despite the big poverty in giving birth, he was not found to be seen by hesitation.
His unlikely vision is not a barrier to ungin the mountains of the countryside.
Even if it came from a mayor that operation medical and made rest of his wounds, he chose to continue to perform the important tasks in the ranks of the farmers in the countryside.

Since it was an organisa in 1993 as a student of Journalism in UP College of Mass Communications, the whole time of Ka Nel, he was about to give birth.
Ka Nel doesn't get tired of the gampan in any task.
You will recall as well as with someone who is always offering a task.
Even if it is still studying in Bicol University-College of Education Laboratory High School, Ka Nel already has the right practice to face the tasks.
He developed his progress in the leadership of the piled work that he learned to be involved in Partido.

Sharp, intelligent, and always put the welfare of the poor and being oppressed.
Ka Nel admires his good balance to the challenges of being the revolutionary mother, being a wife, and most of all, as the founservant of the people.

Ka Nel listed in 1998 as a councilor of Istap in the instruction in Albay.
He was transferred to the Panrehiyong Istap in the Propaganda last 2001 where he headed the more way near the revolutionary line in the masses and even in the middle force.
Year 2006, he was assigned to Sorsogon in order to continue the task on the ranks of the masses.
Ka Nel is a native of Legazpi City.

The professor of Computer science in Ateneo de Naga University last 1995 was Ted Palacio, Ka Gary for those with them.
In Ateneo, he graduated from BS Computer science.
Despite the invitation of the big office that will surely give him a comfortable life, Ka Gary is trying to top the more weight that you need to report the wide citizens in order to al!
He sacrificed the high salary as the professor and started to act as a organisador of fellow teachers and students.
He became active since 1996 in fighting for different issues punitive to the people, from the increase of tuition, until the price of oil increase.
Afterwards, in 1998, he was listed by Partido as the organisador of the workers.
When next year, Ka Gary decided to make his service in participation in the armed revolution in the countryside.

The contribution of Ka Gary is meaningful in assisting those who are starting to reconcile with another kompyuter.
It is also a very big benefit for the revolutionary movement shared by Ka Gary that he is making in the computer program.
As well, simple but sharp presented to the companions and the masses the revolutionary line of the Partido in his giving education.
Faithful to his pledge of duty to the Partido Komunista to serve the kind of being raped and oppressed, continued and he stayed in the revolutionary movement immediately after being free from the caption of the enemy.

The quiet Ka Gary, who is a genius if being treated by companions, is also one who is a one to speak to.
He is also proud of companions as one of the best players of chess in the entire region.

Ka Rey (David Llunar), Ka Nene (Romero Añonuevo), and Ka Jay (William Villanueva Jr.) are all good red ander of Celso MusiCommand who came from the ranks of the uring farmer.
It is unique that they are being humble and calm but brave in front of the fight.
It is not a few instances when Ka Rey and Ka Nene have a good contribution for the launched taktikal offensive of CMC, as well as for the defense of the fight.
Ka Jay is known by those who are included in Camarines Sur as a ander who is always leading the operations that are shook and haras against the forces of the enemy in Rinconada.
A few operations that will also be a butterfly, which is his successful accomplishments.

Ka Rey bore the organization of the farmers in Gabao, Irosin, until he becomes a member of the Sangay of Partido in their barrio.
Ka Nene and Ka Jay are diligent members of the organization of the youth in their respective barrio.
Ka Nene ia, Irosin is Ka Nene, and a native of Macad, Pasacao, Camarines Sur, Ka Jay.
Like a lot of young farmers who are accustomed to poverty, they decided to join the New People's Army in order to be effective, both farmers in solving the root of poverty.

Ailyn Calma (Ka Kevin), native of Padre Diaz, Bulan, Sorsogon, will join the armed town in 2009.
That year of the direct meddling of the American soldiers in Bikol, particularly in Sorsogon.
In this situation, Ka Kevin became aware of the violence and deception caused by the formation of the US, which is why he became deeper in the meaning of fighting against the corruption of foreigners and their local founsupport.
Since there was a couple in the hukbo, Ka Kevin developed himself as a organisador of youth and groups of culture, as reporters given education to the ranks of poor farmers, and as a organized supply of the armed nation.

Ka Kevin and Ka Jay are members of Iglesia Ni Cristo.
But their belief was not a barrier to participating in the armed struggle.
Rather, they consume being good children of the country to live in the real service to the people.

The perfectly role of Ka Kevin is a meaningful role in the last few years in more exile of the organisadong strength of the farmers in the countryside.
Ka Kevin continued to contribute all his ability to the consecutive pagbufully Samahang Masa of the farmers, women, and youth in the baryong his kinilusan.
The taumbarrio will not be forgotten by the one who gathered them to tackle themselves, armasan of the revolutionary revolutionary study, and rebuild their own strength in the hopes of interest of their kind.

The revolutionary movement and the people were being called again for the eight martyr of the revolution.
They turned out their time to progress the ability of the masses and companions.
In their own particular tasks as the communists, they led the revolutionary force to step out of the api and being raped, weapons of principle and guns, and slowly to stop the rotten system too much punitive to the people.
In fact, our martyr saved each other, in every relationship with the people and companions, the seeds that will be the one who will persevere the continuation and strengthening of giving love.

The being pushed by the people who are being forced by the people to solve the AFP through direct pasismo.
For the armed forces of the state, the right criticism and fighting is no way, which is why they are also not different of the attacked 31st IB armed with the armed companions.
There is no acknowledging the laws of digma the 31st IB when they shot the ability to fight Ka Greg, Ka Nel, and Ka Gary.
As well, each got discouraged, even shot in the head of the paps.

Our great martyr of the revolution is left by the laksang farmers, professionals, youth, and women in order for their skills and intelligence, as well as their courage and stability in front of the feroality of the enemy, to go forward to the digmang town until the success of the nation will lead.



