A Filipina caregiver because of the rael is the only celebrity after lessons in a prestihious awit contest contest contest contest.
Aside from singing he also attacks acting on each other.
Emergency room.
Wow.
We are still talks with each other today in the morning bente 40 pesos factor is a little bit champion there is a Osang fostanes with Bernie but good Morning too!
Ah for now that I just send it to maybe minsan isang buwan na ang nakakaraan.
Ha we have to show that I have to be forced to have a concern in August bente apat.
In my snack in Tomas Morato in the week ha for our countrymen to say you have to go to the squatter.
It was the same time when I worked with it, I worked with libong anim Sman of the attack giver of "caregiver and after a few years before you join the ex factor maybe anim na taon will join you.
Anim na taon na ang anim na taon na I was there when I was able to find out the program gave you the courage to give up the courage to the ex-misis factor ano
I put it down before that I also joined the kompetisyon they didn't have to go to but there or still wouldn't be the one to kiss the motorist, I was really just going to be able to deal with it when it was really possible that I would be able to do it.
You need to get to know you first outside the war or like yes because I changed my propesyon and Oktubre because I know that it will not be noticed that it would be the same time when it was possible.
I am also Cavite I don't know that no matter how I can avoid being a promise if lord really wants to give you all your blood really to sing.
You to join in mind.
Ex factor yes exactly a smile and I heard it's not just that we can't be in singing if it's not even in the act because of my resentment, as an actress or finished what they want to release with someone who is going to release them.
Number or really push through the successful rose.
Wait what kind of dish you have made up with.
Kasabay ng isang negosyo ang buhay ko.
Or really ngiti rich with your bahagi is that we will review it as a regular diet while that is really busy what you have to go to visit.
It is possible that it is a stage chapter to vote for really very difficult in a linggo will not be taken away from the next week, there will be taken away as much as strong as strong as the strong or if you are going to identify your strong strong or if
Ha, God laughed, we are not going to be bad there with those who don't have to maubos kada linggo.
It is really that we are in a table what your family said here when Spain still won Spain.
When they were first surprised that it was because they were at first.
Be seen by all the news.
It was a bit nervous because of course I knew when I wasn't going to win because I might have to go with no interest again.
"It is also possible.
