That I remember what we said when we are not going to be able to file a case yet to be charged earlier meets earlier a while ago.
Hello yes, what is a hello that is okay?
Yes yes, that is Marlon Marilyn.
When it is still barangay who is still a barangay who is who else.
"When is that again, there are anim ', there are other barangays ha ha ha who is going to be there.
Yes, they Elaine yes, yes, that is why Marlyn is going to say yes to hello again.
Two of them, they will park the other barangay mayro, they are indeed the same with you!
Ah, some still Marilyn who are still here who will make you stronger than yes, yes to take a look at them that I am not with you, I am not going to go with the Ro, "yes yes, yes, yes, yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
Apat na
Who went up to go up ha didn't go then go with you didn't go to go.
Anyone who went there.
"It was the same time with the same time, who did you see that there was a sin made," is that going to buy something like that, then it was jejebs that's why it's not the right thing that's why it's not possible that there's a person who doesn't understand any of those or what's like a son-in-law and what is like a son-in-law and what is like a son-in-law and what is like a son-in-law
What's his son ha or what yes that's a child's.
Hello at night, you don't want to be here 'son-in-law hello yes yes.
You have heard that your life is very quiet without the two of my aunt, Nida silent that you are going to have no grip on what I do not want to know but they do not want to move away but it might be afraid that it is prohibited.
It is also hearing that it is possible that it is possible that you are going to be able to attend why he said yes then he does not want to move away from when you last Yuson you hello
What does not want to be, even if he sat just standing near me, he was just going to be able to go through with the same time, but we would go through the same time when we were going to be able to go through with it.
Sell.
Ha Tito Paul 'that day, there is no one I sometimes bus that is what you have to cut off the line that you are cut off from me, "
Ro, it's the same thing.
It was cut off or chopped up as if it was still possible that he would be able to do anything like that, "when he / she is using my voice ah that's my voice.
It was cut off for you to momor yes then that your voice is okay?
Yes, it is not going to be able to take a long time ago yes where is it that the ugly of what is ugly of what is the right thing to do.
Where do you use it what do you allow the face yes where it is hello chopped off.
Let us go ha ha yes then we will go together.
It is said that it is going to be a close thing because there is a question that you are going to have a question crazy about who else who is with you in the neighborhood indeed.
Ha
It is said to be prohibited where it is said to be prohibited.
Not that I am not included there's not just lifting you to be here last night, right to go to the barangay.
Ah, you are sure or what I am going to do with the same time? "
