
Sgathered.

Ssaved (Lk.
11: 37-41) as usual, I am going to meet again.
It's not new to me anymore.
That is why I always have a handkerchief in the pocket of the cold.
Sometimes, I have been carrying two handkerchief.
But the poor in this is when it is in front of people.
I am looking forward to it.
People even hear my singkot because of the mikropono.
And it is embarrassing that the cold is miraculous.
(It is more embarrassing to the tsiks... dyage buddy... ha ha...
At once I forgot to bring a handkerchief.
When I arrived, the cold attack.
I searched for my pocket.
I am panick.
No handkerchief.
Here is the cold.
Dumudungaw.
I can't stop the mass.
I saw the purificator in front of me.
I was cut off by what I used to correct my cold.
(Don't you scattered that and the other priest might know... ha ha... I let it go immediately) Lumapit me then to the doctor.
Doctor said it might be an allergy.
I thought about the term "allergy" is already termino that is why I am sure that my being able to meet is not an allergy.
Anyway... I am nisied medicine.
I drank it.
The cold disappeared.
But only for a few hours, it came back.
LOVES that I am really LOVES by a cold.
That is why I have accepted that I will be able to meet.
I'm just saying that it's really like a kid.
I just think that when I became a young man, the cold would also get tired and would leave me too.
I am also going to research what is causing it.
It is said that this is a sign that the immune system is going down.
It can also be lacking in Vitamin C. Pwede also because it is sarcastic sweat.
Or it is because of the dust.
But the vice guard said... Kailangang to be clean to not get sick.
You need to wash your hands before eating.
That is why parents are pointing out to the children to clean the hand to remove the germs that can be included in food.
It wasn't just in the Filipinos to find it.
Even before in the Jews, it was ordered.

It is necessary to be clean.
For them, it is included in the work that makes the abanal.
But Jesus has a reminder: "Not the one who comes to the mouth nagpaparumi the person, but the one who comes out of the mouth is the nagpaparumi."
Alalabaga, in the heart and the mind comes from the evil of the people.
What is the color of that will also be made.
It is important to be clean.
But it is more important to clean the will.
One person is not in the custody of his value but for how much his character is being monitored.

God will not be judged by how much you are annoyed with the body or is how bad you are ango.
You will be judged on how much your heart is annoyed... Hanggang here just first... I will be able to taste it first...

Is it a lot of nasan that I am going to be able to wipe a cold?



