Because of extreme poverty, some students are forced to enter the school of complaining stomach.
It is supposedly a big effect on the ability of students to learn according to Unicef.
Tina Panganiban Perez Perez.
Spain Spain.
Every day when the ten-year-old John Paul wakes up when he always asked to pay for the food of his complaining stomach.
He often entered the school of bones.
He said he can't think properly so often kuleland cousin classmates.
I am dumb.
In the study of Unicef's when it is lacking in bitamina and there are already those who like the saints who are going to call their ability to learn how to learn their ability to learn.
Let us know that he needs to be able to do the same time with
Sugar no'n to be working so it may be when he is in school affected by his.
The ability to concentrate while teaching is his teacher even if Tonton wants to be able to make it to the nakahingi ding program of his school in Payatas.
He also had no class because he was in normal way.
So even if it is included in the sixty-six million students in the whole land night that he goes to hunger, he is not included in a half million Filipinos who are identified by the department of Education DepEd as the delivery system or those who are planning to prevent their age and other programs along with it so that they will be more than expand and other programs along with it so that they can expand and be able to convince them, they are not about to expand them and other programs along with it as well as possible to expand and
It is Private that there is a chance for the same time when John Paul is hoping for the delicious number seventy Nine assistance act that aims to be given a book and nutritious food everyday all the students in public school regardless of their weight.
But this is not there.
John Paul's two friends because they are included in the room of the school upang pabagsakin in the karinderya when there is a child who is going to buy their money, they really do not have a lot of a glass of champorado who is eating the children here according to how many times he's going to eat the children.
The appointed because of DepEd is full of coconut meat and vegetables that they should also be able to meet the same requirement for his mother and the nutrients of the child.
The white that should have been half of the requirements he had to meet with the fund of the government defense of DepEd, they just got in the budget of DepEd in the division of the alliance, which is why the benefit will be limited to the division of the alliance, which is why those who will benefit from the budget of the alliance
Last year, two thirty-six% of the total number of them were Moises who was a child who was the one who was very, the program of the program if it was a fight against the fight
Ikatlo.
For that day, the child can perform a good nest is possible to be a nest.
Joking and school uso magpakain program if triple sim two apat na buwan of our
That's what to do with that.
We will be expected but the good news provided President noynoy aquino of a billion peso for the coming July when all five hundred thousand similar questions over the program will join the program.
DepEd believes that it will be pagdalo and the siopao grade will be reduced if the children will be given enough nutrition by children.
For the expected hope of the country, he is not able to make his father.
Tina Panganiban Perez Perez.
