The Tigers Bicolano Philippines has a new Tigers Philippines, the anniversary of the niebe earlier, which is also going to return home to the Philippines, but Dante perello Dante is going to go home to the Philippines.
It is only now that you are one hundred 40 anibersaryo pagdiriwang of the Philippines and along with that, the unique service of service is given recognition.
Also.
It is the same time that you will be able to resolve the pilosopical newborn that they buy a new buy.
He was able to get drunk department of national defense secretary volward Gazmin at guest of honor and speaker in the celebration of the celebration.
Also attended here the high officials of the taon of 40 sentimos a
The unique organizations civilians and soldiers were given recognition to the armed service of the armed service in the armed service.
A strategy jose, the Filipino still has a strategy in using the third highest recognition of the combat operation gold cross medal, after their troops confirm the biggest camp of the endless gimmick last two libo Sman.
Highlight on the occasion of the blessing of new antibodies bicol is the Philippines that Filipinos are so pitiful.
This includes a multilayunin that is being traffic and two busty photos expenses weekend.
Secretary Gazmin and ridden along with some members of the media were inaugurated.
The different types of military also had a eksibto you in the modern guns.
Along with the baby boy is the turn over a second hanging down cutter Dallas is the West coast guard in the Philippines.
It was done with the money law Enforcement training center in Charleston timog Carolina.
The itutuloy composed of the ambassador of the one who will be able to attend a high-ranking official is what you have to attend to the turn over.
This will be named, Ramon Alcaraz and included in the ranks of the pagkakaibigan of the Philippines shared by the modernization of the program magsalita.
A novena, a new biling ship will be expected to come here in the country.
It's because it will be put under the resiping and training of my
He's a hot news from here with someone.
