Bombing and extensive tickled in Mindanao.

A brutal and full-todong digma launched now by the Marcos regime against the people of Mindanao.
This is in accordance with the opposition and anti-national program to give up the corruption of foreign companies in mining, tologs and commercial plantation in the natural wealth of the island.
From the start of 2012, there is no incessant bombing and other violation of human rights were conducted by armed galamay in the civilians community.

The tensurent of attacking these areas of multinlandlords and company companies, Sultan Kudarat, Davao del Sur, Davao del Sur, Sultan Kudarat, Davao del Sur and Agusan del Norte, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte where the big mining of Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte where the big mining of Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte where the like this summer and Nickel Asia, in the wide minds of North and South Cotabato where is the plantation of Dole-Stanfilco; in Davao Oriental and Compostela Valley where the gigantic Russell mining, Dole and Sumifru, Dole and Sumifru, Dole and Sumifru, Dole and Sumifru, Dole and Sumifru and Sumifru, Dole and Sumifru and the First Gen hydroor Sumifru and the First Gen hydromagtanim ng suplay ng kuryente ang planta ng kuryente.

The natives strongly condemned the indigenous groups and protector of human people who are brutally and extensive bombing in the civilians community of the natives in Mindanao.
Last March 30, the native who were forced to evacuate their own communities marched in Butuan City.
They criticized the incessant bombing and insists the immediate evacuation of the troops of the AFP in their community.

The operations of the AFP were made to hold and trained using the Special CAFGU Active Auxiliary units (SCAA) which was completed and was going to let the bisa of the command of the Marcos regime last October 2011.
The burial of the SCAA is in accordance with the policy of the regime to give up and protect the big foreign companies in mining.

In total, it reached 3,000 people were forced to be bakwit in the time of tagtanim and summer.

Three separate incidents of the forcibly ebakons and other violation of human rights in Bukidnon, Surigao del Norte, Agusan del Norte and Compostela Valley were recorded by those who were defending human rights this February-March.
Up to 250 families were forced to evacuate their community from Kitcharao, Cabadbaran and maburol part of Butuan, Agusan del Norte, Rainbow ver, Surigao del Norte and Barobo, Surigao del Sur.

More than 120 families were bakwit from Magalaga, North Cotabato, more than 50 from Kibhanga and 19 families from San Fernando, both in Bukidnon and some from Barangay Tibagon, Compostela Valley and Barangay Balabag, Bayog, Zamboanga del Sur.

The whole family of the murdered leader, Jimmy Liguyon, along with other members of their clan and community in the midst of the continuous threat of Aldy Salusad, leader of New Indigenous People's Army Reform (NIPAR), a group of New Indigenous People's Army Reform (NIPAR), a group of New Indigenous People's Army Reform (NIPAR), a group of New Indigenous People's Army Reform (NIPAR), a group of paramil@@
Liguyon was murdered by NIPAR last February in his house in Dao, San Fernando.
Salusad is also a member of San Fernando Matigsalug Tribal datus (Sanmatrona ida), a group who challenged big foreign companies of mining to eliminate the local resistance against its operations in the area.
Those from Dao in Malaybalay are stopped now, Visayas of Bukidnon.



