We will be able to go forward to live here in the interview with the interview first of the Philippines, maybe the spokesperson that we talked about this morning there is a good morning that this is a good morning to you Carina and our batikan, which is a good morning in the subdivision buodshort once again teach them in the subdivision buodshort once again teach them in the subdivision buodshort once again teach them in the subdivision buodshort again. Our gratitude at the old age of old liver hada first is our gratitude
Then filled with our graduation and you have to express that it is an important thing that we should know our countrymen particularly the state of our country.
Philippines maybe for now, maybe it is timely kapitel inconvenience that you will be described as well at isa pang mga bahay ang ating Pilipinas baka yes to the first time I start with the Philippines, right away from the modernization and until there is our anibersaryo.
The observation of the pina-baby's problem is a branch of armed forces of the Philippines pretending to correct someone else's ponente.
This is the beginning of bente walo.
There are dalawampu't eighteen labing eighty dos almost along with this for our kalayaan.
Walang
The description of the Philippines to do that we have the Philippines has a small ship owned by the revolutionary
And this was able to cross the post about it in the meantime.
Manila bay.
It was the first to fly blog.
The name of the ship is Magdalo.
There is the start of the kapanganakan of your Philippines, baka
There are dalawampu't Thirteen siyam than eighty dos this June one of the one hundred eighteen anibersaryo of your Filipinos, so we are able to take a peek at this mandate that we take a peek at which we take a peek at that we are going to take a look at each other.
They said the deer constitution.
Kabilang ang mga protektor ng mga tao at estado ng apat na Smaging ng security balitaan
It is a integridad state of your Filipino.
But for now, it is the taping rope we can say that it is going to be nice enough enough that it is enough enough.
The ability of his sister armed strength vessel.
Especially for the sake of the whole of the country and the waters around us in the meantime, we are going to be able to go through the modernization so no'n since our beloved president, Filipinos, which is why we will be able to sit together.
Rivers again by the modernization law is ashes ha ha ha.
I combine that and then those who are going to do it.
Modernization that came to the Philippines now that's the brand of the help of the yuan and then Austria last two libong ten, our first impact here is the multimillion layunin and all of us.
ALONE will be able to make her flying out of the same time when she is heading to the room with what we have shown now that it just passed by the one that came to see that it was invited to come there.
Play ang video abuse na tanong ng isang Nine mula sa Italy
So it came or the first Three over the last year, "
Two of the two who have been capable of rockets and then in the armas system.
Doesn't want to be sakro ha.
Intelligence security and has been on a record in a operation so that I will come back there with the impact here is the small use we are using during Amphibious operations in the secondary reason yes that it will still increase in a newspaper humanitarian assistance and then another refund, which is why it comes to the Philippines five helicopter and we have two del Pilar crush that we have to endure. Labing-anim na ayong business is worthy of the afterlife that is worthy of the afterlife.
Ibinulgar hes, Ramon Ramon Alcaraz birthday gregoryo.
For the first fifteen.
The third is going to come this now.
Pagtatapos ng taong ito this is what we can remember noong nakaraang taon when Obama went to.
My friend of the taon is the task to donate them again for two ships this is our ikatlong linggo
The office of the office was able to take advantage of the office.
It is okay and it is also coming to the research that we are going to sasakyang force
This was a decision noong nakaraang buwan and going to the moon of the shirt
In the Philippines to be in the Philippines.
Yes this is the gregoryo Velasquez para our ship that will be used in labas before I pass it to zarina microphone as long as ten capping luwad so we can say that it is going to be the capability building of our Filipinos baby Anda dia Sda dia umunlad.
Can we say that we will be able to spread in any of them.
It's a trip to internet para sa internet para sa
You text that we are going through the panatag yes but it is kahit you are there and will be able to cook the andothere Abunda far there is because before before it is too far, we can say that we are going to sit in and then We are going to say that we are going to sit in and then We are going to say that we are going to sit in and then We
It's going to be the administrator's administrator.
They post their modernization of our modernization if it is up to Arizona if it is brought because it is still time when we have a tupak in the tdahilang planned population.
Positibo at buo ang loob na hopefully continue to tell the Philippines, maybe one hundred eighteen anibersaryo yes that you are laid out of the program and theme of the theme and theme of your program and theme.
According to the attendees I had forgotten to say that noong nakaraang buwan kasabay.
Just that he has a 16 who came to the first bathroom that we are going to call that they are called awa 'mapamaraang sealift sasakyang pandagat and this is
Part of the anibersaryo of our anibersaryo in the service here is the ship of the republic of the Philippines Tarlac Hello so the biggest one here is the biggest in the invent of your Philippines, maybe there are a lot of things that this is using a lot of these things.
The traditional role of the voice is first in the first time we can use it then it is going to turn into a coneline okay with the tank of the tank in the span of the house where he's going to be able to pay.
It is for the one hundred eighteen anibersaryo that I have all of these following yes, I said earlier but now that we will be able to make it through the same time.
June.
Sina Thirteen.
Onboard or will be held there in a lot of us times that they are not going to be a sister boy ha ha?
Our God next here is our president for the conditioning and then there is a preselling that there are also three times from the australia and board of the grand champion and board of the grand champion.
Will be included in the training.
Yes, yes.
It's a new anibersaryo that's what's going on.
In jubal 'to be able to report the personal that that would be gone, that's what you would be described if we were good to have said yes that we would just develop a lot of our current chair, which is the one we have to be in the current seat.
Gustong mamili at ibenta 'which is opened by the amerikano, gusto ng our Philippines has initially moved to the Philippines before we will finally be able to
This is what we are doing in Pranses.
Because of the cellphone of the human Capital strategy, the pagtatanghal of the delivery of atomic is shy of the human process of the dalaw of our dalaw operation of our dalaw, whose retirement lee will continue to push through your retirement.
It is possible that you will be able to take a chance to tackle the personnel because the important asset in an organization is the staff so We have to capacitate lahat ng mga tao than because of the slowly we are going to be able to handle it.
Those who are going to have it.
Our dalawang sasakyang pandagat.
For the celebration there in the bathroom dried people there are coming from those who are coming from the house.
It is the same time when they are able to call the old sasakyang pandagat in spite of it but it means that before then that they will
There are training that are able to pay at the time also update that it is okay for us to just return to the beach party Tarlac mentioned earlier that you can use the command center as well as they are right there, this is how it is a matter of Yolanda when it is done right by Yolanda when it is the right time for Yolanda when it is the right time, this is where it is
Pababa all the communication down all the electrical ricki white.
He can be a tendency to go there when he is going to be able to take a party with his head.
Three hulicam that it's going to be together so much.
If the president has a staff or that's why sir, they grabbed them to walk out for the corporation, it is easier that they are very critical because of his large amount of cargos warehouse, he immediately responded to the important airplane or ship the delivery and then there is a two of these contract.
At susunod na linggo de-deliver ay maaaring sa susunod na taon twenties
Two of them are supposed to take a second because of your contract on the video of the ship here in the country Indonesia that I am the size of the head, especially duster, once the events can really be swayed by those events.
Relief goods that are really important and able to make sense of sports vehicles that need to be now asked here, the cat at Gregorio del Pilar ligtas
It is the insurance cover of the oo duration of this is not the flag ship of the Philippines in the present that he does not want to be strolling in around the timog I might have to go to school anyway, which is why they are going to be able to go through the same time.
It was a bird and then it was just a kararating of Raymond two ehersisyo from join it was in the liham By from Brunei income because of the father, this trophy came to this trophy.
This is the diesel that we are proud of with the same time.
It is said that we can ride Raymond can only approach me, I can teach him especially now that he is only sixteen with zorwag, I hope that you will be able to put my head first first.
You don't know the situation with us but I just get carried away by myself.
I will just be there with us the jun jun one Jo-joggingin.
Until the tura until dose o'clock I will be able to say that they are going to say anibersaryo all going to talk to the bukas, then he will just catch up with a matter of luwad.
Are you open to your website of yes for the bulls interested to enter the Philippines in the kabuuan tomorrow maybe we are very aktibo on our website at the same time.
Their former visit and then on facebook what is the primary requirements edukasyon ational attainment looban the cellphone of the requirements that they should immediately bring it to him immediately.
Two of them are the two of us.
You can be applying for the officer and then enlisted personnel manager approached the requirements that the xerox copy of the diploma is needed.
To be in TESDA.
Yes, yes to the application form two By dalawang larawan.
Then it's okay that it can only be together with the phone they're going to be there when we are to be surrounded regardless of opera baccalaureate course that's finished in the present employer cause ANY four-year course but the priority cold of the baby is your technical know because it suddenly Bebe the baby you know because it suddenly Bebe.
It's the same time.
Duty time we are going to pay for fees and I want to let you know that before.
Noticeable your attention.
Taas requirement ay limang apat at
It was remembered and there was something there with the woman.
Now so that there is no discrimination even if I am suddenly pleased when it is.
To fight a fight.
She will be iburol.
I was five more in my morning ll.
He immediately Marimar it is full of them.
The message page labing labing siyam na labing Three at the police personnel and then then.
Dalawampu't dalawang bente bente.
You will be able to find out as well as you are so far away from what you are at the same time.
I papel do that, maybe it's a head-head or not a lot of things that can be done there, he doesn't have any of the movie yes.
That is true that he is thinking yes especially Papa Luis
It is also a minor who is also in if you have an invitation to our citizens in the coming anibersaryo ng isang daang eighteen anibersaryo the universe and the resume of our ships.
He / she is alive.
Thank you very much year captive or the flag officer in command of admiral Cesar thing when we are grateful for your program para sa pagkakataon na ito ay tell yours.
Take a peek at it, there are all the troops warriors in the river of Marilao police who are being shown in all other parts of the Philippines from the nami of the Philippines.
Island until it is a sign that we will continue our work worms' well-making good anibersaryo in the happy anibersaryo there in the year we are grateful for many many thank you.
In your support to your Philippines, maybe now that we are here our statements are here we are enthusiastic because of my life support offer and now zero one June there at the pier Thirteen.
First bersyon that his Philippines is really going to be in service and serve for the Filipino people and the country I explained to Juan.
It is the same time that the official spokesperson of our Philippines is going to be an official spokesperson of our Philippines.
She could say anything to say.
