To have an umbrella.

Kevin Mark R. Gomez this is my favorite kasabihan when I was mistaken for granted, that I picked up in a GE subject in the first sem I was in UP.
It is not what, you are unaware, it is not even witty, but it is easy to understand and have a recall for me.
In fact, this is the one who served the labanan I was in my first month in university.
That's why even if it seems to marburn our most cared for the treat of the Upper mabibigat men to the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are concerned, I am not afraid to have tried a lot of things.
It's hardworking to get readings, it's too obedient to the schedule, stands every time it's recitation - in the short, it's been referred to the same time that they're going to
However, I am trying to get up to this kind of stereotype in the freshman; especially I don't want to be called out "It's a matter where it is true."
So in my first sem, I applied for three org - one I didn't finish because the expenses in the application process was expensive, a rare I could visit now even if it was only at the foot of Vinzons, and a almost aparisyon that would treat me as a result of being busy with me as a bother.
I said it was BS org, it was a joke of the blockmates before.
At the same time, I was the first member of the Kulistics, because I was encouraged by the style that it was far from those who were able to cross the students who often press release of school the content.
I also want to work a bit challenging and will eat a long break between GE klase.

Three years have passed, this is the kasabihan that marked the "kin that I read in the midst of the student council elections this past February.
Like any thing in the world, everyone is changing.
That is why it is not impossible for you to find your own angas and show it to being Isreads of Bayan.
It is also not impossible that the time you will be included in the people who swore will be the one who will be the one who will be buried because it is abandoned the most careful "tumututol" and "netrality" of the media.
In any path that you will be able to do within the university, only one of my advice, brother: To open and widen your thoughts in everything that is happening more than the "those that are happening.
Learn to observe, to be sensitive and be critical - to know the compad in not, the sharp in the act of sharp and the real ones who are pretending.
UP is wide, and you may be addicted to the whole of it now, but the world is bigger outside, where the modern mind has no space and is dangerous to aspire real change.

Perhaps at the point you read this, you are ready to enter and be eager to start your life UP.
I also cannot blame you if you were able to buy UP merchandise that was shouting in the world from UP.
Being the one who is being used to be shown, is time to make mistakes and learn, opportunity to comment and correct.
You will not forever be a freshman, so you seize the next month as one of the new children of Obldic.
And in the arrival of the day of your choosing and decisions, it used to be with you in the same ranks.



