It is obvious that Maja Ka Tunying was afraid to replace, business in front of Kapuso By GORGY RULA July 31, 2016 in Disyembre, which is graduating, halata tle Sarroin on the course broadcast Communication in UP Diliman.
The PBB winner is proud that he might graduate cum Laude because he mapanatili his performance in school even if he is busy with the taping of Super D and he will go around schools for the promo of Sisters sanitary napkin at Pantyliners.
This is the reason why it is raining tle who took the new endorser of Sisters napkins at Pantyliners in exchange of Maja Salvador.
It was a bit afraid that he had been afraid when he found out Maja was going to change his change.
But when explained to him that he needed to be in the new kampanya of such a product Sisters "School ay Cool, he understood.
"Gusto ni We na i-promote ang edukasyon", pakli sa Kapamilya young aktres.
Makararanas tle was in a few schools with the group of Sisters of Megasoft Hygenic produkto.
They gave recognition to the outstanding estudyante of the school.
Some of them were given a Sisters "Choice awards are Norala High School in South Cotabato and Gingoog City Comprehensive School in Misamis Oriental.
There is an issue having a branch of Ka Tunying, which is painted é in Timog Avenue, QC front of GMA 7.
The Kapuso network will continue to transfer Ka Tunying?
It's because we doubt about some bulag items that he is referring to to transfer the station after his contract.
The contract of Ka Tunying in ABS-CBN is just until Disyembre and the latest we heard, he will not renew.
It was denied by the osong radio / TV personalidad.
Ka Tunying, "Ang ABS-CBN is very supportive of my career until now.
The treatment of the company is good.
"We don't even talk about our contract.
It's just the beauty because now, they have to trust me.
I am sure our relationship will be a long time.
"As the kalapitan of Ka Tunying's Café there in GMA 7, maybe, the position is really good and it has nothing to do with my career."



