Health Frontiers: Food in high blood By George Nava-True II SSetyembre 9, 2016 May high blood pressure is my mother.
It reached 230 / 110 when he went up to the doctor.
What can he eat?
I hope you can give me tips - Honmagagandang Enseñado Uvero.
When the blood pressure is high, the maintenance gamot needs to go down and avoid complications.
Follow the doctor's prescription to avoid the problem.
Besides this, there is also a need for a pamumuhay change to be normal life.
Here is what should be done: Eat a nutritious food.
Eating vegetables, fruits, Wbutas butil, chicken, fish and low-FAT dairy foods.
Potassium is good in high blood so imitate the monkey and eat bananas always.
Read the food labels in delata to reduce the food of saturated FAT at the trans FAT.
Lessen the use of salt in food.
Limit the salt on 1,500 mg gramo (mg) every day when there is high blood, aged 51 and above or when there is diabetes or talamak kidney disease.
Also look at the delata and chocolate if its salt is high.
With the person who has no altapresyon, 2,300 mg of salt is okay every day.
Bawasan when you are fat.
Even 5 pounds (2.3 kilo grams) only lose, this is a big deal to health.
Don't always be lying.
Exercise to lose the stress, the blood pressure went down and other pain.
According to the US Department of Health at Human Services, the 150 minutes per week of moderate aerobic activity, 75 minutes of the vigding erobic activity, or the combination of it.
Find out the doctor is the right exercise at your age and health to be sure that it is okay with the body.
Lessen alcohol.

Even if you are healthy, blood pressure will increase in alcohol so take it easy to drink.
In healthy people, the only one uminom a day with the woman and the man with age 65 and above.
Dalawang drinks can be the man 65 years old down.
The equivalent of the uminom is 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of alcohol or 1.5 ounces of 80-pruweba liquor.
Do not smoke.
The talks are destroying the roots and pinabfaster its hard.
Stop the coward if you want to prolong life.

Lessen the stress.
Learn to relax.
Sleep well and at the right time.
Buy blood pressure monitor to know the blood pressure in the house and know if the medicine is working.
Don't change or a few of it without permission from the doctor.



