The help of the government requested By Elech Dmercy June 10, 2016 pat Senator Alan Peter Cayetano as an award ary chairman in the organisa of the Philippine Superleague (PSL) of the FIVB World Women's Club championship in October 18 to 23.
In the meeting of PSL chairman Philip Ella Juico and PSL President Ramon "Tats" Suzara last Wednesday, Cayetano is all out of suporta after accepting the position given to him.
According to Cayetano, he will ask for paparating President Rodrigo Duterte to be an issue of the executive order to let the vital government agencies like the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC), Department of Tourism, Department of Health, Philippine National Police, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority and Bureau of Immigration while the linggo-tagal volleyball festival is suffering.
Cayetano added that it was reported to the President-elect Duterte to be a guest of karangalan and personally welcome the players, coaches and opisyal of the club teams in Brazil, Thailand and Italy.
"This is such a prestious event.
Ang mundo ay nagbabantay bilang We na bukas ang ating mga pintuan sa walo sa mga pinakamahusay na club teams ", pahayag ni Cayetano.
"Magpahinga tiniyak na ibabato ng gobyerno ang buo na suporta nito sa likod ng exciting na mithiin o".
Cayetano's alagay on board is a accident because it is a big boost in the local inaayos body according to Juico.
"Kahit papaano ay tiniyak ngayon ng gobyerno na garantiya", ani Juico, dating PSC chairman sa president of the Philippine amateur track at Field Association.

"Sa marangal na Senador on board, We Can ngayon ang magiging maayos na takbo ng mundong tournament na malaman na nasa likod ng US ang gobyerno.
Malaking boost ang This sa pagpapalaki ng profile ng volleyball sa bansa ".
Suzara confirmed the arrival of International volleyball Federation (FIVB) President Ary Graca companion the other key officials of the world-pamamalakad volleyball body.
"Sinabi niya sa akin na gusto niyang ipakilala ang ating bagong halal na Pangulo", ani Suzara, which is also a member of the Asian volleyball confederation and the FIVB.
"We HAD a meeting sa Japan dalawang linggo na ang nakakaraan at sabik na sabik siyang pumunta dito para magsilbing bisita ng karangalan at matugunan ang ating Pangulo".
Eight of the best clubs teams in the whole world will participate in the said tournament.



