
Edwin Commissioner ionda, active intelligence asset of the 9th IDPA, will be punished by death death.

You Ramona Caceres Eduardo Olbara Command, NPA-Camarines Sur October 6, 2014, 2014.

Successful was implemented by one tim of the BHB-Eduardo Olbara Command the decision of the huversion of the town death to Edwin Ozawa ionda alias Macario i.
The death penalty was given last October 3, 2014, at 6: 45 in the evening in the very front of the Battalion HQ of 42nd IBPA in misuse udbalod, Tigaon, Camarines Sur where he lives.
Edwin Fred ionda became a spy of 42nd IBPA and active intelligence asset of 9th IDPA.
Included in those who are proven to be the case of Edwin Nazarionda against the revolutionary movement and the people the following:

1.
Spy - it is a spy.

It was the same time June 1, 2005 - Habang was included in a terrorist masses in Brgy.
Idbak, Buhi, Camarines, Sur, he pointed to the military troops of the BHB that was temporarily stranded in Brgy.
Kaublessed, Buhi, Camarines Sur.
In this fight, a companion died.

It was the same time August 6, 2006 - a spy of the enemy in a units of BHB moving to the town of Buhi, was arrested at 42nd IBPA, five companions in Sityo Umlungan, Brgy.
Makaangay, Buhi, Camarines Sur.

2.
When Edwin returns ionda was getting out of the revolutionary movement, he pointed to the troops of the members of the accused masses in the towns of Bula, Sangay, Ocampo and Iriga City from the year 2007.

The data is distorted by the 9th IDPA, according to the ering of Edwin Commissioner ionda as allegedly "rebeldeng nakabalik nee" and active actors in SOT / PDT to spread a black propaganda against the revolutionary movement.
The Eduardo Olbara Command is making it clear that since the AFP is already a spy, which is a spy, which is a misenter the revolutionary movement.

The espesyal operation was conducted against Mindanao because of the big danger that the operatives of the NPA might face.
In the process of the tear of the penalty to Jimionda, a CAFGU was wounded when he fought back.

In relation to this, the Eduardo Olbara Command of the people, who can expect that the NPA will be brave to face the obstacles in order to give justice to the crimes of the pusakal of the people.

Live the Bagong right Bayan!
Live the filipino people!



