Ha, you lost hello hello yes, all of what happened in our game no matter what happened, that's what happened, in our game, in our game no one day.
What is ha yes, yes to be able to do it anyway.
Ha
There is no one in order to say yes because he says yes to be careful then that's why you are not over the game yes then it seems to be the next game ha ha.
It was the same time when I thought it was because I was able to say that it was revealed that it was okay in spite of our
It was the same time as if it was cut off.
Ha, it would be the same time for the next time I was going to go next to that so that we would fight again, okay, okay!
Ha ha, you are not or go ahead but you need to go to Ro, when you are going to be able to play too yes because they are good actors who say yes to the 'right thing.
It's okay to accept it because I don't have to fight against the same time with any other hand, the players of those who are going to take advantage of that would be nice so that's why I can't seem to be able to do anything else.
Not why is it that it is only inside that I think about the game thought that it was just the way that he was going to be inside the same time.
Ha later.
It was the same time when he was able to find out how to be the only one who would be able to make it to the two consecutive of your buddy with the same time as well as if I did not lose the two of those who weren't able to go through the window when you were supposed to be able to start with the next time I was going to be able to make it, I would probably be able to make a little bit more busy with me. What is really missing is that what is really missing is that yes, okay hello at the same time that I should be in a week where I am going to be there for a week.
I am not that I am not going to fight the run again so I go with you over Hoy ha ha.
What about.
Hello hello not hello Hello you heard me yes you heard me.
Anything else to do with it.
You should reach out for if I ever be with the grand finals magdudulot ng
I was able to eat it.
Ha
Okay, it was the same time when I was almost able to win the same time I wanted to go through the same time as well as the reason why I might still have a job to do?
Ha, what I know is to make a laugh at the week in the week yes maybe yes, that's June thirty yata that's the Luneta hello yes to Luneta, which is why it's been Felipe, "
Ha in a week ah in the week yes, okay bulacan.
It's the end of the end of tap.
It was the same time that it was the end of the sabado where it was possible that it would be the end of the end of the
Ha prior to the week ha ha now that they are now hello, ah
What will you not try to make you force you to reach out so that you have watched the fight yes to English, maybe it will be the same time that we can eat because it is said that there is no one that we can play with because they say yes, "they said that they said yes," said that they said yes to say yes.
You are going to do where ah yes.
I saw it unlikely that you would think of who will fight with it, maybe later there will be a case later here later here.
Hello then ha.
It's the morning master I thought I didn't do it because it's because no matter how much it is.
I defeated that it was the same time for the same time as well as what I was defeated by the two deposit so it would be so hard that it was because it was so hard that it would be Papa yes, yes, that I would have a hard time with a pro-trip table, which is why I would be defeated by the same time before two loses but I would be defeated by the same time before I was defeated.
Ha
Yes, yes.
Hhm won't be as long as you can stand that you are going to be able to win the same time three wins at the pier so Hello hello ha hello.
