
Chasing 41st IBPA and 503rd Brigade at the target of Oplan Bayanihan, given the revolutionary movement in North Abra in North Abra.

Diego Wadagan Agustin Begnalen Command - NPA-Abra June 3, 2013, 2013.

The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) is very desperate to achieve the target of Oplan Bayanihan (OpB) for 2013 to destroy the revolutionary movement.
This is the reason why they do all the ways to chase it.
Included in these are the arrest of the walti of their failed operations, flying through their violation of human rights, and launch by the deed of battle.

It was only May 30, three died while there was no certain number of wounded force of 41st IB when he met a unit of NPA in Malibcong, Abra.
After the series of two fights, they attacked the bulang, Duldulao, Malibcong and bobomb.
They sent out a fight once again where a NPA died and they got a M16.
They also deny that they had an kaswalti.
The clear failure of their attack is trying to be covering up and proud that Brig. General drinks do Irreberi, the Komander of 503rd Brigade.

Successive violations of human rights of the operation force of 41st IB were recorded by the citizens of Malibcong.
Some of these are prohibiting the people of Duldulao and Gacab to go to their farms.
Even the students who were going to the Balbalasang, Kalinga are afraid to rin.the citizens of Bangilo, Malibcong in relation to the relentless bombing in their farms and near houses from May 31.
Seemingly hangal that Captain Limbao was made to escape, the tagapagsalita of 41st IB, when he said "surprised" and not warshock the young women who almost got hit by a bomb, and when he said that it was not a bomb, and when he said that it was not a bomb, which was a rocket phosphorus, "which is a rocket bomba.
Captain Limbao said, "Precision attacks" says that they use rockets; so it means that they intended to salain the farms of the citizens and spread fear and terror.

It added to the violation recorded in the past few months.
Included here are threats of the leaders and members of legal organizations who are opposing the Peace Team (PDT) and entering the malalaking scale Mining.
They are accused of the supporters of the NPA and weak like what they did to John Bandril when they were surrounded by their house while they were having guns.

Part of the operations of the 41st IB is the construction of detatons in Poblacion Malibcong.
The construction of detatons is also part of the implementation of the responsibility of the AFP as puhunan security force.
They serve as the force of the big companies of mine and other businessmen who want to enter the intermayors areas in Cordillera and other regions.

These speculations are surely going to be disappointed by the dumadagundongwhich campaign masses and the taktikal offensive of the NPA.
Protest and fight against the human rights of the AFP!

Protest to the construction of detatstment in Malibcong!
Fight the malalaking scale Mining!
Fail the Oplan Bayanihan!
You board and strengthen the NPA towards the Estrada to be the one who will be ordered!



