Peace talks: Use of the name of the university in politics in circa 1920.

In order to take care of its status as a part of truth, it is prohibited by the administrator in 1923 to use the name of the university in the political issues and tasks in the country.
Padre Serapio Tamayo, former rektor of the university, the steps about this before formal implemented last August of the mentioned year.
The goal of the said policy to separate the individual views in the university opinion that has something to do with the political issues.
It is said that it can affect the image before the university.
According to Tamayo, the suspension of any side or group of the local issue of politics cannot be favored because foreigners, and not filipinos, are the administrator here.
It is important to take care of the image of the university as giving them to the Dominitop Spanish who built and maintained its order, he said.
Nevertheless, Tamayo clarified, the students are free and members of the fakors expressing their personal views as citizens, but they cannot use the name of the university in order to defend their own arguments regarding them.
The mentioned step is implemented in order to validate the dignity and identity of the university that will still be able to maintain until the present.

Tomawho is continuously showing up by J Carlitos G. Cruz, a certified public accountant, his clarity in the chosen field inside and outside of the country.
It was the year 1981 when he was over the course of business in the university.
In the later, he became an auditor in some local and interroonal company of oil and oil.
Cruz is one of those who are honored in The outstanding Thomasian alumni awards last 2016.
Aside from this, he will be the first to be awarded by UST-AMV College of accountancy professional narating Award in Public Accounting in 2009.
He was also included in the College of Top 75 alumni in 2008 along with the celebration of the 20th year of this.
Even before he got Advanced Management Program ng Harvard Business School in the United States in 2007, Cruz attended the Advanced International Program sa Oil at Gas Management in University of Texas and Dallas.
He also earned the titulong outstanding alumni in Public practice in 1991.
Currently, Cruz is part of some organizations like the Philippine Institute of certified Public Accounants, Philippines-Thailand Business Council, German-Philippine Chamber of pangangalakal and Board of Trustees of the Petroleum Association of the Philippines.
He is also serving as a board member of the Association of certified Public Accounants sa Public practice.
Winona S. Sadia.

Tomasfind: Sabang (pby) - Kpm; krosing or interseksiyon.
Hal: In Sabang where there are many roads to choose, I will still choose the way back to you.



