They need to wait now for the arrival of the person who will agree to them.
The weight of carrying was not a joke because he was able to do it before there were times when he reached walumten ten.
It would be known that it would be erased that this is where we will be able to do a big deal here, we will still be able to make it happen but we will still be able to file a fi on the vehicle that they are going to be able to sell from the vehicle that they are going to have to sell materials and stuff in the house that they are going to sell from doing the muwebles and stuff in the house that they are going to sell.
After almost half a day of working, the truck did not come to get their lower phone number.
Even if they were not sold by friends, they didn't have a loved one.
Because there was no income that day when it was just a fit to leave the salt in some rice at lunch for lunch.
Salt in the cold is taking back to my body.
Sometimes saying that it is dry ten of the broken.
For ten years ago when her mother left her bed in her bed.
His father was not there when we followed it as if he was currently looking for me.
No one was able to finish their family's education the reason why the pockets of the pocket to enter the school brought up to school due to the very tired dinner cut off as if it came before that it came before that it came to school.
I am going to have a new one.
I left when I can only do it to myself you don't have a problem with it.
He said maybe my father to finish me in their conversation face might help but for the job to work.
Wally's friend, Jessy eldest of us of his sibling.
Yours for you to be able to do with you.
What is going to be done with that in the meantime.
Parent
You have been twenty dose when the father of Jessy is stroke, which is why he said he was a taxi driver in the mayp since the half of the one who knew that he had decided to go home to Albuera Leyte, there was no one who was expecting a livelihood to fight against my world working on the world working.
I stand up.
And working as a house helper with the mother of Jessy sends even the money that jesus earns from the start of the red bra.
Only his youngest sibling is the one who is studying in elementary school cherry.
With her breast that you are going to school not that I am not going to study the truth without no money in going to the school fare fare then there is no one that does not have a dream of Simon receipt as if you will be able to return to school.
But
There is a special need of other family members to pass to the specifics until now, his condition finds a hard time to be trained to be trained to be trained.
What is a womanizer right now.
Just clashing with money because if there is no money there is no food that is really difficult.
Allocate a bully many of the youth will not be able to study in the study made by the international labor organization and even add labor employment on Disyembre bente Cristy, Buboy of the total population of the city labor is the one that seems to be a moment when the process is stunned from the mountains of agriculture.
There are programs fiesta balutin that aims to help the youth who have been locked in an early hard work and college it is the same time that we are going to take a chance of training training with them for our development session or to give the right parenting of your transactions.
According to now, according to the fact that their program is still possible to reduce their program to reduce the number of children workers in the country.
Economic situation we really need to learn about our national government we are having a makakamit opportunity we will have every family, he has to be able to contact the security and no security singing in a new government now, he is really studying the next time we are going to catch up in school as if they are preparing to enter the school as if we are preparing to go to school.
The finish of studying is passed by the group that he sees a way now to be able to hide.
You didn't think about it.
We are going to be able to do it.
Ask for it.
It's going to work hard.
For Jessica, she needs to set aside the dream of studying.
The setting in the mountains will continue to go into the mountains of a few bones, the body does not know anything about the family of him hoping the beauty of your life to remember that is Solaiman's life.
I am actually going to be able to take a few years old when you get to do it because they lack support from him.
No matter what work now is that it is the right thing.
Poverty remains a problem of the country is a disease of society as long as they are not able to meet someone like Martin and Yassi who continue to attack bones for their small income.
