16 civilians who were killed, were massacred by the US troops.

Bayan Marso 21, 2012 Labing-six innocent civilians, including nine children and three women were massacred by the troops of the US last March 8 in Afghanistan.
The incident happened in the district of Panjwaii in the prubination of the Kandahar.
Six others were seriously injured.
The event is the reaction of the forces of NATO which is headed by the US for successive defeat in the fight.

At 3: 00 in the morning when the troops of the US suddenly entered the house of three families and had no incessant shot the victim.
After the shooting, the corpses poured petroleum and burned them.
A farmer head of the family almost give up his head when he found out 11 members of his family were killed.

Based on the statement of the living victims, the US troops of the US were the ones who shot them.
Someone heard the anchor of helikopter riding more or less 20 soldiers.
Neighbors woke up successive gunshots from different directions.
They can also hear the drunk troops of the US.

But they are implying that the military and NATO are implying that the incident is an accident and not a result of their operation military.
This is done by a pichent bad pain and only one out of the camp, walked more than two kilometers and entered the area.

Before the incident, the tasted of the forces of NATO and US in fighting against the rebel Taliban.
Last March 6, the British soldier who was killed in the Kandahar was killed when they were hit by a bomb.
During that day, nine elements of the association and Local Police were killed when the Taliban attacked the Taliban with the Taliban in the district of Char Chino, Oruzgan, in the southern part of Afghanistan.

Last February 25, NATO has been killed by NATO when he was shot by a soldier who was stabbed inside the building of Ministry of Interior in Kabul, Visayas of Afghanistan.
It was then February 21-25, four soldiers of the US were killed by the police and soldiers who were buried in the south and eastern part of Afghanistan after the US troops burned the copy of the Koran in Bagram Base last February 21.



