
When the 4,000 armed troops of the US in the Philippines arrived, the PKP opposed to the Philippines.

Kawanihan in the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines April 4, 2013 2013.

Salin: CPP denounces pagdating ng 4,000 na armadong US troops sa Pilipinas ang condemned of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) the plan of entering up to 4,000 armed troops of the US in the Philippines in the next few days "showing a direct disrespect of the sovereignty of the Philippines and showing force in front of the intensified preparation of the US for the gera in the Korean peninsula."

Up to 30 jet fighter of the US and a Naval carrier of the Americans, USS Tortuga is the scheduled ideploy in Manila, Central Luzon and other places from April 5 to 17 in relation to 2013 Balikatan military, Balikatan in the 2013) in between the military of the US and the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).
"In perseverance in the exercises of Balikatan 2013 in the midst of the tension of military in Korean peninsula, the Marcos regime allow the Philippines of the government to be dragged by the government of the US to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)," said PKP.

"The filipino people criticized the Balikatan 2013 military exercises and insists that quick to kick all the American troops who are currently station in the Philippines, including 700-people Joint Special Operations Task Force-Philippines (Jappeals-P) of the US Pacific Command who is permanent based in Zamboanga," added the PKP.

"The PKP has criticized the military and government government in deception of the filipino people regarding the true intention of the tinaguriang joint of the military who are implying by the US as inhumane helping and preparation for the disaster," said PKP.
"In the past few years, the US is used by the operation humanitarian and pandisaster in order to be secretly launch by operations and pantik and build their net and communication."

"The tuntion together together together with the military is no different but preparation and show the US to put the military of the Philippines under its custody and use the Philippines as its station in the possible launch of the gerwill wherever in Asia-Pacific," said PKP.

"The filipino people insists that it is a defense of physical policies and opposed against the Philippines to any gerlaunched by the US against a sovereignty country," said the PKP.

"The eusihiyang military of the US in Asia-Pacific is to maintain the ten thousand mapanalakay troops of its current station in the Naval carriers, based on the military and offices in Asia-Pacific like South Korea, Japan, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia to Australia," said PKP.

"The goal is to impose the imperyalist hegemonya, China and other countries have to follow the policies of the US and a threat of gera and agounding against countries who don't want to pursue the directive of the policies of trade and investments of imperyalist US."

The US Pacific Command of the force of more than 80,000 troops in Asia-Pacific including the 30,000 troops of the US in South Korea and 50,000 troops in Japan.



