It's a cure for lice and fleas.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) whether you were officially updated Nobyembre 20, 2014 - 12: 00am: 12: 00am.

Lice (head lice): The medical term on lice is Pediculosis Capitis.
Lice is a very small insects and color brown.
The lice seemed to have sharp hands like the cockroach.
When we are infected, it will turn into our hair.
What we see white-white sticks on the hair is the eggs of lice that are called liin.
It is also called or lice itlog.
Because of the lice, it is often killing the patient's head.
They seem to be able to do something wrong.
There are also those who will stop the head, neck and shoulders.
The lice was quick to laugh.
When your head is tight with a person who has a lice, the lice can immediately move to you.
Things that are often inflicted to lice are the pillows, baro, sombrero and isiniksik laruan.
It is Banlian when boiling water and ibilad in the extreme day.
It's hard to kill the lice, but here are the ways.
Ten hair - get a haircut of thin or layered hair so that the lice cannot be itan.

Use the egg to remove the eggs and lice on the hair.
Buy Kbalon shampoo, generic, Permethalso 10 mg.
Basain the hair, put up with Kbalon shampoo and let it in the hair of 10 minutes before rinse.
Be careful not to go to the eye.
Repeat this after a week when the lice is not yet consumed.
Don't be stubborn.
Be treated lice and do not be able to take advantage of others.
Galis (galis): Galis is coming from a small animal which is called Sarcoptes!
The fleas in the body of the people and the animal like the dog and cat are living.
When it is in person, the galis can live 1 month.
When there is no longer in the body of the people, it is still alive until 2 days.
Because there are families who are crowding in the house and side-by-side if sleep, fleas quickly.
Be careful in using a towel, pillow, bedsheet and handkerchief of a person with fleas, and you might be infected!
Galis is going to turn into hands, pulchecking (wrist), feet, elbow and breast.
It's like small tagihawat that looks like a line.
The parasitics in the balat-folds are hiding or between the fingers of the hands and feet.
Fleas and more makati at night will be makati.
Sometimes the skin is the root because of an amot.
How will be disturbed by this?
Buy Kaba Lotion, the generic name of it is Permethalso 50 mg lotion.
Follow the direction of using it.
Take a bath first, then apply the Kbalon Lotion on the whole body, from the neck to toe.
Let lotion in the body of 8 hours and then take a bath again.
If the galis is not consumed, apply it again 1 times the next day.
Remember: Follow the direction in using Kbalon shampoo and Kwell lotion, because there is a side effect when there is too much stuff.
Everyone has fleas in the house should be treated.
Because if not, it will get infected repeatedly.
Avoid fleas.
Iwas lice.
Maintain clean body.



