
Reports about the violation of the troops of the AFP and CAFGU in the CARHRHIL at the boundary of Mountain Province and Ifugao last April-May 2012 2012.

Leonardo Pacis Command NPA-Mountain Province June 6, 2012, 2012.

Robbery is widespread in pork, goats, chicken and other pet animals of the masses around the detatation of CAFGU in Brgy.
Ubao, Aguinaldo, Ifugao.
No one else pointing at the back of this is happening but the unampong military which is where they always get drunk, gambling, nagpapatugtog, and they are often firing a gun.

Last April 2012, there were 5 people who pretended to be a member of the NPA who choked P1,500 from a civilian named Eusebio dela Cruz who was a resident of Barangay.
Ubao.
Aside from this, they tried to get her pet pig.

Students of Ubao, National High School are often busy because of the military troops of the 54th IB of the AFP from their operations of military.

They seem to fight the troops of the 5th ID PA who have been able to hit the crops of corn in Sitio Dalanao, Brgy.
Guards, they are going to be suspended, MP while the operation operation was being held on 31 May 2012.
Because of this, the owner of the ingin named Khadlang complained.
But, instead of apologizing and pay for the damaged crops, the poor farmer took an insult from the AFP troops.

In other events, the military troops were detained and investigated by a civilian named Saturday and his companion riding a motorcycle in Sitio Daghanga, Brgy.
Poblacion, they're going to be entertained, Mountain Province.
They suspected that the members of the BHB were suspected because their hair was long.
They laugh and insult the two of them when they say they are a member of the sektang Baptist Church.
In the same place, the guns were also able to expect the passengers of a van without a clear reason in Sitio Tanufong, Brgy.
Poblacion, Wenelis, MP in their operation last May 2012.
In Sitio Amulong, Brgy.
Poblacion also, the people were severely angry when they found out that the military troops had stolen their crops vegetables before May 2012.

Labels: Cordillera, human rights paglabag sa mga

Newer Post.

Older Post.

Home tahanan.



