Detatons of the military, nirape d in Camarines Norte.

Bayan May 07, 2012.

The Pulang warriors attacked the bottom of Armando Catapia Command (ACC-BHB) the barangay hall in Barangay Maot, Labo, Camarines Norte where the berblood troops were stranded in 49th IB last April 29.
The four soldiers were killed in the attack of the BHB while another one was wounded.
The Pulang warriors of eight weapons belong to the six ripleof M16, a masenvious of K3-SAW (Squad automatic Weapon) and only one hundred pesos.
Also seized the other kinds of military and a laptop computer.

The successful taktikal denied that this is the statement of the 9th ID of the AFP who has no ability to the BHB in the region to launch a successful offensive against those who will assist the troops.

The soldiers of the 49th IB are conducting a counter operation when they attacked the BHB.
The Pulang warriors have been aligned with the attack before noon, when nine soldiers left for those who were there in the neighboring barangay of Calabasa and only left ten others, including their leader, 2Lt.
Eric Estrada Estrada.

The record of 49th IB is bloody in violation of human rights.
Among these crimes are the massacre of the family Mancera last February in Barangay Malaya, Labo.
The farmer was killed in the said massacre, Benjamin Mancera and his two children who were minor, and his another daughter was wounded when he mercilessly showered with bullets by the soldiers of the family of Mancera.
The soldiers are using public facilities like the barangay hall, daycare center, school, churches and houses of civilians in operations of operations.
They are threatened and they are harassing the civilians in the neighborhood and are trying to give our members or supporters of the BHB.

The revolutionary movement is saddened by the death of a civilian and wounded another in this fight.
The ACC is trying to connect the family of civilians who got involved and they will help the best of the best, ani Gregorio "Ka Greg" Bañares, spokesperson of NDF-Bicol.



