The next time wasted.

It looks like the people seem to forget the importance of the lessons of EDSA People Power Revolution that happened last February 23-25, 1986.
It was three days that awakened the awareness of the whole world when the dictator was going to be cast from the roof of the non-blood that former President Ferdinand E. Marcos, who was initially suppressed in the people within 20 years using the iron hand.
Because of help and unity of the citizens managed to be possible the first one thought that it was impossible to kick the dictator from power.
But 28 years passed after that incident, the Filipinos seemed to have no ego which was a good result of the historical event.
Since then until this time of President Noynoy, the country has been dead and cannot count the elections, but the people will still be sadlak in poverty.
Back to normal and did not stop even one day corruption in different branches of the government and the bad spirits and behavior that we turned off before it came back and seemed to be worse now than before.
It is really such a waste because we have not used the opportunity that it is brought by the people power so that we can recover from being locked in poverty and turmoil our country.
After we were happy when Marcos moved away, we went back to his former habits when he was her and forget the word to help and unity.
So the result is that we seem to be ashamed to commemorate and celebrate like before the historical event and admitted even if the government is here.
Another sad thing is that we also do not share the youth now the importance of the event, because we also cannot show a good fruit that we can boast them.
The pamana of EDSA 1 is really wasted because the Philippines has not been a good model in the world even though the country has not been able to count the next in our footsteps.
This is just Sunday, Ukraine will also imitate us when they cast them through the power of power, Viktor Yanukovych, because of the allegation of corruption and lack of ability to manage the government.
This is just one proof that even if the spirit of EDSA 1 in the Philippines is gone, it is still alive in other countries dreaming of change.
That is just that we have forgotten Filipinos EDSA 1!



