
"Oplan WOLVERINE IS mission imposible".

The citizens should be proud of the dedication of the deceased 44 elite commando of the PNP-SAF.
Despite the coming danger, they do not care that they are going to die because the prevailed is their sworn duty.
"Oplan (Operation-Plan) Wolverine is a mission imposible," said a retiradong PNP official who was able to share Chokepoint.
And even if the protest - it is being investigated, the U.S forces forces will be conducted by the operation, surely there will be a lot of casualties in it.
Because the Bgy.
Tukanalipao, Mamasapano, Maguindanao where Zulkifli Bin Hir is hiding, alias Marwan is very dangerous place.
The "taguang place" of Marwan was surrounded by the camp of Moro Islamic Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
"Extremely Dangerous" if he called the area Bgy.
Tukanalipao in Mamasapano who attacked the PNP-SAF forces.
This is where the terrorist terrorist realize of military are being destroyed, however, "they do not turn off because the place is very dangerous.
The PNP-SAF who is Dangerous is also aware of their mission but "they did not think about what would happen to just get Marwan.
It's prevailed, like, in the attacked SAF commando, according to what we spoke to the police official to get dead o Alive Marwan.
Even if they lost 44 members, the operation was considered by the SAF "terror Victory," not just in the Philippines, but in the whole world.
In any way, in the name of peace of the people, Marwan needs to lose the world, the opisyal official strongly point.
International bomb expert terrorist with $5-million reward, Marwan was behind the Bali bombing which killed more than 200 people.
SAF risked 44 lives, but "it doesn't matter because they are a hero of society in the whole world because they killed Marwan.
In the loss of Marwan, a lot of life is safe in danger of his being international terrorist, according to the police official.
In the midst of the extreme sadness that the people are feeling right now, hopefully the "Fallen 44" at all.
We are all the same Filipino, bigyan ng kapayapaan ang isang pagkakataon.
Chokepoint / Bong PADUA.



