
Cure for AIDS and the people against traffic and flood.

A tweet.

There are some people who are only injured in the previous typhoon Gorio.
In the province of Quezon, that happened to be livelihood in the town of Jomalig.
Of course, there are those who are able to drop the home but they are still thankful for the Lord for the lack of casualties to them.
We say thank you and no one really died while we will still be able to find it.
Severe traffic this Saturday entry of typhoon Gorio in Manila, traffic is tangled.
It is a good Saturday and the million students in elementary school and haschool are not relevant to school which is usually used to be repeated by vehicles private and public.
But the point here is terrible that the traffic happened.
The authorities are good to continue how they will fight the heavy traffic, especially the flood source of it.
How can the citizens help solve this problem?
Different'T IBANG kind of help May some pupuwedeng do the people in order to help the flood and traffic as well.
First, report to the authorities those who are deliberately sharing the holes of the drainage just to earn them in a dibridge or to be forced to be the citizens to ride with the dowkick or tricycle.
Second, is it acceptable that the people arrested the smooth-hearted tricycle boys in the affected tricycle, tricycle and kuliglig payment for a very expensive fare for the time of flood?
Third, how will you fight the making of swimming pool with the flood roads so that if there will be a vehicle, money will be money from the dealer?
Fourth, can the police and traffic enforcer can push to the middle of the road?
We say this because if the traffic is tangled because of the flood, the police and traffic enforcer are disappearing.
The fifth and for motorists, as long as we can do it, we will be able to consult our vehicles and make sure that we have enough diesel and gasoline so that we will not stop or go crazy at the time of traffic and floods.
Sixth, we are being treated as well as the throw of garbage in those who should be disposed and not just anywhere.
Remember that even if it is a small garbage like the one who pos the cigarette, it is also inspected.
These are just small things, Bro, but double or pupwedeng do the citizens.
The only difficult thing to do is that it is a drug pusher to the police and traffic enforcer to fix traffic because they are disappearing.
It is a new victims but a lot of responsibility or work of the officials of the town in the problem of flood and traffic.
Now that there are a lot of hiding management in our government, what do we expect these answers to the two problems mentioned?
Are they still going to be similar to their quarrel that are useless against traffic and floods?
Hopefully, in their pledge to duty yesterday, the traffic and floods are included in their immediately take care of it.
Changing the new leaders of the new leaders in different positions in the government the sibakan in the position and changing people in it.
From high positions up to the police, there was a sibakan and replace.
But we want to maringgan the new leaders how they will remove the traffic and floods.
How fast they are in firing the people of their opponents who are taking their positions, they will also solve the traffic and flooding?
Hopefully, indeed!
The two problems that we mentioned are too much perconscious.
For example, the laborers are tired of their work, they are tired of too much trip.
It was able to make it up especially to those who were standing in the crowd on the buses.
Can you decide how hard it is for the passengers who are able to create passengers, especially in parts of women, the traffic in 2, 3, 4 or 5 hours and evening or dawn or dawn when they go home?
And will you also understand how hard it is to walk a kilo of kilometers in flood and holes of roads if the traffic is not moving?
Or you are senators, congressmen, governor, mayor and other officials, speak and act quickly against traffic and floods.
"It is not certain medicine for AIDS Sabi of the World Health Organization, they will be tested to use the discovered medicine against HIV / AIDS.
WHO said, it is not sure that if the HIV / AIDS will finally be cured but it really can lessen the virus of HIV / AIDS.
However, the medicine is not free and has to pay for someone to spend it with the development of medicine and widening of treatment to the patients.
Here in the Philippines, there are thousands of HIV / AIDS.
But in the whole world, there are 34 million victims.
For now, the target to undergo treatment of WHO is only in 10M and it is just unlucky to not be served here.
They were dead fond of, except the innocent and infected only.



