Deworming in the students, being held in the province of Romblon.

July 21, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo M.

Odiongan, Romblon, July 21 --- being held in the entire province is giving deworming to the students in public schools in relation to the celebration of National School Deworming Month this month of July.

The Department of Health (DOH) is a partner of the Department of Education (DepEd) and Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) where sinanay health workers are going to give an immunisasyon to the children.
Target of the campaign Oplan: Goodbye worm to give free vaccines to grade 1 and grade 7 in the entire country against the disease Measles, Rubella, tetanus and diphtheria.
In relation to this program, the Department of Health (DOH) -Romblon Provincial Office is encouraging the parents to allow their children to give free purga to control and avoid having a "bituka.
According to Doctor.
Ruth Cervo, Chief of DOH-Romblon, they are calling attention to the parents of the child to cooperate in the 2nd round of expanded National School and Community-based Deworming Month.

Cervoa added that the parents should not be afraid to let their children go because the free medicine against worms which are showing the DOH is safe.
Before he said to do the purga, there is a seminar in teachers, students and even the parents to know the good benefits in the body, reasons of having worms in the stomach and ways to maintain cleanliness in the body and surroundings.
They also make sure that the children who will drink medicine are full so they have free food given before drinking the sweet branded chewable tablet to purga.
He said that they are not allowed to hurt children with allergies and just came from being sick.
Cervo also ayag that the negative effect of worms in the study of youth such as weak and cannot concentrate on studying because there is a live in the nutrients that the children are getting into their food.
Currently, it is up to 90 percent of the pangunahin and secondary public schools from kinder to senior high school were given medicine to purga health workers.
DOH-Romblon hopes to get the 100 percent Compliance of the execution of the program in the entire province.
Cervo is also convincing the parents who have a child who is age one up to four years old and even those who are out of the school youth to bring them to rural health center or Barangay health station to provide medicine for purga which is under the community deworming program of DOH.
According to him, parents should not worry about the bills of the medicine for purga because it will be distributed by no payment.
(DM / PIA-IVB / Romblon).



