Pinipicturan there was a sweat karinderya suspended after receiving complaints selling junk foods softdrinks.
To the students in seven thousand.
In the complaint of a parent in your town, you complained about the beat of the suspect integrated school because of selling chichirya and softdrinks and softdrinks.
It is said that her child is often able to buy her there so she is absent from the class because there is an allergy and with UTI is still a UTI.
We immediately communicated the complaint to the Philippines officer who was the doctor who was going to send the inspection team to the school and was discovered that he was selling food by a snack of the snack of a kiss tsirya and was going to be able to drink a lot of food.
And it's a fishquote of giving it because I really am guilty sir maybe not telling me to the cousin I really don't sell like that.
How sometimes the children are not going to have any request of the Filipino to the office, the selling of junk pagkain is strictly prohibited.
Those softdrinks.
That's why salty and sweet are sweet and sweet.
Because there are children now children who have diabetes since there is a disease in kidney.
Why don't we have to regret that it wouldn't be that way.
Because that is all salty that is really hit by our baby to retched a child if his titi is still broken and even if there is a ingredients of Filipinos, the junk foods are still not good for the health of the children that they are still not good for the health of the children that they are, they are still not good for the health of the children.
You should be ashamed of eating nutritious indeed.
The rain in some children after he visited the vendor who boasted about the junk foods and softdrinks.
According to DepEd, it is clear to him by the police in twenty percent that should not be able to sneak out to prohibited illegal.
To be able to sell it.
That can't be a long black brief brief.
And then the junk foods.
That is really prohibited in all of the school karinderya for now the bio-data resume is erased from the karinderya, which is a bunch of the karinderya.
But once again, ace will conduct a surprise.
Not only to the public but also in private schools to know if someone notices those who do not heed the rules prohibited to sell junk foods and softdrinks in the school karinderya.
