In fear of getting caught up in the shooting easily, the residents of the rock Unsay Maguindanao, where the victim was launched by the military, the offensive against the Bangsamoro Islamic kalayaan fighters was launched by some residents where they were temporarily living from the crack of Maguindanao, Cedric Castillo Cedric was troubled by some residents where they were temporarily living from the crack of Maguindanao.
It was Jessica very kind to take care of the national highway who was going to flow in the province of Maguindanao immediately cocoment in General Santos City and was able to hit the heart and even in the province of hilaga Cotabato, which was the day after the year twenty ten, he tried to take pictures of the military, which was met by the military's offensive.
The residents of the datu Unsay Maguindanao will continue to continue to continue the military against the blessing and terrorist Basit Usman, his pet animals, but they said that we were afraid of their pet animals.
Tess if there are many soldiers there for sure that it is going to be
Just after we are first there if the soldiers have sound, they cannot do anything but leave it instead of getting caught up in the gunfire in the poor we user in the poor user.
Maybe we should have a shot the door on the chin of the right to a resident seems to have no one to go home from that will come from the right house.
Your family or your family.
In my husband's den with red land car, it is a lot of me.
I came closer to them.
This morning, the highway was not passable on the road to go to the armored personnel carrier on the road.
In the advancement of the soldiers really can feel the tension just over half a kilo metered away from the middle of the crossfire from the crossfire.
After this, the release of the Artillery support group followed the release of the gun.
Three barangays are possessed by the blessing of blessing.
On the radio, the heat of the battle will be heard despite the line of the voters will be given both the same.
An extension of an extension.
After a while, a soldier was able to run back to it.
It's still a corpse to be able to describe over and over.
Seventy of seventy.
She was like for a while.
Fired at gunpoint.
