The AFP accusations of the alleged ekstorsyon in the election of the BHB, the PKP opposed by PKP.

Kawanihan in the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines April 29, 2013 2013.

The Partido ist of the Philippines (PKP) opposed the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the "crooked propaganda" a nong town ".

This past few days, Major Genrenal Jose Mabanta used to be gloated, Commander of the 3rd Infantry Division assigned to the islands of Negros and Panay, which is "half of all of those who are playing against politics" in his occupation "pay for the protection of the BHB."

"The most important purpose of the rules of the democratic guoes nong town in relation to the resyunbuilt election is fixing the conduct of the campaign in the election within the area of jurisdiction of its jurisdiction to make sure that the rights and kagalingan of the masses cannot be charged."
"All the candidates in the reaksyunbuilt elections who are wanting to be campaigning within the length of the franchise of the gueline nong town should be followed by these policies."

"It will not sell the implementation of the BHB of the rules of democratic guoes nong town," said PKP.

"In their own decision, it is a huge majority of the participants of the candidate in the resyunbuilt election, talking to the revolutionary authorities in order to have a possible agreement in relation to cooperation and ikoordina their activities."

"Encourage the revolutionary force of the candidates in the election to support the struggle of the masses for reform in the land, made programs benefit from the people, protest against the countryside and top of the patriyotiflag against foreign domination and interbensyon."

"The coordination and cooperation between the candidates in the election and the organo of the democratic guoes nong town is implemented in the business without any element of the pamimilit and coming from acknowledging the politics and a nuisance to the authorities of the latter."

"The PKP is repeatedly making the policy of its policy that is not participating when the BHB of the resyunbuilt election is becoming more.
All the candidates who are working with and interordina in the revolutionary authorities are being able to negotiate the equal opportunity to campaign within the areas of jurisdiction of guusinong town. "

"Iconsidering that their pulitative activities in the areas under the authority of the guusinong town in order to avoid the schedules of schedules, make sure the peace and order and the rights and kagalingan of the people."

"Nevertheless, political armed tampalasan does not want to follow rules and do not want to be ordina in the revolutionary authorities are under armed implementation of BHB," emphasized by PKP.
"Common of them are those who are flirting with the AFP in gering mapanupil against the people, those who are boiled in illegal trade of drugs and other criminal syndicates, those who have corrupted the surroundings and those who are oppressed and taking advantage of the people."

"The opposite of the policy of the BHB and even if there is a restriction under its own laws, the AFP is active participating in the resyunbuilt election, using armed strength to scare the citizens in supporting the candidates that they are going to be sold by the people's enemies."



