
Following Gen Pershing ang mga yapak: My pag-iisip sa Bud landed (Leadresidenteng nakakaranas ng Part 23).

We were in the Assembly area in Barangay Tipgather which was covered by Pangfive Estino when I received the Warning Order about combat operations in the forest covered by Patikul.

From my new friend, Gasman, I can see in the south the high mountain covered by the forest.

"That is what we called Bud landed.
The enemies of our families are the people who live in practice there, "said Gasman who is also Barangay Captain in his place.

Familiar with my hearing is called Bud land (Mt. Drop).
I love to be haltered by what is written in history especially when it is related to the military and in the country Philippines.

In June 1913, this is the place where the mandirigmang Tausug headed for the last breath, Datu Amil led to the American soldiers and Moro Scouts (Maguindanao and Maranao) headed by General John Pershing.

More or less 500 children and women were included in the fight in the fight here before the troops of the American troops were defeated by the Tausug in more or less four days of fighting.

I seem to be creeped out when I entered my mind so many victims of violence in the fight that was.
That is also one of the reason why the revelations of the mandiriging Tausug will be questioned by the Bud land.
There are a few of the families here bring their babies at the top of it to offer prayer as tradition.
Their respect for this historical place is that big.
For me, that is also my respect for the mandirigman who died here like Datu Amil who died when he finally lost his group.

I am not in fear but I feel strange about my new area of operations (ao).
I am not in fear of Radulan Sahiron but my respect for his kagalingan is not gone.
JUST imagine, with a lot of which he passed away, he was still able to survive!
He's lintik in the dulas and it seems that there is a agimat.
Homemalalaki fighter he is like that.
Even if they pikitan, they know where to be absorbed if there is a soldier who attacked the area.

A severe challenge entered his territory.
We should also be cunning.
We should think of what his strategy is.
I do not know what his appearance is because it is unlikely that the picture showed us to the Brigade headquarters in the Busbus.

"Simply, there is only one hand of it.
That is old and always riding the horse.
More or less than 50 are his colleagues there in that place, "said one INTEL guy who was brief to us.

Actually, it is unlikely that the information given to me is unlikely to be dark.
There is no clearance in the called Commander's Information requirements (CIR).
When it is that kind of blurry data, we implement the strategy according to those who have studied in going to war.
Bottomline: The Rangers is Hunter and he is not the one who has been targeted by the enemy.
It is a joke of funny but mighty old Rangers, "those hijo, in going to war, brain use, do not ut!"

In what I see, two points of Radulan Sahiron if compare to my personnel most are Baby Musangs' (Non-Rangers / SROC graduate).
First, it is the battle experience.
As they say they have a musid in fighting.
Like Radulan is the beginning of his time as a MNLF fighter he is fighting.
His fighting experienced did not count.
It's just like a game with him the engaging.
Second, they are only in the midst of the terrain.
Even if there is no map, they can navigate the place.
They know each ambush site, tubig points and observation posts.
If the soldier is going to go to school, they just seem to be a target paper.

Meanwhile, my units will not be last.
My Team Leaders are also batikan in the fighting in Surigao and in Basilan.
I am invisible in combat liderato of my NCO-namumuno and even of course in my own ability to motivate them to be taken away.
Then, I will be able to deal with that we are well-off in the pangunahing settery skills.
It was Inaral and we were able to gather the knowledge in the movement pamamaraan, tracking operations, matira pamamaraan, patrol base operations and agarang action drills (IAD) like the senaryo of the counter-ambush pamamaraan.
We also know how to follow the fire process and close air support (CAS) operations if these are needed in the time of pitating.

Addition there, we are also in the marupunmanship skills.
The common shooting husay level of my soldiers is the ability to give hints to the distance 250m.
I have a pili soldiers who can make the head of the head shot at a distance 500 meters.
Also by my troops who exchanged gunshots with a close place in our lesson Quick reaction fire.
Most of all, we have a salary, libreng pagamutan and different benefits that are not in the ranks of the bandits.

Wait, we also have another lead.
We are the good guys that are biased by the sole God.
Yes, we are the same with enemies who pray and asking for guidance to God.
Because of the kidnapping, rape and beheading of the innocent victims are what they are doing, Satan is likely to hug them.
There, we are sure we are only.

"Don't be afraid of them.
The Lord Almighty is on our side, "I remind my NCO when we gathered together for our mission pagpaplano.

I notice it because, everything is serious every time we will bet our lives on a mission.
It is also a different disappointment of others because, the said said 2-linggong mission is not fulfilled in Jolo!

We heard of the news that the other soldiers suffered from the neighboring units that were not lucky in the fighting because of the various reasons.

I realize that the reason for the lover of other soldiers is to be forgotten or pagpapabaya in combat SOPs.

Included in the paglabag is the Princest of Security in the Patrolling missions that we are studying.

"Whenever there is a panganib area (place that it is possible that there is an enemy), the surrounding should be manmanated and set the overpanonood elements."

I also have a great reminder of them not to be defeated by feeling tired.

"Even if we are tired and hungry, don't neglect our security.
"It's better that we felt tired because that means that we are alive!"

"Who of you don't want to get tired?"

The others were able to smile and there was no one raised by the hand.
Of course.
It's just dead that it's not tired.

Because of that, every time we courts the danger like low ground or creekline there needs to be watching behind.
We were replaced in monitoring and make a bit of position even if it was hot or even if there were nikers or all sorts of insecurity that he was carrying in blood there.

My journey to Bud landed in the Bud land.

It was dawn before when we left the Assembly area in Tipgathered for the tracking operations in the forest of Bud slump.

The surroundings were still dark when we started to walk and needed to use a night vision goggles in the nangungunang elemento to see the surroundings.

When it is too dark especially when the place is isolated, we are holding the shoulder of the first and we have a signal if we need short HALT.

It cannot be avoided once more understand when using the local Bikolano of others in passing a message.

For a chance, my wake-up troops said that Bisaya "Pda salita, was very high!"
(Ipasa ang salita, there is a hole!)

Of course, the Ilokano did not understand and constant whispers that "he said?
What?
It's bahag? "

Eventually, the movement became more noise because there was already 3 points in the hole.
One troops are relevant to class and still hold a hold of a hold of him in uniform.

"Kinpo!"

"Grandchild!"

"It will buthe, batching in the hole!"

I seem to look mad at what happened.
I need to control the situation so I approached them as well as the usyosero who approached.

"Boones, recover!
That is just until the waist is! "

Our tactical movement failed.

It was immediately down in Bud slump!



