
9th IDPA, the US-Base Laban will be distributed in violence and domination of the US-Base Laban.

You are Maria Roja Banua NDFP-Bicol Nobyembre 8.
2014 2014.

The "tortyur" is happening again as a task that is a pasistface and rules inside the mersenaryong hukbo of the 9th Infantry Division Philippine Army and the entire mersenaryong armed strength of the state.
It is still fresh at one o'clock in the majority of the citizens, a tortyur video sent by the former spokesperson of the National Democratic Front Ka Greg Banares in 2011 that happened in the treyning launched in Camp Elias Angeles in Pili, Camarines Sur.

Even the last "tortyur bidist took place, which came out in social media this past few days, in a training camp or events in any detatons of the 9th ID in Kabikolan, proves that the tortyur of or soldiers will conduct the tortyur fight against anyone they considered an opponent.
It is not surprising to have a data up to 111 cases of tortyur and 55 cases of extra judicial killings that most of the heavy tortyur before killed from the year 2010-2014 under the service of Benigno Simeon Aquino.
In the whole of Bicol, it will take to 1,424 a different case of human rights paglabag which reaches 16,232 the number of civilians who are civilians according to human rights.

On the side of the revolutionary movement, a higher court of Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB) obedience to three (3) primary rules in discipline and eight (8) something that should be remembered.
The 7th of the thing that should be remembered is "not to cut the captive."
Those who surrendered were those who surrendered, were captured and put in situations that cannot go against the process of battle.
Also included in the hostages are arrested to punish or investigate based on the suspected that they have against the revolutionary actions and anti-sosyal.
Overall, the hostages will be raised, aside from those who are proven to be worthy of death.

It is proven in many experiences, which is honest fulfilling the Bagong Hukbong Bayan for many opportunities and cases of having a captive of digma these politicians in discipline.
Only some of these cases are the care and release of the hostages 1st LT Fidchurches, PFC Nemenio 2004, Capt B and Cafgu Riquerey neo (2014).

So, we are calling for all the youth children of the farmers, workers and other kind of oppressed in society to stand in your own kind of interest.
Use the intelligence, courage and ability for service to the people and the revolutionary change that will truly smell us in the midst of poverty and will be experienced in the present.

For the soldiers children of sweat and there are good left in their hearts and sanity, turn your back to the service in the resyunbuilt armed forces that are just serving those who are taking advantage of those who are taking advantage of those who are taking advantage of those who are taking advantage of each other.

Live a revolution!



