
Caraga Food ligtas Campaign intensified by the DOST, Winrock International and PIA Caraga.

Nobyembre 09, 2016 Jennifer P. Gaitano.

Butuan City, November.
9 (PIA) - the campaign is strengthened in public towards clean and safe food that can be bought from the markets in the region of Caraga after launching and signed the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), Winrock International - Philippine Cold chain Project (PCCP) and Philippine Information Agency (PIA) Caraga here in the city.

According to DOST Caraga regional director Dominga Mallonga, who is also leading the Caraga Food Safety Team, the said campaign is based on Republic Act 10611 or the Food Safety Act of 2013 - the law that strengthen the pagkaing safety in the country who protects the health of the konsumante and promote the local food and products.

Mallonga added, the Food ligtas Caraga is a impormasyon and edukasyon kampanya of Caraga Food Safety Team which consists of different agencies of the government, along with other partners in non-government and civil lipunan organisasyon.

It was also found out that the Food ligtas Caraga kampanya was on focus on two major sangkap.
This is allegedly giving an training program on the meat paghawak for the karne shop operator, workers and karne vendors.
And the goal of said campaign is to improve the pagkain paghawak of the residents in the region and it is through the use of technology and media.

The PIA ensured that the support will be given and will be used by the agency and all the platforms just reach the public important information about the campaign.

Winrock International Chief of party Dan Gudahl shared their goal to help the Caraganon to avoid different diseases due to dirty and right preparation of food.
The Winrock International is the one he will give to the required suport-financial for the said campaign.

Meanwhile, DOST Secretary Fortunato dela Pena became a witness to the signing of MOU of the said agency and praised what they had been truly considered for Caraga Food ligtas Campaign.

The Department of agriculture (DA), Department of Health (DOH), and Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) are also included in the katuwang-agencies who will help the implementation of the campaign.
(JPG / PIA-Caraga).



