In the middle of the fight, the problem of the residents of Zamboanga now just like the lack of water and medical service including the sources of money and livelihood for some soldiers who are suffering from the old and broken things but the defense of crying because it is a regular source of them live from Zamboanga City.
The curfew is screaming again and even if it is possible that it is the usual life of Zamboanga, it is already wrapped in silence and will be droilined everyday in the lower service and is very affected by the daily life of these members as well as the batayang service to be brought up as well as the batayang service which is due to the batayang service.
Of the chaos and danger born a healthy baby in the gym of the
University but
"Continue to be able to do it.
We are forced to closed the Zamboanga city medical center because of the trouble in trouble.
Tagapagligtas was the child who was identified to transfer his mother to the private hospital because of the lack of stuff using the stuff.
The supply of clean water is becoming like a service problem as well as the ones who get the money in eighty is the line line because the bank is closed, also in the office of the government in the office of the government.
Even the residents of the residents look affected according to the store tomorrow morning closed closed morning.
Even if someone else tried to sell in the market, no one buys
Our sales of Papa love that it has become cheap that we are going to
Because it is there again.
So we have been able to make it cheap that we are going to have
It is super what we are doing all sales that you do not die hard to die in hunger because there is no food that it is because it is said that it is a morning full morning.
There is no trouble.
I decline it's the afternoon that it's going to be.
That there was a tension.
That we have a career.
Working.
It is not a sudden disorder.
The former muhon is on the forest.
He has their own strategy to protect himself.
This man was used because there was a pan while he was hanging slowly slow.
There are those who are just allowed in prayer the situation we are afraid of.
Just because of it.
Much for the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime.
To the gun gun.
You will not be able to evacuate then I hear that the gunfire that are approaching you are used to us.
That's how it is or it's going to be like that.
Yes how can it come up here that's what we can be punished for.
Hide in.
Safety.
Again the soldiers who also made the pain but despite the difficulty and danger of no one has no stop in the medikasyon they have shown what they have shown.
They are going to ask for the stuff that I am using a bat life with a bat.
There is also a hole in kalumaan.
According to the sake of the sake of the bota if there are soldiers who want to be the old ones because they consider lucky to be lucky, they are proportabying.
Based on the culture at the thigh even if I am or what is always all there is an mold, they are able to catch up with
Yes, we have a lot of superition in the meantime.
Our organization.
Not yet.
We saw a combat boots in the old so that is the state or there is the state of adopted in the throbu in cebu.
Jessica tomorrow new day new hope and everyone is hoping to resolve that this conflict is going to be resolved in a peaceful way and when the situation of these lives can be returned to normal, it is the difference that I have to relocate in the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, instead of the hospital, she was still there in the middle of the hospital, but instead of the hospital, I have been hospitalized as a place where you have been hospitalized as a place where the story is going to relocate others.
It is said that the hospital is just going to be Jessica because it is going to be a matter of time since he is still alive in the middle of Barangay Santa Catalina and san in favor for me because the manager of the patients who are all the patients were left in different places and then they were in the middle of them. That's where he's already proper state university, but they said that they have not brought up with the poor cot for example, the patient who needs to be able to run to a private hospital is needed to be able to run to a private hospital, which is the only time he left her son in the subdivision but there is a need to be transferred to a pribadong hospital just to learn because there is no need for the doctors to be transferred to a private hospital but there is a need to be transferred to a pribadong hospital just to there are still other hospitals who can defend patients and those who are injured here in crisis and others who are wounded in the crisis.
He has yet to be famous in these kinds of those who are not far from us if he is the hospital of bawat hininga Andros ease his effort that they have a hospital like other patients there in the said hospital brought there, the others brought in the anniversary of a heart of the hospital today, rarely used to be used to the anniversary of a heart of the hospital today, rarely used to be used to the anniversary of a heart of the hospital today.
With the patient who robbed it because it is here in the fighting that Jessica is okay with it because it is closed almost the whole city of how the profits of the income from the market I saw, the people who were able to buy them, especially when they had no money to buy because they had no money to buy their salaries in this crisis.
'that is Jessica chain reaction to him when the vendors are not able to control the vendors they don't have their salaries, they do not have their salary for them to buy food downloadily I have no money to buy them.
Maybe it is rare for the neighbors that we have talked to those who have spoken with rice first for some of their acquaintances first.
There are only four days of different that they are like this that the suffering of the people imagine How mas mahirap April
Araw-araw, which is often added to what they are getting tired of what the suffering will cause especially when it is Jessica Zamboanga, because it is just because it has to be shown Juan dekana because that is where it is because he has already been there.
A big ha.
Percent of serbey napunasan mercado coming from Zamboanga very effective Zamboanga seaport this airport, which is why we will be able to make the impact of these conflicts in the economy of Zamboanga because it is his cousin who is hanging in the minds of Better kaysa those who are hanging in his head.
Thank you very much for you and it's going to be a lot of
