I know BETTER!: Paulo Avelino, there is no TIME for the child who is going to LJ LJ "busy," -- LJ By Jun Nardo Enero 18, 2017, Paolo Contis is not yet taken away by Paolo Contis to Paulo Avelino.
LJ is from New York with Paolo and me to go on vacation in the holidays and also visit the mother (LJ) based on the Big Apple.
"It's not like that."
Nothing is going to be done!
Ha!
Ha!
Ha!
Nothing is done happening, "LJ said in the grand surprise of his new series in GMA Pinulot Ka Lang Sa Lupa.
Is Paulo still a role to me?
"It's if he wants to.

Or, "isn't it?
Ha!
Ha!
Ha!
If he wants, "the actress again.
Is he still able to do the obligation to their child?
"He is busy!
Owww?
You thought, duh!
"I have money!" LJ's response.
Is the child looking for the father?
"Of course, he knew.
Yes, he knew.
He was looking for him.
"Of course, he can see on TV," he answered.
So, okay is okay not seeing me Paulo?

"I am also busy with me!
Ha!
Ha!
Ha! "A joke of the actress.
How is Paolo?

When is their wedding?
"It is okay.
There are still a lot of fixing, "he bulked.
LJ, don't want to get naked!
"I have the size of me!" - LJ Bale now, LJ again had a drama series.
But he still needs to be sexy in some scenes.

He might be insecure with Ryza Cenon who has already been sexy with his serye I6 Na orders?
"It is not.
He is first.
I am fine.
He will be sexy first.
I am fine.
"It's the extent of me too," LJ's reasoning.
Julie Anne San Jose will be able to collide with LJ on the tarayan and they are going to get along.
On TV plug, Julie Anne, huh!
"It's not.
Too much.
Not so much.

I really just need to be brave.
"So it looks like that," he answered.
When it comes to Ara Mina that his mother came out of the serye, LJ is not in the country when the issue came out. "
"It's just asking me people.

I don't know anything.
I don't have a idea.
I was also a little surprised that there was an issue like that when I got home.
"I also want to be with Ate (Ara).
Cristine, he's his brother, I close. "
Then, he is always seeing Ate Hazel (Ara).

I also want to push "the good thing we started working relationship with.

Because we also have a lot of good captured scene.
"We also have a scene pretty bad," LJ explained.
In January 30 the piloto of Pinulot Ka Lang Sa Lupa from the direction of Gina Alajar.



