It's because it's going to buy a modern lifestyle that can't really be enough especially when it comes to your children of course he wants to give it always the night in saln because the seduction of uya is because of the seduction of uya.
The children are hi-tech because it is too much hygienic only because it is found out apple gadget but how can we identify the children in this gadget with us this morning.
According to the town of the very beautiful thing that our colleague is thinking of Bani and jus sells tocino to explain to what we are incying in the pagtatanghal what is in the pagtatanghal of what is in the pagtatanghal.
It is very early to the two of you who are struggling to take care of the children who enjoy the children who do not really need to tell the judges immediately to the judges who are immediately taught by the children now that are modern technology.
Not take away.
I would be surprised that he brought you to purchase your activities that he was moving on when he would be able to make it faster so huwebes on the napasali of himself.
The gwin Paul utilized in the freebies but we see all the children so they have a baso because the accusations that you have seen in defense compared to the teachings of normal in the book compared to the teachings of normal in the book compared to the teachings of normal in the book compared to the teachings of normal in the book.
And compared to the judges a little toy, that is really different because the lesson of the security security one two Three zero insidente is really different.
Don't like that that's how big it is that the bespren government is going to be that big.
He's back for several times.
Discipline needed to be drawing gem so he contracted they were just playing with them.
They remember that it was the same time I was able to eat it because it was a biswal when the children were young now than the words hubot-naked age can be the children who are exposed to their children.
It is getting fun technology that there is a case that has already been a case.
Holds good and then gano, from isang point five we are up to.
Anim na iyon.
Taon or Three four Spati the low coverage of the low coverage.
Lugar kung saan
She needed to.
We look for your friends to sell your friend and have a smell of wawala isang taong old child now now.
I will be okay to describe you to buy a working man all over might be caught up or get caught up.
What is happening here is that what is happening here is that the face of his eyes were closed by those who were closed by eiram worth it would be seen by the labong, limang Soldiers in the other grasya in the north and age of the school that we are going to break at the public, which is why they are going to take place in the meantime.
You will be able to make hair okay.
We wake up Abuyog
It can continue what they are doing mhm.
What do we see is okay with what you see that is our mass a little while he said to jake that Yes I got the tuba in the glass I said the session with one.
They understand baguhan.
It's the same time.
God.
But it is the lungs that he chose to see your non-galang in wanting to order what time they want to do.
They have been able to make the stories that they have started to study and Skahit isa sa araw-araw day.
But that is just allowed to be popular and religion all of them are all of our children that they are super in the EARLY edukasyon to fire the majority of varsity in the Philippines so we have a cold ning ning so that wala pang ibang opsyon ang ning to i-i-
Clothing while they are a victim in the share of the agency they are going to share.
Walang pinag-aralan ang isang tao at ang kalahating blood doctor.
It is a letter that Freddie can import on being a student in the pribado.
To ask for the game game again.
He was supposed to be focused on this before twenty dalawa and drinking with bandits from this twenty place for height of the child like the mass of the mass that I was able to do with the mass that I was able to do in a area.
I don't have a sudden September up to the oparehong of course it is not all going to be done by this kind of revolpunan limang apat Sman that is going to be the one who will be fooled if it's not at the age of senior '
It is possible that we will be able to give home the center of his parents who are really worried about the answer of ALWAYS) that they are going to be here in the story of this story of the tenacity para sa bayan.
Kongreso bilang sa Manila branch is the one.
A movie moody one hundred plus
Some evidence to your children are the ones who have the one hundred books for those who are like that in the face that I have been trying to do so but best scholarship head wow that we will be forced to go here bente libo and before training is a lot of training and the house will continue to buy a lot of thanks and the flow of the house.
