"Everyone is ready, they say they are going to be ready.

They are already ready to] all the need to do our government for the upcoming return of students in school.
The rooms are ready, the books are ready, table and chairs of students.
The police said, they are also ready so they will distribute the civilians cops.
This is one of their readiness to give protection to the students against the ogag of society like robbers so the police take a passenger.
In Metro Manila, the Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA) will not be left behind, which is why their personnel are already ready to ensure the light flow of traffic.
The MMDA added that the called ping Station in the entire Manila is ready to be used in order to avoid flood our countrymen in the onset of the rainy season.
In short words, if all the statement of different agencies of the government will be basis, the opening of schools will surely be fine in the coming June.
They are all ready.
All of them have their own gimmicks in public as a sign of their readiness.
So if we are going to follow it, we will surely hurt these statements.
I will be asking the house of my neighbor ogag!
In the reopening of schools in the whole country, there is the lack of the rooms, chairs, table and books.
In the return of students in school, especially there in public schools, there are surely those whose names are missing or they are detached from the list because they have been cheated on.
Entering the month of June... surely the flow of traffic is tight and when the strong rain comes, our students will surely walk in flood especially in Manila.
Some students can taste the ruthlessness of the ogag of society like a robber, isser and other modus?
We will say that again... where are the police?!
It's under the bridge, it's looking forward!
I really deny that there are more roads done than punuan the big shortage of classrooms.
More funds used in the breakfast of the government offices instead of funds for the book, table and chair.
Do you think, the people?



