She has an asthma or hika or hika.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) whether to be mistaken updated February 26, 2015 - 12: 00am, 12: 00am.

(Part 1) in the whole world, 1 at 8 children has asthma and 1 in 13 elderly with asthma.
The symptoms of asthma are having a hard time breathing, coughing and acked (Owezing).
The whistle is burned in "huuu," as if there is a cat in the lungs.
The cause of asthma is the swelling and being sensitive to the small roads of the wind in our lungs (luof bronchioles).
When the asthma is attacking, there are increasing phlegm in the lungs and the pass of the wind, so the patient is trying to catch up with a breath.
There is no permanent treatment for asthma.
But if you change your living, the attack of the asthma of 50 per cent can be less.
Here are those who have to do: 1 - 1.
Is there an allergy around?
80 per cent of the person with asthma also has an allergy.
Think about what you did before the asthma attack.
Are you tired, nainitan, or inhaled foul things?
Write this to a diary.
Avoid things that makes your asthma attack.

2 years.
Is there an allergy in food?
It is not often the allergy in food (8 per cent) but it is also happening.
Beware of the food preservatives, pagkaing coloring, snack, alcohol, peanuts oods, egg, chicken, and others.
Look for which food you have an allergy and avoid it.
3 years.
Be careful with medicines.
There are people who have an allergy with medicines like aspirin, penicillin and medicine in pain.
Paracetamol is the only safe for you.
Consult the doctor before drinking medicine or any supplement.
4 -.
Avoid pollen.
When it comes to summer (March until June), many pollen came out from the trees and grass.
Wear a mukha mask.
More pollen in the morning, before 10 in the morning.
5 years.
When it is winter, sometimes the bathroom is nagkaka-mold and fungus because it is always wet.
Tuyuin the bathroom after taking a bath.
6 -.
If there is a vacuum cleaner, use it so that the dirt in the house will be good.
If possible, remove the carpet and rugs because it was very quick to the captain of dust.
7 - 7.
Avoid pet animals.
Bathe the pet dog every week.
If it is possible not to take care of an animal in the house, because they are able to taste the small hairs.
8 years.
Open the window in the kitchen.
The great smell of food can be started by asthma.
The smoke and smell of being cooked, garlic and fried foods are irritated.
Put a pagod fan or cook outside the house.
Next, there is an additional advice about asthma.



