San Miguel Beer will start San Miguel Beer vs Brgy.
Ginebra in the semis now By Ramil Cruz SSetyembre 26, 2016 Game 1: (Smart Araneta Coliseum) 7: 00 p.m.

San Miguel will start number 2 and defending champion San Miguel Beer and number 3 Barangay Ginebra the basagan in the opening of the action of Game 1 of PBA Governor Block "Cup semifinals showdown today at seven o'clock in the evening at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
In a tagayan, San Miguel Corp. prangkisa took the rival owned by Ramon S. Ang the rival in order to be in front of no utul-utol to be rival in the race-four Win Finals duel, who will win the winner in a Final four playoffs of the siblings.
It's 1 TNT and no.
4 Meralco who are under Manuel V. Pangilinan.
Ginebra is going to the Cubao venue that is from the 109-104 win in Friday on Friday at the same time.
6 Alaska in the quarters while San Mig is on the Three game manalo from eliminations until last 8 with 114-110 fight against no one.
7 NLEX was only three days ago.
"We know How SMB is the How mahirap sila," start Tim Cone, that the camp is last winning in the opponent in 2007 Philippine Cup best-7 Finals.
"We na lang ni We na makita kung hindi sila komportable ni We Can at drive ang mga ito palabas ng kanilang ginhawa zones.
Marami silang armas na account para sa mga ito para magkaroon ng buo ang aming mga kamay ", hirit ni Gin Kings coach.
"STILL, We have a couple of games para malaman ang mga ito".
The two-time Grand Slam coach refers the weapons of the Beermen scoring import Elijah Millsap, 2013 Best two-time MVP June Mar Fajardo, 2012-13 MVP Arhangin Santos, 2016, all Star Game MVP Alex Cabaghindi, Marcio Lassiter and 2015-16 Philippine Cup finals MVP Chris Ross.
That is why he will be sent to the faithful Justin Broacilee, Japeth Aguilar, who is having a asim while Greg Slaughter, LA Tenorio who is from the playoff career-high and ikatlo-best kabuuang 32 points in stepping out of the team in Alaska, rookie Scottie Thompson Mercado in spite of that there is no more dangerous footer and second return of Sol Mercado and second return of Sol Mercado and second return of Sol Mercado and second return of Sol Mercado and second return of Sol Mercado. It is.



