We can: He is not a hero By Harvey Keh Agosto 5, 2016 May news that the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos at the Libingan ng mga Bayani will be discussed in Malacañang next month.
This became an issue in the election and it was one of the promises of President Rody Duterte during the campaign.
Many groups will disagree and surely will object if Duterte will pursue it.
Even Vice President Leni Robredo is against this plan.

I think that the proposal of former Senate President Aquilino "Nene" Pimentel "is even better in the town of Batac, Ilocos Norte to bury the remains of Marcos.
According to Pimentel, he loves people there in Batac so it is better that he will be buried in order to stop some people debate about this issue.
For me, Marcos should not be buried in the Libingan ng mga Bayani.
Marcos is known in the whole world as one of the leaders of the town who has the biggest stolen from the government.
He was known as a implemented martial law wherein thousands of Filipinos were lost and killed by military and police.
Is it a hero that a well-known stole billions of billions of the country?

As a hero can be considered as a leader who killed our freedom and agreed to the left murder of those who expressed resistance to his implemented Martial Law?
Until now, the Marcos family is not yet back to what they stole from our country.
Until now, justice is still screaming for thousands of families who lost their relatives during martial law.
Even a student in grade 3 knows what the meaning of being a hero is.
We can consider that a hero is a person who sacrifice for the good of others and the country.

We cannot consider that a leader who used his power to cultivate himself and his family.
If we will not object and we will allow Marcos to be buried in the Libingan ng mga Bayani, we show the youth that the leaders who are busor in his power and stole from the country's funds.
Sometimes, the Marcos family did not even apologize and asked for an apology to what they did in our country.
How kind of leadership is what we want to make an example for the next generation of Filipinos?

Hopefully not.



