
Flying a flag, the start of the simple celebration of the 45th anniversary of the PKP in December 26.

Kawanihan in the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines December 24, 2013 2013.

Salin: Bandila-raising ceremonies to kick off simpleng pagdiriwang ng CPP ika-45 anibersaryo ng Disyembre 26 iniannouncement of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) ready for the preparation for the public anniversary in December 26 and will start in the morning of the increase of the Internationale, the world in the midst of the Internationale, the world who is in the increase of the Internationale, the world who is in the increase of the Internationale. The coconut communists are singing by the kilusang communists.

The flag of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), who was temporarily treated by the democratic Gustake nong Bayan of the Philippines, is sweating in the areas of the gathering.
The flag of the Bagong right Bayan (BHB) and the other revolutionary that the masses will be rescued by the gathering of the gathering.

The komiteng rebolusyonaryo in barrio, interbarrio and municipality, of the local revolutionary rebels and the branches and seksyon of the PKP in the loquality of the gatherings.
This will be held out most of the places that are in jurisdiction and authority of the organs of the democratic guoes nong town.

Ten thousand citizens are expected to attend the ten gathering that will be held in different places in the country.
Most people who will come will walk, from nearby barrio and municipality.

The PKP also expected some thousand visitors from the unsuran, including students, workers, poor cities, doctors and professionals, employees of the government and drivers of the jeepney.
It is also invited by foreign friends and government to participate and observe the gathering.

"The units of the BHB will be able to share with the gathering and take care of the places that poverty poverty in the local units of the milisyang town," said PKP.

"The gatherings that are appropriate occasion will serve for the filipino people to celebrate the concrete success that they have achieved in 45 years of the revolutionary struggle," said PKP.
"They will celebrate the advancement in the field of politics, economists, culture and military, even giving service to education and medical to the people."

The gathering will serve as an opportunity to collect and will be able to borrow funds and other support material for the rehabilitation of the places destructed by typhoon Yolanda.
"Included in the kopiled up and distributed distributed are the binhi for the crops of vegetables and intelligence, even the suloy of the tree for reporestation."

The PKP called again to the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to remove his troops in the area of baseng gerilya and stop the worst of its operations in order to allow the people to travel freely and participate in the masang asembliya for the 45 hours of PKP.

According to reports, the AFP continues to conduct the gerilya in Davao del Norte, Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental and other parts of Mindanao, even in areas destructed by Yolanda 'like Samar, Leyte, Negros and in Sorsogon, Benguet and other towns in Luzon.
"Despite the alleged ceasefire declared by Malacañang, the operation of the AFP has no stop that creates a widespread abuse of the human rights and international law."



