Thirty-two were killed in the ongoing fighting of the military and the Bangsamoro Islamic kalayaan fighters in the young saudi Ampatuan Maguindanao, some residents who evacuated there couldn't be reached by relief operation because of the severity of the significance in the area we find out to Mayor Ferdinand Cabrera.
It will be puted by the thunder that will still be heard from the entire
Twenty-seven members of the one who died were the ones who died in the continued clash even in the neighboring provinces after two consecutive explosion happened last night in the pikit north Cotabato.
The news was asked to be supported by the dead and Cordon.
Two days when you are still going to be sexy in the evacuation center in Maguindanao oorderin said to avoid the others on the side of the road easily because the different cover is not good to cover the other side of the road.
It's because they are having a hard time reaching the relief operation because the speed of their hold on the members of the stomach is closed and then then it's going to be closed.
The three men who were riding on the motorcycle were shot at by three men who were able to finish the mission of friends in the office yesterday yesterday.
One was reported to have died and injured.
Already banlaw.
She is going to be able to do this.
Anything else to do with it.
I do not know.
Again.
Because the residents were almost run away even the ones who would bring the report to their statement that we are fair calling that we should be the leadership of what we are going to do, maybe the dalawang araw has been able to forget on the road because he said that it was good because he said that they were beautiful.
This group of rice that is when a particular candidate of the residents according to the spokesperson of teatro gumaganti is they only in front of the military
It is even the Manila police in order to do it.
There will be peace on the ground to end the trouble as if the military is trying to bring it back to the chin because I am full of suffering the blessing as much as they don't give their passion to the bird and the soldiers as part of Maguindanao as a part of Maguindanao.
According to the bilibid they can grant the request of the blessing in due to the issue of security in the area because it is still practice Melo.
