Mercedes, superstar Levels in Kuwait!
By Ruel Mendoza June 11, 2016 a famous TV star, who is regarded as the indie actress Mercedes Cabral in the Middle East because of its starring in a beware of iti soap opera, who will titulong Saq Al-Bambu (The Bamboo Susap).
The audience is fascinated by said soap opera in Kuwait because of his exotic beauty and his acting skills.
There are a lot of those who take care of the tweet so that they praise Cabral in the said soap opera.
"Others put a screenshots from a scene of the actress who made him cry.
There is a tweet that Cabral looks like the supermodel, Gigi Hadid.
Here are some tweets: "And aktres naglalaro ng katulong sa Saq Al-Bambu.
Umiiyak.
"Absolen Loved ang kanyang performance ngayong araw na ito".
"Yeah at mukhang si Gigi Haang ginawa niya".
"Sa labis na respeto kay beware, mga aktres, hindi ko na nadala sa buhay ko.
"This WOMAN is Mardies actor."
The "Saq Al-Bambu (The Bamboo Susap)," is a makabagong Cinderella story about Josephine, a Filipino maid nagtatrabaho sa Kuwait, na tumalo sa puso ni Rasnagtago, ang anak ng kanyang amo.
According to the manager of Cabral, Shandii Bacolod, produced the "Saq Al Bamboo" of Sabbah Pictures and join Al-Rai TV at MBC Drama in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Dubai in United Arab Emirates at iba pang bahagi ng Middle East.

Aside from Mercedes Cabral, some Filipino actors who are included in the cast of the soap operation are Maria Isabel Lopez, Ana Abad Santos, Lou Veloso, Sue Prado, Lilia Cuntapay, at Rhen Escaño.
The others are careful.
Mercedes is said to have been taken for the sabon operation because of the rekomendasyon of the Filipino producer, Sarah Pagcaliwagan-Brakensiek.
The execumatutupad of said soap opera was surprised because of the good feedback in performance of it.
The assistant manager of Sabbah Pictures, Suzy Karajian was posted on his Facebook because of the labis tugon of the netizens to Mercedes.
"Everyisa ang nag-uusap tungkol sa How na kamangha-mangha niya... ang isang Maralagang talento.
"Mercedes WAS kaya hindi makapaniwala sa How na pagpapahalaga niya sa ibang bansa, umiyak siya.
"When you DID and film" Rosita "in Denmark, inakala ng Danish ng mga tao na si WAS ang isang Filipino na humubog sa pag-arte sa Denmark.
Sa ilang artikulo, naisip pa niyang si WAS bilang isang Danish-Filipino actor.
Now, Many Think siya ng isang beware na aktor sa sabon na ito ".



