The moon and gun is still good.

The month of the moon and gun in EB Maj has written by Chris Millado written by Chris Millado and pressing by Andoy Ranay.

The "moon and gun" Chris Millado is often mentioned as one of the klasimy dula that the US-Marcos is against the dictatorship and one of the klasiulang patriotic.
When it was aired this year, there were friends who told my watch, because it was said to be good and it was still crying.
That is why I watched, and I didn't fail.
The "moon and gun are composed of the five stories of the people who fought the dictatorship, particularly when the struggle was ignited when Senator Ninoy Aquino date August 21, 1983.
In his message to the souvenir program of the dula, Millado said that he wrote it last 1984, time even if the UP School of economics say the country is being constructed by severe crisis.
The soundandan of the season: Laktowns, August twenty-One Movement, yellow confetti in Makati, were in a different part of the dula, August twenty-One Movement, yellow confetti of the call boykoteo in the election and picture of Ninoy, and the picture of Ninoy, and others.
But good to dula, stories are meaningful about the particular time they described.
The first, about the moments of the siblings who are farmers activists and Filipino workers who are given to the Laktown when the latter arrived in Metro Manila.
The second, the story of the woman Itawis, a national minority, with the help of a priest who shelter him about the murder of the military to his father on the basis of the accusation of the New People's Army or NPA.
The third, the talking of a socialite with his house helper about his involvement with the mistake of anti-Marcos.
The fourth, the fetch of a woman activists with his wife's corpse, the mourning for the death of this, and knowing about it.
And fourth, the arrest, interinterrogation and tortyur by the police to a student activists.
The immediate notice that it is commendable in the dula is the script.
Kongreal and lives are the character, the stories of their lives, and the story of the lives they presented.
Millado said, "Lahand of the character... is based on the actual people I met, worked with, encountered a moment, read and heard from the secret meeting, piketlayn, long march, demonstration, struggle to be given back, demonstration, struggle to be given back, and barikada."
You can see Millado's sharp observe and he sank in their joy, grief, love, drama, competitors, and other emotions.
This is probably the aspect "month" on the title.
But the good thing in the dula is how helping this part of this personal and the political is the only political - the anti-dictatorship is not only in the position, but in the struggle for the revolutionary change of society.
This is probably the aspect "gun" on the title.
The dula entered the personal not to be showered and to be imprisoned here, but to whom the contents of the personal stability in the piled work struggle, and for the pulitikang struggle itself.
That's why you are going to bring the dula to various emotions - in a way that there is a part of the careful and there is a part of it fully - to bring back to your aktibisand
Here, it is strictly related, it will not collide, the month of personal life and the gun of political struggle.

Pinakamaing the ability to the story about the woman who got the body of her husband's body.
He passed through severe anger on the principle and struggle, but it led to a stronger pagtangan here; in the feeling of being alone but went to the feeling of being with many; in the assumption of his life and death but dumhead in understanding of it.
Many of the ones I am at the same audience who will watch that the squeezed awareness is the one to wipe the tears and heard the control that they are carrying.
Here seems to be the most painful but it is the most sweetness of flying halik that I have seen in my whole life.
The good script, was able to be able to give a good role of the actor in the experiment of Andoy Ranay.
Angeli Bayani is very good to do that he plays that woman Itawam.
His speech, seems to be a snob, but it is still a different language.
The fountranslation of the priest, JC Santos is no longer what he says, but you will understand clearly, with the help of some susing words and marubdob emotions.
Many asked after: The said language of Bayani was really the uttered?
Because it comes from the heart, and it's a part of the heart.
Mayen Estañero is also very good that he plays the wife of the dead NPA.
He is good shown the love, sadness, anger, happiness, loneliness, mourning and various emotions in the scene that turned out of life.
Married-husband, mother, mother, will be blamed for activists.
Jackie Lou Blanco should also be recognized as an act of sosyal - a business wearing the bathrojust.
He was very much alive with a long monologo and he was giving joy to the audience when his character shown, that maybe one of the "Titas of Manila" now: His estate in the struggle, and sadness, and others.
Someone said that his model in performing is Maita Gomez, activists and former NPA, who came out the picture before the story started.
Maita became aware of the First quarter Storm of 1970 while the character of Blanco was on the decade of 80, but whoever was amazed by Maita will be worried about her in the performance of Blanco.
A lot of interests and able to think about the dula.
This is brave in showing danger and sacrifice that the activists are facing and revolutionary unaryo, but it is also clear in showing commitment, stories, memory, being cunning to the enemy, and other recourse of them in facing and escape.
It is brave though it is also careful in carrying information especially in relation to the kilusang secret: From the number of woman Itaway in 21 soldiers who kidnapped his father until the act of his wife, who is dead, until the discovery of the written biography of the student activists.
The said immediate reason why the dula will be displayed is to oppose the reisyunism in history regarding the dictatorship of the US-Marcos who is spreading the path for the return of the Marcoses in Malacanang.
Perhaps, the wake of the memory to strengthen the fighting for the burial of the murder and violation of human rights under Rodrigo Duterte.
But more than that is the cost and bisa of the "moon and gun."
Like that Millado took a picture of the picture a time strong and strong struggle - not only against the dictatorship but for the entire rotten show system - and shown the said picture now.
Similar to the commemoration of the initial generation of activists who are revolutionary in FQS.
Our knowledge and understanding is being held, we are given inspiration and ahitation about what has been done and it is possible to achieve that might be tangright now and lam!
Who would be the one who said that you can't make a habit of a poem?
It turns out that it turned out: When it was very good and very good for a likhang art, there is no explanation or rereview enough for this to be received.
It needs to be experienced by the people.
So I tell everyone: Watch the "moon and gun!"
And proper to tell those behind the dula: Padilla, according to the screening of the entire town!



