While in the Philippines of the soldiers amerikano for the joint military exercises.
They said that they are prohibited to go to the bar after WAS love quotes don't go because it is the House pot pot.
It is a lucky suspect in the murder of transgender WOMAN, Jack Reid janitor lauded.
The distance from the height Myra para sa broken will sign traffic.
Jessica to avoid the incident that happened last year involving a soldier amerikano.
It cannot go to the like American soldier who is now here in Balikatan military ehersisyo.
This is a budget for the businessmen that this year is expected to be even expected by a lot of businessmen in Subic.
Olongapo.
While in the Philippines, it is prohibited to go to the advice of the soldiers who are amerikano
Due to the alleged involvement of our report corporal joseph Scott Pemberton from the death of transgender Jerry Codinera.
This is also the directive of your cousin who is Filipino soldier Filipino.
Despite this according to their mukha, it is possible that there are those who are stubborn.
But we are in control of amerika their troops understand each other.
That there are complicated issues that are due to the event of the event.
She was going to be in the past few times.
First Balikatan ehersisyo and the better that ha ha ha.
It is going up here where we are going to be able to fulfill our soldiers.
For the night when they saw each other in Misibay, it seems that their mistakes were made by the ban that their troops did not end up to the blog while in the country in the country.
It is not only in the abuse of the soldiers of amerikano.
But even in Mindanao, especially when there is a Balikatan or any joint military exercise.
According to his sweat representative Fernando hicap except for the enjoyment there is still a very, father amerikano every Balikatan business.
The amerikano are just attacking the Filipino soldiers using the other thigh and modern belongings equipment.
To the end of the end.
The Philippines bought them in the meantime.
The speaker of Espina is not denying some of those who want to buy acoustic, they can see in activities like Balikatan, it is said to be set to buy an ice pick of a few pages up to the material such as they used a rice in Subic Zambales.
But the Philippines has not been obligated to buy the Philippines in amerika.
Because it will be returned to the country that can accommodate modern but tires using equipment and in fact that your other things we have.
Military hardware, he was able to lose weight in the country Korea.
Those other countries who are examples of the rael are following us.
The new Sokol come on but I stared at example from the country who would be in charge of it.
If there is allegedly the Philippines who gets the Philippines from amerika, it is through the foreign assistance Act act.
The two former hampas coast guard cutter of amerika.
Gregorio del Pilar does not have an idea and rarely experience the country as nakalabas as the article America.
It's paid but in a low amount.
The important thing according to the spirit is needed by the tools that they are buying used to defend the military our territory.
It is said that it is worrisome Corporation which is being done by china in the West Philippines dagat.
We don't want to be your anymore.
Security measures that they are doing is going to do ha ha.
It is the same time for the same time with the military installations and prohibit the other countries that pass by that there.
It is said that they are able to consider the same time as well as they can pretend to claim the china of the entire West Philippines dagat.
We still have no porinformation if it will continue to continue to be there in the current Balikatan military exercise or is ashamed of the next agenda interest and thought of the next agenda and thought of the next agenda.
That will be done and in the water in the sudden it's because it's a second that's why it's still a member of the same thing before he's the same thing that's why it's
Balikatan yata, but I make mistakes.
It is a piston of balanse piston that is where it is possible for me to be there but it is still not enough that it is still in between the separate mark and black Ford which also asked a van though also had a van.
Even the confusion that happened next year, which is why the soldiers who are amerikano in the restaurant have already had a lot of fun.
And until it has gone and once again had access to the ships of amerikano for now we don't know if this is going to push through this fight, the ships of America will push through this in the water and this is expected to be a lot of businessmen there in the water and this is expected that there will be a lot of businessmen there in the water that we don't know if it will also get into a lot of businessmen there.
In the next military exercises in Jessica.
Sarefand face with what you mentioned the one that is going to be
It can be benefits for our soldiers to cover all of them ah with a thought of something.
There is a help that even if he still kulang, your mother joint military exercises in our arm forces of the Philippines traffic.
It is the same time when it comes to the Balikatan military exercises according to the speaker of his proper chief of the chief of his.
Pio and he is saying that it is really the same thing that he is going to be able to attend the espirs are the plastic use of amerikano, we can also use the defence in the Philippines when it comes to hardware or other trains because they are not really on the shoulder Andoy or those who belong to the shoulder Andoy, but they are really interoperability.
It was the same time for her death to his death that she admitted that the pic of the pic of the pic that they were seeing here for when they saw that she would have been effective in the Philippines where they were supposed to be able to access to the Philippines.
Criticism from the European 'ata even here in the agency that is cheaper but it is also like Tiburcio used so the suspects are famous Balikatan military ehersisyo to see what is really good that they are going to be able to do.
The Philippines of the Philippines.
When it comes to the defense Jessica if there is only one.
Marketing is the shirt after what you mentioned.
It is an interoperability lesson, indeed, that means that it means that it is the right thing to do.
These are still trying to be a Catholic ehersisyo like a practice if we can help each other's voice but that is if we are taking advantage of America in our opponents.
Because I can say that we can be pinakamalalang kasong senaryo with no sweat and in the heart of the Philippines and when they are invade as the one involved in the Philippines in the Philippines.
Is that the amerikano are getting involved in the case of being involved in the meantime.
We need to know how to operate the other hardware as well as the amerikano because it has happened when they join forces that according to the record Philippines litrato, we should know how to operator this is the same low types of weapons that are indeed the Filipinos and sermon here that are a little more low types of weapons that are the Filipinos and sermon here that are a little more low kind of weapons. Filipinos and the exports are also the same of Filipinos and those who are exports because we know that I can give it to those who are in the meantime.
He's going to be able to attend.
Private and public proposal also have those after hunger aspeto that there are really lots of God in the midst of this time with amerikano in the Philippines that the year is really going to continue to make an operation so they will really continue to make it all over the year round.
It is possible that it is possible that it is possible that the operation of the amerikano and the Filipinos who are the soldiers who are the soldiers of the amerikano.
