There is blood By George Nava-True II Disyembre 5, 2016, one of the avid readers of the Abante.
My problem is that it suddenly has blood on my spit.
We have medical checkup every year with the X-ray.
When I am tired, my voice is also changing.
What is this? - it's Name.
The blood on the spit is the duguang sputum (establishment optysis) a lot of reasons.
This is usually brought by infection in the lungs or Airways like Acute bronchitis o pneumonia.
It is also one of the symptoms of luding cancer.
If the problem is not in the lungs, the establishment optysis can also come from the nose, Upper gastroitneumaalingasaw or gilagid.
If you do not have TB but it is strong and often your coughing, it is also being smashed by the establishment optysis.
If every year you have a ganap medical examination, it is easy to see what is causing it.
The doctor will know if there is a problem with the lungs.
When there is no one to see here, come closer to a specialist o pulmonologist to be sure what your illness is really.

Also consult the dentist if you have a problem with gilagid.
Maybe you have gum disease.
Going to be able to help a ENT specialist if you think the blood is coming from the nose from your spit.
It is natural that your voice will be different when you are tired especially if you are catching your breath.
The new pitch o kalidad of the voice is usually caused by the problem with the vocal cords.

You might have laryitis (inflamation ng larynx), allergy o pulmonya.
You can also change "your voice because of the excessive drinking alcohol o smoking.
This often happens to the public speakers, singers o the person who is talkative, always screaming or crying.
The voice is also changing in drinking or in the midst of a irritating kemikal.
Try to rest your voice first and stop drinking and smoking.
Also avoid shouting or abuse of his voice.
When nothing has changed, bring it immediately to a ENT specialist to know if there is another reason for the change of your voice.



