Condolences to the Family and Kasama of Ka Arman Albarillo and 10 Pang martyr.

As the chief of the National democratic ranks of the National democratic ranks of the Philippines (NDFP), I am giving an taospade condolences to families and all included in the Timog Katagalugan and the entire country of Ka Arman Albarillo and ten of the martyr murdered by the reaksyonbuilt armed in San Narciso, Quezon last June 30.

Red salute for eleven who offered their lives to the filipino people with Pilpino and in the democratic revolution of the town towards the maningning World future.
It is the highest honor to serve the country, participating in the revolution and tax their own life if needed in the process of struggle.

The blood of the revolutionary built martyr and heroes are most expensive.
Their blood asked the land of the revolution.
The decision of the rebolusyonaryo and the masses to fight against the enemy will be strengthened.
Further pinasienergy and the flow of the revolutionary inspiration of the chubby party, armed town and the people will be faster.

I'm sure that the whole Partido will give up, armed town and the masses of the highest awards in each of the martyr.
And they can identify the contribution of the martyr in the revolution.
In my part, I haven't been able to catch information about each other being a martyr.
But the information about Ka Arman Albarillo reached me if I was referring to him now as a representative of his martyr in the struggle.

The best of my knowledge Ka Arman Albarillo is the former general secretary of the town-Timog Katagalugan and became delegates in the third Asambleya of the International League para People's struggle in Hong Kong in 2007.
He became active in the national democratic struggle after being killed by his parents during 2002 by the military in the leadership of Jovito Palparan, under the insurhensyang program of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.

When he was included in the ST 72 where 72 leader activists in Southern Tagalog region were filed by a deed case in 2008, he even saw the lack of justice and he decided to become a red warriors.
I am sure that those with her martyr are also passed by their rights, in great taking advantage and oppression that caused their participation in the highest form of the revolutionary ponbuilt struggle.

According to the report, the province of Quezon was passing by severe tickled, eight battaliof Philippine Army, Philippine National Police and CAFGU were deployed in 22 towns of District 1 and only 2.
There is no showcase in the history of the province and regions this kind of deployment of the military in relatibong small scope.
It is certain that a violation of human people and repression to the citizens and those who are patriotic and progressive.

The analysis terrorism of the state will push further to the people, especially the sweat, who fought for their national and democratic rights and push for the revolution for their national and panlipunang release.

The cruelty of the enemy will serve as a challenge to the rebolusyonaryo to improve the fulfillment of the right line, principles, parpers and their strategies and tactics of digmang town in the democratic revolution of the country.
In that, the hard work and sacrifice of our revolutionary martyr and heroes will be meaningful and productive.

Live the spirit and the purpose of Ka Arman Albarillo and companions who are being a martyr!

Push for the national democratic revolver nhg town!

Long live the sweat and filipino people!



