Although we are often true or no one gets angry with having a good impression or worms in the stomach because the court is able to stay in the middle of it, the clogging of these for limang
In his imagination, there seems to be no one to join the children on the side of the road in the seventeen, they are going through this siblings, this is a way to unwind in their creations as if it is a river eaten in the ground widespread system studying a bunch of white system.
Even if there is a irigasyon.
And the above first.
It's my father's name.
Then, it is not a waste of rope to lucy Quinto to seed knowledge.
Here when it is here.
They are happy if the man is going to look at their using the water supply of water canal and in the middle of playing even the merienda of this child in spite of the innocent body is sad this is sad.
Can get from the water from the water from the water.
And it's going to be the same thing.
Food food.
From the talent.
Coming from from the meantime.
You are still playing every day and Dolores.
For the sake of the sake of the sake.
I am not getting sick yet.
These three-year-old guards closed by her as if you are not dirty because she is able to make sure but she has to take care of her stomach because she said that there is a worm thin and long cruel and long cruel.
It was more intense that this child reached too much of his pet to come out of the mouth and nose of make him drink the spirit of the people in the evening that will be held in the deer in the deer in the evening.
It would be the desire to make sure if it was a choice, as
It's One atong that it's going to be thrown at the same time
Winter.
It's a shame that this is absolutely succeed Gaviola knee because it is so much better because it is a good thing.
In a survey that made the Unibersidad of the Philippines and department of apatnapu't apat% of the children in the public schools in the Philippines the positive in having a worm or counseling session equivalent to this almost nine million youth fifteen hanggang seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent up to seventy percent of
Kabuuang apatnapu't apat porsiyento na say seventy% Smaging bukas of the children.
You have to take care of it.
By continuing to malnutrisyon every lack of weight lacking in the top of the height of the top.
And weakness of performance in the school different kinds of worms can live in the stomach of the people from thin and short clothes Hilary until the spirit that you might be able to hold is the chance that you are going to get the chance that your hand will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance of the worms that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will get the chance that you will the then before I can also have you or open a wound that has been able to go to do that, that's why, that's
Yes then then of course if it went to there in his dad, that's going to continue before you can get the nutrition that's going to be there.
Don't eat the first one to get the worm but it is a terrible thing that it will be known to be horizontal or the child I thought of many of the entrance only of the entrance.
It is said to be ara perfect according to the doctors even if the hole of the body and the worst condition of the worms came out of the wind in the old lebadura there and death of the people now if for example, we will be sorry to save all of us and will be able to save a newbie that we are calling for a new one.
Tonight called o can post or impersonal observation to the river.
Or I think I haven't seen anything but it's possible too.
According to us, this is an example of this moment that he agreed with the most common worms in the stomach that lasts until two initial light but because of the quick egg, it is possible that the patient is going to be in a lifetime.
In the puki the problem with traffic is that the teachers are full and the ones who are in the traffic.
The authorities to the children are what should be done to speak to many of our school without a rational port room room.
Go forward instead of the things that I have also erected in what also said that there is a langoy and then the gym Centennial no matter how much we have been like the discussion for more than seventy percent of the children or the Filipinos or of Filipinos or Filipinos.
It's compared to the realization that it's going to go down to 40 percent to do what's being said by the bibliya demolisyon not being treated again that will return to return again.
Television television on the television.
About twenty percent.
Getting down seven other including.
The purga Cedric should be free can't be able to get in the health center any'n is that there are daldal that we see earlier on the release of this tablet that Chua bulalo for the children that they will not think about it is a cure for the problems of the authorities who are put in order to stop this problem with the authorities who are put in order to stop this problem. The resources here are afraid of the pananaw here that the worms are going to be here for those who are eating out of your nose in his tour for the land that the authorities say it is good for the authorities.
It is natural that they drink it really prohibited, but it is really good to be able to do it.
It is not always like this money that they said even if they grow old, the worms are not going to insert the dirt of it really will find and they will find someone to come out of an exit
Life is easier to learn about the life of papa.
Dominic Dominic.
I puke should be told by the parents that if the worm came out instead of staying in their children's body.
