Medals and awards were identified by the epiko, almost the soldier who had a fight with the fortunately in biyernes in spite of the wounds that the troops wanted to return immediately in the fight against Errol on the chin up to the chin.
Unang Lieutenant Michael asistores are still suffering from his letters on the back and hips hip.
Kwento ng dalawang lider at two breasts of the scouts rangers who are being held against the abu sayings in Talipao Sulu when the third time was wounded in the encounter of the Torres Torres but this is the first time that the life of his own soldier received a pulbos medal.
That they solve our country when they have their whole life, they will continue to go if they are rude to them.
Five soldiers who died in the encounter almost thirty were wounded in the story of Chiz Torres, the bandits were not truly prepared in recnaalala mission and will discover that they exchanged gunshots in the uno at the same time of fighting until their opponents are increasing but while the encounter is increasing when their opponents are increasing.
By the first one that I have been absorbed by the embuquette.
It's really help that it's just the morning for someone who doesn't.
There was a lot to pay for a lieutenant who also received a gold cross the third highest recognition of the military resources to grow old and for the reporter who didn't want to even promise them to return and pursue the pursuit of the abusive ones.
It will be heard when I give birth to my approach.
He is still late against that since he is still there to give them an honor that they are going to be able to do.
Your afternoon will be fulfilled.
It was a huge honor to anoeven if they were fatal there in my story in my story.
Aside from the medals also given a tribute video to the soldiers to not be impatient while he is recovering from recovering.
She is all over tapos.
To be bitter.
To be able to pay for recognition.
So if they don't have a defending place before they don't have to
Catapang promised to be awarded to Camp Navarro Hospital where the wounded soldiers are being treated as Errol cabatbat.
