From the top of the barangay, we are free to think about the small hut these are the houses of the people but inside the ukay-ukay the permanent will be seen here.
It was a realization of forty-six-year-old.
The father of the child was arnel.
It is not suspicious that the usual thing to do with Albert is being included because it is also the life of his father's life.
The only difference instead of water is going to buy it under the ground looking for gold.
It is more than twelve for the first time that even if Renato is a mother of gold.
Adam was going to take a shot at his second home.
He was with his whole waiter if it was sinking in the well and from a bag of the stones where the gold was hit by gold.
It seems to be an ordinary house if the gunfire is lacking, there is a place where there is a vote for a long time.
But unlike a house-hut security will not be felt in the booth he will be able to do with his own spirit country without a deep one, there is a deep one.
The market is not enough for sale.
Thirty of the matches of the people equivalent to the people.
The limang beterano hospital gano, that's the same way.
Surrounded by the pirapirdog wood, the couple who will be able to confront this is the only support for it to not make it up to the top of it can be seen by a blue electricity and they are able to collect the lower number of the well that he gives the wind to those who are under the bottom as well.
The complaint is hanging on top of the water that he has a fan of rice in the sack of rice every
Even before the time of the afternoon, the barangay is known to be free as a town who loved the ground mining of coconut tuba free if a five-year-old was owned by the amerikano in the land where the barangay was standing, but when the big company started with the big company, but when the big company started with the big company, but when the big company started, the big company had to be the one who gave up the big company. The dreams of the people on dalawang libong thirty-30 dreams of the people
There are only six people who have come up to the barangay free even those from other barangays who went here to them so the river forehead is full of life now about the chemical being used in mining and the land where the first big mine is standing in mining and the land where the first big mine is standing in mining and the land where the first big mine is standing, now it is just mano-
In here around the river of the barangay free many debts for the rent of my land to us, the gold mother of gold and others are being covered by others who do not have the same stuff like this but the fear of that is where the holes are going to cause danger in life.
For now, the lives in the entire barangay are almost twenty-holes in the entire barangay.
It is obvious.
You will take care of us going under the bottom.
Then he will know the year they don't have any sagana with us right, it is scary that there might be a hole I then have a bulak on what is the vendor.
In this day, even if Ronaldo sink in the dark well, which will be given to the mud and no end in the very depths of the deep depths, it is going to work on the mud.
The one who will be able to do the same thing.
Rock is used to us in the paglalim home Panglao we are going to get along with each other.
.
Panglaw metal too noisy.
While for a while.
Baru.
Cetura.
Ayo.
No one was wearing any support for his safety immediately they immediately went down immediately.
That's seven days that's why the luxuries of the supposed to give ice pick is not working.
It's the case of seven people under the well in the city this many more ins and outs of the other.
After a few hours when they are done on earth, it will be brought by a different grades from the well-as well.
After a while, the other with Renato's sack is already raised with other people's sack with the other souls of the answer of the answered answer.
The ones that I still get from the stones, right away, are probably more pressing on the pussy that they are in the pussy.
Two piraso and pdo by the stones that wounded them as well as they separated from his fruit after this will be visited if there is no water in the faucet in the faucet.
The gunting gold that will get their seat is selling their production in the stores buy gold in their barangay because the bank is given to the black market or not so goes to the itim market.
In the meantime, the Philippines in the countries who have the most napuputol in the gold in the entire world are in the rest of the entire world, instead of walumten percent given by the pasok in our country, which is coming from the fourth taon para
Apatnapu't have been mistaken for a job that was chosen but needed to take a risk for his intestines in the early morning of the ability of
In order to go down the fire in order to supervise Malou, you will immediately receive straight and will make me not easily study the whole person smell the same time when he arrives, he will be defeated before he will be able to win.
Marijuana marijuana.
No matter how dangerous Ronaldo is not being moved by Ronaldo fact Bising-bisi another child is trapped in the livelihood big pots.
When you feel wrapped by sadness, your child woke up as well as his companion in stone-throwing are those who are the only ones who are the only one.
We have to make a mistake through the reconciliation here is the birthday that I called for the top, I can't fully think of half a drop of gold is as equivalent to their lives of a family if he has already accepted the wife of renaldo ha, you do not talk to her husband because I said that it is dangerous for us to be married because I said that it is dangerous for us to have a couple of times. His work with his work with his job is that he is poor if there is no livelihood but what is he just lucky luck after he is buried or collapsed, I know I can't seem to do anything that I am going to happen under as well as I can't do what is going to happen to him at the bottom of the well I can't do anything else, I can't do anything else that I can't do that I can't do anything else
You came from a fish with Renato in the bamboo quezon but it seemed to be light in the litter of gold if he chose to live in free with the family with the family.
Their life is not successful there since they live in free and mines of gold, their family has changed their bath and the only child of the couple Renato and who is just softened by the fate like a while ago, which is when they are iguled by fate like a while ago.
It's only the people they can be described to.
In the body yesterday.
They don't even have anything to do with it.
Against taking a tattoo.
It would be taken away as the one who was able to buy Renato's see that his world would turn around to be his children.
Of our future.
The country japan takes care of the country.
It will be a slave to witness this even if you are in exchange for a long time.
Longer able to take care of it anymore.
