
Series of taktikal offensive to Rizal, successful!

Macario "Ka.
Karyo "LiES NAAC-NPA-Rizal November 10, 2013 2013.

A series of taktikal offensive was launched by the NAAC-NPA-Rizal in order to be held accountable for the destroy of the environment, those who are violating the land and roads that violate the rules of the Demokrationg government, which is headed by CPP-NPA-NDFP.
The taktikal conducted that this is very intense after almost 2 weeks combat operation by the combined force of PNP and AFP in the countryside of the province of Rizal.

Around 4: 00 in the afternoon of November 9, a platun of the BHB of the BHB was the East Lumber, a company of the quarry owned by Mrs. Veronica Lee and Mr. Robles and based in Sitio Paenaan, Pinugay, Baras, Rizal.
The BHB implemented the decision of the democratic Guopportunity nong Bayan to stop the operation of the said company, causing the extensive bosses of the land and destruction of nature.
It can be recalled that the said quarry operator was the one who was able to enter the panamim of the farmers in the land force that they were tradition of using the deception and violence.
3 shotgun was confiscated, 2 pistol, 3 icom and documents of the company.
Along with the implementation of the said operation is the warning that if they continued to ruin the environment and roads violation of the rules of DGB, the said company will eventually be ara.

At 5: 00 in the afternoon, after that, the house of the couple Ariel and Regina Bisgueras reason for their bosses and threats of the farmers in the same place at the same time.
The uniforms and important documents can be confiscated from them which can be used in the pantik, the BHB also discovered that the couple is reserved armed by the AFP.
They are warned to stop their bosses and violence in the farmers and be reminded that if they do not change, it will be a bigger penalty to be imposed on them by the revolutionary movement.

After an hour, one more thing is to rape the kayamanan tinutugis Compound owned by retired Philippine Airforce Colonel Lorenzo Deris.
In Sitio Kilingan, Paenaan, San Jose, Antipolo City.
The BHB implemented the atas of the democratic government Bayan to close down the said kayamanan hunting reason for destroying the environment and violation of the rules of DGB.
Confiscated here are the equipment that are used in kayamanan tinutugis,

After the series of taktikal that this is very good to retreat, the force of the BHB is safe while the citizens are celebrate in the said place.
At least, justice has been given justice and will be solved by the BHB for their long wishes to punish the destroy of the environment, those who are destroying the land and roads that violate the policy of the democratic government country.

The said taktikal offensive was done by the BHB inside the perimeter of the 16th IB-PA.
59th IB-PA, SAF-PNP and RMG-PNP.
This shows that the enemy of crushing the movement under Oplan bayanihan is not succeeding.
Instead of crushed, the revolutionary movement in the province became stronger.
The success TO is a panprepared rock to declare that Oplan bayanihan in the province of Rizal failed.
The BHB supported by the citizens is not a need to be crushed.
Rather, this will get stronger and will continue to disappoint any against insurhevidences program of the Marcos regime.

Live a new armed town!
Long live the party of the Philippines of the Philippines!
Live the Pambansa democratic PRENTE of PILIPINAS!
Live the filipino people!



