
The province and danger of the exilad of the rice.

For those from the province, it is just a ordinaryo to see the rice field and animals on the farm.
But to those from Metro Manila, malaking deal with them.
This is what we have figured out when we are in ABS-CBN DZMM as the chief of the reporter and their family members have an outing in Subic.
From ABS-CBN compound in Quezon City, we go along the bus where the reporter, writer, producer, production assistant and others.
In the middle of the trip, somewhere with the Pam-needs, a lady writer who is a native of Makati: "Carabao!"
The family members were able to escape: "Why?
Why? "The next question.
The bruha answered: "It turns out that the carabao looks like that, I am just now able to see it."
"Ah, gano," that's what we mentioned before.
This is the truth: In like we grew up in the province, it is often not noticed the things that are not simply found in the kalun-suran.
"It was taken by pinagbigyan, which is," as they say.
There are many things in the province that should be able to make him see or experience in Manila.
But if this is still up, we cannot tell the speed of development in the countryside, especially the places that have mine hard to weigh if progress or destruction is the path.

The grains of rice were also good in the eyes, especially since it was exposed to the sun.
But, it is scary and dangerous when the grains of rice are being favored by the rice under under and there are rocks and big wood using harang in vehicles.
Son of the couple mold and bukbok, the road is for vehicles, not being able to attend!
Many in the Middle Luzon are doing that.
Last we watched the hiway between the towns of San Marcelino and San Narciso in Zambales.
Shortcut is the call but it is a main road.
I don't know and despite the widespread "solar dryer" which is the project of the towns, there are still farmers who need to be on the way to set rice.
The motorists takes accidents, even the farmers themselves, for many times.
The rice is really prohibited on the road but the politicians, don't want to reduce the votes so just being neglected, kesehodang accidents there.
Now that it is coming summer, the profit will increase even more.
This is the truth: The safety is important, both of the motorists and farmers, so the authorities should act.



