PSC aayudahan in PSBy Ramil Cruz Enero 5, 2017 Aaid is a few lawmakers in the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) through the law of the Philippine Sports Institute of this to spread modern modern sports in the country.
It was revealed yesterday in the press balitaan of PSC Executive Director Carlo Abarquez and PSNational Training Director Marc Edward Velasco in relation to the formal launch in PSSports in January 16 of President Rodrigo Duterte at the PhilSports Arena in Pasig City.
"IT WAS dating Lanao del Norte Governor Khalid Dimaporo at Lanao del Norte 2nd Dist.
Rep. Aliyah Dimaporo, na ipinanukala at isinumite na sa isang batas na ako ay tumalikod sa isang batas upang ito ay mananatili kahit na magkakaroon ng pagbabago sa administrasyon at ng mga itinakdang lider sa PSC ", pahayag ni Alylika of Abarquez.
"It is fun because halos lahat ng ating mga mambabatas sa Kongreso, ang League ng mga mangibang taon, alkalde gayundin sa Senado at noon din at sa DepEd at sa DepEd at CHED ang gusto ng PSaking manatili.
"It's IT to be that he is a law to ensure that even if we are no longer here when he changed a new management, or president, the sports science and the process will continue to discover the talent of our youth and teaching new knowledge in the coaches and sports administrators," Velasco.
According to two officials, the Philippines is only the only country in Asia without such a school for sports which can be given to the construction of sports Institute.
President Duterte himself will be the one who will start the inagurasyon of Police with PSC Chairman William "Butch" Ramirez while also invited the other sports officials from the Senate, Kamara, Local Government units and other agencies in order to witness the keynote speech of the chief executive.
Ramirez earlier explained that the PSis based on the mission of Duterte's administration in support and will raise a condition of sports in the country from talahugat until the elite level.
"Ang mga atleta at coaches ay magkakaroon ng isang Better idea kung ano ba ang i-alok ko sa kanila sa inagurasyon, at kung ano ang PSdadalhin ko sa mesa.
Para sa iba pang mga stakeholders, magpapakita ito ng How ng PSako ang pangunahing pagpapatakbo ng PSC sa talahugat at mga elite atleta.
The PSC allotted the P25-milyong buwanang operational budget to be used in buying modern equipment for the research of the athletes, even with the kalakasan at the conditioning and even in the nutrisyon and training.
The Grassugat Sports Development Program is stated in the project that is focused on four parts of the atleta talent identification that in (1) training of the pool of mananaliksik, (2) testing phase, (3) talent selection and the entry to prevent the athletes in SMART-bata program.



