Avoid sweet drinks.

Doc WILLIE - Dr. Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) - August 5, 2015 - 10: 00am

If you are too much of weight, there is diabetes, with hypertension or want to be healthy, follow my advice: Avoid iced tea, soft drinks and various sweet drinks.
Significantly will be lessened in your weight.
Do you know that a glass of soft drinks has 7 kutsaritang sugar.
When you drink soft drinks, you have to eat 7 kutsaritang sugar!
That's how iced tea is like that.
That is also all sugar that is why the sweetness are too much!
According to the breast pikong research, drinking soft drinks can cause diabetes.
It was also quick to correct and raise a stomach.
Even if it is "No-sugar" or "Lite" your drink is still there is danger.
Because the diet soft drinks is mixed with phosphorous that removed calcium from our body.
You can osteoporosis.
My advice is just going to be water.
The pineapple juice is fattening and other if you are overweight, my advice also avoided the fruit juices.
Orange juice, pineapple juice and various juices.
It is high in calories and sugar even if it is said that it is "sweetened."
When you drink a lot of juices, you might be able to become "FAT at hindi fit."
I do not know where the belief that is good in hypertension is coming from high blood juice.
This is not real.
Medicine, diet and exercise is the only bait of blood pressure.
What kind of fruit can you have lost weight?
Apples, pears and a little banana can only be.
Mango and grapes are prohibited because it is too sweet.
If mango wants, it can only be a cheek that can be eaten.
Grapes are only 10 pieces of the most.
Avoid kape and energy drinks no good will get into the kape drinks.
Especially if there is a mixture of whped cream, chocolate, and full cream gatas.
You know that the equivalent of a cappuccino with whped cream is three platong rice!
The energy drinks is also bad for health because it is high in caffeine.
The caffeine is getting addict and it is very quick to beat the heart beat.
If they say there is hypertension, the energy drinks is prohibited.
Your blood pressure can increase.
So friend, only water should be drank.
Get away with soft drinks and iced tea in your life.
You will get thin and you can avoid a lot of pain!



