
Of a movie film.

By Rolando B. Tolentino July 25, 2012, 2012.

Rereview of Tambara (Orvil Bantayan, 2012).

Last June 29 to July 3, 2012, complained of the Film Development Council of the Philippines the first sineng Pambansa in Davao City.
From the 120 that was being recovered, a 15-in-law, choose 15 for the feature film - tigfive in Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao-to pondohon, and 10 are finished and shown at the festival.
One of my liked movies but the other judges did not fully notice the Tambara.
Macario Tiu's short story, this is about a teacher in elementary school with a couple in total left.
It is a symbol of powerful Drugs sismo and modernization ism, the teacher is worried about medication of the shaman in the confiscated chapel.

In its anger, even the traditional tamblock (altar of the offer) is destroyed by the teacher.
When his wife had a problem with birth, and because of the heavy downpour of rain, the teacher was forced to come to the shaman.
The shaman is able to heal because of his talking to the old cell phone to Apo Sandawa, and it was discovered that the Apo got angry because the teacher broke the tamkage.

The teacher kept dancing in the downpour of rain to remove the anger of the Apo.
The film is fine, there is no much obation in the form but it was able to lahad a story from the region that we can't see in other movies.
Even in the current indie Cinema, only Sherad Anthony Sanchez, Teng Mangansakan, and Arnel Mardoquio is leading the revealing of the image and stories from the region.
I am sending them the weight of revealing the story of your Mindanao-wan.

It is unique by Orvil Bantayan with three more movies from Mindanao batch of the first sineng Pambansa - because of the influx of stories from the most under inilatag region in the boom of indie Cinema.

Nevertheless, there are two issues that should be considered in the movies participants in the eng Pambansa.

First, the halaw and use of materyal from the region as a hadlang in the scene of the movie.
In the case of Tambara, it is from the duck from the writer of the region, and the author needs to be included in the audiovisual media.

The ability of the film is capacity to create a biswal space that the pamilyar is doing not pamilyar.
Or in the case of the under inilatag heograpiya, what is not pamilyar is being made an unusual pamilyar.

Though the location, people, and courted iran is in the very region done, the maiisip can also be the province of Rizal, Nueva Ecija or Quezon.
The loquality is not unique - the visualization - and if it is, the material in the media of the movie.
The particular request in non-Metro Manila stories and movies make the audiovisualization of materyal.

It is not on the level exotiism like a tarheta of the Department of Tourism but to the level of etdadaanan iya of space.
What I think about this is the audiovisualization of the former Davao airport in the movie of Sanchez and Robin Fardig, balangay (2010) who was able to sign the contradiksyon of not equal development and coming in.

The kawing issue is the literature of the film.
Tambara is deeply sumandal in the story of Tiu, the three dimensionality of the staff (biolohikal, saykolohikal, and social) are not very effective.

The second issue is about the lack of transfer of knowledge in the area, and most of all, to the staff that is given the representatives of the film.
If this is a movie found in Metro Manila, many givens that do not need to be discussed.
But because this is a rehiyonal movie, a lot of givens need to lay down the filmmaker: Sikolohiya of the shaman and why cell phone is using it to heal, civic relationship with foreign teachers and the natives, beat it in a secluded place, and others.

In the movie, it is also like a foreigner treatment in the details: Which is given privilege is the sewing of the diegesis that missed social and subhistorical motivation to the relations that have been developed in the movie.

It is in need, if it is, of the greater study in the community to matuded the integral motivation to the story in the movie, especially if it is from the region.

Should be considered that the media of the film is focused towards the features of the client that they are going to wer all of the elements that scene the filmmaker.
If there is no great separation, there is no great former climax, and it is sad to say, by the total movie.

The potential is that it is not fully narereparalyzed, and this is the start of danger of the rehiyonal filmmaker (I am sorry that there is no more appropriate term): There is a atas that is more organized to learn and apelikula the details of the elementong participants.
This is why it is included and it fails to the nosyon of the national Cinema (national Cinema) because this is the one who is not fully given representatives in the trade of making movies in the country.

Before being able to make a movie, the society is going to learn about setting the story of the movie first.
In short words, the society is conitted and studied.



