
Drinking alak sa Army: My personal na karanasan ang

With our soldiers, drinking alcohol is very normal.
If you don't drink, well, you are strange!
I am one of the strange people who don't like to drink.
Bakeeet?

I don't know, I really don't love to drink like my father and sisters from drinking.
It's good that there is no one to oy them, o else, I really comfort that drinking.

Actually, I taste all sorts of nakakalasing drinks since high school.
I tasted the taste of different drinks of my neighborhood like the 'kuter', bahalina, lambanog, Datu, San Mig, Sioktong and many others.

I don't know why they are enjoying the tomador in that I really don't type the taste.
Oops, maybe you imagine that I just want an expensive wine?
I also tasted the same with chivas Regal, Black label and different chamne but walastik really Tsong.
Dehins.
Grrr.
Mawalang-galang!

Sa pamamagitan ng mga taon at my service military, there are increasing reasons why I do not want to get drunk like the following:

It's ugly to taste, you'll pay for it!
Then, when you get drunk, your head will attract the future.
In short, you paid to hurt your head!
Is it is fair?

I see a lot of things seem to be possessed by the devil when drunk.
They are like a plate of a plate when the mind is normal but becomes an obstacle, the disease of the dog is coming out of the dog's disease, noisy, violent and fighting if drunk.
I have known officials, the peg of the Red Horse has become a machong dancer!
Embarrassing?

There are also those who like peed on the pants, convince his own face and flocking to their boss, and the type of sleeping beside the dogs beside the side.
Yuck noh?

Siyempre, let us not forget that the ambition of becoming Sylvester Stallone when he is drunk.
This is the type that you are capable of and firing a gun to show that he is the most courage Rambo of the town.
With those I know that kind of attitude, they are also the 'talawan' and 'tagerger' in the real fighting.
Just chur Jud!

Drinking alak: Advantages at dehado ages.

Why do you like to be fond of a lot of soldiers drink alcohol?
Read.

It seems that the drinking is also a tradition for being a soldier especially on the occasions like birthday, anibersaryo pagdiriwang, graduation, promotion and reception.
Actually, the soldiers are not running out of reason to drink.

The allow of the soldiers to drink is that he is very easy to pagpapa-high Morale them especially if they are from a long time in combat operations.

When they give you a chance to drink, they will forget the problems and the sadness of life far away from the family.
It is also fun that they can meet someone who will not be ashamed of lying to you that their leader because the cheeks of Tanduare already red.
Then, the naghahangad Michael Jackson or Frank Sinatra will rise to the troops when they are drunk.

However, the unit leaders should be careful with this aspect.
Sa huli, they Commanders will be responsible when something bad happens because of the drinking of other troops.

It's because the problem with a drink is if it doesn't take control of good to drink.
There are people who have seen the spirit of alcohol in the head instead of doing this palhing in that.

So, instead of high Morale gives, it is a disease in your head to reach out if you still have a case because of the horrible events caused by drinking.
In short, sometimes there are more things produced by evil to the good.

For example, the shooting of a drunk soldier in Mindoro in the year 2000 was the reason why the Army was pulled out there and the bandit NPA who were scattered everywhere because of the vacant places.

That is how fast to eradicate a abusive soldier is the puhfirst sweat, sacrifice and blood of the majority of rational soldiers.
IT Only takes a marahas na insidente na kinasasangkutan ng lasing na si Soldier, ang lahat ng bagay ay bumaba sa drain.

Alam mo ang Men mo.

One of the things I see is positively caused by pagsama to the drinking troops are acknowledging your personnel.

In the formal occasion where soldiers are worried about the military protocol cols and military disiplina, you will not simply propose their real behavior especially if the discussion is formal.

Meanwhile, if you will be consumed by some glass of alcohol, the troops will come out of their hidden talento, they are losing or attitude.

There are those who are strong in the talks.
The others are graduating by AIM (Ayaw below Mike).
There are also others who seem to be able to forget what you are doing.

I rarely see troops who are still silent to get drunk or not.
Most seem to be torong able to get away from its hawla.
There are becoming instant singer and others will prefer to be emcee.
No one has to contribute, it becomes just a dancer in the naghahangad Elvis Presley!

Sometimes, what I want when the troops are going to shoot, they have been open to tell the grievances and personal problems.
There is a nangungal troubled in love life and I seem to be a Kuya Eddie.
The other is that I am doing the referee in the fight of the fight with his wife.
There are also others who are resentful towards the colleague or are having a hard time bringing their other colleagues.

What I want most of all is that the good ideas are coming out how to improve our units.
They have hidden brilliant ideas but cannot be able to express when the cheek is not painned.

It's now that it's going to be the company.

I do not want to drink, I see the importance to go with the troops drinking because of what I mentioned reasons.
They know I don't drink and I will only give them so that they can meet.
Of course, I will give them to progress one or two shot that he flirting with me just a little bit.

We talk about what is right to be patakarang in drinking to avoid problems that are always happening.

Let ko ibahagi ang ilang bahagi ng mga polisiya at drinking (pag-inom ng alak) that we are fulfilling the 10th Scout Ranger Company at my leadership:

1 -.
It is prohibited to drink when duty and especially if it is included in the alerto tropa for the nakaambang combat mission.
It was a big bawal for us.

2 years.
If you will drink, there should be valid dahilan.
Are you birthday?
Sometimes, even the birthday of my wife and the graduation of the youngest of the youngest is doing reason.
I will give it up as long as the rule number 1 will not be lumabag.

3 years.
He has an designated leader in a drink.
It is prohibited to be lihim tagayan in anywhere.
The "drinking NCO" is the one to supervise that the lasingan of his group is secure.
He will be first liable when there will be conflict.
In short, Sarge was the latest drunk.

4 -.
It is prohibited to handle a gun in drinking.
The gun is on turn on the supply when you will drink.
The NCO will be liable and his stubbornness which is being grabbed or bring a gun in drinking.

5 years.
Those who are scattered in drinking are prohibited.
Fix the equipment like videoke and plates and spoon that used to be forgotten.
Pick up an scattered and roll the stuff after enjoy.
It is impossible to clean up to spread the tomado.

Or ha, our unit patakaran is simple.
Sa 2 taon ko bilang Commander, there is no one incident of pagpapasaway and captured violate it.

I am proud that I am very responsible for my NCOs and they are respected (and feared) by their direct tauhan.

They know that they are discharge or to demote them when they are stubborn in drinking especially those who will fire (regardless if they are pointing at the person or in the air).

Sa huli, it can be a enjoy drinking especially with the soldiers in the crutlines.
Just put it in the right place.



