"He wants, we are still happy and in his mind, he will heal..." - Direk Carlo J By GORGY RULA Enero 19, 2017 last night opened the funeral of the producer of Golden Lion Films that Donna Villa.
I went with Manis Lolit Solis to go yesterday afternoon at the Cosmopolitan Memorial Chapels in Araneta Avenue, Quezon City.
The chapel was just being prepared before and even if Tita Donna was still able to attend his coffin.
Direk Carlo J. Caparas also arrived with his children.
They are preparing the mass before it is cremated.
Aunt Donna's instructed to be cremated first before he opened his wake.
There was a mass first attended by the family and the close friends.
Director Carlo J J clarified that cancer of the uterus was the death of his wife.
"It hasn't been able to sink in me that Donna is gone," Direk Carlo J.
"You know" that's how much he is going to be the same.
Even if it was a fever, I didn't have any worries that there was, "he said.
Direk Carlo J presented what happened when he was diagnosed with cancer in the uterus of Tita Donna.
It was too late when they found out this severe.
In CT scan, there was seen a lot of myoma in the uterus of Aunt Donna.
It spread and they don't know if it can be prevented.
Direk Carlo J didn't know what he was going to do when they talked to the doctor.
Because Direk Carlo wants to be operated and remove it, but the doctor told him to operate only if possible.
"I fell there, too.
It's in the doctor's said if it's possible.
I don't know how to tell him, "stated the novena lista and director.
They discussed a couple and strictly asked for Tita Donna to ask no one to know even close friends.
So the person from showbiz was surprised when found out that it passed away from the disease Cancer.
The speed of events.
In the past month, the hospital put in, just more than a month, here is what happened to him.
Since Tita Donna put in the hospital, Direk Carlo J. although last FAMAS Awards did not leave him, aunt Donna is forcing her to attend but she cannot leave her husband who is in that kind of condition.
"He wants to remove the tubes in his mouth, so that he will be able to go.
"He even told me, if I was supposed to be at the hospital, he would leave me to just accept the award.
"But I really don't want to.
It's necessary, I accompany him.
It's still that she's thinking, too.
"It's in his mind because, it's a malalag!
He doesn't want us to be sad.
He wants, we are still happy and in his mind, he will heal, "Direk Carlo J. can continue to accept this happen to them.
He still didn't know what he was going to do without Tita Donna that he was in partner with everything he was doing.
"Last night, when I go home, he's still what I see.
I was beside him by 29 taon at all that we were going to travel.
"We have been together for 29 years that he is the only one beside me to sleep and at all that we do, I just follow him."
He needs to be ibay because if he will give up, he knows his children will also give up.
Until the wake of Tita Donna and the bilin for them to put his ashes away from his parents, so they will bring it to Cebu.
Director Carlo J is still finishing the movie venom of Droga and he still can't think of how he is going to end without his wife with him all the time.
We sympathize with Direk Carlo and all that Donna Villa left.



