The order of peace in the Central Min, tinalakay in a meeting was discussed in a meeting.

June 23, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina.

Mamburao, Occidental Mindoro, June 23 (PIA) - the second meeting of the Provincial Peace at Order Council (PPOC) in the Provincial Convention Center, town of Mamburao.
Included in the tinalakay is the report of the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), Department of Health (DOH) and the condition of the Peace at Order in the province based on the report of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Philippine Army (PA).
After the meeting of PPOC Chairman and Governor Mario Gene Mendiola, first gave a report, LCDR Laurence Tamayo, Station Commander of PCG.
According to him, there is no truth the reported mining of the itim buhangin of a Vietnamese vessel that was seen on the coast of Santa Cruz.
They were allegedly visited in order to interview the captain and initiate inspection.
Based on the information gathered by PCG, the Vietnamese vessel that temporarily landed on the coast which was covered in the coast of the province due to the weather.
Tamayo adds that according to the office of Environment and Natural Resources (ENRO), there is no itim buhangin in the province.
The Doctor Michael Enarar of DOH Mimaropa gave a updates regarding the spread of the infant, which is why the native Mangyan in the town of Calintaan.
According to him, their office of coordination in Municipal Health Office (MHO) has already been able to get a glimpse of Calintaan in order to give appropriate medicine to the native affected by the said disease.
The research conducted by the two offices - DOH and Municipal Health nangakong e- are continuing to find out how the other natives were infected and where this illness started.
According to Enarkaninang, a medical team will conduct a visit from DOH Mimaropa in the said town.
Part of the report of the Philippine Army is a few recommendation from LTC Rodolfo Gesim, Battalion Commander of 41st Infantry Battalion.
According to him, it is imperative for the Youth Leadriel Seminar for the nakalabas-school youth.
This kind of program can give direction and knowledge to the youth so that they can't be encouraged to join the New People's Army (NPA).
Gesim also asked the giving importance to the "farm to market kalsada" to be easy to the indigenous people and living in a secluded area, which is quick to get down their products.
The chances that they are coming to civilization is a method to reach them the programs and laws that are being asked by the government.
According to Battalion Commander, civilians should avoid helping or give any support to the NPA and help, as well as the Local Government (LGU), in cleaning the barangays to avoid the ambush sites.
Based on the report of Police Superintendent Edwin Gdebt of the Provincial Police Office (PPO), the crime volume was dropped by almost 50 pesos in the province compared to the first six months last year.
According to him, this is due to the programs implemented by the police like Lamband Sdifferent, Oplan Kupido, ECAS (Electronic computerized alarm System), Oplan knocks and others.
According to Gdebt, "generally mapayapa" is the whole of the province that will be good for the aspirations of prosperity in the economy of the KanlurMindoro.
(VND / PIA 4B / Occ Mindanao).



