
It is a habit of content (Iyou-45 outside).

Sally also did not break the picture of Jason to take a picture of Jason beside the higanteng "working flower clock."
It is composed of the lives plants but it is moving like orig clock and it gives the right time.
He is in touch when they arrive at the "Small tubig falls."
Very Romantic is the former.
Ideal for the students who want to pass time to that place.
Happily, they were also taken here by the picture.
The two are sweet sweet and sometimes they can't help but they will be able to tuan.
While the two were rejoicing, Sally noticed something.
A man who seemed to be earlier watching them.
It can't help but look at this woman to get to know.
His eyes widened when he got to know and he wasn't able to avoid that suddenly got nervous.
Edward... cousin of the husband Jude.
It was with a woman but it didn't seem like a Filipina.
He smiled when he noticed that Sally was looking forward to him.
The woman was forced to approach him.
"B-why are you here?
"It is also where you are rambling or work?" He asked.
"It's dalawang taon.
And I was close to balikbayan! "He said.
Jason came to them when they saw them talking.
The woman was forced to meet the companion.
"Jason, my friend here in Taipei," he recognized Edward to the companion.
He introduced the latter to the first as close relative.
The two men shook each other.
After this, Jason went away from them to have a chance to talk.
He was just taking a picture in the nearby.
Sally is buking.
He knew that Jason saw them while he was banging.
What else should he explain to Edward.
"You also can't resist, what!" It's a man's response to the man.
"Find a hobby here in Taipei."
The woman looked at the man.
The eyes are pleading.
"We are the same.
You saw the female Taiwanese with me?
He is my wife here in Taiwan.
When I go home, we are done two, "It's been recalled to continue Edward.
"You will tell Jude that we met here in the workplace for this?" The woman asked the man.
"Why hindi?" Edward answered.
"P-please...."
"Don't worry.
I am going to edit the story.
But do not take pictures of my wife about what you saw when you were balikbayan! "The man said.
"Thank you!" Said Sally.
Their conversation was finished when Edward's companion was already a nanny.
The man said goodbye but took the cellphone number of the woman before they went away with it.
When they were gone, Jason came back to his side.
"Your cousin might be talkative in the Philippines that you saw a man with strolling here in Yangmingshan," the young man said.
"He said, no one to find out.
"He also does a miracle here," Sally answered.
"How can you be sure?
That is a man.
No one will lose him even if someone finds out that your cousin is doing something.
But you, you are a woman.
"It would be great to lose you time with someone who finds that someone with you here in Taipei," Jason said.
Sally did not make a sound.
It's because the man has a point.
Especially when he is not the real cousin of Edward but his wife Jude.
He suddenly had problems.
The young man took advantage of the opportunity to put the nabuong plan.
"But don't worry about it.
If your husband will be mad at you and breakup with you, we do that our union is permanent.
"We will marry here in Taipei, Sally," Jason has formally said.
Continued to be continued.



