
Wednesday, April 11, 2012, 2012.

Makauring consciousness.

MAKAURING awareness.

It was published as Editoryal of the drunk Ang Masa, April 16-May 15, 2012, 2012.

Every May Uno, SONA, November 30, and other action, the shout of "uring Manggagawa, right free!"
But no matter how many workers understand the armed set in town from the slave of capital, that the release of the worker is on their own hands.

The problem of the worker is on him himself, because he still has no trust in his own strength.
He still does not realize his real strength, so he hasn't used it for his release and defending his interest, because the use and benefiting from the combined strength of the workers are the kapitalista.
The worker still does not realize that he is feeding the whole world.
It is obvious that this is the strength of the worker in the business which is called "strength."
This is the business being sold by millions of workers in the kapitalista every day, and it is the source of limpak which is a profit from kapitalista while the salary of the worker remains being constructed.
The workers try to stop working and make sure the factory will be able to give up, the running of the economists of the country will stop, the whole kapitalist system will be able to look.

That is the strength of the workers that they haven't seen until now.

Because the worker still thinks of himself is just a simple employee, a simple worker back to their factory, factory or office to raise their own family in the sweldong given by their kapitalista or employer, they are the ones who earn their debt in the kapitalista, that the kapitalista provides for them, when they are the ones who provides for the kapitalista.
Worker should get to know himself as aware of the kind.
The worker still doesn't know that they are composed of a worthy in society, that both of their interest in the same way to live, the slave to the kapitalista in exchange for the slightest salary, that they are both without possessions in the production, which is their only property.

The worker needs to get to know himself as a kind, because this is the first field of the fight, the worker's mind is set free from the bansot mentality that is being placed by the kapitalist system in the whole town, in the whole world.
In short words, the worker should not only fit in the issue of the increase of salary, winning the living Wage, and being properly condition in the factory as ingredients as slaves.
Most of all, they are to be aware of the uring worker who has a goal to crush their opponent kind, the kind of kapitalista.

As aware of the kind of worker, what they should prepare for is the construction of a society that will be transferred to the rotten and uod system capitalism, the success of the dictatorship of the type of worker, until they build the scheduled society, the society that does not take advantage of the people, the society that will be taking advantage of the people, the society society.



