
My most memorable combat action: Iwan ng walang nasa likod (Part 6)

Around 4: 00pm, when all the wounded personnel were able to leave and even Gen Roy Cimatu, we agreed to stay in the encounter site to intensify the tracking operations.

I was down again to the encounter site when I received a call from my troops that were left behind:

"Sir, there is a fishing coming.
We see that they are carrying a pipe and it looks like 90RR.
It's only five people on the boat. "

I was able to go down easily and maybe there was a dog who would be able to reinforce from the nearby areas.

"I will let you know.
Don't get shot as much as they get closer, when we can assure who that is.
Take the Galil sniper rifle and we wait for it. "

I also have two minds if you are really helpless from where we are.
With a lot of explosion and in the long shooting, why are they going to approach?
If that is an enemy, they are looking for pain in the body.

Everyone is atand has been waiting for the 'opponent' incoming.
Actually, we only have a few bullets in that time, then it looks like 90RR is still carrying the incoming boat.
It is also a bawas of my last magazine but I will try to be One shot, One pumapatay if necessary.
I last resort to fight my bolo knife.

Using the Galil of my troops, I peeked at the target 'using the 10x Award rod inayos and power scope on the installation here.
Zeroed this gun up to 600 metro and can hit 6-inch diameter steel plato.
The people who are coming are at a distance of 300 meters and are approaching us.
I noticed it was a wave.

At a distance of 200 meters, I saw the others in shorts.
He is wearing red and has a good shirt.
It looks like a tourist, brave tourists!

I can see that carrying a profit 'is short.
Video camera!
Why did ako tourists carry a video camera?

I was immediately warned by the troops and maybe it was going to be a excite taken care of and just finished the heated fighting.

"Ooonaku!
It's a video camera brought and it's definitely not that RPG! "

When it was approaching a distance of 100 metro, I was already identified as the appearance.
The ID is still wearing the ID.
It was still a ngiti kumakaway!

"Uy, it's the media!"

I was able to meet the one from Reuters Bob Ranoco.
With other people from wires that are the field correspondents.
Want to be able to scoop.

"Sir, it's good that you didn't get shot.
It's in the neck bay: We can! "

I just laughed at the actuation of them.
It is right, they are going to be able to attend danger.

They asked an interview.
Bagama't I used to the media, I was able to entertain them.
I was just told about what happened.
They rub the M60 machine gun that we recovered from Sabaya.
They saw the situation that I took so many hit in the troops.

When the media was able to leave, I talked to all the troops.
Consolidate is the reorganize.
We were able to distribute a bullet.
In short, ask for him and maybe a suicide attack that evening.
Cross loading is our call here.

We also have an account of your amgastusin per indibidwal and completeness of the kagamitan.
I was thinking about the sector of sunog in posibleng avenues of lapitan to the patrol base that we chose.

In Scout Ranger SOP, the guard is in exchange for the rest Plan 'but it seems that no one can sleep at night.
I was hanged on a coconut and looking at the ocean.
On the horizon I can see the lights of fishermen.
They are good, a decent life is being done and is not kidnapping like Janjalani, Sabaya and Hapilon.

Back to the barracks.

In the morning, I received the order we were going to be BTB (back to barracks).
The faces of the troops brighter when I say we are back to Cabunchildren where our camp is.

"We have to continue our 10th anibersaryo in October 10.
In Matarling again to pick up our point later 11: 00am. "

Even if our units became bloody in the said battle, I see the troops are still high-Morale.
I have been observing everything if the vision has a blank.
So far, so good.

When I reached the high part in Upper manggas, I opted to call my First Sgt. left in the camp.

"First, the warriors are going back.
Pakihandaan in the gulo Sgt. of the hot soup and adwed chicken. "

My high Morale was that simple with my staff.
They are not looking for high-tech menu.
The funds of the units have been meant for this and the strategy of how he used to accomplish the mission of the units.
It can't avoid that others are weak 'strategy or have no strategy.

I also remember all the wounded troops who were in Camp Navarro Station Hospital in Zamboanga City.

"Papuntahan is all wounded in our liaison NCO in Camp Navarro.
Ward is the ward that has been robbed and find out their needs that we should take action. "

I Don't figured out that all of the WIA is safe from harm.
We smiled all over the good news.

After former at the camp at around twelve, our lunch is ready.
The only fish is fuming and the boodlefight is laid out.
Wipe the food after a few minutes that I was ordered by the commence boodle away! "

Action review.

Afternoon that afternoon, I was on schedule of the matapos Action review.
Here we are talking about the events in the recent military operation.

Figuring out what the indibidwal actions of the troops to know who are karapat-dapat for combat awards.
Figuring out why it is a failure and why there is a problem.
It is also looking into what the best practices that should continue in the next operations.

Through AAR, it is composed of what is called after a battle report (April) which is a basis to different admin requirements like an inconvenience of your ampagkakagastusan and combat awards.

Through April, the Company Commander is also writing the lessons from combat including the TTPs (taktika, pamamaraan at the hakbang), doctrinal employment ng armas, and liderato issues that should be studied and will be distributed in the training institutions.

Here, the other units are having problems if the officials are gunpowder.
If no one will make an admin report, there is probably no awards and promotions of the troops.
Because the trigger of the trigger is not possible because the official is also forced to escape from the actions of the reports like this.
No matter how kind of shooting and even many accomplishments, if they are lazy or don't want to do the reports, the troops are low Morale and they are losing value.

What I did after the battle report was the most basis of the Battalion and the First Scout Ranger Remendent for the espesyal enlistment of CAA Leonardo Orozco.
What I did, I was just told by his combat kilos which is really admirable for our musones.
We also recommended him to receive one of the highest combat award for the CAFGU.

On the 9 of October 2001, I crossed Zamboanga to visit them all in the hospital and look at their situation.

Even if they were all right, the troops almost wanted to stand up and sumaludo the joy.
For me, I am also thankful for them because I am not put off and the more others because of their sacrifice.

No matter what to do, I am also being disturbed because I take responsibility for even if it happens to happen to them while they are in my roof.
Like I do not want to call family (wife or parents) to say their relative died in our fighting!
I am Simb!!

Orozco was able to grin when I went.
I said I would find a way that he was enenlist in the Army according to the pangakong of Cpt Almodovar.

I was able to make sense why he was hit while he said he was very cool.

"Sir, it is prohibited for the anting I have to handle the enemy of the opponent.
When I crawl and carry the M60 machine gun that came from them, my agimat lost a void! "

The explanation is fine.
Anyway, as long as it's life.
You also can't imagine how he got away with the oppression of his opponents.

We lead.

After a month after such a firefight, the 10th Scout Ranger Company was promoted as Best Company for Admin for Operations at 50th anibersaryo of First Scout Ranger Remendent.



