The umiincreased fight against K-12-12.

The students who are in grade 10 of an umbrella National High School wake up early but are not in the familiar mood and building of their school.
Together with their teachers, they are going to be deducted the streets, to call the garbage for additional two years in the increase to implement the impending implementation in accordance to the program Kinderbalato-12 years (K-12) of the government.
Content of successive protests against K-12 is Emmanuel Asis, Grade 10, and president of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) of an umbrella.
For him, this is not the answer for a long time and deep problems in the education of the Philippines.
It's just an additional pain for the poor.
"Poor students are the primary affected, the shoulder of additional expenses," said Asis.
In K-12, two new years will be spent by students in Senior High School (SHS) after the mandatory taon in kindergarten, six years in elementary 1 to 6), and four years in Junior high school (Grade 7 to 10).
At the age of 15, Asis is one of the primary gathering opinions about the program and gather with his fellow students in their school.
He was with them to attend the very first gathering of students, teachers, parents and other sectors against K-12.
Roll called by different schools and community called Stop K-12 Alliance which is a distance to lead the campaign to let the program pending to be implemented next year.
"This is a massive association of the parents, students and teachers, from the level school to division that all from the most babang level until the highest," said Louie Zbusy, the chairman of Manila Public School Teachers Association (MPSTA).
Anna Marinas, grade 10, and president of SSG in Sta.
Lucia High School in Quezon City, the lack of readiness of their school on the matter of facilities, and very teachers "the Higher sections, we are being given modules, but how are others?
How about the lower sections that is more needed by modules to motivate them to their studies? "According to Marinas.
The aim of K-12 to be globally competitive is the Philippines, which is only the country in Asia that has 10 years of pangunahing edukasyon program.
Despite this, the budget is not increased for education that is in 3 posiestablishment of GDP of the country, compared to 6.42 percent in Thailand and 5.94 percent in Malaysia.
"I myself worry about the additional expenses as a parent.
Just in the willpower, it's been difficult, then it's the daily expenses.
What will be given here is a new sacrifice to students and parents, "says Juver Marquez, who has two children who will hit K-12.
In the data of Alliance of concerned Teachers (ACT), national alliance with the teachers in the country, in more 1.95 million youth who are expected to enter SHS, 0.8 million only can accommodate the public SHS and the remaining almost one million will go to private schools.

Meanwhile, the "voucher system served" to give assistance to the parents: Pass the government of P16,500 to P22,500 for students who will go to private SHS.
But there is no assurance that it will be received by everyone.
According to Marquez, who is also a teacher in an umbrella High School, "the salary of our parents, the workers are not increasing.
What happens is that the ability of the citizens will be reduced to get the services. "
"If K-12 continued, the pair of college (is going to be) just one privilege for our student.
Because education should be the right, "says Marinas.
Exam on the other hand, even now the teachers feel the danger brought by the implementation of reform.
The teachers are worried about elementary school close to their school built by SHS.
The entrance Elementary School in Quezon City, for example, is scheduled to transfer to a nearby Jose Abad Santos Elementary School because the school will be made SHS.
"We will be the one who is going to be the ones who will
Instead of leaving their pasilidad, what they do, will be transferred (the students) to save.
"It's the magulang and teacher, even if we fight, the principal said there's nothing that can be done because it has decided that," said one teacher.
"If they really say that there is enough funds for K-12, there is nothing.
They are looking for schools that they can lusbuy, "said a teacher from General Licerio Geronimo National High School.

They also alma the lack of piloto testing of the program that was tuned in the transition period 2016 to 2020.
In the transition period, the number of students of college will fall.
According to the first data of the Commission on Higher Education, more than 78, 318 teachers and employees in the whole country.
But the new data released on 25, 090 worries about the critics.
"We are questioning" the basis why they binhey "the figures," said ACT Teachers Rep. Antonio Tinio.
These are also removed from the framework of the reforms of the Filipino filipinos, the same time and Philippine Constitution in college.
The mother dila will be used in the first few days but English is going to be English after grade 3.
"Our history as we are one race and a country is setting aside and will not be able to teach our youth.
That is the same as our national language, "said Benjamin Valbuena, teacher and national who is the head of the ACT.
"The students call to scrap the coloryal educated that are not responsible for the needs of the Philippines," said Asis.
It was the first markahan for Raymond Palatino, the chairman of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan-Metro Manila and former representative in the legislative chamber of Kabataan Party-list, exposed to a foreign oryentasyon of K-12.
A reason for the implementation of the program is to go through the students of training and skill to get a semi-mahusay work.
According to Palatino, the technical ational kurso that itinatanghal is responsible for the self-making of other countries - carepagbibigayan, plplaza, housekeeping, tailoring and others.
The program will also be given to the students who will be tied to the age of 18, when they are legal to work.
"Intumpak pangalan is the K-12, it is TESDA sa high school.
Our students are given skills not to be globally competitive and develop our own industry, but also for the manpower kailangan of other countries, "according to Palatino.
"Instead of going to be radweyt that in March, we have to wait for two years.
Then after grade 12, there was waiting for a job between us.
How can they say "that is now, even if it is kolehiyo graduate, there is no job.
The landed is a call center agent, or jobs that are not about to end where they graduated, "said Marinas.
As a resolution, it is the goal of the national alliance to tackle the ranks of teachers in the city, as well as in the provinces.
The ACT of the petition has passed earlier that contains their grievances about K-12.
The Stop K-12 Alliance will also be led to the full of the insekulum for the pangunahing edukasyon - it is said that it will come from the teachers in different parts of the country and will pass through a thorough study.
"We will be together all together, in Congress, in court, on the streets.
While the Supreme Court has no decision (the Supreme Court), and even if there is still a decision, we will not stop until we don't win, "said Valbuena.



