After the day of expenses.
For him the other elements of Trinidad.
You take a look at them to be scolded by the soul.
After all, the previous operation is one of the previous operation and tourist market attack training
Drinking in the meantime.
Thursday
When they were doing that crawling on the blood they could use, the reason why he broke out many would act that he crawled his cover so that he could not be criticized by his opponent.
Yes, yes.
All of the BOTH of it.
Valid not only physical in them as well as the confidence in them.
The motor was in the house in our game gay here here we were sleeping over here now that they ran out of the story helping them with three with a big improvement using the talulot ulot in the talulot.
It has changed us full of laughter criticizing the character, Mister, Mister, who will run away from two more years of sadness that he will really reach the month when he first reached up to reach the month.
That in your height, they really help her because of the ruling to live alone the sea is the only one here with the grandmother who is really a cell phone signal in the said fight after the poorest prayer of seir until the smallest mark because they can also suffered a terror in the said fight. I last whisper to go out for a moment, so that the joy that they feel is not to stop because of the upcoming business, it is the funeral of the funeral if they can be called for a long time, which is possible to be a standard in sports might be the one who can be seen as a standard in sports, which is possible to be a standard in sports, which is possible to be a standard in sports, which is possible to be a standard in sports, which is possible to be the one who is
Why may be forced to be following.
The controversy in the paningin para sa Diyos came tied to follow format.
The Philippines's problem is evacuated but the problem of the Philippines is also the problem of the Philippines, because what is after he wants to see the followers that we have entered in a hotel teritory?
It's really prevail that you can also take a look at me dalawang libong advocacy campaign strawberry, hinding-hindi gagawa ng head to return all of those who should be nagsagawa ng operasyon para talikdan and human rights that are not the only block of the baguio of human life.
In a day of the question of the pilipin my firmly several times that they also revolted against the government tanso in the blood in our country, it came to the matter and full force of the grasses in all of us who were Malou and I didn't want to be tired of reading the force of what you had to hear when you were able to report that when you got to report that when you were able to report that when you were able to report that when you got to report that when you were able to report the rain will solve the rain that they have changed.
It was revealed time to entertain eighty anim na nasabing edon the one I suddenly said that it seems to take seriously Nine Bello siyam.
Graduation sis anim na look at the present seems to be the one that the malibog principal would be doing, hopefully, ten, there was a mess in a island they crossed the cave area of the house that happened to enter the fire that happened to enter the house.
They are in so much delight to ulot too, even if you don't have a troubled right now that it's the wrong capability to cut off my brother who will be pissed at the police operation lapidoth dating dating.
In the return of health here in love with the meantime.
It's going to be completely recovered when it's going to get better.
When it was the last time.
Maybe up.
Elementary graduate is the only one to die with a lot of dogs joseph graduating to accept that we are dissatisfied with the Philippines military akademya motmot surely will be given an opinion of together Easter Easter.
Dikdikin mula sa isang paaralan at
It's our day that we really have changed sir biggest charges that I am going to be with the right thing before that I am not too much of what I do now iresponsableng oh sir what should be done with what is just the right bombing bombing.
It is good that you learned.
To me but self-discipline because there is really a training of training that will be Sergio by wana with you even thinking even if they are also able to miss sir, sir.
Knowing if it's really good to be the one.
Female
It is just the fight of no one.
Before you are the screening of a person, that is almost in the luwal that is true for the family of those then their fear will not end up because two weeks from now where their children are going to explode in a new mountain.
He's going to be able to attend.
I-a-time.
About this, the leader of Barangay bonbon Patikul Sulu including will test the wartion of hearing the movement so I am telling the new soldiers before being sent to other places before being sent to another place.
In that, and that's what he has to do.
This day pumanaw next to the pasit and outs of the one.
A new chapter of their lives as a soldier but associated with being a newbie is this tradition in the sea in the sea.
Sea sea.
Visayas soaking wet voluntarily.
She blows for blows.
He again.
Continued.
In their tuntong on what they called the operation they discovered that this is how their education is going to end up they have a lot more.
