
The RH bill and doctor vs God.

If the RH bill is minadaling to work on the Bicameral Conference Committee or the length of Congress, any day the proposal will become a law.
"That is if President Noynoy Aquino has signed the proposed law immediately.
The impress is the members of congressmen and senators who will be settled with any mess or mental version of the legislative chamber and Senate.
The law 15 days will usually prevail and it will be effective after this will be published in the official Gazette or pahayagang there is a national scope and if there is already laid out of Implementing Rules and Regulations.
There are laws that are long before you will prevail due to lack of IRR.
It is a MADIDISKARIL but the anti-RH bill has plans to stop the existence or implementation of the law through their wish of Temporary restraining Order against it.
Together with this is their petition to scrap the Supreme Court to different reasons like its violation of the Constitution or other existing laws.
Long term TRO and decision if the Supreme Court accommodate the TRO of anti-RH bill, no one knows how long it will be.
If your memory, the Anti-cyber Crime Law was ordered by six months TRO.
The TRO can also last longer until the court has a final decision.
If this will happen, nine-nine will take the law before it will be implemented.
"That is if the court will favor the RH bill.
The implementation is nine-nine because of the long Court in making decisions.
The time of making decisions in making a decision on the Vizconde massacre that took almost 20 years from the regional trial court up to the Supreme Court.
Widespread pound, if the law is quick, there will be a massive change immediately.
Especially on the issue of having children.
Based on the words of the pro-RH, with a lot of condom, pills, IUD or intrautised device and other attacks in the pregnancy that will be assigned to the barangay, there will be immediately a loss of pregnant people walking on the streets.
It is because the government plans to make the distribution of the companies against pregnancy.
Especially in the ranks of the poor families who are said to be "a hobby of doing the child."
Hehehe!
Vasectomy and ligation would still have a massive campaign for the vasectomy and ligation like what was done during martial law.
The man will not get pregnant through the vasectomy because of cutting or breached by his semen.
As well, the woman who was cut off or bound by the semen was not pregnant.
Even if there are news that have been burned down because of the vasectomy and ligation.
We will memory that there is a reward that is 50 pesos in every patient who will be able to negotiate the one who will be under the vasectomy and ligation.
DIYOS is not a popular one of the quick that will change the belief in pregnancy.
The day will come that the word "God" wants "or" giving God "is the pregnancy or" not pregnancy.
Everyone has intended and the lord that is the ones with the body.
Itatauthor of the boypren or a couple of them having a child and as of them.
They don't need to be consulting or pray to God to have or not a baby.
Doctor VS DIYOS, the doctors, nurse, midmisis and botika, are a midwife and botika consultant instead of God in this issue.
Many will be knocked out by many, God does not respond if it is being sold.
If the followers of God who are priests and nuns are the kokunsultahin, there might be no one to take a partner because the priests and nuns are not there, they are against the RH.
Hehehe!
It might have been all confession and if they were only about to call the point and ask them to do it, they said.
Is it scary Alam mo a lot of the house now that there are hidden condom?
There will be more condom and other things to stop pregnancy in the existence of the law.
And not just the couple and adults will learn from using them.
The children on their birthday are being attacked by condom.
But they are growing up and coming to the age of courting, seated, many will experiment on sex.
And they will have the courage to keep a secret to their parents because no matter where they will have a stuff in ligtas sex.
It is if they will say that there is much better without rainote.
That's where the youth's lives are going to war out.
Aborsyon needs Pag-a child and the youth are not ready for the "responsableng magkapamilya," those of the aborsyon will look for them.
Is there in the RH answer here?



