Alalalanging Lampoon.

It was written on 1500 BC, the oldest holy document, the oldest holy document to gather the himnong Sanskrnito.
It is a custodian of the Brahman.
Brahman is both a priest and a word.

Whatever happens.
Whatever ano pa ba ang kung ano ang gusto ko.
Only.
BUT na - Prayer, Galway Kinnell Kinnell.

The Amen is powerful at the end of every prayer.
This is not a simple wish.
He said that you have said the abracadabra.
There is no doubt.
What you were gagged was already fulfilled.
However, not all of the prayers come true (because the prayer is not helping the heart?

And prayer is used weapons to lanalize the ordinary person.

"Religion ang sigh ng mga naapi na nilalang, ang puso ng isang heartless mundo, at ang kaluluwa ng mga halang ang kalagayan.
IT na ang opium ng mga tao ".
You are probably familiar with the kasabihan that is "Karl Marx.
Especially the popular "Religion ay ang opium ng masa".

Is it that the drugs of the masses is still organized?
With the many examples of the culture popular now that it is effective to distribute the mass media and social networking, the religion is still strength - or, in particular, the leaders of every religion - to bring the masses to the sake of the masses?

"God father, false child, diyosa spirit santa!

I was a satiripoem Avenue Avenue, Avenue Avenue, Pater Patrum! "Rogelio Ordodez was written when he visited Papa Pablo VI or Giovanni Battista Monbit in the country (November 27, 1970).
It's a lampoon prayer / self / her / her to keep on the santisima Trinidad.
A exposé of the cruelty and obscenity are being done by the leaders of religion in the people.

This kind of lampoon or parody is effective in prayers like Marcelo H. del Pilar in the dpraying and Tocness.
He used the popular panalanging dispersed by the prayle to reveal their exploitation.
For example, this is what he did to alter our Father: Our stepfather our stepfather, your name, far away from us, is far from us your greed, quitlin the liig here on earth for heaven.
Sarain cami now when we have been hired by your hired aoarao and your cry for your cry so that when you can be ataua, and you will eventually ask us to ask for your manunukso and make you think cami in your bad tongue.
Amen.

The "stepfather" with a bad tongue needs to end the neck!

Meanwhile, he is here to alter the Aba Mister Maria: The Aba GuLord Baria: Hey guLord Baria, guLord Baria nakapupuno at the Fraile kong Fraile ayokong you were asked to be a higuit at all, the treasury you were able to enter.
Santa Baria Ina when Deretsos, pray for our huag now and cami killed.
He is being asked.

This sort of thing has been used during the campaign of the campaign to oust Gloria Arroyo.
For example, this poem written by a anonimo: Well, Gloria Puno of grace is the wealth of the people that you have come to.
You are apart from being corrupted by the woman who is all.
Also asked, your wife.
Nothing was left in the Amen.

The weight of the Amen is effective among "us" or the people whose pocket is forgotten because of the corruption of the whole family of Gloria Arroyo.
There is also a lasting effect on the line of Rommel Rodriguez who is also parody by the same prayers: Well, Missus Gloria filled with a fantasy with the power of fear, besides you are hunting the aggressive while you continue to end up with evil.
Well, Mrs. Gloria, you are not embarrassed with the law that you have created, it is a temporary hole to pretend to make out of peace, peace is the wish.
Well, Missus Gloria why did not look at the mirror?
Ask himself, then bigkasin: "Mirror, mirror, Sfind out in Malacanang, who is the terrorists who Nanliligalig in the town?"
But the mirror will not respond because the answer to the question is already identified.
He is indeed.

It is also direct to the leaders of religion the poem Bato-stone in Langit, Ang Tamaa is certain that Valentine Dula will be angry, especially the first sacnong: In the name of the Father, of the Son, this is for special individuals who look at the same time. "Pray and confiscate and confiscate; it is showing that he will only have sex after getting married.

You have a ritrap of the rap of the poem of Dula that helped the deeper lines.
There are also skill to sleeping by the taludtod like this: They are in their belief the way to the sky.
They will only be saved if in case he lost his breath in the coming judgement so they will immediately approach him when he is less than what you are overflowing with.

In the time of insisting of the katotohanan at Accountability in the regime regime BS Aquino, what kind of lampoon is the reason why the surface will surface?



