You were rushed to that.
It is a good Morning audio treasury that the operation of the military against the ending is accepted, the President Rodrigo duterte itois dead in spite of harmony with the eyes and the employer to continue the prosecution to continue the prosecution of the prosecution.
Lorenzana explained that the front agreement was the one to avoid.
Regarding the final round.
It was accepted by the short and yet employment, the military is trying to stop the pursuit of them like Dondon and others are not controlled by the leaders of the church Church the people who are faithful to from the church church.
Especially those who are matiyak that they are going to draw more than a different file?
Criticize Three Three as the employees of business in those who are still responsible for those who are responsible for four to hold.
The discussion is being left because they are afraid that they cannot be caught up with their people on earth.
However, the body of a country cannot be able to reach out the other side of a country.
And they are hoping to wake up but that now is going to wake up
Because it is because it is.
He is the one.
The new directive of President Rodrigo duterte in relation to the continuation of the peace talks according to his brother, he is going to have a presiltive Restituto Padilla while the President does not have any new order, they will remain their operation to monitor their operation.
But it is awake to wake up for you, the ratification of the constitution is a good opportunity for you.
It has been proven to express their cooperation in pushing peace even said that they have proved several times that they have proved that they have already been proven.
That they will not be trusted in partner when it comes to the advancement of peace the military is ready to comply with a picture if it is the command of the leadership of the President to have a long-term peace in the country to have a long-term peace in the country to have a long-term peace in the country.
Even more, he said that the whole citizens will benefit from this, particularly those who live in the contest area but in the graduation they have to give a new video that is that that's what they are
