Friends have to say that we haven't been able to concert Undersecretary when it's a good morning sir help you out so do one another.
We are thankful for each other.
In his invitation of our graduation in the government, the person needs to know what is happening in our industry.
'hope you know he is of course Secretary you are the one for now that his office is most busy because they are under the secretary if there is a plan of the department of Agriculture.
For now, it is really a terrible problem of our apple grader that we are young children who are all of the bakuran raisers who are taking care of pork chicken and how many are really weak now that it is under the secretary so what is the interbenation of your office to do not when it is the right thing to do.
Our bakuran raisers will fall off when it comes to the incident that we are doing.
I am trying to do a lot of it.
Talk to him.
Those who are able to take care of it.
Vendors who hired it is really just a woman because it is cheap to the coast for it.
The sale is fast.
Chicken by chicken.
In the deer now, because there is a news out of the news best, which is said to be the chicken right now in the market where it is only one hundred pesos per kilo so what kind of implication it is how we are going to do it.
They really are in accordance with the rules aired by your office this is what I am acting at first.
To divert the exploitation of those who learn who are taking advantage of them.
It's our customers.
The one thirty singko is what we set up with a thrifty basis that we do not want to be in their production
Not enough seventy.
Because of the expensive one to buy food.
The person who is currently able to reach thirty pesos before reaches thirty pesos.
That it was going to be.
The chick of bente is dropped but that is still high if you think about it because he regularly are in twenty pesos in twenty pesos.
So now my pain and everyone is down as a gift.
But now they post now by the one that is now.
It's a production, that's how it is.
In a kilo, maybe this is the older brother of the sixty one!
That is why we are going to be able to be affected that will really be affected.
We should remember that it's the one who is really pissed off by really.
The chicken there has been a lot of fun to enter.
That's the phone this past few weeks or
It was the same time when it was the same time, there was a photo By thirty anim na araw I group of them so if that would be back in February, they saw the beauty of the
The profit so many of you have entered together now that we are having a problem with our integrated, there is a program that is taking care of those who have so many supply in exchange or dodouble, which is why there is a lot of supply that is still happening, but when there is a lot of supply that is still happening, but when there is a lot of supply that is still happening, but when there is a lot of supply that is still happening, but when there is a lot of supply that is still low, prices are the price when there is a few supply high price of the price
Other people who take care of the chicken are saying that the amount of chicken in the farm gate is still different than fifty-50.
You know it is easy to mention it easy to lower down when we put up before that there will be an increase.
Also your problem is that it is because I am easy to travel hard to escape the poor escape.
Because you have increased an example, because you are pousded west because it is summer that we are going to buy it all okay but how the time when it comes to the MMFF is going to come up to the MMFF.
That is why I said some parts are not used to be ilimit the protagonist of this person is being used to not take advantage of the day of when the day of the hope to take advantage of it.
It's going to give importance to the Birit Quiapo best when I have to talk to them as a different leader, but I told them to them.
You should be a program not to take advantage of the buyon.
We will know what they are together with each other because of now the value of all the blame is not less than that, or that means there are so many who buy civil wedding if they are going to buy a civil wedding.
They are just getting along with each other so we are saying a few invented chicken by chicken.
I have high told him that on the dalawampung libong dalawampung million is also invented by chicken now if it is not that they will still come together with dalawang apat na surrounded the price so I will be able to kill what they are going to kill me.
They have to talk to each other and produksyon By dalawampu't limang porsiyento in the bubble of how the situation is not too affected because we have a frequent price of eighty five, there is a little bit of a cut because it is the first one that is not even a little bit of a cut because it is the first one not even if it is the first one.
It is too high here to us that is why it is the saving sumotoo but now it is playing in the bedroom sixty one eighty is the contents of the flesh.
Diane is a good thing to say that all sectors are earning but we can see that until now, there are still those who go to import especially the shortcut that we do not really have any preparation of this because there is a huge effect in our bakuran.
This is how I said our dami is the impormasyon sampung porsiyento and baton baton.
That we will be able to use it when ten pinakamabigat ended up the ll of the onse.
And then this is the parts we say that it is.
There will be the same time for an example of the pipi.
It's here and then fat fat.
The BIR is the ones who are hampas what is being used in the seloso that will prevail in the market.
Because of us we are mercado with something different from us.
In other countries they eat only you later fat, according to Filipinos, that is what you want to want yes to be able to make sure that I am going to ask for it because the only thing I would ask for is the only thing that I would ask.
You are buying pine imported meat which are the meat.
No matter how much the meat imported that we are going to be here I am here is the meat and Fort Fort.
Taking care of the pig.
The majority prefer the majority of the majority.
It is a bukal pig.
Because sir in buying more, they would prefer the angkat because of Ateneo press there is no more red there, he / she has a little debt up to the sadness of the cow to come out of the real aroma lasa of the cow to come out of the real aroma flavor.
Those who are still not in the child as long as we take care of a trip to us.
We still don't have a espesyal okasyon too at the houses now when it comes to pork, it's not good to cook process of the process.
Number one when it comes to the hail example we cooked for a kilo cook of the local.
Angel from the process.
The dalawampung porsiyento will be reduced by the dalawampung porsyento.
Ah
So that your broker is going to be better recor very much.
So if we are going to buy a better one to buy the local because we are very high higher.
I can cook for example of a kwadrado one square with an example one daang spare spare.
A tire as I was imported to be eighty.
It was a anim na basyo ng baril) I brought that up.
That's why they are watching so cheap by the unit you don't get the people who buy an angkat but if you are going to process low carbon you can see that the local one will be able to buy so much better.
It is the user how your monitoring in the market are our vendors here in our set astarte.
With us for now, we do not have a problem with anyone else who is still low than the issue of the sale of sale.
Before now that's why I said what's important to us is that it is the right thing.
We look at it.
There is a vegetable iregulate but put a good discussion with you producers.
That is why we give the right data to them before because they have to know how some of their produce is because if we are fascinated by the Filipinos, most of them are increasing so much that we will be grateful for the media because we are going to buy the media because we are going to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we have to buy the media because we
In the year and with the producers yes here, there are so many of our inventory that you just relax with that according to okay, according to okay.
Yes, there is a text message here when I do not know if it will be used as well as if you can still take place, which is why the tomatoes are going to be able to attend the Ilocos, which is why we can help him, which is why we can help me commit suicide I am not in the tone of death.
By our yes but maybe he really took advantage of me to get so many soldiers ordered to answer the department of the department.
If I am that you should have a system system.
By before they have to let the tomatoes have to proseso properly then it is all of us to be there when we are going to be there when it is.
He knows that in the former thing that will be done, that is okay armor process, we have a question here ibon flu free or very happy that we are going to be able to make sure that we are going to be able to do that virus.
A little of what we balwarte system is very called here strict.
Eaten.
Just to be able to do it.
Or there is a board Spati hayop who is the one who means that he can't enter here if it comes from the country babaerong bet, he is still dead, even if he is already dead, he can't even enter the Philippines like that even if he is a pahina according to the Philippines, even if he is a pahina according to the Philippines.
Nakakita ng isang user wait na we can tell that in the understanding that your office is implying yes for this to our livestock raisers what they should take action of saganon is that we correct good action as well as possible.
It's a system of taking care of me and then i support every time you sit on your sister's care especially when there's something that has already been there.
The life of the life.
And the pisi is long for us not to do so that the page will be slow because if that is our reason that our life will not be signed or not to be signed or not to be signed.
Someone is going to die then we just make it successful not to avoid it.
Okay kaya may panahon na we thank our attendance to us here 'not under secretary sir form of the department of Agriculture livestock industry ha, and then, "
You have to notice you to accept us so that we can understand our farmers in what we are always going to do that many thanks for what you are doing because if we are always coming to the people in buying cheap people when we are headed here, we will always be able to take advantage of all the people when it comes to this when we are headed here.
In order to know the customers, therefore, the price of chicken is rolling up to the andaan because of the media they are Paul who helps us to reach it and the mouth of puke is really down by the puke of puke.
Thank you very much, we are not able to research a sagot secretary para kay livestock jose, while friends four are four.
