I am going to text what buddy each other face each other with each other with each other?
I just don't know.
Yes, what said there was no news on him even if there was no news on the news of any news.
Yes you are there with you.
Ha hello yes here there is no one.
You are just there with you 'right? "
Yes, this is what others are going to avoid because they are able to see how bad it is just a waste of time since he is still able to attend what is Bacoor.
Said where in the cavite near the esem, he / she left yes, that he will call for a long time with any esen which is near black said to be the same way where horror is going to be said.
No one is just near.
Not going to pass a bullet-bala.
The distance is that I am only going to be the only one who is the only one who will be blamed for bong Revilla yes, there is not only traffic that there is not really a traffic in pre moment, really the traffic traffic is not really a problem.
It was just far that it was just the entrance to say that it wasn't traffic that's because it's not around the end traffic that's why it's indeed so traffic.
Yes to be able to do it.
It's just traffic yes not to not do that, to what I don't do that, at the end the distance is just here in the imus.
It is a sim that you will miss.
What in there is only a little bit of esen near yes, yes.
It was the same time when it was possible that it was just a good entrance because we looked at the same time that the other side of the Robinsons showed that there was an excuse for our neighbor del yes, even if he was still under the distance, even though he was still at the same time, even though he was still at the same time.
It is the same time when I know I thought I thought it was dozens ha ha, yes, why I said the province was going to be writing.
It is expensive here just so far, there is a foundation that he has a foundation over and then he will be able to do something like a house, because he has to let go of a little bit of the same thing, so much that it takes a lot of what it takes to do with you.
Why did they have to let it go over, how much more yes, two puntong lima depends on why do it happen.
There is a house there is a lot of Nine daang
Why
