
Broading the ceasefire in the Isla of Negros.

Komiteng Rehiyon of the Isla of Negros Partido Komunista of the Philippines November 25, 2013 2013.

The Komiteng Rehiyon of Negros is the passport of the ceasefire in the Isla of Negros.
The ceasefire from 2359 oras of December 24, in accordance with the command of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines will be included.
The goal of the passport ceasefire giving additional time for humanitarian activities in relief and rehabilitation in Cadiz City, Sagay City, Escalante City and around the municipality and the island that was severely devastated by typhoon Yolanda.

The units of the BHB and milisyang town in said places should stop in the launch of the intense operations and help the victims of typhoon Yolanda.
However, it should be careful and implement the modang active defense against the attacks of AFP-PNP.
The encounter happened in Kabankalan City last November 16.
The units of the BHB will make sure, local branches of Partido, the masses and organo of power politics that are organized and safe to go back to the local and international relief organizatios and ahensiya, take a medical personality, personalities in agriculture, and others who are ready to help the victims.
The victims of typhoon Yolanda continue to tackle the implementation of relief, rehabilitation and for the struggle for their sake and livelihood.

The places in Negros who are not severely affected by typhoon Yolanda should launch activities that will help those severely affected.
Those who are about to attend the cities of cities, towns and white areas will continue to reampan operations and rehabilitation.
They will continue to try to look like the recourse for the needs of the victims of typhoon Yolanda.

There are those whose corrupt politicians will use the disaster to corrupt funds in the middle of legal success against PDAF.
It has been declared in the "stae of calamity" Negros Occidental even if the only part of the island is clearly affected by typhoon Yolanda.
These kinds of force force to fight all the form of pagmamaniobra and stealing and for the people should be vigilant and to give to the people the right thing to go to them.
The saltled caused by typhoon Yolanda to the people of Negros is not as intense by the saltled caused by this in Tacloban and around it accompanied by the storm surge.
That is why the citizens of Negros are right to help the people who are severely devastated by typhoon Yolanda.
If there is a bakwit from other places, prepare the baseng masses in the island of Negros and in the process, consider ordina in the local organo of power politics and the consequences of the people who have the bakwit of livelihood through farming.



