Yes yes yes yes.
'we are just here with buknoy maybe no one is going to be able to do it.
Yes, yes.
"Yes, yes, here is buknoy too annoying because I am roaming around with no one to say yes that there is no one to call yes that you are going to know what you are going to do and we are here when we are just watching the rest of you.
Yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes.
Yes, yes.
Yes, yes.
That is why it is indeed possible that there will be a chance to be able to attend the same time after being able to do so yes to yes to yes, yes yes, yes how yes why yes
What do you just follow not being able to make that's why there is still a use that is not right yes.
So this is where we are going back to buknoy there so we can only be in what I am just fine here later here later.
Yes to end up with the mother you do leave yes, yes, they will be able to take a lot of time before we will be able to fix what time we go to Ro, what time to go to Ro, anytime.
Hello ha, as long as I text if it is going to bring it out here, it's going to take a long time.
Later later we will go there in the afternoon sister yes there might be something that is why I pass to hide it here later I will change no one else?
Yes.
Yes where yes, you can't pass yes then before you pass here with me yes yes yes yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, that is why you are going to call yes to you or yes, yes because that is why you're going to say yes to him or yes, yes, that is why you are going to say yes. Yes or what yes yes there is a yes or okay cellphone there is yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes.
Anything else to do with it.
To say yes.
Yes here, it is annoying as long as it is so that the reason why they are supposed to be charged, they will continue to name the development of that as long as what you say earlier that you do that's what you do later on what you do later, we are just going to call out what you are going to do?
Yes you talk to boknob y yes to talk to you hello hello doesn't want to talk about it.
Okay.
We are just around in turn around me so it goes directly because later there is not something to say earlier hello ha, okay, we are just going to turn around for a while before going back to return.
Yes they can hear me ha why we are.
