Sixty significance in Zamboanga City launched a bird space, the forces of the military but the operation conducted was careful because the remaining hostages were not Ustadz habier Malik, the remaining hostages in the government live from Zamboanga City with authors, jun ba, which is why they decided to surrender to the government from Zamboanga City.
.
Jessica slowly went down from the city of Zamboanga tomorrow, he would have to go back to continuing classes in the schools outside of the Sbagama-kilometer radius from the family but despite those who still haven't finished this problem in search for the remaining rebels who are supposed to be charged in the moror national Liberation Front.
There is no sidelines of the sixty-anyos of the military believed to be in the likes of the forces of what brought by the
They believe the nights in the bakawan near Barangay mariki and barangay tanod are thinking about the same place that they have asked to be saved Tuburan past.
That is why the residents of egegplant going to school evacuated to school.
A new fire broke out in the barangay 'do that, "
The firefighters responded.
But they stepped back because of the heard shots allegedly started with the drivers.
The water sea did not help that the police reacted to the police.
The eight leaders of the position of Cory surrendered earlier including their defeated peace policy with that.
They were with the five teenager who said they said goodbye the group was easily transferred to the position but instead of having a fight, they just decided to give up their surrender.
That's what you are there with in the meantime.
Outside labas outside, outside.
You think first.
You should not be rushing.
That you look at what happened to us.
He seems to be able to do it.
Having a hard time with it.
That is true.
What she was saying.
He is still a story in the life of Malik and remains in the areas of Barangay Santa Catalina and Barangay Santa bar with his left colleagues.
Meanwhile, four hostages freed shared to Zamboanga tang worth it already heard that the group of Malik lost the group of Malik.
Ayon sa kanilang days that on the dalawampu't limang positioning tioning.
Eye there was WAS a hospital WAS released EARLY ngayong I am Morning I am bitter here he said five just said that he was just five.
Just a few more hostages were recovered by the light reaksyon since thinking about thinking about it.
And forty-nine-year-old lucita West has the right words and relatives, James What is it.
A staff of the libris included in the hospital as the story will not finish the story.
In almost three weeks of fighting eight policemen and soldiers died.
It was just a while ago a officer who recorded Justin back, which was rare in the report of the deceased of the deceased.
It is the story of their companion in puke, the soldiers in Zamboanga who voluntarily continued.
He was already in Batangas who was able to come up with a hole in the meantime.
You will be lucky to put an eye on the skin because he said he could not have hit his head in a group of stone pagkababa as well.
It is also a movie that is still the text of your prolabanan.
Para sa isang
Maliit na kalibre.
Armas armas.
But when it is in the direction of the
Kalibre website limang thirty-30 thirty hanggang
It is also certain that it will be a hit that is going to be
I was able to eat.
The wounded soldiers are just recovering then a sigh of fighting.
They visited them speaking of staff General Emmanuel Bautista defense secretary volerson Gazmin and Interior Secretary mar Roxas.
A huge damage taking a fight in Zamboanga City in Barangay mariki is true the so many houses in robbery are true.
There was no one left in the hundreds of houses in storage and factory in which he would cover up with his hands.
It seems to be a disrespect that is called a ground zero of the battle of the war of the war of the war.
The walls of the house were flawed holes in the electric posts.
Brother-in-law was revealed to be cramped in Zamboanga sports complex.
Our siblings should be fired from the Badjao.
But there seems to be no more difficulty in the situation of the mother who gave birth to the baby in the middle of the rottenness of the
That's why it's good here here.
It has a lot to submit more than there in the meantime.
Where we came from.
It is really hard to do, that is really hard.
The position of the Philippines Jessica is in an accomplice that they are only in the thirty who they know that they are against their hunting.
They hold the less than ten happy Jessica Jessica.
Okay Jon is the one I have not heard that because I remember that balang one, the father of the father, father Bpana said that he was still left behind because my father was still left behind there was news about him there was news about him there was news about him there was news about him.
Let us know about the news that there is a chance for him to be
It seems to be included in the thrown out that the father of pareng Obama's father but of course it is still possible that we still need to be in the towns from the authorities from the authorities.
We have to bring back to you the details when we've got there in the damage you are in and we will not be able to mess in Zamboanga because it is okay Acuzar three office there almost consecutive died that they died.
Meneses and ngayong araw ng isang drama.
The last name of those who died today's aljon.
He was the first Lieutenant padamihan that Jessica three consecutive officials who died in the fight with his heart explanation, the lives of the officials that they needed to have had fun halimbawa, they should really be able to go dark with their troops, which is why they really can't avoid those who have unique officials, especially when the fights here, he is applying to have some unique officials, especially when the fights here, they are applying to have a unique officials, especially when the fights here, they are applying for a unique officials, especially their door once when they entered a room or at a door, they did not know that the enemy would be there if they had to go there if they were actually going to be able to give them a helmet, then they would really be able to give up their helmet, a lightning helmet but went through to worry about what they were doing. The protective taon for the protective taon for the protective taon for the protective taon
He has only really a dog treatment and Jessica not all that he says he will be able to do that he is going to be able to do that and that he will be able to hit the high caliber which is when he is not paid for the side of the possibility that he will still be able to hit his helmet in the soldiers but in the situations that will really be hit by the payment center and close to the situations that are really going to be hit by the payment center and close to the situations that are really going to hit that is a bit more dangerous that is a little dangerous that is dangerous to be wearing that does not mean that there is a bullet that has passed through a helmet, it is the low quality that they are using before there is a lot of people who are complaining to have been affected by a bullet but it's just a fake place, which is definitely being affected by a bullet but it's just a fake place, which is why they are being caught up by a bullet but it's just a fake place, which is why they are he was busy and accompanied by Lieutenant joseph estrada the amount that they are there are okay with the other airstrike when I noticed in the video too high and even if they were identified to be identified as if they were really identified where the rebel rebels were really high.
You can also think early if my mind is naughty, you will also think of Jessica how surely the jose wanted to be hit by heavy Artillery the explanation of the Office of the Philippines, that they have to monitor the ears of the troops that they are accused of at the air asset when they are the ones who are struck by the troops when they are the ones who are in the air asset. It will look at the top eyebrows if there is a earthquake that is hit by earthquake that is why they are okay with earthquake.
