The success of the NPA is the success of the kind of farmer.

The National Katipunan of the Magbufarm in Timog Katagalugan (PKM-TK), the organization of the National Democratic Front, the greeting of the revolutionary company, the New People's Army (NPA) against the offensive of the 74th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army (IBPA) in Catanauan, Quezon.

Fourteen 14 soldiers of 74th IBPA were reported to be killed in 15 minutes of fight this May 31.
The Pulang kumander and warriors of the NPA were assured that it was not "walk in the park" the resyunbuilt armed forces of the Marcos regime in the province.

In the past almost a year of withstand and massive offensive of Oplan Bayanihan, the citizens in the province of Quezon were experienced in the province of the Quezon of the excessive kalupitan of eight (8) soldiers of eight (8) soldiers of regular and forces that were buried in the Catanauan and 21 towns of the third and the fourth district of Quezon.

It is the whole boast that the agents who are going to be buried by the regime of the regime allegedly allegedly captured the heart "of the citizens in the province.

The NPA is not the only target of the withstand and extensive deployment of the military and police but, priority, the people who are brave to insist on their rights to the economists and politics.

74th IB-PA is mainly involved in violation of human rights in the province.
Their beating is featured in civilians, illegal arrest and sulking in elementary school.

Recently led by 74th IB the threat and violence of violence in Filcoco, a plant of Coconut coir and fiber that are in the town of Catanauan.

Despite this kind of attack, the attack movement in the province continues to pursue the movement in the province that will be buried and deception which is being held by the armed force of the state.

Because of this, thousands of poor farmers in the province continue to be enjoyed by the success of the dedecades of the launch of the revolver.

The revolutionary movement of the NPA is catching an inspiration to the success of the NPA.
The pysia of the common farmers in the decision and the ability of the NPA to face the force of the AFP, which is the primary instrument of the pro-Lord mayland state of the legitimate rights of the farmers for the land to be sold.

Live the Bagong right Bayan!
Continue to fight and fail the Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos regime II!
Push forward and will be able to success the revolver agraryo!



