Australian actor, was impressed by the Pinoy Max, Mother of Dragons the peg By Allan Diones July 18, 2016 another proof that Direk Mark is a favorite of the Australian actor Conan Stevens to be part of Encantadia.
Conan is the one who plays the role of the span, "The Mountain" Clegane in the first season of GOT.
Stevens attended the surprise and he was the first one out of the cast to sagutin a ilang katanungan.
According to the tall and big body of foreign actor, he was impressed by the camera work, using the filter and acting on his watched piloto episode of Enca.
Obviously, he did not understand the Tagalog dialogues, but he was amazed by it.
"Humanga sa mga nangyari sa unang palabas.
"Give nito isang buwan, bigyan mo ito ng dalawang buwan at hiyawan na How mabuti ito", bulalas ni Conan.
About the animation and espesyal epekto of Enca that was obviously inspired by Game ng Thrones, the said Stevens, the GOT hango in A Song of Ice at Fire book series of George R.R. Martin is also inspired by The Lord ng Rings nobela by JRR Tolkien.
That's why it's just normal that's like that.
Aside from GOT, Conan also worked with The Hobbit prequel in the LOTR film series of Peter Jackson.
Then now he will be part of Enca, so it seems that what he does.
Even if he sees the same, he knows that the Kapuso telefantasya will have their own mark.
"Ang mga Filipino creativity ay mundo-klase.
Si This ay isang demonstrasyon ng isang tunay na malaki, sa malayo ay nagmamalasakit ako.
"This is gonna be Really mahusay," the foreign actor is even gay.
He is so accepted this project is because it is a good move career-wise for him, aside from this kasiya-siya.
He was able to work in Thailand, China and India, so if he added the Philippines to his resume as an actor, he will bring a larger audience when he comes back to America.
IT makes HIM Valuable as an actor for other producers and part of his career as an artist.
Conan hasn't been able to shoot for Encantadia, but he said, Filipinos have international reputasyon of being friendly.
So, he is looking forward to the gumana sa Wbutas team.
He did not mention what he would be role in Enca.
Direk Mark said, Conan Stevens will act on the former role of Benjie Paras as a barbarian Wahid.
Tonight is the start of Encantadia humihingi el (mixture of pagsasabi and prequel / karugtong), which is one of the most expensive production of GMA network.
In the form of the cast, it is very big, because of the amount of character of said telefantasya phemomenal hit 11 years ago.
Before the grand surprise of Encantadia, the piloto episode is watching the press first.
Just beginning, there is a malalaking labanan and scenes that are filled with the espesyal epekto.
We noticed the title kasunod (if called before, OBB or pagbubukas billboard) halatang "inspired" of the title kasunod of Game ng Thrones.
It is the self-ipinagtapat fan of the hit HBO serye who is GOT the director of Encantadia, Mark Reyes.
Daenerys Targaryen or Mother of Dragons of GOT is the peg of the new character Amihan (Max Collins), the diwatate of Ywhen Queen Minea (Marian Rivera).
Amihan was riding a flying dragon when again again at the scene.
It was just a guest role and Max immediately died as Amihan, so Minea would be awarded to his second child's killed sibling.
The queen of Lireo is beautiful, that the bad fairies, Adhara (Sunshine Dizon) will be able to escape immediately.
The Queen of his womb is brought to his womb by his wife, Raquim (Dingdong Dantes), the one who used the leader of soldiers of Sapiro.
The early fairies that Cassiopeia (Solenn Hamalay) will be forced to distribute four the most powerful brilyante as protection from those who want to steal or steal it.
Cassiopeia will grant them in the four kingdom of Encantadia - Lireo, Sapiro, Adamya and Haangeia.
The greedy Hatho is going to get the brilyante of Adamya so they will be more powerful, in the leadership of Arvak (Roi Vinzon) and Hagorn (John Arcilla).
Direk Mark Reyes in the grand surprise of Encantadia was brought to tears.
He was emotional because after the three failed attempts, noong nakaraang taon, it was given a signal to the remake of his alagang project.
Direk Mark thanked GMA who trusted the very expensive show that it was, that according to him, it was already level up this 2016.
They have worked with the original Enca that they are with now.
Director says, like in the first, this is not a job for him but a vocation.
This can't be done if you're not dedicated.
He added, the scenes, costumes, the contribution of the craftsmen, pupters, visual epekto team and all that are very hard to do.
He said, 11 years passed and he was no longer a child.
Umaasa siya to survve the show, but in the energy that is given to him by the new cast is said nothing is impossible.
Direk Mark said, this part of the Philippine pop culture and even then, the Encantadiks did not lose, so he liked to bring it back for the new audience.
Aside from the release of Encantadia game app in Apple store and Google Play, it will have the merchandise and different gimmicks to do with the show until Christmas, which will be repaired by many.
"It's hard to fight, we know that."
But we are ready to fight.
Ivo Live, Encantadia! "Direk Mark Reyes scream.



