Attack in the Senate.

The "gate-crashing" of Navotas Rep. Toby Tiangco, United Nationalist Alliance interim President (UNA) and Atty.
JV Bautista, UNA interim Secretary General, while the Blue Ribbon "sub-committee" hearing of the Senate is in the midst of a very happy effect.
First, because one of the one who made it that Representative Tiangco is also a lawmaker.
It means that it's a matter of time, it knows that even in the policy of the hearings of Congress, that kind of activity will not be taken advantage of.
But because the report that the riches of the President, Vice-Pres. "Cannot be explained.
Jojo Binay chose Tiangco to destroy the issue that is being used or beauty manners.
Nognog was just able to defend!
King-mother!
Most of all, repeatedly, parekoy, that Binay was invited to the said hearing to explain it his side.
But their camp chose that he would not be rushing even if he was invited and his allies who were not invited to be the one they were making in the Senate!
That is as if their message, is that the character of our boss is just disturned off because of his "babuyan" in Batangas, "we do not disrespect your hearing!
It is really uyan to fight now!
It's good that Senator Drilon is not there!
Asked VP Binay: Why don't you really want to attend the investigation in the Senate?
What is your fear of "truth" that may burst into your face if you will attend?
Suggestions of Binay: Why did you not only come up with the Senate to carry the documents brought by Representative Tiangco?
Plead to Nognog: I just hope, if you just don't really want to attend the Senate, do not disrespect it or have to end up with your followers.
So that the people will not notice too much that you are really afraid of the possible surface truth while the demolisyon is larger, I mean, imbestigasyon of the Senate.
For if you cannot save your face, it is just to save the dignity of your followers like Tiangco.
That in aim to save you are starting to look like this tolonges in the eticlearly rule in the hearings of Congress!
Many Mister Binay is being affected because of your possible foolish!
I just hope you don't involve them in your destruction!



