1,000 house.

The Eco-farming pasilidad has already been reported to the settlement Area of Iglesia ni Cristo (INC) to be called by their alaan place for a planned housing for the members of the INC who were affected by Yolanda.
According to the report, the resettlement area with the extent of 3,000 hectares of land will be a place for the 1000 housing units for the victims of Yolanda and it is in Sitio New Era, Barangay Langit, for the sake of, Leyte.
The members of the kapatiran are excited because it's not just housing but there are also those who will cover the factory of cloth, tuyong isda processing and bote factory.
There are also plans to allocate part of the land for different crops like rice, vegetables and fruits.
It means, there will be opportunities for the jobs that people need more of the affected areas.
It is very important that there are factories and activities that are brought to the pagpaplano of INC for their settlement because we have proven that a community will not succeed if there is no work and important facilities for health and livelihood of the people.
For now, it is only a hundred houses that are being taken away, it looks like the INC wants to break a record for Guinness Book of World Records.
It can be recalled that recently, the INC got a world record for their World Wide Walk which was held together in 30 countries and also allocated to the victims of Yolanda the money gathered in the said kawanggawa activity.
That is why the INC member is very happy with the event in Leyte when the ribbon of the ribbon there is personal.
Eduardo V. Manalo, executive ministro of INC.
According to the news report, the officials of the INC said that if it needs an addition to the workers for the industry that will be visited in the settlement area, they will also get even if it is not a member of INC to work there.
Mas may kapangyarihan in INC.
They are very good to show an example to the place that is severely affected by typhoon Yolanda.
Live the captain who is a INC.



