Is the "Filipino time is effective?"

By Tomas U Santos - January 30, 2014, 2014.

When it comes to technical meaning of time, there is only one thing to follow standards.
But if talking about the filipino culture, the scheduled time might be later or not just.
What should be followed?
During the first day of January, the Department of Science and Technology-Philippine Atmospheric, GeOpysical, was formally declared by the Department of science, GeOpysical, the astronomical Services Administation (PAG-ASA) is the Philippine Standard time (PhST) that the Philippine Standard time (PhST) will be the author of the same standard of time in the whole country.
This policy aims to change the practiced and has been touched by the noversion of "Filipino time," a mind that is an hour of atrasado activities or tasks.
According to Mario Raymundo, the engineer of the astronomical observation at the time Service Unit of PAG-ASA, one of the primary goals PhST is to avoid negative konotasyon of Filipino time from being late at the time, wrong discipline, and acquitted at the time of our fellow.
"The often mix again to things will cause a lot of fun opportunities," says Raymundo.
According to Augusto De Viana, the chairman of the Department of History of the university, there is a good cause of the appointment of the same monitored time in the country.
"Save at the time and the Filipinos] will be more productive in holding an activities and other meeting because they already know when it will start and will finish."
Aside from this, it is only timely to change the negative these councilors in order to keep up the Philippines in the midst of the neighboring countries.
According to him, the prophet alism of Filipinos will increase not only in the field of business or service to the country but also being real humane by each other.
It is the meaning of the Filipino time, Jose Rizal also mentioned in his very popular novels, Noli Me Tangere "and" El Filibusterismo "and" El Filibusterismo "giving importance to the Spaniards through the tahasang pursuing the occasion just like the governor general and other personnel in the novel of Rizal.
Nevertheless, de Viana said that the negative konotasyon of the Filipino time will never be considered part of the culture of the country.
According to him, the concept of the Filipino time came from the time of coloralization of Spaniards in the country.
From their frequent holding a pging and gathering, the Filipinos noticed that it is coming late if the most important people in society who are Spaniards came.
Because of this, there was a nosyon in the minds of the Filipinos that he was the last one to come the most important.
When the Spaniards left the country, Filipinos got their habits to send them again to inform the majority of their importance.
Since then, though it is early if you wake up, those who are known and those who are capable of Filipinos are also taking advantage of the arrival of different meeting or pbecomes.
When the Americans conquered the country, they noticed being the latter of Filipinos if they gave him a negative meaning that the Filipinos did not know how to appreciate the time.
They called this "Filipino time," that it has become a habit of use and became part of the culture of Filipino to be able to catch up in the present.
In the meantime, the government of the country has already implemented several times in order to avoid the negative noversion of the filipino culture.
The Philippine Standard time (PhST) first started last 2 of June, 1977 through the Presidential Decree Number 1149 of former President Ferdinand Marcos who says the PAG-ASA will be the official service agency of the Philippines responsible for promoting the PhST.
After the command is approved, the martial Pambansa Blg immediately implemented.
8 in the year 1978 who appointed the PAG-ASA as an official member of the Philippines.
However, although the law has been accomplished for a long time that will strengthen the PhST, it took 35 years before finally implement a stable and a serious law about it.
This is the Philippine Standard time Act of 2014 that President Benigno Aquino III signed last December of last year.
Through this, all the clock in the country will be blamed for the official hour of PAG-ASA.
The campaign of PAG-ASA called that "Juan oras: Filipino Ako, I was on the time of Ako!" According to the National time Conpanunumbalik ousness Santa, which was started during the first day of 2014.
This was done with the help of different organizations, particularly the mobile communications business companies like the Smart and Globe.
"So now that this is the start of 2014, we are hoping there will be changes in the behavior of Filipinos when it comes to their appreciation at the time of their fellow," says Raymundo.
It is the subject of the law all the national agencies of the country - including the state Universities at Colleges and the government-owned, all the local government units, all the stations of television and radio, all the private stations of television and radio, and all private corporations or agencies in the country.
Even in Unidersidad, there is no reason for Tomawho in being late because there are GPS clock in the buildings that are based on the atomic clock of PAG-ASA.
According to Raymundo, the amount that used to be implemented by the law depends on the General Appropriations fund of PAG-ASA.
Currently, they have been able to install 7 units in Malacañang and 4 units in PAG-ASA Regional Services Division.
According to him, the total project will need to be supot clock worth more than P50 million in order to be implemented in the whole country.
Currently, the PAG-ASA wants to intensify the placing of time display in all the establishments and buildings in Metro Manila where this is also a container of Network time protocol or your called Global positioning System (GPS) where the common citizens might include their clock in the PhST.
The implementation of PhST is a big step to avoid the negative konotasyon of the Filipino time.
"We are hoping this is the start of the right use of PhST.
It is also for the future of the Filipinos.
The time is important because it is promote of discipline, right relationships, and the most important thing at all, it will be a sign to begin to give importance and respect the time of our fellow, "he said.
According to De Viana, the government is not the only one who should lead the repair of "Filipino time," every Filipino needs to cooperate with the change of negative these councilors in order to be successful the fulfilment of "Philippine Standard oras."
"We remove the old concept of the Filipino time that is always atrasado because it will not be good for the country," he said.
J.V.



