The Supreme Court has passed away the constitution of the EDCA Enhanced defense pakikiisa agreement between the Philippines and the United States to discuss the benefits brought to our country this morning, the assistant secretary of the Philippines to visit the certificate of the Philippines, but it is still possible that it is still possible for alex jokes, but it is still possible that it is still possible that it is a good joke in the Philippines.
It is okay for the knowledge of our audience possible to explain if this date is such a date.
White space gallery at the Enhanced defense cooperation agreement is that the contents of the Philippines and the United States will take advantage of it. Philippines and then tired of the Philippines and then tired of the Philippines and then
It is possible that their ability will be extended when it is possible.
You will be able to attend the indibidwal.
Each of them actually each of them.
They can be together with their ability to make the ability of Andres anyway and then they have the ability of Andres.
It is possible that it is the same time that you are able to give up with the two countries that we are able to wait for two countries there is now tuned with the two countries.
EDSA praktikal winners are looking for the quarrels he is looking forward to and the napilitang
Para sa inyo our country is that we are facing problems outside of our nearby countries
The age of how much this will affect the problems that we are facing but basically that they can give us to their support halimbawa, right one capacities building tungo eighty drotransfer, maybe we will also face the course of the news that they will be facing in the Philippines two hundred walong responsable and changing in the Maritime security in the police security. Our border province ten in your cup of clearance became a profit from the positive building at the positive building at the market passing When there was a BOTH working area of fifteen.
Countries yes lalo na sa mga
We are Region of those or learned of course at huwag kalimutan.
You will be able to spend the interoperability issues yes sometimes I think of the tradition of the tradition in the ehersisyo nakangiti from the Antipolo uwi of hamo heart to apat ang aming mga kapit-bahay, no matter how they are enjoyment by the one who they are
Yes, yes.
There is no continuous ipis Joy libed, even if they will buy cigarettes in a poster of slogan in the condo building that he is going to be with a while
Put a positive things without a fruit when it comes to when we are talking about it now if this legal is strengthened by the court Court of the burial of economic benefits in order to love it.
You don't.
May be-ensayo possible that it is possible to be a creature of a wound.
The same time with the same time ay magkakaroon sila ng kanilang OWN pagtatapos.
At the praktikal our music according to the witness and ating economic use of people.
According to what we said director.
Para sa ating kaibigan na si kamote us ay we
Sumang-ayon sa mga aktibidad na ito because
Going home to go home.
I have to be the Cecilio that those who are petitions are the ones that they say their doubts might be abused or by the selda in our country.
By the things that have already happened before the abuse of the business of the edin.
Or to be at the same time.
Like what I said earlier that it was harassment from the very depressed that it came from the visit forces from the forces of the forces.
And it was there in the pagdalaw of forces agreement the way but what is good happening now is that there is an umakyat.
It is the same time when our government is confident that the Regulations of the Regulations are going to be called.
Hinggil sa pagdalaw sa puwersa ng forces at na-cover ng BOTH ang ating pagdalaw sa forces
It is the same time when the document is long, a line-line will be the one that we might hope for you to throw is very strict, the aircraft example of the
It is a manonood before they enter here that makes it through a thorough Beth
Humihinga processing actor and well-in-law.
Isang pag-alis para sa piso seemed like tomatoes na like tomatoes, there is a chance that the department of national defense is giving a comment on our airport because that is part of what you are Carly gives a story and that's why he can even go to school.
I am referring to use the government of the military camp.
On the dictates of the airplane accuse the aga-aga here is the other countries that are in the roof of the United States, it becomes a target of text from the Philippines that is why we should worry about the Philippines.
Because they want something and you budisor our other day in the Philippines properly graduated from that diretso or in the personal problema in Mindanao, when he visited the country, which is why there are two nights that are going to be destroyed by the house, which is why their blood is going to be destroyed in the office. Even the driver like aktres Princess tumbok and his feelings towards the disappointed, did not look at the disappointed at the disappointed and killed him in the destinasyon, because they chose to be approved by the numerical blessing, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but overdrive, but it is over@@
It's IT that a yes pinasienergy said to work at the kalahating blood puyat Nights over the whole story visit By an extremist attack when it was given to Bangladesh driver if there was no one in the Bangladesh driver if there was no one.
I am just able to ask my question of it.
One of the things that you are going to have.
The edon is still looking at this in the training of our soldiers in humanitarian actors in the strategy of how big that is going to be in the position of our soldiers.
And it's the police that we're going to call for our training.
Produced by the one.
It is prohibited that now is allowed to be allowed now.
It is a position girlfriend in the triple of the triple, because once we are tripping, the one Recruitment will be the same time after Three the statement that is allowed to be left when he can be left alone.
That I will bring it again but god patus here are those that are still needed again in the next train so that means that our training will be a little more faster.
It is a puzzle when I can only tell our fellow countrymen just when I am of Tacloban how to Three taon after the washbasin of the washbasin.
And wash our friends of the amerikano who are still helping for the application of the past nevertheless native habi those who are going to be able to do it.
To be with those who are with them.
American soldiers how do you feel like our anti-anti because there are now those who are busy with the lawyers that I ask earlier what is their limitasyon with the training that they will not be able to sell our country.
It appears now that the government of the Philippines is really strict now.
Monitoring it.
And it's also the good because it's the same thing.
Also wants to be able to do it.
We have to let us know.
When there are problems like this, it will be complicated so that they will also be able to attend the closeness of the monitor there
It is a bad heart that seems to be here doubting that I am going to become the ship especially on the ship those who are not being asked to do well.
As the end of the end of yours, he will be able to break up with the same time when they bring schubert what is the benefits of our country for the EDCA and all of you who are all that we are all about.
The EDCA is going to salvage me with your sister beside Sobejana that it is becoming dangerous defense treaty continue to be a defense treaty in the meantime.
The suspect was also given here in the trial or building By
They travel to travel with a writer partner sa karaniwang dozens will be karaniwang
It is a sermon or past that you are the one who is the practice of oil station which is the right thing that is going to be
Us?
And this cemetery is important.
And that's how the project we continue with all of our partners I am in.
That is the start of a simple almoranas is standing by a young cutagreement while the relationship between the house is deep, there are those who are different from different things.
It is a crime in the video space that we have been killed by the nilipol defense treaty By a priority Enhanced defense pakikipagtulungan agreement is Really a political station that is becoming a mamamayan kaugnay to sipsipin and that they will be able to make it happen.
Thank you very much for the informal.
