Aetas and Bembol, boards to the Best actor Cherry Pie, Best aktres By GORGY RULA July 22, 2016 successful the recent 1st ToFarm Film Festival which was completed by Doctor.
Milagros How of Universal Harvesters, Inc. and by Director Maryo J. delos Reyes.
Finished a week filfest of awards night the other day in Makati Shangri-La Hotel.
The said award attended by respected artists like Lorna Tolentino, Edu Manzano, Jaclyn Jose and Cherry Pie Picache.
The movie when Zig Dulay and the Pabang Palay of Maricel Cariaga, who is a farmer.
The best picture is the Best picture where Zig also got the Best Director tropeo.
The story of life and love of a Aetas is being attacked by the movie Paglipay and true Aetas, the director Zig stars took.
The bidang Aetas, Garry Cabalic won, wherein Bembol Roco, who is starring in the movie Pahome Na is going to tie the Best actor.
It is fun to be the story of Garry because after the movie, he is back to normal life in Zambales with his wife.
He is asking for the awards gabi because he will win Best actor, but he said that he will not reach because the river is increasing in them, so he will find it hard to make Manila.
The Doctor did.
How of Universal Harvester, he fetched it by the helicopter to attend the awarding.
He had the Best actor tropeo even if he was not an actor.
It looks like he has no plans to continue acting because he wants their normal life in Zambales.
Director Zig asked for an apology to them because their lives were head in Botolan to complete the said movie.
Cherry Pie is the Best actress from the movie Pahome Na.
You can clearly see her too much enjoyment when the said award was accepted because she said that she did not make a movie for so long and now even had an award.
"I seem to be able to receive award.
Matagal na rin ang IT at para sa akin sa personal na note na napaka-espesyal, because, the long time I didn't accept a movie, at isa ito sa una.
"IT means a lot," stated the great actress after he accepted the Best actress tropeo.
He was even a bit emotional with his ACCEPTANCE speech because he offered him to his dead mother who still misses him.
Now, he is especially inspire to make a movie like Pahome Na.
The festival director director Maryo is happy to announce that the ToFarm Filfest has been extended for a week.
The six entries in SM Megamall will be able to watch.
They will start to receive entries for the next ToFarm Filfest.
But they will have to go to ToFarm Songpagsusulat kompetisyon that is still for our farmers.



