Meanwhile, Filipinos are given to acknowledge but the unique symbol of the celebration of their ikaisandaan and sadness to be eight anniversary today today.
One of the awarded of the recognition is among those who responded to the encounter that happened in the hospital that kind of story is that we find out Paula trust.
The father offered to wear their anniversary with all the soldiers who are risking their lives just to protect the civilians against the bad elements against the bad elements.
Lieutenant John just wants no more officer delivery to show every soldier that the officials are being brought up by courage and even their accident being offered for the country which is usually not seen by the public, which is usually not seen by the public.
In the data of Orly up to a road and twenty-three killed soldiers killed.
More than four of them were wounded by dalawang libong
While in the past two months this year, she has five officials thirty-five officials and five people died and almost two roads were recorded injured due to their job.
For him, this is just a proof that their work is not a joke because their lives are at stake just to defend the country.
Even defense secretary volerson Gazmin has given tribute to the heroism that every soldier did not only in the digma to be in response to any disaster of disaster in any disaster.
He's going to be able to attend.
Among the ikalawang Lieutenant Raymart Mateo when fourteen Only in one of the ten officials awarded the recognition of Mateo, the leader of the sixty-year-old diversion language of the sex, the panty diversion of sex Armie was awarded to the first one who was able to enter the encounter site in January twenty five who admitted that the entry of the place was not a joke in the area of January twenty five who admitted that the entry of the place was not a joke.
Mateo says that it was the first time he entered the place and when they found eighty four in the water drinking water and food their first asked not to have been able to find out what their mission was except for us and they learned the hand of the target as evidence as evidence as evidence of them.
Mateo added almost half a day, the entire platun was taken out of the pidsandawan, the eight corpses of the
Eleven were wounded and thireight accidents first that they had no right to thanked us because it was true that they did not know we did not know that we did not know.
The first one I was surprised was that he was saying I thought my respect would be the chest of my chest.
I was able to go to work at night.
I really should answer it there's a lot of things.
Water they have asked over to the water.
There is a prevail between biscuit and the biscuit.
Then the troops in order to carry something like that,
Native there is someone who told us that they have a target.
It's the truth that you're instructed to us by the one.
Eight years again bumida again.
We have what we have.
It was the same hall of the hall and Intramuros.
Roof there are whispering that what is already going on.
The one who called the hand called them.
But I don't recognize the one.
Mateo is small that there is no truth about the issue being made to them that a gun is allegedly lost by the one in the meantime.
Despite this, they cannot affect because the evacuation of the sacfirst two is successful.
It was the first time that we received an award which is where this is the third of the high recognition given by the leadership of the Philippine Army to the soldiers to the soldiers.
Aside from Mateo, some officials of the foton Only are honored by the person who is the best local government and the lord in order to give recognition to their contribution to the heroism that they have contributed to the heroism of heroism.
For the television of the country.
