
The armed groups in Sulu: Enemies or ally?
(Leadph experience Part 21).

If you don't study the real history of Sulu, you need to stay here to know things that are not written in books.

Sometimes the fight here is complicated.
If you are a newbie, you will surely be confused especially if you are not given enough knowledge about elements that should be content on the first paragraph of OPORD (military plan), the situation.

What is that?
The liham S (sitwasyon) in SMESC, which is acronym at 5 billion pesos, which is a plan of military operations should be contains in two sub-Remontaball: A.
Eneko kalagayan, and, b.
Friendly situation.

Not to blame but the information that we get about this are not detailed.
Bilang combat ng mga lider, ngayon pa lang ang aming kusang alamin.
The problem is, if you are lacking in the initiative or the wrong person will catch you.

Honestly, like in different places in the Muslim Mindanao, the armed groups are usually seen.

In the halong pamayanan, it is only natural that Christians who are traditional enemies who are enemies like in Basilan, Zamboanga, Sultan Kudarat and North Cotabato are going to be able to act.

Why is that the situation so that, I invite you to read the history where this rift started.
Clue!
Clue!
Hmmm.
Isn't it possible that areas of the Bisaya are included in the brought in Mindanao when the Spanish were able to fight the Muslims there?

Armed groups.

Without my knowledge that there are so many armed groups in the province of Sulu.
This is the same situation in my first field assignments in Sirawai in 1995, Central Mindanao last 1997 and in Basilan in 1998.

The difference in Sulu, most of the armed are native Tausug.
Actually, they are also shooting when there is a fight on the ground, with the disagreements in the family and especially in the field of politics.

The first one I was able to overcome armed in Sulu was the ranks of MNLF in Talipao that he was part of what welcomed us when we entered the Bgy.
Together and Buhangin Puti since SSetyembre 16, 2000.

Interestingly, the ones who are identified and I can see the armadong grupo when the Light reaction Battalion in Eastern Sulu has been deployed.

After the members of Jesus Miracle Crusade in Talipao, we were brought to the town of Pangfive Estino for there to conduct military operations.

Because of the labo between us who is an ally and who is the enemy of the armed seen in the community that we jokes, we are trying to carry an armored sasakyan like Simba of the Light armor Brigade.

For me, I am not confident that there are armed things wearing the uniform and mix of those who are wearing slippers and are wearing Rain boots that we can be passed by.

Even if it is a quarrel and ngiti, we are not able to make them confidence because they can be wasied by niraratrand gun together.

Because of there, I did SOP that the troops were standing and facing the side of the truck so they were ready to take care of and exchanging shots if needed, according to our training on the counter parlor, ambush.

I am Minamarous with the map the places that have presence of armed groups like Kabunescaped, Danag, Libug-Kabaw, Tiptogether and at Pfirst (Pangfive Estino marapat).
At first, I haven't been able to distinguish who is the Red Forces' (certainly enemy), the White Forces' (neutral or Malash is the katapatan) and the Blue Forces' (loyal to military).
Our situation is very difficult once and then you know that it is indeed a opponent By and time to fire.

When we arrived at our staging area at Crossing Bgy Tipgathered, I talked to the person from INTEL community that we were with about armed groups that we could pass by and on behalf of the new ao (Area of Operations).

I am going to reflect it on the map and I put a legend:

1 -.
Danag- Mayor Tulawie's armadong followers (friendly militar)

2 years.
Kuhao- Councilor Midian (friendly pero kaaway ni Tiptogether mga residente)

3 years.
Libug Kabaw--CVO (Civilian Volunteers who are friendly but questionable)).

4 -.
Tiptipon- CVO LED By Bgy Captain Gaslalaki (friendly at tapat sa militar pero archkaaway ng Midian's Group).

5 years.
First first (Pangfive Estino marapat) - it was a armadong tagasunod of Mayor 'Maas garlic' Estino, and a group of MNLF headed by his cousin who was also Estino.

During those times, those who are thrown away or known as Abu Sayyaf like Robot, Susukan, Dr Abu, Patta, Nadzmie Sabtullah and Radullan Sahiron a.k.a.
Commander cut, it is highly mobile in the skubat and mountainous place.

I can't quite ararok why the kultura of violence is popular there.
If you check it in history, you will be able to learn to be aggressive with the mandirigman Tausug.
As a matter of fact, they are successful in love with the relatives of Sulu Sultan who is from Borneo in his call to help him in the armadong karahasan there.
That's why Sabah was given to Sultan, right?

During the time of Marcos, it's pagkakawatak-watak that's what the government has done here.
Inarmasan of the government is the tinaguriang Magic 8 '(MNLF Commanders) to fight the former colleagues.
Actually, they made a town mayor and there was still ranking as an official in the Special Protection Force (in short, armadong grupo) who was hired to give weapons to M1 garat rifles.
Mayor Maas garlic Estino is one of the original Magic 8 'last 1970s.
Former Luuk Vice Mayor Marcial Navata itself is exactly the one to lahad me this information.

Because of the circumstances that happened, it was also accepted that almost all of the houses have weapons.
Bakeeeet?
First, it is a sign of pagkalalaki inity.
If previously, it was beautiful for a shack and kris, now it is astigting a caliber of a gun.
I can see there's a gun that has a ornaments.
Ang Higher and caliber and higit na katangi-tangi and iyong baril, and higit na astig sa iyo.
Second, the AFP did not recover all of the Firearms that issue in SPF last 1970s.

So, these people who used to be in the ranks of SPF, were made to give up their children with the nagpalabas Firearms to them.
The beauty is, they have a sense of loyalty in the Army and they are still confident.
They are also not Abu Sayyaf.
Fact, the verbal of me from the Pfirst is like this:

"Sel, you are your ally.
Ramos (FVR) was an asset when he was still here assigned in Sulu. "

On the other side, the same as Galib Andang a.k.a.
Robot and Commander cut off are the MNLF kinalaban of the group of SPF.

By ang paraan, you know, they are naglalaway from my cal.
556mm Aug Steyr carbine haba, and I have a secondary armas too much 100yr old Barong in my hips and it's because it's been an bangis' pispis' (anting) in my head.
They saw the front cool in the stuff.

So, you have seen it?
It is really not easy to fight with Sulu.
You can't fight it all.
You do not want to add an opponent.

If you are the Commander, you make a strategy how to handle the armed group because you can't just change that situation.

Maybe, if you find a way how to make the armed groups to hug the peaceful path, mahusay isn't it?



