While waiting for cooked lunch, Jack showed me the severe effect of your el on his cool.
Ha
Ah they are beautiful to buy a hectares of the forest now that is slow if the dagagrees is high.
Upon arrival, there is no equal equal that they say every fifteen days now in the program.
No matter how long it was helped to be Three.
Five of them noticed eight teachings of weakened that he is going to take advantage of what you are going to take care of.
The additional income was supposed to be the one who fought with the help because of this scene our livelihood was made to be seen by the whole land, which is why the whole land is going to be able to leave this year because of typhoon typhoon because of typhoon.
This is our livelihood in school.
An old jeep of corn is also not able to survive in dalawampung opinions and
The remaining courage to be imprisoned is coming from a few record to go to a few record.
Breaker.
We are both dried up to be left behind, which is why we went back to the ilulutong lunch.
Ah
Even if it is possible, yes, it is not clear when the woman will change the set that she will be sent first.
But I am sure there will be a few more months of them as long as they continue to worry about him shaking shaking.
A rat meat with a little bruises on banana bananas.
This is the airing of the family of the dock, lunch Nine gay in a banana attack, the severity of the pangingisay you can't see it in the black guhit in the very banana ah
This kind of dish is not new for the family reaction.
The truth is said while you are sitting dead in exchange of wan.
Really
As if the fate of the parents seemed to be ale because when there was no one to eat it, he would be able to explain it and rely on him.
Eating rats do that because you are starving without you.
They do the building there I am single with this even if it is a
Wearing a kuwan ator singing always the same with the emphasis of the emphasis in the old feeling that it is all a rat to be eaten by a spider that's what it feels like to read when I read to me inside the young man inside the young man.
The drought adviser and crew are not new in the province of timog Cotabato where if we are talking about the effect on the group of the first one who is really hit by the Aklan oplan:
The month of September was still going to work last year when the rain was just going to wake up the big truck, which is why nobody was able to plant corn.
A solution is said to be defending four often in the problem of the people who know Cloud nakahingi ding an official way through planting because of the clouds if they have a layuning setting of the month of Enero when they are going to have a true one to offer the funds for the two Three oras. The notice of those who served as those who served as their room served as if we were not lucky to have a living at the same time, we would not be lucky to have a living in a different place where we would boil in a different place.
What was not expected.
They were not able to avoid between the hungry farmers of the police who are in duty to take care of the tiger that they are at.
After graduation, there is a labos to live in.
The answer to their province will make up for almost years.
But their only wish that this kind of violence would be a nation.
A new position talks to them and their execution of protest as a result of the bone.
Coward as the negotiator for the farmers should be anibersaryo paid for the nineteen ninety two nineteen ninety walo, the complaint of the farmers due to the suffering of the electric year, the warehouse of the electric area, I am offering my offering offer I am offering to offer my offer.
Because of this, the farmers are in jail with the head of Garcia.
Dalawampu Nine Three we were the former one to bail but many of the abnormal companions got sick of us.
They were acquitted because of the resolution released by the court to Papa dong at three o three o three o'clock, the people who have the right to escape from the province, which is why they are going to see a blackout in the province, then you will see the farmers in the province, which is why they are conducting a blackout in the province, which is why they are conducting a blackout in the province, which is why they are conducting a blackout in the province, which is why they are conducting a blackout in the province, describe how to demonstrate our strength to cry in front of the only hope that it is enduring that he and I also have worked with the position, which is why he agreed with Elisse how long ago that he would be allowed to return to Elisse.
But after a while, it was really surprised that the reason why the violence was going to prevent the violence that we were still talking about when we started trouble.
Hello
The location has a mark on the map because the area any activity coming from inside is still fresh.
One day before bringing the remains of Darwin to his final resting place, the unipormadong police approved the front part of the car approved by the car.
In a police that we have talked to when they are monitoring the influx of hundreds of people from the regular funeral sympathize with the family of Darwin downstairs east compassion but also cooperation with the farmers now that the victim is also involved in the experience of the victim, and also a victim of experience here in the meantime.
The Middle finger of the group of Sheena and the kilusang farmers of the Philippines that they are not spreading a video of rice.
In their position in the nagsusuplay s they want to love and left the desusida on the chin to be charged with the calamity fund no one is going to be charged.
They know that the reporters were able to make it.
In saying malicious but we have the payment of rice in the calamity fund of the government.
It was only January this year included in the declared under state of calamity for some advice in the north Cotabato gift elelmaibsan operation even if there is no imahe so it is a mystery that it is not an office of the municipality of the town that has a shortage of the town of the town.
In the day we have presented that there is a break.
We are buyers of rice but you will first be first barangay to think that the gay person will be allowed to meet.
After sure that the help received by the farmers in front of the front is no stop.
He knows you are going to be alive.
Again.
The bond of Abris to pick up the crowd that the government is still under the operation that the government is conducting to stop it again and tomorrow he will not have any more early.
On the other hand.
Risking a great part of a little help but I have the hunger they dealt with.
It was previously blessed with my form, a hurricane hurricane.
That it is not impossible to find a nest to go with a laugh at laughter because there is no longer in the person who will be able to do it.
The life of the followers of blood will not be restored.
But it is a vacation choice that will give this way for a more long term solution to the problem of hunger and poverty in their health feeling that they are peaceful and far from violence in violence.
Good
