Help in the suppression of child laboratoryo - DOLE.

April 15, 2016 Lucia F. Brono.

City QUEZON, April 15 (PIA) -- the Department of Labor at Employment (DOLE) called for the public to help the suppression of the child labor through the report of incidents related to this.
DOLE Secretary Rosalinda Dimapilis-Baldoz was urged last Tuesday, April 12, the public who called the DOLE call center S.I.I.Lt.) with Hotline number 527-8000 for the "children labor concerns" or report of the cases of the child labor in barangays to help in suppressing it.
"Everyone should unite and take part in the campaign against the child labor in order to make sure that the children of abuse will not experience, negligence, explosives, discrimination or whatever conditions that can block their growth," Baldoz explained.
He also said, that in the report of OIC Director Gerry S. Rubio of Labor Communications Office who is managing the DOLE call Center since February, their office of 13 calls has already received.
These are focused on the children in mine, activities that can be compared to "bata labor," process of the child labor rescue or panulukan Batang worker; the difference between the child labor; and the process of taking a "child pinaghirapan-free establisyemento serficates".
Most of the calls are from the National Capital Region (NCR).
The DOLE intensified the campaign against the child labor through their program "child child" child who was launched last 2012.

It is the purpose of the campaign to have a change and to get support and promise of solidarity from different "stakeholders" to finally lose the child labor in all the barangay who is the first political unit of our country.
In the data of DOLE, reaching 163 of the business establisimyento was served by the child's child of Labor Free serficates since the program was launched.
Sinabi pa ni Secretary Baldoz na noong 2015 ay ginawaran ng DOLE Regional offices ang paglibing kay Labor-Free serficates sa 58 establisimiyento, paghahatid sa 163 ang bilang ng mga establisimyento certified bilang bata ng pinaghirapan mula noong 2013.
The child who is Labor-Free Establishment is retired to be given to a company or establishment without working young or does not use products made through the use of the child labor.
Meanwhile, the removal Batang Manggagawa, is a advocacy program of DOLE that was launched last year 1993.
This is part of the strategy of the national government to reduce the young workers.
A Inter-agency was made to be called Quick Action Team to responded to the cases against the young workers who are working in terrible surroundings or condition.
The task of the group is associated with the discover, follow and conduct an appropriate action against the incidents of children workers in exchange-ting condition.
In the National Capital Region, three barangays were identified with high number of young workers.
Three barangays are in the city Quezon and included here are the barangay of Pasong Putik, Commonwealth and Holy Spirit.
The officials of the barangay helper are conducting ways to NCR in order to provide corresponding interbenation the families of children like training or livelihood training, loans for investment in selling or any business and others.
In additional information, call or go to the DOLE call Center, or ngiti (service Magalang, Mahusay information) deposited in the Labor at Employment of DOLE in all regions.
This is open from Monday to Sabao from six o'clock in the morning until 6: 30 in the evening.
(DOLE / RJB / LFB / PIA-NCR)



