A armored personnel carrier of Filipino cordial functional along the Magsaysay Bolivar in the Holy table, they are a bit of a crowd but a little light light but a little light.
Dante Dante.
The mask before all of us first to remind our popular, we are not in the Zamboanga City but we are just here in Luneta Manila however, however we are here in the meantime.
Caused fear of the public in public.
This is an armored personnel carrier to be positioned here in the meantime.
There is a side of the road on the sofa that is in the dulaan of some soldiers.
It was past seven o'clock in the morning when call attention to the passing motorists and commuters.
The church armored personnel carrier this while parked in the stretch of Magsaysay Boulevard here with the Santa table.
Even some personnel of the presidential security group were rushed to the area.
It's because of the Philippines of the Filipinos who are Allison in the National Capital region, the alert status is in the national Capital region because of the ongoing bakbakation happening happening.
There in Zamboanga City and after the bombing in Davao City's Davao City.
They refused to give a statement to their harvest personally but according to one we spoke to give up the brakes so the armored personnel would be forced to put it away so that it would not be an accident.
They said they came from the head of the burger joint command in Camp servillano aquino in Tarlac City.
In the edon that they were supposed to daraan but because traffic, they were different from the route.
They have another first time with armored personnel carrier and they are working on the two at forty-five truck carrying a animation national reporter Boboy in the cavite.
That will be brought to Zamboanga City.
Meanwhile, even if you talk to those who are popular in the fighting in Zamboanga, the decision has not been involved in the fight in Zamboanga.
From Magsaysay Boulevard Ayala transferred a career here in the Philippines trip to the Philippines.
It was a mystery ties so that this would not call too much attention and at this time, it came to come up with it.
Indeed the personnel from the table mestiso that there are the supporters that are indeed in the meantime.
I start that it continues to be doing the repair from here in the mayof them.
Dante perello genius.
