The after we started to attend this since last night, a patient has increased again but forty six of them were rushed to the jose Reyes Memorial medical center of the patients kaugnay in Paranaque going for fireworks.
Because of the reception here at the school in bente Thirteen Bising-bisi will be raised like you can see in the video hospital dahila.
He is a strong brother who courts here are different cases that they are here to see that they are likely to have a lot or most of what is written here because of the accident because he has already drunk many of our countrymen who are immediately drunk, which is why many of them were immediately drunk.
It was attributed to drive by the motorcycles and hit the student and other cars and running away because they were seen yesterday because of the doctors we spoke to here, there are more of them that this is indeed a lot of them.
He brought it to the hospital because of him stabbing again because we have a lot of fellowmen especially particularly in Tondo and others this part of the maythey agreed to eat a head and you were hurt because they were all given well to us in the meantime.
Jose Reyes medical center and most of them were able to go home that the leader phases, who was known to stay here in the hospital are just getting home.
Their part of the body needs to be cut off in the game the fingers are cut off by my finger because the last news will be pointed out since the last news from the plapla Padilla.
Bilugan.
To be a patient.
What is the case.
Firecracker hit because the noise of fireworks is going to cause the noise of firecrackers.
He was just going to verify two walking but something exploded that it suddenly broke out that it was rarely known if it was a example for example.
Sa limang apat na zero hit together like other wounded.
To be rushed to the hospital.
To be the father before then.
I said.
In the face of the taboo alex in what we saw earlier, he was going to keep on his face but he was busy with it and their own also had to go home to him.
Diana always will go here, still be careful met.
A celebration of our celebration just ended up and there are many fireworks on the welcoming of the dose thirty, which is possible that you even broke out that you know that it's possible that you know that it
Arroyo's advice and reading this will be seen by our family members of the attacks around that did not explode by fireworks last night to avoid this kind of types of firecrackers.
At nine are the children who are being belching by some police most of the most.
You should be in order to do it.
Two started last December bente are the only one who lives here is the only one who has been selling it.
Alcohol I was holding her a mother-in-law that happened the incident that she was advised by not knowing yet.
About this problem but the wound of the child is also severe so it's just the first degree that he is going to burn it but of course it's painful to the policy properly after giving up the initial aid to the hospital, they are also sent home as they were sent home.
Before celebrating this child, it was the eggs that were prepared for the operations used to have forgotten me.
Rotten rotten.
Or they might have been cooked by them.
His name was the same time he was able to say that one of the other camp was recorded by this past a child that I said should be forgotten by the music that can still be used as well as
We saw it yesterday, both of them were first nirenslowly every night two nights ago.
In their home before he answered last night last night.
