The celebration of the month of women will be conducted in the capitol of Palawan.

Marso 15, 2016 Orlan C. Jabbite C. Jabbite.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Mar 15 (PIA) --- aside from conducting a parade last March 8 along the celebration of the International Women's Day and National Women's Month, the Provincial kasarian at Development (PGAD) Focal Point of the provincial government has a different activities.
The other activities that will be conducted in the capitol in relation to the celebration of the month of women, include the Look Good, Feel Good who was held on March 10 who passed by giving free service to manicure and massage with women employees.
The junk in Cash 'program was also done which is part of the fund-raising activity of PGAD last March 11 where the employees gather the recyclable materials from their homes to sell.
Last March 14 are activities related to the health that are unstable by blood letting aktibidad, taking blood chemistry and the aayuno blood sugar and Health Exam.
There is also a training in the Flower arrangement and arong Pinoy earlier.
Meanwhile, in the opening of the celebration of the month of women last March 8, there was a Banal Mone that was held in Victoria J. Rodriguez Multipurpose Hall in the empaling capitol and followed by a short program which was leading by the giving message of Gob.

Jose Ch.
Alvarez, Department of the Interior and Local Government Provincial Director Mario Daquer and Board Member Sharon Abiog-Onda as chairperson of Committee on Women at Family in the Sangguniang Panlalawigan.
Also part of his success story Engineer.
Eva Valledor of Binuatan nilikha that he will join the inspiration to give inspiration to the said program.
The tear of awards for Socorro S. Tan is also part of the program as unique women in Palawan and as acknowledging his big contribution and active participation in the activities of women in the province of Palawan particularly in the field of nutrisyon and cooperative.
"Juana's sake, include on the agenda!," the theme of the 2016 National Women's Month to be celebrated this month of March.
(OCJ / Lbr / PIA4B-Palawan)



