To fight for peace.

It is such a waste that the New People's Army will not be solved immediately by President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte for the opponent ceasefire in the war.
It can be recalled that Pang was first declared.
Digong's ceasefire against the NPA on the day of his State of the Nation Address but it took it back because of a ambus that the rebels did in a group of armed forces of the government in Davao del Norte.
The President gave an extension for the explanation of the rebels to the incident until 5: 00 in the afternoon the other day but the NPA failed to respond.
On the other hand, the NPA said that the forces of the government were conducting an operation despite the order of the ceasefire of the President and they only defended himself.
In the end, Joma Sison said that he was only ahead of President Rodrigo "Digong" Duterte because it was supposed to be 8: 00 in the evening the declaration of the NPA ceasefire or three hours before Pang.
Digong is the unilateral ceasefire.
There are PAG-ASA in the middle of these events, it looks like the intention and steps towards the peace talks will not end up with the peace talks that is just one of the contents of it.
Pang has not yet been taken away.
Duterte on the steps of this will be lost the Filipino who killed 30,000 people since March 29, 1969 that the NPA will be able to lay.
The only thing that was taken back in ceasefire is the rules on how the ceasefire will be implemented and the policy is normal to fight against the positions of the NPA.
Included in the sadness that the President is not taken away while we will still be able to find it is the scheduled conversation between the rebels and government in Oslo, Norway for the peace talks.
The President also did not take the appointment of the nominees of leftist groups in some high positions of the government.
Thus, there is hope that the search for the way towards peace and unity of both sides will still push through.
There are really those who cannot avoid events or mistakes that are normal happening even in what they are taking place like this issue.
It remained hanging another than we are looking at that there is still a huge possibility of having harmony with the leadership of communist Party of the Philippines, National Democratic Front and NPA for this.
They release the difference between the President to the other past President who is different from the interest of the masses and the country brought.
The President now, they think, will respond even if it is only for the soundulang steps towards the change in society that they want to happen.
"That is why the current President is trying to call out, the current President is huge than millions of poor people that they are allegedly fighting for.
Together with the millions of poor people using the policy End of contract that are being used by greedy and opportunist kapitalista against laborers and a big reason for the suffering of them.
It will also be there to correct the destructive and illegal mining that have a twin tickled more protection to the miners instead of the protection of the citizens and nature.
The President also shows firm commitment against the intervention of the foreigners in governance in the country.
So in our belief, the other group is still hanging in believing that there is no reason for the disagreement to fetch and achieve permanent peace for the entire nation.
Matches and gasoline Tpet are matches in these times, the matches and gasoline are just sitting next.
The revolution or war is like gasoline that is easy to fire fire.
Now the revolution or war is resting in spite of the problem in ceasefire.
Hopefully, everyone does not handle matches and definitely not make a schkis and throw in gasoline with the fire matches.
Digong also said: While both sides of the dead were in each other, what he sees is the pitiful condition of the widowed and orphaned and the country who has been struggling because of the war.
He added, if both sides can't do that to present in now, the hatred would not be prevailed without each other.
Peace support Ang only means that everyone is the call to ourselves that we will not be a barrier to unity, harmony, peace and extensive change.
We also avoid getting the matches and throws it in the gasoline of the revolution to fire fire when the killings of each other.
The 30,000 killed in the war and the more people who suffer and losing the future because of the revolution.



