I binyagang... followers by Christ: Reflection para sa Pista ng Maykapal ng Panginoon nitong si Cong. A - Enero 13, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014, 2014.

Taong 2014 is the year of my Layor Year of the laity.
The "laity" is not the ones who come to Mone of late!
"Laity" is the ones who are not included in the listed or inordenahan as minister like diakono, priest and bishops.
In the short words they are the "usual binyagan" who are struggling to share in Misyon of Christ!
Who should be accused of?
A catholic old rich woman approached the priest and asked if her pet dog could be binyagan.
The priest shouted that the said: "Woman, the baptism is just given to the person and not to the animal!
It cannot be a baptism of your pet dog! "
The old man's answer: "Is that it's like Fr, it's a shame that I would have to donate a million peso for the church.
It does not matter, I will just have to put him in the church of Aglipay nibinyagan! "He will be defeated."
Pangafter is the priest and said: "Woman, you come back... do you not say that your dog is Catholic!!"
What is the meaning of the baptism for our Christians?
Although there is a big difference between the Binyag that we accepted in the Binyag given to Jesus by Juan Bautista, we can see it with the same lesson.
The person who was accused of the accused of Jesus was called a second Epicampaign because of this, Jesus introduced himself about himself.
If in the first Epicampaigns, He stated the tagapagligtas of the universe in the second Epicampaigns, he introduced his "identity" as the "son who is glad of God" joined our humble situation.
This is the message of the facility now: First, Jesus is the Son of God, who has no trace of sin, is joined by our makasalan through accepting the baptism of Juan who is a baptism of regret!
Second, in the accused of Jesus, he started the knitting of the domination of God's domination.
And third, he stated that He is the violence that is the son who is very glad by God.
What is pointing out of us?
First, we hope that we appreciate our Binyag where we promised to turn your back to the sin and live as the real Son of God Father.
Second, which is supposed to be "called" we are going to be Christians through a life that is decent and pleasing a.Ikatlo, we should try hard for all the moments, we will always be very happy to the front of God.
It's easy to be the person but it's hard to be married.
We can also say it is easy to be Christians but it is difficult to be magpaka-kristiyano.
It is easy because it is just pouring water in the head needed.
It is hard because it means that it is forgetting to yourself and living like Jesus who is full of sacrifice and service to others.
Hopefully, it is not only up to "binyagan tismal ceritide" our being crystal...
I hope, we can be real children of God, brother of Christ, absolutely glad by the Father!



