
A civilian was the wrong arrested by the AFP, it was already known and the prosecutor of the NDFP leader of NDFP.

It is a meaning to the information Partido Komunista of the Philippines October 11, 2012, 2012.

Orihinal na pahayag:

An AFP nangaaresto civilian, labels at pereles HIM bilang NDFP leader as NDFP leader.

The Partido ist of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in the illegal arrest of Rolly M. Panesa based on the wrong identity and in violation of his desired sibil, in the wrong identifying of the National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace of rebellion of the National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace of the National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) it is.

Around 11: 30 n.g. last October 5, it was kidnapped by the joint units of the 2nd ID of the AFP, the agency of the AFP and the Philippine National Police (PNP), Panesa, together with his wife, Maritez Chioco, their daughter, Conierey and his wife in front of Ministop convenience store in the corner of Aurora Boulevard at the corner of Aurora Boulevard Anonas Street in Quezon City is Quezon City.

The lawyers of the National Union of the National Union of the People's lawyers (NUPL), introduced Panesa, 48-year-old, was introduced to be a guard of Megaforce Security assigned to ACP Compound in Eastwood, Quezon City.
He lives in F. Castillo Street, Project 4, Q.C. according to Panesa, he does not know any case or mandameyento de arrest against him.

"To cover up the big mistake, Maj. Gen Alan Luga, Commander of Southern Luzon Command of the AFP, in a statement, Panesa, Benjamin Mendoza, who was identified as a leader of the revolutionary movement in Southern Tagalog.
Panesa filed a case of rebellion, "said PKP.

The reports also received reports on the information of the PKP in the Souation Tagalog Regional Committee which is being referred to the burial of the NDFP, Benjamin Mendoza, continues to ampan his responsibilities and duty to the NDFP, especially in the peace talks.

"The AFP criticized the AFP on the illegal arrest of Panesa and expressed support for him to be immediate released and give damage to the serious justice and violation of his rights and his family.
Further support by the PKP is his wish to revoke all the actions that are being made to him. "

According to the PKP, the failure of the military in relation to Panesa is reveal again in the thoroughly balewala of the Marcos regime on the Joint Agreement on Safety the immunity guarantees (JASIG) and the lack of serious intention of respecting the other existing agreement and comply with its obligations, "said PKP.
"It is significant that this continues to continue to plead to a dozen of those who have a dozen against the NDFP, including Alan Jazminahan, Tirso Alcantara, Renante Gamara, Eduardo Serrano, Eduardo Sarmiento and Jaime Soledad, that many were arrested under the Marcos regime.



