
Locked in Riyadh, was able to go home.

From Facebook account of Bantay OCW, Joseph Ledesma (JL) sent a message to jail before in Riyadh, K.S.A. Lfive years, he said, in Saudi since 2009.
JL was only working for one half years ago at the restaurant of his employer Tahel Alamri.
He complained, their salary was not right and their contract was not followed.
Their suweldong received well during the first months, but when the business was not good, until it was bankrupted and finally closed, they had no suweldong.
Their salary has not been given their last month in the said restaurant.
JL was up to work at another restaurant, the Olivetto and there was a discussion that, he said, the manager of the restaurant and his former boss Taher.
He said he should be compensated but he still continues to work on his salary and he is also not formal to transfer to Olivetto because it is no longer, he said, the former boss will keep the agreement until he has already made a new restaurant.
JL just find another job and he has reached two years more than but he also has no one to qama, the working permit in Saudi.
After his contract, he talked to the former employer again, Taher that he was just getting out of the Philippines.
But his employer answered, "said JL should pay for him first because he paid his qfather, eroplano ticket to Saudi, even the one who went to the Olivetto restaurant.
But JL opposed that because it was all, he said, by the expenses that his employer mentioned, all of his salary was lessened when he worked in two restaurants.
It was year 2011 when JL asked for help from Labor.
He was illegal staying there so it was TNT, he said, he was.
But still continued, he said, the former employer, Taher was asking for him money.
So he worked and during the time there was someone who wanted to get him, he was able to start to save, to have enough value so that he could go home to the Philippines.
According to JL, Taher went to the Ras Tanurah and there he gave the money that the former boss asked for, because he promised to make it up and bring him to the airport, in exchange for his exit clearance.
JL strongly believes that Taher will be fulfilling the discussion.
But instead of the airport, he was brought to Dammam jail and then transferred to Riyadh Jail.
JL has two (2) months when JL is imprisoned and he wants to be attentive as soon as his case there to be with the family for a very long time when he hasn't seen him.
According to JL, he last news from our embassy, he has an exit clearance.
This means that he also gave the former sponsor of the exit clearance that they are applying for the exit visa.
Bantay OCW sent to the office of Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz of DOLE this case.
Labor Attache David Des Dices quickly moved through and through his communication with our Labor Attache of Riyadh, Labpinayagang Resty dela Fuente, happy that he reported home on Wednesday (April 2, 2014) our kabayan and companion now of his family.
Thank you very much for what you continue focusing on the cases brought by Bantay AYW.



