The bet of the chance to get the dollar to the repression of a lesbian nagdala bites this weekend.
But the six boxer of the country won't be able to watch the country
To be written.
The wake beat up a boxing fans and went to Given shubi calibration which is why Darryl basadre of GenSan and university of cebu will present for the night thousands of pesos to taste the ghost in ghosts.
It was immediately replaced by heavy punches of the two boxers and was shocked to the second round we were the receipt because it was basadre.
Zero Three went to the rope basadre sound to change the strong punches until the combination of demecillo knock out basadre, who almost cannot stand Jean and a special going to the hospital.
When we gave birth against it, it was not a small eatery that the trouble of the plate has not been beaten up with a hard time with a hard time, you should not be there brooder stand by the side of his pagkabayani.
Though she is worried about the condition of her opponent, demicillo is happy because she has proved that she is the champion that I am really going to win.
Proud that after this, an American boxing promoter praised demicillo turadura, which seems to be praised by an American boxing.
No one has happened to Arthur Wellesley because I even think that the condition of basadre is fine and scheduled to go out to the hospital.
Do not remind me of GenSan against Jason tinampay of the ball using their brain using the brain.
Vicente Morales bio unanimous decision against the boxer of Cebu is Jerry castroverde
Putok shots.
Maybe when I do it for us to win.
It was possible that he didn't fool anything that he had cheated on.
I didn't have a petition.
In Land reform code, Raymond tabugon also won't be the only opponent, which is even if Joey boy is open to the enemy of Michael pagpayag in the second round of the second round.
Michael also gave up to the bathroom the beterano of jan Paul Morales, who is single versus the decision against Joy formentera francisactivities.
