Taghungry, "It's not an ebola PA?

Many Filipinos are starving in the present due to poverty as a result of lack of income of people, stealing officials of the government and lack of care of the government in the condition of many citizens.
The administration of President Benigno Aquino III is anxious about the possible attack of "Ebola Virus" in the country who is expected to bring overseas Filipino workers (OFW) and foreigners who are going to cooperate with the coming feast.
The management of President Aquino neglect poverty because it is just a pain that the poor citizens are experiencing and not by those who are rich and do not care if they are complaining about the stomach of people who look up and put them in position.
Meanwhile, the ebola virus that is possible to hit the rich like him and his followers are too feared because it is still no cure.
In short words, no matter what wealth when it is hit by Ebola virus, the destination will surely be death.
This is the only poor that although hungry, there is a short medicine in complaining stomachs when they earn a little bit of money.
The Department of Health calls for the citizens to cooperate in order to resist the disease of Ebola.
But why are they not calling to fight the pain that is hungry and malnutrisyon?
Because they are not affected by poverty that caused hunger for many Filipinos.
That is why the government has to stop the act that they are concerned about the people.
They are indeed hungry, "they cannot argue because it is certain that the reason is a lack of funds, it is still Ebola that is why they resist.
If they buy a different medicine (multong project) they buy food for the poor, too, "many are cured from the pain that are hungry.
If the immunity of the citizens is strong, they will not hit any pain immediately.
President Noynoy, you first put it first in order to work and have a right and proper income and the poor employee and workers before you solve the ebola virus that is certain that the program in fighting for the said disease is a source of good followers.



