Zero lima of all-out opensiba of the armadong puwersa ng five-five kya.
The Bangsamoro Islamic kalayaan fighters are the effect of the Bangsamoro Islamic kalayaan fighters that are being taken advantage of the soldiers who don't watch
Three hectares of the drug users in Maguindanao are three hectares of camp.
That there is still a fofactory or factory factory in a bomb.
The military possessed some barangay that is possible to be hiding the trip because the terrorist Basit Usman is included with the terrorist.
But in the middle of the intense offense.
The civilians caught up in the fighting are increasing in the fighting that they have not received any help.
Due to this tomorrow, the state of calamity will already declare a state of calamity in the entire
According to governor Toto Mangudadatu.
Live from the mercy in Maguindanao, Cedric Castillo is going to live in the Maguindanao.
Cedric / Cedric.
Jessica on the data gathered by the media to the 'yo up to Skahit libong faster and faster.
It is really affected to evacuate because you are only affected by the offensive between the hiyas that seems to be abia teatro Theater.
And if it is a result of the weekend he seems to be in the primetime that is called to be believed that it is a blessing to the controversy of the controversy.
The lawyer that we saw in the alias bail coward today, the area was finally able to kill this area.
In the continuation of all out offensive to the Bangsamoro Islamic kalayaan fighters or blessing or blessing.
During the sabado, the military fell into a deposit of the military in one of these camps.
Oh ground troops are the three hectares of the blessing of the blessing.
Kyle was in the barangay and discovered a bag factory that was able to be blown away by the middle of the mercy on top like bota fuses.
Ammonium nitrate and Taiwan.
Sunday morning when we visited the market that he was in a kilo with almost a distance from students who were lacking from the students.
In the course of your life, you think the Artillery in a nearby place is no one.
It's hard to sir.
Because it's the only one.
Those who are able to take care of it.
They are hoping they are hoping for a lot of people.
He was going to have a lot of fun.
Except for a song that we are looking for a life can't be different from the side just as well.
The life needs to continue even if there is a war earlier carrying the strong weapons.
The military entered the barangay Libutan enough paru-butterfly who was dating not as long as they were allowed to go to soldiers.
It is said to start the great following of the locations where the trip is where the trip is going to be made.
But the residents here will not be able to evacuate until the soldiers are not yet the explosion of the bomb.
They said that they can change the names of all of the firm to be the ones who are in the difficulty of life in temporary shelter in the meantime.
And we didn't even return we didn't even catch up with him.
This is because the commission is on the evacuation center crowd and are still with them carrying families who evacuated to evacuate families.
It was the story of twenty-year-old in the piggery three hours when they walked away no matter what could carry while carrying two months old advice and then cross the river to evacuate when he was already dead when he was already dead when he was already dead.
Killed.
Cell phone cellphone.
What he said.
Again able to go together with them.
Sitting seated a seat was seated.
Butete and then you also don't have this.
It is said that their dream is not right to be waiting for the blood of the present that has been a sign that it has been a sign that it has been.
They need one of my one.
The children can study.
And it's going to be the same thing.
Our children of rizal sleep well at midnight when the housing inheritance is arrested by the housing inheritance.
With the post designed to say there is peace.
Residents of the red video also call the foot, because the Artillery was hit by the Artillery earlier because of the help.
How to be invited to go home.
Of the house of the house.
It was said that the area of airstrike was also thinking because there were holes that did not explode and buried in the ground dangerous because it was already known that the diary outbreak could still explode.
Because there are some evacuation center there is only one bathroom center.
Lacking in the water and the food that I am just afraid of in their house is gone.
So the livelihood that they have left behind is the source of their income because they are the ones that they have.
With them, the magsasaka do that, others do not have to be harmless'
What they are going to do.
It's been a while ago.
But this is supposedly the replacement of the war and the military has a mission that they need to accomplish.
Party pinatayo is called Estilles.
The place where the four towns in Maguindanao are surrounded by four towns in Maguindanao with opinions.
Believing that the terrorist Basit Usman was here in before but was here.
What is said to be.
A proof that this is our enemy is really tourists.
Hundreds of spread terror of terror.
We will show her video photos that were taken earlier around indeed.
At five o'clock, the leadership was given credit, we captured a while ago around five thirty in the afternoon where a fire members of those who were going to be able to attend are the ones who were able to see each other again.
Where I went to see that in the rich sector like the arbiter in the town of the rice field they didn't have anything that we didn't have to see that there was no one that we had
A lesson about that in the area we spoke to a member.
By the fire that we are in him so here is the members of the ebay last that it came from there in a community and they went to the other camp on their mother team on their mother team.
To go around it in the operations of the agency to avoid being called that you are already called pretty good that you know that it is Cedric beside your gift '
How do they have to be assigned to one group on the other hand.
He will also be able to take place in a disco when we can show that it is clear that it is clear that a uniform of all the people have again.
They don't want to stop calling there.
In Cubao if maybe those who are really used to it.
There is a difference compared to what a dog uniform that is going to pagpasok in the uniform of the showcase of his sister.
Our forces of the government do the same time with the uniform of the night, the efa will be killed.
We can't tell what has been saying that the fiesta is going to be recovered from the fiesta like this on the email phone or the one who is sure that's why many people say that he's usually members of a blessing to those who are just a new video with a new video who is wearing a new video with a new video who is wearing a new video with a new video, who is wearing a new video with a new video, who is wearing a new video with a new video, who has a new video on
In the afternoon, if it is easy in the easy that I just said they are there in the manonood that need to be in the questionable war wait wait so that's why they have been inta ed when they have been treated.
Even if there are helikopter from the air at eight o'clock helicopter or even just a simple shooting for a long time, it will not be exposed by the good difference in their uniforms here how our soldiers can say that they are struck by small soldiers.
That is where you are going to work with the importance he will be able to give up with the same time they are going to have a ambition to counter those who are told us by the reporter sources that we are talking to all the members of email and that's because you have a coordination so that's why you have a coordination so that's why you have a coordination so that's why you have
There is a clearance like that when they expect to run away to run by their singing dancing so when April standing in between our government, yes, Ping and then they widened that there should be no civilians in the area that they have yet to be a member of our imagination, strengthen or during the father date, strengthen or during the father date.
Serving time has seen a video in some parts yet.
It's meant to be around more than five of the box that is called to be called.
That members of email 'lead to connect, their computer is really there when they are riding the motorcycles to make sure that they are no longer there in the area that there will be an intense sibiexit to make sure they are going to make sure that they will be there.
That whoever gets hit if there is even a hit that they run away from just a few more members.
But how will the military Cedric will know or assure that their bombing will result, they have struck the terrorist libangan is the ECE when we saw that when they arrived there, the camp of the binis and erap.
Ah they saw the creation of the bomb but there was no one person.
Together, we are still getting an official statement question from the anim aidy if some if there is a hit there in because the strike that we have seen will be a big big strike, which is why we saw the intererdote of what was going to happen.
Ha why yes, these airplane added that this is one of those with a strike with sinamahan baya Artillery gift but there is no release of an official statement that they are going to have a few or if there is already a hit in the members of the theater yet but it is said that the area has already been hit by the members of the theater but they are not going to have the area of the theater yet, but they will be at the same
-daan.
It's the same time.
Members of Evangelio of not being together again are four pieces, it is said to be there to sau what they are saying that there are a lot of those who are almost and then three of them to be happy to be happy.
Or yet to be able to do it.
It is also not that easy to mix the soul in order to separate them there in the area Jessica okay because you mentioned the last trip that we are going to be there with the report that they do not have a small group when they say that there is a small group when they say that there is a plate of Batalon, they do not like a little bit of Batalon. They are only five five five five five five five five five five five five
These are a talong loser that is the loser that they are called so that the soldiers will probably be able to make sure that the soldiers will
It is the same time that they are going to be able to attend their opponents, even if they are still running there, they can only take off their uniforms uniforms defeated the civilians like guerilla warpamasahe that we have seen the labing-siyam na aliwan ties.
They are running away from the government's government right away when he leaves the uniform, which is why it is going to be a farmer that is going to be a farmer.
If it's a sound civilian ORDINARY sibilyan to be sure how to be sure of the
Military that they have yet after the terrorist or maybe they are going to be there.
No one ran away that yes I saw especially with others.
Okay, first, we should avoid trying to sell the operation that mother is pregnant so that cannot be controlled is that they can't control.
You have to operasyon what but to his knowledge that we know Jessica and least three barangays who are going to be able to do the same time that the romansa declared there in the area that is already declared.
Even if it is the same time when I am having a Artillery, I am strikes by a esperer!
As expected that there is no really one person in the room taken by Remate who stick to the local government units that your barangays are going to sail out that they are going to sail.
They were shown as well as they were consistent as well as they were fond of umba Remate so if anyone could see that he was going to abduct what was the owner of the owner.
Pay attention or that there is something wrong in entering that if anyone can see them there in the area, ah, it is said that it is really November given and because the civilians in the members of the hot, it is okay that you have been released by the military yugyugan at the same time, which is why you have been released by the military yugyugan. Sang-ayon naman sang-ayon ang mga first sang-ayon first first
That can be seen more diskarte and not just how much of your whole town of the bumrevealed.
Yes, the diskarte is a bag berpaanan ai can be seen there, especially when it is the last time that we saw that it was really possible that I would be able to give up the same time when I was going to take advantage of what I was going to
It is the same time for you to take place particularly your area, we will patrol that they suddenly rose in there in the school not confirm who but ha ha.
Since yesterday, boy was supposed to be in the meantime.
A security fifty
Way to control the situation of what since yesterday, we are really difficult to get details of what we mentioned along the sabado 'fucks, like that there is a jan of the reporter but it is also happening inside or guilt that they buy the buy that they buy.
We almost don't get any details of that what we know is that the movie Ocampo is going to have a movie and continue but how they are hunting the inside of the members of his trip trying to be separated from there, it is not afraid that it is going to be a little bit of detail or if it is not afraid that it is going to be a child who is going to be separated from there, but it seems that it is not ready to be a child who is going to be separated from there.
Aries will still be our countrymen there are the evacuee that you say that you are going to say.
The food is not enough.
There is no bathroom enough.
The condition of the evacuation center Cedric is not well.
Much for the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime.
Ah we can't tell if it is possible that they are going to be able to pretend to pretend to pretend in order to state them because we have some other areas that they see that they really have a gift of their supply in the ideassigned here by the different areas in the part of what they are still trying to enter some other areas of what they are still trying to enter. These kinds of barangay hygienic said barangay hygienic kuno, to
But.
It's a custom-report before a bit more really more.
The situation of our fellow countrymen here is difficult for the evacuation center of attention Jessica since the head of what needs to start when it rains, seventy five Three.
We almost don't have a experience in the rain familiarity there in the towns of mamasapano and then those who are erita are coming near the dust they are really dust with the dust.
Umba.
Stuck on the desk recitation for those in the evacuation center and then thank you very much for you and then.
