
4-A cleaned by GEN.
Estipona; TMA Group an example of an example.

In relation to the consecutive attacks we have in illegal gambling in the widespread pergalan in Calabarzon, we have discovered that RD General Benito Estipona is the one who ordered the Provincial Directors to walisin the pergalan.
Because of there, the PD proved that it is only temporary if they make RD Estipona.
With the dedication he showed to duty and being sensitive to reports about his AOR, we believe that this official will be far from the field of service public.
We do not practice it kind if it is just a result, but for what you did, General Estipona sir, let you count me in the promise that one day you will occupies one of the seats of the PNP top brass!
I salute you, sir! -o0o- KUNG to others is a big hassle to the community brought by a few groups in social networking sites because it becomes a cause of a pambu-bully, being made out of resentment and source of conflicts.
In Masbate there is a group on Facebook that deserves to be given attention to the national or international level.
Because, with my limited knowledge, this is the very front in the whole country (maybe even in the whole world) that the fellowmen living in different parts of the world had to deal with a goal: To help others!
The group from Milagros Ako (TMA on Facebook), at the start became the way to those from Milagros, Masbate, who went there anytime, wherever they were there.
We feel at first that it will be forced to the loneliness of the members of TMA who are in far places because they updated in the event in Milagros, in Masbate and even in the whole country.
But lately, the TMA had an idea that the others immediately supported the other people were tired) of the members until the successful project was done recently, the project given by the swelling and fintong supplies of the "Milagros sweat" of the Milagros ", Pob, Pob, Pob.
West, Milagros.
This was immediately followed by the giving of "wheelchair" to Ilo Medina, of Barangay.
Bacolod, who went to the doctor first went to their house in communication and perseverance of TMA members.
This decision is not enough for giving thanks to TMA, but I feel that more than accepted that each member of TMA is thankful: The significant "pro-God happiness" in what they are doing that is truly service to others!
Even through this decision, I can contribute to TMA so that their pro-God and pro-year goal that I know that there are many more following tasks in the coming days.
In TMA members, now you proved that it does not need to be a politician and interfered with the funds of the country to execute what is called to be hanged serbam!
And to the followers of our column burvation, Masbatenyo or not wanting to cooperate with the filthy angal that this goal is, just go to the facebook.
From Milagros Ako.
I salute all of you!!!



