
Kennedy 'is the right actor (My Maguindanao, which is the Part 4).

Few hours, after the harrasation made by the MILF in Tuayan detachment which I live in, the reinforcement of the reinforcement from 61st IB headquarters slowly went away.

Two Simba armored vehicles of Light armored Brigade were included in the arrived in order for us to take sides.
One of this is a mark that Simunul and I will not forget it because we rushed to confront our call sign in the middle of the fighting where it is being blinded "Sinupul" Sinupul "Sinupul."

We didn't sleep in the whole night.
LT Ampong is busy with the reposition of our people and even cross loading 'ammunitions.
Of course, these kinds of activities, almost no bullet.
We need to give them the rationation of bullets.
For us in Rangers, it is embarrassing to run out of bullets because the rule of bakbakan is prohibited to automatically tic fire.
We will only burst out if the opponent is seen.

When the bakbakan is night, we are only following the key leaders and the Gunners through the way of the direction of their crafer bala.
Because the calm bala is not popular for M16 rifle, the usual dinedirect Patrol leader is the gunner because the M59 linked amn of 7.62mm M60 E3 LMG has been on the issue with us.

I noticed outside our hut, the 60mm mortar gunner is busy with LT Ampong who is guessing the ground.
I am wired on what he is busy with.

"Sir, be careful of walking and there are five dud that I set aside from here earlier.
I saved it and I forget about the ground tomorrow when it won't get suspicious grace, "he explained to me.

That is indeed a problem.
They have shortcomings in the bodega process of bullets.
When we are in the middle of pitating, they are a failure.

How are Kennedy?

When I spoke to all of my personnel, I figured out that all their situation was okay.
Only Cpl Gaboy is the only problem.
"It's always" ha? "The answer when being able to talk to.
How, he was able to face the firing of Barrett and umi-extra in M1919 Browning machinegun of 61st IB!

There is only one thing I can't mapagtanto how he is.
He didn't want to speak to his shit.
He was just quiet after the war.
Who is he?
Kennedy isn't Kennedy!
Yes, Kennedy Jeep.
Anyways, he was in the open terrain when the bakbakan started.
Because we are able to take a light disiplina all night, I need to let you know the rays of the sun so that I can figure out his condition.
He is also asking for the call of John Fitzgerald Kennedy who is snipe in Dallas, Texas?

When it became brighter around 6: 00am, we ordered the search for the kaaway positions to determine if they were hit in them.

I went with so I could see exactly the encounter site.
Humigit kumulang 50 enemies are stuck in our camp.
There are many left basyo in their positions.

They are really cunning because they get stuck with the perimeter bakod when we bomb Artillery.
They know that we are going to observe the 'panganib close'.
Actually, it can't overthrow the 105mm high explosive rounds which is a tight number of 81mm HE, otherwise, we will also wash huge shrapnel.

We saw a lot of drops of blood in their withdrawal route.
They were fighting their retreat.
Are you to be showered with bullets and will be extended by a knitting?

Noon, I was wired to the leftover in my position.
I wondered why went through the barricade and cover around the hut that I position.

"Sir, this saved you," said Msg Cantil.
He is pointing out the branch of the bayabas which is caught by the RPG round that was left in my position.

"Thank you guava!"

I rub the size in my arm branch that seems to be the sulat Y. Doon caught the mistake that he wants to correct in the airplane of RPG.
Because of Haring Bayabas, a small shrapnel went through and reached my position that I wounded.

I really believe that if you don't have time to die, you won't die even if you've been bombarded with bullets.
If God wants to, most likely, even if you are in bed bed, it is just to experience the nightmares or atake or heart attack!

So, it was just one left that I should be able to go to: Kennedy!

"Sir, Kennedy was grazed," scratch my cool driver, Sgt Nelmida.

I saw, around the roof was right, on the side of the frame of it.

Kennedy is the right actor! "

I was happy and was not hit in the vital bahagi Kennedy, which was paralyzed.
It is still expensive to be able to fix the vehicle in Central Mindanao.
The release of funds is not that easy.
If Kennedy will be destroyed, I am sure that I will be Cadillac.
Wow, hanep no?
Hoy, you will be able to walk and not the cool brand of the vehicle!

Because Kennedy was fine, he still served me when I was and Cpl Gaboy was rolling in a hospital in Tacurong, Sultan Kudarat.



