
Militants and taushearts greetings to Ka Joema on his ika-75 birthday and the fourth year of service service.

Alan JAZMINES NDFP Peace consultant and SICA, Camp Bagong Diwa, Bicutan, Taguig City 8 Pebrero 2014.

Salin: Militants and taushearts greetings to Ka Joema on his ika-75 birthday and the fourth year of service service.

I am, ten of the other consultant of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) in the peace talks, and other prisoners who are political here in Camp Bagong Diwa, are joining a lot of others in the militants this February 8, and most of all over the 55 years of service to the people of service to the people. The movement movement movement is in the revolutionary movement.

Within more than five decades now, it is very long for those who became the sotransaction of economists, kultural, political and ideolohikal education and struggle, not only in the revolutionary force and citizens in the country, but also in the whole world.

His contribution has helped a lot of progressive and revolutionary force.

It is also big, in particular, and continued to help me up to the present.

During the middle of 1971, due to dismay with what I discovered in a person being part of the management team in the company I expected to be the one who would be the one who would be the one who would report the national industriyalization, but there was no desire to do this as well as the lack of interest in the national industriyalization, I decided not to work with those who were taking advantage of the national countries, and instead of giving my best to raise the life and instead, I decided not to work with the the development of the citizens is progressing.

I resigned and pultinterviewed, held a deep research and panlipunang research through reading the authors and to interview the people in order to be able to think about my whole self and my whole life.

I was immediate mystified by the study of the radical revolutionary writing regarding the society in the Philippines and in the world, including the proposed solution to the problems that the citizens are currently experiencing.

I have some of the sulsentres I have and natuked perfect and sharp mirrors in the condition of the country and the people, and for being able to figure out and deep in the midst of the solution to the deep and prevailing problems of the citizens and society, the written of Ka Joema and (alias "Amado Guerrero") Philippine Society at the Revolution, even the written of Ka Joema and (alias "Amado Guerrero") Philippine Society at the Revolution, even the written of Ka Joema, the communist manifesto and other klasikal author of Marx, Engels, Lenels, Lenin, Mao Zedong, "Mao Zedong, and the political spirit of John Eaton.

I particularly aimed at the authors of Ka Joema because I discovered that it was immediate useful in the current situation and the struggle of the filipino people, while I also give time to many klasikal author of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Mao and other deeply scrutinizing the situation of their own country and the world.

After I attended a different discussion, it was the cycle of the students and turn around in the interview of people who have to do the various panlipunang movement in the country (including activists and protesters), I am completely convinced that the movement for national democracy is the current most of the national democracy and close to the national democracy. The Filipino society and the current chapter of the rebolsolution sotransaction which is needed to complete in the country -- like what I learned from the written of Ka Joema.
That's why I decided to allocate my time and life in the current national-democratic revolutionary struggle and in the revolutionary department, which is a jackpot.

It did not last long when I personally met Ka Joema.
There are times when we see Ka Joema to talk about the particular tasks that I do.

But I was arrested (in the first grasp) last early part of 1974 and released after three years -- after Amnesty International of the crimes of Marcos against our prisoners, and written and we filed the complaints to these kinds of crimes of tortyur.

Ka Joema then was arrested (last November 1977) in La Union.
He experienced kalupitan, and for the entire time of the hint of his imprisoned in the law, he was able to ask him to Fort Bonifacio and severe subjected to the cruel restriers.
He still needs to gather the wall of his cell just to talk to the other prisoners who are also imprisoned on the left and right part of his cell.

What is more important, even in the strict condition of the detension, Ka Joema was still able to write a letter of those who were ideoloated and the revolutionary political revolutionary parties in the leadership of leadership are revolutionary.
The most talas is his criticism in a few tulirong sotransaction research (including the eksaheradong estimate on the level of urbanization and industriyal development that the country has been in, against the ongoing and worse pre-industriyal of the country), and the more important thing that is going to be the sotransaction of the country), and the more important thing is that it is a pre-time situation), and the more important thing that is going to be the sotransaction of the country) your criticism in some reisyunistang mistakes in the existing revolutionary tactics before, including the founder of the New Hukbong Bayan ", including the condition of the New Hukbong Bayan," said to be the one responsible for the New Hukbong Bayan, "which is included in this time, is included in the implementation of the New Hukbong Bayan," that if you think about it, it is still in the maaagang
When he became free from the prison and in the start of the peace talks between the NDFP and the guopportunity of Cory Aquino, he commented on the handling of the NDFP in the peace talks before and wrote him about how to bring it.
What he has written about bringing this is what he has been handling here since he became a tree that he was able to attend the peace panel panel of the NDFP.

Successes in the campaign winning for the whole national-democratic movement, the actual condition and the following advancement and progress has proven to the criticism of the criticisms that you have started by Ka Joema.

After he was free from the beheading of the military, along with some other prisoners who were political prisoners, we were having peace in the house of Ka Joema in an apartment in La Loma, Quezon City.

In some of our meeting, one of the things we all united is the burial of the Partido of Bayan (PNB), the grandchild of Makabayan Coalition and those who are detained which party party-list.

Ka Joema is the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are prepared by the preparatory Committee of PNB, but because of the initial komment, he needs to leave because of the series of activities in another country.
It was elected then Rolando "Ka Lando" Olalia, the chairman of Kilusang May Uno, and he became Tagled to the founstrength.
I was the general Secretary then.

The PNB was quick to organisa the entire country and was able to win some position in congress and local in the following election.
But since then, it was experienced by a frightening who would be assigned to the killing and other serious violation of human rights, including the murder of Ka Lando and murder and attempted murder of many other leaders of PNB, staff and supporters.

The life and safety of the other leaders of the PNB were in danger, personnel and supporters and are also not safe to be able to mantine the upmothers and offices even if they are moving out.

I have no one else to choose but to act secret, which is often struggling to support and takes care of the filipino masses and farmers.

In the case of Ka Joema, he obliged to remain destiyero in another country.
However, he will not leave the resyunbuilt process and of those who have been followed by the reaksyunbuilt regime even if he is in another country.
There is always a threat to his life and security.

The resyunbuilt state has been made to be the filing of samuttering criminal cases against Ka Joema.
The Inter-Agency Legal Action Group of the Marcos regime is always busy all night with the maintenance of a criminal case against Ka Joema and other leaders of the national-democratic movement.

In the conspiracy of imperyalisn US and the following reget regime in his country, put it in the list of the teorist "Ka Joema, which is Ka Joema, which is why he is bullshit for the arrest and harassment of harassment.

During the last part of August 2007, the US reached and the Marcos regime of the Marcos regime to arrest and to let him be arrested in the pulisyang Dutch.
The documents were confiscated, computer disks and other file of Ka Joema and the leaders of NDFP.
Because there is no sufficient basis to the Dutch for him to be jailed, he was freed after the 16 days and returned the file but the file was broken.

Even during the time in destiyero and under threats and harassment, Ka Joema is not shaken in continuing his task and contributed to the struggle of the people and the revolutionary movement in his country and the world.
His comprehensive ssapol and view of the local and worldwide situation and the talas in the clear identifying of the revolutionary strategy and tactic, in long term struggle and the rich that you are doing is not small but even more indecisive and progress for as long as possible.

Aside from continuing to be ideoloated and pulitative leadership in the revolutionary movement in the country and in being full of pulitative the NDFP of the NDFP of the peace panel, he is also the one who went through the International League of People's struggles, a national national organization that the goal is to pursue the implementation of the masses, which is the goal of the masses, the masses and those who have encountered organizations in the whole world.

He also pursued the need to strengthen the drop of the revolutionary parties and develop the national masses.

All of these efforts and tasks of Ka Joema are proof that the prison and destiyero--exactly the ekstensyon of the Clinuan--is not enough to deny the revolutionary built like Ka Joema.

His hard work, perseverance, tasks and success will continue to guide and will give inspiration to our prisoners who have a revolutionary and more especially in the revolutionary movement outside the prison.



