Ellen, fantasy by Vin!
By Dondon Sermino Enero 5, 2017 Tapos is the happy days of Ellen Adarna.
He is indeed going back to work, and he also needs to lose weight, because of all the baks he did, he really gained weight. "@ maria.elena.adar: balik realidad.

Number howtolosefatsin10araw number daynangangarap ay tapos na rin sa # throwbackbody number motibasyon ", sey ni Ellen on Instagram post, while looking at her body, even if she still had to gain weight, overflowed that the alindog was still overflowing, ha!
Of course, like before, there are fantasy in the alindog of Ellen.
But, many also refused, and it seemed to be grossed out to him.
Someone said that because Ellen will regret everything he did when he had a child's child.
Here is the post of Ellen's tagasubaybay. "@ noorhakkiayob: I don't want to be in this woman, it seems that the slightest in the body doesn't have a shame.
Naked here naked there.
My God, where is your mother and father to tell you even more? "
It is, Ellen could not resist, so he would be able to make a laugh at his tagasubaybay who was annoyed with his sexy-sexy. "@ maria.elena.adarhakkiayob, Eh" don't you don't wander here.
Kalurks stress!
Hahahaha! "Found Ellen hinted.
Anyway, for now, Ellen is already busy with the promo of the movie that you're going to attract light over Baler.
He is indeed the fantasy of Vin Abrenica in the movie, ha!
Vin's scenes were recovered from Ellen, because he was really liking the young lady.

The peace light over Baler is able to produce T-Rex Entertainment, that the story is around two important events, the World War 11, and EDSA Revolution.
Elizabeth Oropein is also starring in the movie, Sophie Albert, Daria Ramirez, Menggie Cobbarubias, Angie Ferro, and from the pen of Eric Ramos, and pressing Gil Portes.
The O Mexplain month is the theme song of the movie, so it is something that is showing before the Araw's Day in Feb, ha!

In Baler Aurora taken the movie, that the story started with a Japanese journalist (which is perfectly perfectly by Vin) who visited Baler, after he was going to cover EDSA Revolution.
Vin looked like the soldier who is great love by matandang matandang teacher (which is perfectly perfectly by Elizabeth), who died during war.

Vin also plays the young soldier, and Sophie is the plays of young Elizabeth.
That is in love and Vin is already guaranteed the beautiful and sexy Ellen Adarna.
But, there are many who disagree with their love.
What is the waiting for their love for?
"That is what should be watched at the war light over Baler.



