That sound and the storage of the bullet weapons and explosives.
By the pick-up owner of Fort Bonifacio earlier earlier.
Twenty five are wounded including a few bumberong responded to the locality of the area.
Meanwhile, the condition of the two soldiers will be critical of the possible cause of the fire
Also from Fort Bonifacio, Marisol abdurahman Marisol has an effort.
The manager after all of these earlier firemen and the revolution in their acts of their acts as a poor councilor when they continue to fire but they said earlier that their lives were the end of their lives because of the attacks of severe damage to them.
The translator was almost wrapped by thick smoke in Fort Bonifacio around the morning at the early morning.
The firefighters who responded to the blindness of the fire were the burning building because it was a storage of explosives and weapons served as horny for a while after a while.
The explosion heard inside while the heart was thick.
It was followed by the next explosion.
The fire reached the third alarm that lasted for more than thirty minutes before it was put out and not the explosion almost without December so it was certain that it was so sure that it would be there.
It is also obvious the chief of the explosion in the tanggcrawl of the football of Armie, the list of explosives inside the warehouse of the warehouse is not yet given.
As I have visited before the basis there are those who play with that then it is boring because of the voices of the explosive explosive.
But I repeat now because they don't have a pangmatagalang cap.
It's affectionate like this is going to be very affectionate.
But When subjected to matiyak ang aking posibility that exploded exploded.
Deliberately
The port mentioned that the port Cristo has a tian tito Vir, which is possible to cause an explosion explosion.
They also found out that there are credits under the burning building but it is said that it did not make it look at the same time that our
To use it.
Because that's what we are.
Protecting that there is that we are the war of the war.
Of them.
Magsaysay if the marcos exploded.
Newspapers are their newspapers.
Dalawang beses o tatlong beses ang layo ng mga kalahok sa
Explosive free to prevent all of them, when it turns out that it is possible that there are members who are doing the same thing.
He's going to be able to do it.
By camp as if it doesn't happen to this.
We don't know how much, the same thing is the same thing.
Post conference para sa
The capability of her abdomen here inside a tomboy we will still find out.
On the whole twenty-five wounded twelve, two soldiers were two wounded while two days ago that the perception of limang walo suddenly has a strong explosion sermon.
And that's when it's the same thing.
We hear that there are those who are there by those who are there.
The rocks suddenly have a overthrown which is serious about the wall that the maybe when it comes to the wall.
Bomb bomb.
You when we saw a lot of fallen people.
The right things with them.
The polvoron Sheryl is the only thing that is why it is only ten minutes away from the burning building that happens the strong explosion now then he is over a wound in the head and body of Eliseo us.
To be picked up with a shot.
Here is a lot of sleep.
By a little we don't have two minutes for a little bit.
Among those who are the strongest.
Or yet to be able to do it.
What we didn't know happened.
She was able to run away with her sister but she was a saint.
But he was able to hope because of those who were flying like debriefing
Of management to us.
You will like a lot of you get ato with you.
The twelve-seven who were wounded were continuously being treated in the Filipinos who were wounded while six were rushed to the nearest tea medical center in the hospital of makati and one in Taguig Pateros district Hospital.
'there is a while ago that we can rely on some of the tables released here in the system amilyar.
That was also brought there in Pasig but it was said that the patients were left hanging but they should still be observed in twenty four four hours so when they were told to sail in the Philippines in our hospital, although they still had injuries, they still needed to be observed because of the posibility that they had promised to shop with the Filipino Armina, they would still have to be able to observe the Filipino Armina answer. All of the expenses he injured aside from the postboniperoso had been transferred to the Pasig one here, which was also reported to the hospital of makati, which is also reported to the hospital, which is why he is going to be able to report there is a head of injuries, which is why he needs to be transferred to the Taguig Pateros Hospital which is why he needs to be transferred to the Taguig Pateros Hospital, which is why he needs to be transferred to the Taguig Pateros Hospital, which is why he needs to be explosives that have been explosives which are already explosives which are already explosives.
That exploded and consumed by the fire I remember because there are our storya when there are those who are going to say that there are those who are going to call out there are things that are going to be called in their bombs that sometimes it won't explode when it is not to explode.
There is a problem of such a long time for our military and then now there is a huge amount of very large
Yes, you know that Jessy is really the one in our unit of Piolo gay habilis this is just an office that is just a office that is why there is only stored there because it is first when it is a batalyon, the unit is conducting a training because the unit that taught you, is the unit that taught you to buy aside from the scene, which is why there are those who are going to call them and dictate the bomb that's why they are still in the scene and dictate the bomb that is why those who are there are going to call them and dictate the bomb that is why those who are there are exclusive people are called to have been called drinking without plastiper okay is the dustpan accident that does not want to happen so toothpaste through what we know according to what we already know according to what we know according to what we know according to what we know according to what we know according to what we know according to what we
The scorching season of the berso is alive, there are stored weapons and explosives and we know that it is already a lot.
It is possible that there is really a fire that the weather is hot and there are only explosives that are in an ordinary building stupid fool.
Yes that is what the teacher says they are looking forward to now if there is a while violation of the Ocean, which has been stored here with the client, which is why they are already considered high order, which is why if they really have a shrapnel, if it is really even more than a shrapnel, it is really possible that if there is still an injury, it is really possible that if
We know how bad effect it is but that even if the Filipinos are telling us, they are helping the sertipiko nilang matiyak that they are following their care where they should be placed in it but they say it's because they have been stored for a long time and scorching the weather might be a day ordered by the freego there.
In the explosion that became kuya in the fire caused by the explosion many thanks to you.
