
Calamity and fear in Baganga.

By Macky Macaspac April 30, 2013 2013.

It is hard to go to Baganga, Davao Oriental.
Not only because the trip is long and complicated towards Davao City, but because it became the center of calamity, by the devastation of typhoon Pablo, last December 2012.
And it hasn't recovered until now.
Though it is natural calamity to hit the area, it has been a long time to run over by a calamity that people have made: Negligence of the government, lack of service society, severe presence of the military.
After visiting typhoon Pablo, the calamity became intense that people have made the allegation: There are allegations that they should have been showing the relief goods in those who were affected.
Even the temporary house of the victims, was reported to be overpriced.
Meanwhile, the local government is almost not working, the military ruled.
This is the one who wants to find out a fact that its humanitarian mission went to the place recently.
Aboard three buses from Davao City, the perpetrators who reached 76 people including the nuns, a doctor, a nurse, a psychologist, forester and other wishes to help the long, complicated trip to Baganga.
Included here are the servants of the nap, including the Pinoy Weekly.

Going to Baganga at first, well but the bus runs fast.
The damway is cemented and paved.
The sights are beautiful and pleasing.
But while getting farther away from Davao City and approaching the towns destructed by the typhoon, the scenery is changing.
Though the road was clean from the scattered created of the storm, it was still apparent that these towns were still on the way.
Both sides of the haywey are kumikles.
From the sparkle on the roofs of houses that were taken by strong winds in the midst of the storm.
The yerong roofs are new to change.
The hollow bloke was also caught in a few built new house.
Even the crops like banana, are starting to munga, some of these are wrapped in plastik, a green-green rice field is also green.
The victims who have been paid for help in asking for help are no longer in the haywey.
But eventually we learned: They were still there, in their own communities, struggling.
Getting farther away, the spark of the sheets is gradually broken by the haywey.
It was replaced by the white tolda.
This is where the organizations will be distributed by the organization and made the roof of the residents.
Many have also used old tarpaulins as the roof and walls.
The tent city is still lined up in some towns passing by the group.
Similarly, there are still a lot of trees trees, especially the coconut trees.
They are still sprawled on the side of the wake and mountains.
The passing taken by the three buses to take advantage of the three buses.
The mud and dust were in exchange, the road was not cemented.
The buses are slow and nagdadala in the course of the buses because of the potholes on the road.
This is part of Compostela Valley which is burned by the town of Cateel to Baganga.
This is where the group passed by a detatation of the military.
The group did not stop, it looks like the soldiers were surprised by the passing of three buses.
The other because, taking a bath on the left of the road and the others were sitting and just standing on the right.
"That is here," the house burned, "said a candidate member of the group Karapatan.
"It's a question of others:" Will we stop? "
"No longer, we were just footage of a photo of the house burned."
The bus was a minor.
The inside of the bus pointed out their camera, and went pitikan.
"Move hands, let us leave," said the one from Karapatan, the bus is free even if the road is dust.
The soldiers didn't do anything, they were just watching the depares buses.
But one, quickly run towards their camp that is a school.
It's likely that this has been reported to the "higher."
The three buses continue to be taken by the three buses.
The drivers make sure that the gap between buses will not be apart.
Because aside from the potholes on the road, it was also the side of the cliff.
But only more than two hours passed, the bus runs improved, it was not waves and beaten-up, and the road was cemented, but the road of buses suddenly stopped.
Tsekpoint of the 67th Infantry Batallion of the Philippine Army.
The group is already in the town of Cateel, in Sityo Dispatching of Brgy.
Malibago.
"The men are down," the military ordered a gun that was strapped on the shoulder and bandoler of bullets.
The men were down with the nuns and leaders of the balin Mindanao.
The negotiation started, while one was climbed by a soldier's bus.
Looked at it, couldn't figure out if he was looking for something.
Lilinga turned to look at the chairs and to the left people inside the bus.
They are all soldiers, wearing a full fight uniform but there are no nameplato.
The nuns and other negotiator said the motive of the group, going to Baganga and will give relief goods and medical services, as well as the group of the victims of the storm.
The negotiation lasted.
The leader of the soldier said, "Pasgency, it's just a job."
He added that the group should wait for their commanding officer and there to ask to go through the konboy.
It was going to be the same time when the group was allowed to pass through.
But before this, a inherited soldier was able to escape the sped away from the detatsion.
And almost 25 meters from the tsekpoint, in the palusong pakurbadis the way, blocked by a soldier who was riding a motorcycle truck.
The military ordered the driver of the truck to take care of his car on the road.
After, the driver quickly ran to the military, dragged with the key of the truck.
Aside from the spread logs in front of the truck and the small way between the truck and the slumped of logs.
The contestants were forced on the mission to carry the logs and remove the stack of logs so that the buses were able to pass through.
The nuns were led to carrying; they were all sorts of help.
The konboy is Lumarga again.
But the trip is not yet going on, the chunk of the stones lined up in the road suddenly surprised.
It is impossible to be rolled over from the mountain and humilera when they are tight on the road.
Obviously, there was someone who put it.
The suspect's suspect was not far from that he was put by a riding-motorcycle military who was initially in the konboy.
The military has not yet been able to attend, they have put a number of stones, wood on the road and, the last, dug ground, graba and mud placed in the middle of the road.
Many suspicion of many on the mission that use this backhoe truck: It is still hot because the engine of a backhoe parked near the pile.
Using hand, feet and patpat, the misyonero tried to remove the pile and given space even if the buses were small.



