It is a strong campaign vs bawas-benefits, the members of health health members are based on the health.

By Pkanyang Pasion Pebrero 9, 2012.

These members of health members have become a piket because of the Aquino administration in their ipinalabang benefits.
(Pkanyang Pasion) "Policy decision" is the payment for their left benefits.
This is the response of the Department of Budget's Management (DBM) in the call of health workers to take back the plan to reduce their left benefits.
In a conversation with health workers including Alliance of Health Workers (AHW), DBM insisted that they will increase the benefits of the members of health members.
It is said that it is based on the Department of Health Memorandum Order Number 2012-0002 who is ordered by the bawas as to the alawans in the labahin of the employees.
Under the said memorandum, the said alawans will be 130 every month from 150.
Meanwhile, it will take a tasan from 50 pesos every day of making these under P30 pesos, the subsistence allowance of an ordinary employees in the institution and programs of the government.
DOH said that the memorandum is based on DBM Budget Memorandum Nos. 107 and 112 who gives rules in preparation for a budget for different agencies in 2012 and 2013.
"If the goal of the government is to remove all the benefits in the MagCarta such as the representatives of DBM in the consultation and meeting, we will not allow it to happen," according to Emma Manuel, President Emeritus of AHW and radiologic teknolohiya logist in Tondo Medical Center.
"Manuel's employee is restlessness, Manuel's explanation, causing" restlessness and demoralization is the "unjust and against the laws that are going to equtibang it."
He also said that like other citizens, it is extremely affected by non-stop increase of goods and services of health workers, and they need any additional benefits given by the government.
The AHW is still ignored, the order of the DOH is against the DBM of the Implementing patakaran at Regulations of the MagCarta of Public Health Workers who were able to etin in November.
1999.
It is stated in the said rules and regulations that the government needs to allocate 150 every month of laundry allowance and P50 every day (or P1,500 every month) subsistence allowance.
They even said that "contrary to the provision of Joint Resolution No. 4 or sahod Standardation Law III (SSL III) that prohibits increase, removed benefits that are stated in MagCarta" the said orders of DOH and DBM.
"If you want to bawas why not your height?" According to Dante Perez, who is going to be treated health from the Philippine Orthopedic Center.
Perez also said that it is weird not in the hospital of the government seeking treatment (majority of the) officials in the government.
"So they don't see and they definitely don't feel the condition of the ordinary patients.
They don't feel poverty inside the public hospitals, "he said.
Perez fears, the day might come without health workers who will remain in the Philippines if this kind of condition continues to low wages, lack of benefits and reducing.
"We cannot resist to leave those who need our services even if our salary is low.
Yes.
When we entered the service for Filipinos but do not have to be saved, "says Perez.
For Amalia Magno of Amang Rodriguez Memorial Medical Center: "It was very painful to think that we loved our work despite the low pay and poor condition, but we did not loved this government."
Protest is the call of the AHW to fill the protest to the hospitals in different form like hanging streamers, ribbon apos and even Noise barrage in order to have a "atmosphere of protesta" in rejection of the said pagkaltas.
"We have grown old in the service.
But we have not seen any change but continue to extort and misery, "said Restells of Tondo Medical Center which is 38 years of service.
"We will be organisa and charged with this government.
We don't have any other reliable.
"Life and livelihood were removed from all of us," Ysuru said.
A big protest of the members of health members will prepare for February 14, Valentine's Day, in Mendiola to call the Malacanang.
"It's all endurance when it comes to the health sector.
But all endurance has a limit, "Perez is still a threat.



