
Conspiring by the military and the bandit group, criticized.

The town 21 Pebrero 2012 strongly criticized by Herminio Alfonso Command-Gulakad Front 53 Operations Command (BHB-Southern Mindanao) is the chronic violation of the Federation of Manobo-Matigsalog Tribal Council (Femmatric) to the human people of the Lumad in the district of Marriver, in Bukidnon and Arakan Valley.

The Femmatric headed by Lito Gawilan is involved in a pangangamkam of land, robbery, selling fake gold bar and pangingilposted in small businessmen in the haywey of Bukidnon.
Gawsome are implying that he is being presented to the trbird Matigsalog and Manobo in saying that he allegedly defended the land ancestors.
The truth is, he was able to escape the stambong operations of the plantation of goma and the konsession of mining because he was holding the Certificate of Ancestral domain within the course of the town of Kitaopeople in the prubination of Bukidnon, town of Arakan in North Cotabato and district of Marriver in Davao City.

It is an accomplice of the group Femmatric-Gawsome of the group Bunsuran who is behind the construction of armed groups, which is the bandit and bandits.
Meanwhile, the group who is now going to be erased in Salays, Marriver and Tusibong, Baguio, Davao City.

The 403rd Brigade and 8th IB are protected by the group Gawilan and other bandit syndicate.
He is using the Special Operations Team for peace and prosperity to harass the setler Lumad and not Lumad and conduct maramihang surender.
That's why the military allow the group to spread terror in the haywey of Bukidnon.

Due to the widespread violation of the group Gawilan of the human rights of the Lumad, the 403rd Brigade experienced severe walti offensive to the successive taktikal offensive by the BHB in Bukidnon.
That's why the Lumad are blamed by the Lumad through the leaders of the tribe of Bukidnon of giving support to the BHB.

But it will also be revealed to the Lumad of these crimes like a pangangamkan of the land ancestors, it's true that the land ancestors in Bukidnon will be rescued in the big multinlandlords company in mining, commercial plantation, tologs and others.



