Take it easy in the disstory By Rey Marfil Enero 16, 2017 is very lucky by senior citizens in the Philippines because they take care of the government.
First is because of the retired given to their 20 percent disstories benefits in some services, even in food, medicine and other bosses, the old age of the old age of old age.
But do you know the dishorror given to our beloved senior citizens have been abused?
We have said that it is abuse because they usually carry their grandfather's relatives to pay for the profit of the grocery or presents.
Of course because his grandmother is with their grandmother, they will have a story to buy, especially with presents.
I noticed that it was an establishment of abuse using the senior citizens card is a well-known bilihan of the donut.
The donut company is on queue and will be chosen to be chosen by this wherever corner of the Philippines there is no queue.
That is why this is one of the favorite to buy presents using the discount card of seniors.
How can't be forced, a very big story is what they give, unlike some restaurants, bakesObispo or other markets that are limited to eaten by senior the disstory that is just right because it is the law's statements.
I don't want to be clever but this company is pitiful maybe when the sun comes closed and they sell the gigantic dishorror given to the seniors who are usually just used by children, grandchildren or other relatives of IDs to buy a discounted donut.
At the moment, some of our fellowmen who will lose their jobs will be sacrificed because of the abusive actions of some of our countrymen.
So hopefully this will be seen by some walk by this company to correct or if not to implement a little restriction for the sake of the future of their personnel.
I would like to emphasize that we are not in against the benefits that are retired to seniors what we cannot stomach is the abuse of some of this benefit that should be just for the needs of our grandparents, mother and father.
Anyway, it is very hard to umawat those who are taking advantage of this benefits for our senior citizens, the companies are better to act.
Give in the right story but make sure to recognize the requested disstory because if there are these opportunist relatives of seniors who use the preilient of grandfather, grandmother, the companies who do not care about the senior citizen card are also not missing because it is asking for all sorts of documents to be used to the old people who are asking for the disstory when it is the statements of the old people who are asking for a disstory when this is the statements of the old people who are asking for an excuse when it is the our law of our law is our law.
Our call, use the benefits given by the government.
"Don't take advantage of it because there are those who will be hit
Always remember: "You are a child" I and Ako are Spy n you. "



