
Successful taktikal offensive in Isabela.

NPA Cagayan Valley (hilagang Luzon)

(Fortunato Camus Command)

Disyembre 05, 2012, 2012.

The officials of the 5th Infantry Division of the Philippine Army are implying that the NPA took place in the Mabpayment, Echague, Isabela last November 17, the second one they experienced defeat in northern Luzon this 2012.
They said it is the worst defeat for the NPA that the troops in Tinoc, Ifugao last April, where the 11 personnel of the 85th Infantry Battalion died.

Because they cannot afford to hide, they admitted the damage they experienced in Echague; but along with it, to cover up the series of the acquired damage of those who acquired the troops in Isabela this October and November.
What's worse for the 5th ID, the two of these primary lament to units - 51st and 52nd Division Reconnaissance companies (DRC) - the primary lumasap of the damages.

October 17 - past twelve: 00 in the evening, three troops of 24-people platun of the 51st DRC died and did not count the wounded in the recent story between them and a platun under the Benito Tesorio Command of New peope's Army in the town of Jones, Barangay Sta. Isabel in the town of Jones, last 30 minutes in the town of Jones, last 30 minutes in the town of Jones, the clash lasted for 30 minutes and there was no one in the town of Jones, the clash the Pulang warriors have acquired a walti.
The 5th ID sent out that both sides have no walti.

October 30 - four troops of the 25-year-old government platun of the 51st DRC in the leadership of a 2Lt.
Cabanas was the one who died in the harassment of a team under Reynaldo Pinon Command of the NPA in the sitio Old nursery, Brgy.
Disclouds, in the town of San Mariano.

November 8 - the troops were killed twice and ten were wounded when the NPA troop of the 51st DRC in the leadership of 2Lt.
Cabanas in the sitio Namrain, Barangay.
San Jose, San Mariano.
The military was able to cover it again in the mass media, although many of the masses saw the transport of corpses and injured two helicopter.

It's two Tambang in Madaling Araw.

But no matter what the experts do with the Psy-war of the 5th ID, they cannot hide and forced to admit that the two tambang against two elite of these units in the early morning of November 17.

In the agreement that happened at 1: 30 AM in the sitio, Luzcon, Brgy.
Gangalan, San Mariano, admitted that the protesters admitted that there was an encounter; but they did not admit they were having an walti.
Six troops of a platun of the 51st DRC in the leadership of 2Lt.
Cabanas is the one who died in the ambush of them by a platun under Reynaldo Pinon Command of the NPA.

Three hours have passed, seven troops of 52nd DRC in the leadership of 2Lt.
Jimnah Torrepalma died (including Torrepalma) and eight were wounded when he was ambushed by a platun under Benito Tesorio Command of the NPA the 20-people units of the enemy.
According to the official report of Benito Tesorio Command, among the confiscated of those who were arrested were the three machine gun - a M60 and two K3, five M16 armalite rifles, three gabi vision scopes, a Harris radio, a Harris radio, a hundred bullets and 15 US army pakete.

It was dawn of November 16 when the troops of the 52nd DRC went to the area which was basis of the gerilya of the NPA last day, and when there was no madatNPA, they were all hidden from the place that he was experiencing.
When it was known by a platun of the NPA who was in the far far, they were imprisoned in places that were possible to pass by those who would have been arrested to be ambushed.

The bruises of the masses are regular in the condition of those who are sharing the enemy, and they pointed out the road that the military is always undergoing when they are moving to the sand that they are giving to the adjacent barrio.
The enemy will surely move in the evening and a bigger possibility that they will pass through the route specified by the masses, so when the darkness comes, the three iskwad of the NPA in the favorable position in the appointed ambush site will pass.
Anytime they might move away their target, so it doesn't eat dinner and not leave the puposition.
While waiting for the whole night, it did not release a bed of the buried gerilya, and the body of the thin plastic laid on a bit of a wet land was just being released.

The government's platun of the NPA studied how to be included in the evening (gabi movement) by the troops of DRC through tambang at night (: Gabi ambush).
Only three-four forces of the platun were the ones who got caught up and were just going to be able to find out the experience of the intense sibthe fight.

The appointed killing zone of the government's platun is the small road below the wake pwinestuhan of gerilya.
The first iskwad is separated when there is an obstacle in two more iskwad; the second iskwad is lined up in the height of the wake of the wake, and the nearby third iskwad is hidden in some bunch of banana in a higher part of the funeral.
Between the road and the two iskwad was annoyed when the corn looked at the funeral.
The night was dark, and went darker when it was dawn of November 17.

It was past four o'clock in the morning when some companions were able to see each other approaching together, which at first, was not sure if it was a iskwad of the NPA or enemy.
They were able to stick and careful in the wake between the second and the third of the NPA a platung enemy; there was a use of night vision scope at the front, not passed on the road and there was no almost footsteps, so they were only three meters away from the ambush when they were fired.

It is not known by the inamber enemy that there are NPA in the wake of the funeral; so when they fired up, the more down from the wake, while the other, including the holding of M60 machine gun that was in front, was pickup in the focused of the funeral pwinestuhan of the third iskwad of the NPA.
Met with someone with the enemy who was on a hear, he would have been beaten by the shotgun but did not explode, so he attacked the enemy and they wrestled.
One more companion was the end of his M14 at the side of the enemy, thrown out; he ran away but shot, he was left behind M60.
Masinggan was the first seized in the first outbursts of gunfire.

The first iskwad of the NPA on the part of the back of the enemy, but cannot be fireworks because the fight is close and the surrounding is very dark.
They have just fired up when he clarified that; the enemy of the shot was being made up by the shot from the back.

Although the shot of the NPA from front, side and back, the CO of the enemy did not retreat from his units and rather, they stayed in the part of the wake that no one would be able to reach out without a light.
Aside from those who ran down to the wake and hid from the trees below, one was hit by the paars, including their CO Torrepalma.
Those who hear them are everywhere, armalayt, pak and dead and wounded enemies are only a few meters away from the surrounding gerilya.

Around 6 AM, the NPA already asked the enemies to stay in the wake.
Their CO which is serious injured, expressed the surrender, along with two other enemies who were wounded were left in the wake.
The NPA was treated by the NPA who surrendered but the wound was severe, and also treated the two surrender that the wound was not severe and lived after.
The NPA immediately called a radio reporter about the wounded enemies and said that they would take them to be treated.
But it was past twelve o'clock noon when the two helicopter arrived and pagpapatibay troops of the 5th ID arrived.

In the two tamts of the NPA of November 17, the NPA disappointed the taxi movement of the enemy of the enemy, which is their own belongings, vision scope through the night operation and gabi ambush.
The elite troops of the 5th ID were severely hit.

No matter what they attempt to distract the attention of the public from what they experienced defeat, like promoting that there are three foreign women who are included by the NPA and the NPA of his warriors from Cagayan going to Isabela, cannot hide the meaningful strengthening of the armed town and armed struggle in Isabela.



