
Contraktuwalisasyon, continues to the employees of the government By Darius Galang.

The workers in the government said, Duterte has done many things on his first 100 days, especially in the peace talks.
But to the workers, there is no true promise.

Included in the platform of President Duterte during his campaign the end of the prlocked you of the end of contract or endo, or contraktuwalisasyon, and there are many problems that Filipino workers are facing.
But after 100 days of his service, the wish of the workers is still not addressed.
Government employees are still waiting for the promise to change until now.

"In the past 100 days, we haven't seen any difference in the previous administration and the Duterte administration," said Santiago Dasmarinas, first vice-president of the confederation para Unity, recognition at Advansemento ng Government empleyado.

"Though he has made words, it is still not achieved (his promises).
The call nami is still the call of the past administration to implement the national minimum Wage in public and private sector.
We also call to stop the contraktuwalisasyon, and your different form of contractual workers do it regularly, "said Dasmarinas.

But the attack continues to the workers.
This is only October 11, the Department of agriculture issued a memorandum which states increase of 50 percent of the job order effective last October 1.

"It is clear that this is still removed," says Dasmarinas.
He explained, it just shows that there is still no assurance for work to be in the ranks of government employees.

They will be removed from some government agencies, and resisted this of course of Courage.
Sina Darius Galang Dadded by Manuel Baclagon, the chairman of the Social Workers kawani Association of the Philippines-Department of Social Welfare and Development, the memorandum of Duterte is not agreeing to stop the contraktuwalisasyon and resolution of the contractual.

In their data, Baclagon said that one of the three employees of the government was able to egegorone as a bore, contractual, or trabahong order or kontrata of service workers.
He said, it was traveling for more than half a million workers.

"The Duterte administration has done many things especially in the peace talks," says Baclagon.
"But we are still focusing on the government employees who still have nothing happening in our Collective Negotiour Agreement in the department."
He added that there are plans of "re-engineering" to be able to consult an additional loss of work.
Baclagon mentioned that there was a plan "to kawsize and bureaucracy" according to Budget Sec.
Benjamin Diokno will promise to retrenchment of the government employees.

This October 19, the employees of the government went to the case of Batasan Pambansa, along with the workers of DSWD, of the National Food Authority, of MMDA, and other branches of the government, even employees of science and technology.

They continue to call the significant additional salary, with the assurance of work, and stay in contraktuwalisasyon, not only in their ranks, but also in the private sector.



