And currently the friend he doesn't want to be.
And contact how to be able to do it.
He is going to propose the Philippines sports commission national Congress ng misyon pilian.
The Philippines alegasyon puros seventeen in a James hung Garcia at the speed of the same time.
You will tell our chairman.
Or by the Philippines sports commission this Richie Garcia and the good afternoon to you.
Ah good afternoon and then it is a good afternoon to everyone who is listening to our program I can control very clear by your former here and the father of the more clear as you are going to be able to do the same time here.
They hope that he will be able to attend.
It is a good conditioner that they will limitasyon here in Korea the computers that are and will not buy and buy and will buy and will buy
Just a lot of things to do with the other day.
A cell phone will be made up too.
When it was thick beria Aileen pastores champion of the koreano so many products of cellphone will come from.
Or yet to be able to do it.
Or or feeling because we should start the opening of the araw, before that's the games yesterday asking about the game.
Damdamin monismo that it is going to be the same thing.
Once you saw that we were going to see you there in the Philippines you were in the Philippines.
It's better that it's a good pagbubukas which is going to be a status While organizer when all of those who are going to do it.
They show that it is a bit failed now ikumpara when after the opening of the show of their athletes.
It's also a lot of fun time when we arrived there in the area that there should be classes there.
With nothing I could do because the space there in the athletes and the officials are going to take care of that you have to rely on the bus with that!
By the people who went along with yes, it was a bit not a order for the athletes who were able to promote the same time I got tired of it might get tired of what we were left and then wait for it because it might be a model that we are going to run for a thousand thousand that we are going to run out of the libo of that libo.
It was the track of the libo and cheke because there were a bus vehicles that we had also passed by the people who watched the people who watched the public.
A lot of things.
Yes so that's where we have problems there in the story of town bukod sa lanky again but when we arrived at the speed of two-two-two-in-law.
Yet to be a little bit more.
They are hungry and then tired of the popular rivalry of food running out of food there in Babilonia and or tired because, that's why, that's why, that's why, that's why it's like that, that's why it's like that,
So is it that it is over and downside of the pagbubukas ceremonies to be afraid of this wound, so that is why it is still possible for me to repeat the age that it will come to the age of the same time, which is why we saw the bashers for the officials for the officials.
The ones that are going to take advantage of the two-two-two.
It is the same time for the long time before the long time before you turn around the bus that you bring back to the village or how to be the one who will be able to do it.
How is the traffic I have done so much that it is okay in traffic plastic, it is okay that it can't compare to our topic but it is also a chance that the vehicle is a bit running here is open again.
The third again to post a Korean by a James matapos is there when it is there to be a chance to collapse in the Incheon Roda.
It is ok that they learned something from the inoorganisa there in the previous ones who are supposed to say it.
This is the other hand that he is able to attend to the dentist, because the constitution Victoria or what is the post here is the emotions of all the incident itself, he is also not going to change so he will not change so much.
Yes so it is the national government I know no one is after no one is after this so Really a
Ashamed of it sa mga tease ang aking ideya na pamahalaang lungsod ng gobyerno.
Ah that turns out the difference in the past.
In the effort of the whole government of Korean.
This is just a home ticobay of emotion.
Later that's right yes so others are driving it maybe they are going to be cutting because it is a little bit of expenses here about the sau-time even if it is a bit of emotion here.
Just if he's in this big amount of that there.
There are really failures of failures but the whichever unang pagkakataon sa unang pagkakataon sa unang pagkakataon.
Even if we will go to our nakisali in the pagbubukas ceremonies many have noticed because when I have shown our delegation a lot of issues as if you are still showing up if you have the question of those who have watched it.
Meanwhile, the decision of the group is going to be fixed that way that we will be casual not because they used to hit the house we use in our house.
It is the same time when we change it when it is possible that it is possible that it is possible that it is a matter of time to attend an isyung yes ah maybe his jacket with a white shirt, which is still a white shirt that has two color tabas
You have to be asking for someone who seems to be the better cry of tops more relaxed and then no one will raise their motivation WAS to investigate the former of our blogero yes because of the strong ones who will improve the things that are the ones who will improve in other countries what will improve the other country.
A team comes to us as if we are just a different relax happy.
Yes, that is just a little casual agreement that we are dating.
Yes to the school because you have also tried and what has heard of a shack that has been built on.
It is the athletes after that they have been dumped by the amerikano laid out that they are using the sports questions of the world, we also said that they are pretty aware of using the things that they have gone through even the days that I have gone through every day.
Yes, yes.
It is bad if you give them a red American but they do not rape that yes, yes, yes, yes.
But his sister went on the move.
She and the toilet.
It is our queenstar para sa kanila, but I hope that I can also find a chance for a long time but it seems that even if it is casual and the other athletes of our flag but it is a little different sotana, but it is a little bit of a culture Thirteen magsasaka.
Anything else to do with it.
There was no one found out that he was right but Asia, no'n, it was the same time when he was suddenly replaced with Martin, which was the director of the director because he was going to
Very close to the heart.
But but what happened ah the basketball arrived that he was going to be able to attend the same time when he was near the other day after so that is why we are not really timely to the super I will be but I said Sol champion then he was handed over to the popular station champion, but he was told to have a short-term astray.
Okay, okay.
The important thing is that our athletes are cheap if you want us to lose our moral god.
It is because it is said that it is possible for us to become a good excuse yesterday that it is abuse three wins three wins.
It is going to be the same time how three events are going to be
We have fallen against the three of them.
Match points and we are just hiding from the repeat to repeat.
Ha then it is a bit sad that we lose it from the televice, the fire that will go home when you come home edition to me.
He is Lenard that his opponent is very good Hidalgo or he is happy yes yes.
His opponent is a topic and Korean woman who is going to be able to do the same time as well as a wall is a wall.
No matter what you throw back the ball.
This is really the one who really is.
What is the diretso to us of your brother, he said in the emotional state of us six Three Sree Sine Three Sree Smaging lima.
It was supposed to be a good cellphone over that but that's why it was really super super steady?
Ha that really ha ah there is no one who is going to wan there in the meantime.
What and then it's our laments, they also lose two or okay two of them.
Or about two single and doubles are the fraud of against them and you are fulfilling that over the way to them.
Yes, I still have one now now.
Because if there is a need to be doubles, there is still hope for me to be able to attend the reverse singles summer.
And not in here on the format of this message that I was going to be able to do the same time when the two of them were defeated by the two of them.
Ah yes to Three at the time Three oras of touring just no one has no reverse singles like Davis tasa no one can't even have the same time just because he is a friend.
So that means that it is.
Yes that our two teams in the ari are going to be in the ari's agreement on my comment on my comment.
I haven't been eight yet who has yet to keep up with that even more than anything else.
It is also a different polisiya that the group is also bisexual who will be able to attend the same time as well as possible to meet at the end of the end ah that a lot of different gimmicks of the event Men is okay, then they will still find a chance if there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope that there is still hope for a the performance of how he did become a colony 'favor of how he did.
There are a colony in there a little bit that we are disappointed there that then I already talked to the car because it's our athletes WAS! My body is my body oh so that is what the quotes said to weakened and then a bit of a little bit of that.
I was worried about the athletes motocross as I said, why would it be in spite of the same time when it was overnight with a kilo or any of you monitor the child's eating when it was not paid right before it was
It's really cough haka-haka and panahong ito.
That you need to need.
It is showing again at the beginning that your strength is lowered or because of the yes, it's just going to be the only thing that you have to do.
It seems that I am sad and we all are all sad.
