Lumaban in Zamboanga City according to the spirit the group attacked in Zamboanga City.
It's just the past lunes.
It was called that Misuari breakaway group was taught by Misuari breakaway group
The whole report from us with the liwayway it is going to be the same way.
Libra will be surprised from the camp Aguinaldo.
It's a good afternoon to you.
You are sorry that you have left you now by armed armed forces of the Philippines to attend a group in Zamboanga City, they should be called a dormitorbreakaway group that is now taking their space in five barangays but those who are holding the sosyedad are being transferred to the barangay, but they are in four barangays with a sosyedad.
The fat seems to be a plant loser and Santa Catalina.
Lt. colonel Ramon gagala confirmed the chief public affairs office of the exit that they had no declared zipper of this after having reported the place at nine o'clock in the morning, nobody was reported to hurt in the incident.
But.
The number of casualties in the five where a member of before going to the group was reported to have died in Zamboanga City medical center that happened in September Nine day of the lunes, the military was still waiting for the order of the order from the ground commander, which is still waiting for the military because the military will attack because the military will attack because the military will attack because the military will attack because the military will attack because the military will attack because of the attack.
The negotiating of soup continues to be negotiating and that it is too hot in the group to resolve it by peace and that they are free to free their captives.
Meanwhile, a bomb exploded yesterday in the Hhead after six o'clock in the evening where he exploded at the Elpidio deaf in trouble proper in the right proper.
They clarified that they will cook how much this is just a identidad and they still have no information on who is responsible for the said end of the end of the end of the end.
'isn't this lament that this is not what is happening in the ongoing conflicts in Zamboanga City where there is also a presence of energy in the area in the area.
The torch is a nearby one in Zamboanga City which is confirmed by the ipinasusulong now that Cory is taught by Cory.
But for now, the authorities continue to investigate it about the explosion explosion.
No one was reported to hurt however the leadership assured by the hurry of their little place in five barangays in five barangays.
Which is where there are five acted ander of attending to attend to Zamboanga City since this lunes early morning.
Either here or military break it and the group will not escape.
Here is a part of the statement.
