Allergic to perfumes By George Nava-True II Nobyembre 22, 2016 Meron I will consult with you about my sinus.
I am often undergoing to check up.
I am still X-ray and the result is normal.
Why do I have to lose my pain?
When I have smelled a brave perfumes that I have to grab.
I hope you can tell what the cure is here - it's Name.
I think your problem is non-allergic rhinitis.
In this kind of disease, they are often able to grab and are always barado and dripping the nose.
There may also be phlegm in the throat or postal drip.
The symptoms of the non-allergic rhinitis are both on the allergic or hay lagnat but there is no allergic reaction to it.
This often happens at the age of 20 years old.
In the non-allerginic rhinitis, the nose and throat are not nangangati.
This is not dangerous but it is annoying and irritating.
The symptoms of the non-allergic rhinitis are repeated and can last for a few hours or days.
There are many things that can cause it.
Included here are some smell or irritants in the wind like smoke, perfumes, chemicals and coward, change of time, viral infections like colds or flu, stress, hormonal changes caused by pregnant, regla or use of oral contraceptives, medicine, hot or spicy food, beer and spicy food, beer and alcohol.
There are also medicines that causes non-allergic rhinitis, for example it is nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory droga like aspirin and ibuprofen and medicine in high blood like beta blockers.
This can also be taken from the use of sedatives, antidepressants, or cure for the ethtile dysfunction.
The non-allergic rhinitis will not be seen in the X-rays.
You need an allergy balat or blood test to know if you have it.
To avoid this, avoid things that are causing it.
If the problem is severe, it can be used by the following: Saline nasal sprays - it can be purchased even if there is no prescription or can make a saltwater solution to remove the irritants in the nose, remove the block and mapanipis the mucus.
Corticosteroid nasal - the reseta fluticasone or mometasone can help.
But there are side effects like the indigestion, dizziness, headache and hurting body.
Antihisdale nasal sprays - oral antihistamines has no effect on the non-allergic rhinitis but it helps the reseta antihisatory spray of azelastine and oloadine hydrochloride.
The side epekto of this is bitter asap in the mouth, headache and fatigue.
Anti-drip anticholinergic nasal sprays - the reseta drug ipratropium is often used in hika areas.
But the al spray of this may be used for non-allergic rhinitis if your main problem is runny ilong.
Side epekto isama and dried nose and dried nose.

Oral deconikinikilos - they can buy the pseephedrine-naglalaman ng droga and phenlee, even if there is no prescription.
It will reduce the congestion or block of the nose.
But in exchange for other people is high blood pressure, insomnia, there is no desire to eat, palpitations, anxiety and pagkabalisa.
Deconikinikilos ant sprays - the aktibong sangkap of it is that they are supposed to be suspended metazoline but do not use it for a long time because your nose will be ara again.

The side epekto of this is headache, it is insomnia and kaba.



