FWRC: Home.

Filipino Workers "Resource Center is the call for the second home that he is running for those who are surprised by the OFWs in their abroad.
This is also known as an Bahay Kalinga especially in the part of the Middle East.
We have a fellow countrymen who are experiencing extreme abuses and maltreatment from their employers, especially to our women so they are forced to escape or run away.
According to Administrator Carmelita "May" Dimzon of the Overseas Workers "welfare Administration (OWWA), the government was really crippled by the government to spend a chance that is possible to run by our women OFW.
But why Dimzon is considered to win even if our OFW might not be a loser when they went to these houses?
Even if he failed to abroad, the master oppressed, not fed and what else abuse, when our OFW went to FWRC, while the required documents went to their return, they were being prepared for their return to the country.
They are already taught for business, being trained to add knowledge, to even be in abroad, thinking and they have been able to decide what can profit from the Philippines.
Through this, they may not consider it again abroad.
Administrator Dimzon is just right to be treated as the winner of our OFW "coming from the knitting like FWRC because of many information they learned.
They are not going to jump because there is a new hope waiting for them.
The documents of the boat, Salvador, Salvador Wendica, but he was the only one who was sent home by their captain because he was sent home by Salvador, but he was the only one sent home by his captain because he was a favorite and strong to him the person who was able to meet Salvador.
Salvador filed illegal termination but his original documents like the seaman's seaman is not back, passports and some copy of his certification.
After the present of Bantay OCW in POEA Administrator Hans Leo Cacdac this complaint, Cacdac immediately issued a resolution and gave back to Salvador his documents.
Salvador returned to the Radyo Inquirer and he was very thankful because he had already taken last September 18, 2013 all his documents.
Now, he wishes to request Maritime abogado Dennis Gorecho if there is hope for him to get the amount he should have earned the entire time he was asked to get out of the ship when they still have a contract and he won the illegal termination case against the manning agency.
Gone home Na!
Yolly Abaco came to the Bantay year Abaco for his brother Sonia because of the unorderly treatment of his employer in Qatar.
Although the Damdam agency wants to just cheap Sonia and they promised to answer his plane ticket home to the Philippines.
Bantay OCW was coordinating with the embassy of the Philippines in Qatar and called Sonia's employer.
The employer brought our OFW to the police station and they are the ones who turn over Sonia in the delaw center there.
According to the Philippine embassy in Qatar, Sonia gave a ticket home and got home last September 18, 2013.



