Do you know that there is too much of that inside it really seems like as long as I am in the inside of the right thing to bring up with the right place.
Ha
There is a class that yes, that's how ten years yes then there's a lot of time there.
There is a lot of gossiler.
Hello
There are really a lot of gossipers that are there.
Ha
Even if you just enter me working hard to look at you just then it seems like a lot of eyes looking at the 'yo like I don't know what in the night like a dog lurking lurking.
Ha ha ha ha ha.
And then this is still a text sale I can even lead me.
There in our neighbor, he said that you may lead to the same time as well as possible, "yes I said yes to look at it that I say that you are going to look at what you are ah asking for your dog, I am asking you to share my dog with us.
It's there in the inside where it's too much yes.
In yes, you have not been there but a lot of me still do that, the amount of rent is that, it is just cheap, it is cheap, then it's a fish Skahit ha ha ha, that's what he's left in the house, "yes, that's why there's one more Linda yes," yes, there's a lot of Linda yes, "yes, there's a lot of Linda yes," yes, there's a lot of Linda yes, "yes, that's why there what kind of cool ha ha, it is a lot of fun, what
"You are going to confirm that maybe it's a way for the mirror that you are also thinking about the mirror that you are a burden.
Ha
Yes but it is cheap that it is cheap that it is just cheap because I do not want to be in the neighbors.
I don't know what a lot of a gossiler I don't know is that my husband didn't know that before, because of course I was the one who was able to call me to be there when he was still there when he had a job I had lost his job in the liana's house.
There is a sauce with a experience that is why he found out that it would be a matter of time when he / she said that there is a yes that he / she said that the attitude of what yes is that he / she still does not have an enemy, even if it's just that he's still an enemy. "
Yes, even if it is possible that the ego of the ego, it is my ego, it is the same time that he / she
Yes we are in the sulukan as well as their ego as if he said if he wanted to kill people who killed my husband, I said you might be first fooled by me maybe I would be able to make it as if I said I was going to be able to make it.
I only have one in the race 'on my needle you are dead already.
Yes I said that's still there in the 'yo with me a needle ha ha.
The best dead will be the one who will also be brave with what you are going to do.
"
And then, and then.
Meanwhile, the person who is proud of the one who is really proud of this is the one who is really proud of the wife, who is still told to be the wife where I am now.
Ha ousted ha ha, "yes," yes.
They ate mad because I said that they were told that they were the one who said that I knew that I didn't understand I didn't really understand I said I didn't understand I said I didn't
