"Health Living" for all of us.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Filipino Star Ngayon) whether it was known to be Oktubre 30, 2014 - 12: 00am: 12: 00am.

This is the last part of my advice to be healthy your body.
Let us know this: It is time to avoid pollution in the wind (additional 2 taon in life).
According to experts, pollution in the wind like sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides can cause a heart attack.
In the study of Doctor Gerard Hoek of the Netherlands, the people who live beside the big road (like EDSA) are more having asthma, cough and heart disease.
To avoid pollution, plant a lot of trees like Bamboo trees.
Close the other window and put a screen at the door.
But the most solution is to lessen the usok belchers in our streets.
The ionizing radiation is proven to cause cancer and leukemia.
When your exposure is often the radiation, your DNA will be destroyed in the selula.
But it is not that bad sometimes X-ray that is needed in our check-up time to wash hands always (additional 2 taon).

Do you know that there are 10 million bacteria in every palm we have?
That is true.
So through a simple washing hand, we can avoid a lot of pain like flu, tuberculosis, pagtatae, typhoid and sore eyes.
Wash your hands at this moment: (1) before cook food and before eating, (2) as used by the bathroom, (3) after umubo, suminga or bumahing, (4) if the people are sick around you, and (5) after throwing garbage in the community (additional 3 taon).
Helping the community and having a lot of friends are contagious in our lives.
According to the examination of 3,617 people of professor Peggy Thonito of Vanderbilt University, people who are helpful to life, more confident in yourself and the body is more healthy.
When we are helping others, our body will make the endorphins, a chemical that makes us care of traveling (additional 2 taon).
In our journey, it should be applied to be taken care of.
If it is night and your buddies want to drink, will you go with?
If you have a far place to go and you are not confident here, are you going to continue?
Especially with those who have ages, many danger can happen while traveling.
You can get sick of traveller's pagtatae because of food.
Just drink bottled tubig.
Make sure that you carry too much medicine and money on traveling because you might not be able to go home immediately.
Remember these advice to be safe always.



