Health FRONTIERS: Chronic kidney disease What are the symptoms of the disease in kidney and how to avoid it?
I'm scared because my brother died because of this.
I am sad about what happened to your brother.
You did not mention what kind of pain in kidney was what he got but I think it was talamak kidney Failure or talamak kidney disease.
Kidney is the one from the cleaner of our body.
He cleans the dirt and sobrang fluids in blood before it came out to pee.
In talamak na kidney Failure, kidneys are gradually damaged.
Because of this, garbage is savings in the body.
You might not feel anything or a little bit of symptoms in the EARLY yugto of talamak kidney Failure.
What's worse here is that this disease is not obvious until the kidneys has grown up.
Some of the symptoms of talamak kidney Failure are a little or without pee coming out of the body, pretending to be duwal, vomiting, without appetite, weak, fatigue, difficulty in sleep, swelling of feet and bubumy, mababawasan and itch.
The pain that causes talamak kidney Failure is diabetes, altapresyon, enlarged prostate, kidney Stones, bladder or kidney cancer, Barangay cystic kidney disease), Lupus, vasculitis (swelling of blood sasakyang pandagat), Lupus, scleroderma (the talamak na skin disease) and destruction of the talamak skin disease) and destruction. The big veins bring blood to kidneys (renal artery stenosis).
Aside from this, there is a big chance that you have a talamak kidney Failure if you are sick in the heart, smoking, fat, high cholesterol level, with a family history of kidney disease and 65 years old and above.
If your pain is like this, pipilitin ng doktor na mabagal ang takbo ng sakit ng sakit na si By paggamot sa mga undernakahiga na sanhi.
But when it's up to the end of the stage kidney disease, it needs dialysis or kidney transplant to live the patient.
In order to avoid talamak kidney disease, help your kidneys through avoiding alcohol or lessen your drink.
In the man, Only 2 alcoholic drinks a araw and 1 alcoholic uminom ng isang araw for the woman.
Don't drink many over the counter (OTC) gamot like aspirin, ibuprofen and acetaminophen.
This is bad for kidneys.
If you have a kasaysayan of kidney problems, consult the doctor first if they can use them.
Panatilihin ang malusog na WEIGHT sa regular na ehersisyo.
Bawasan if needed.
Avoid smoking and go immediately to the doctor if you have a disease that might ruin your kidneys.



