Denden Lazaro: Libero Queen By Elech Dmercy Nobyembre 19, 2016 always see Dennise "Denden" Lazaro when he is playing volleyball.
This is because he is a "libero."
Strong, Maliksi and alert are 5-foot-5, Dennise, known for the nickname Denden so he is the one being attacked by his allies when it comes to the defense.
The work of a libero is difficult because once of him depends on so that the set of setter will be good to the Spikers.
"The first ball should be good to not suffer" the setter to set a play. "Said Denden to finish the course BS Biology in Ateneo.
Former Ateneo defense specialist is 24-anyos Denden and now that the pangatlong lugar is playing with the BaliPure that happened in the recent implementation of V-League Season 13 Reinforced Conference.
And because of his skill from the defense, he was called the Queen of the libero, but how was he fond of the sport of Dennise.
"Actually gusto ko na maging piloto ang the ugly of my paningin not 20-20" was able to feel a statement of Denden.
"Nagsimula ang paglalaro ng volleyball kapag ako WAS ng bata ang nagturo sa akin at saka ko tinangkang lumabas sa varsity team noon ko WAS tauhan noong ika-apat na taon high school By coach Roger Gorayeb.

Denden became a gitna hitter first in high school before he became a libero.
He was proven to be clever in his position when he was appointed Best Libero in his V-League.
"Joy when they expect me to the defense, so gusto kong iparamdam sa kanila that I am able to do" my best para sa kanila "said Denden, who played with the Youth U-16 Girl's national team in 2008 Asian Youth Girls U16 Champieces ships.

Dennise is currently the double degree in the Doctor of Medicine and Masters of Business Administration in Ateneo School ng Medicine and Public Health.
The libero is a big help, a key for the success of the team so the chest should be full and strong to not be afraid to take care of the boititsit towards your whereabouts.
"Nagsusumikap really, you push" yourself even if you are having a hard time, you should motivate yourself, you need to love "the end of Denden.



