We will find a doctor now the way to confront him on Wednesday will destroy me friends who are coming to protect our simple man and social agriculture in the program agriculture of our government now, good morning, good Morning Ed Ed, which is a good morning.
Ha Aljur then I am happy because you are here or doktor at aural nakapuputi high school in the university of southeastern Philippines in the afternoon President there, even if they have been working on the training for the office, which is why I have to study the training training at the age that you have said to have a good place in the office. Earlier, of course, of course we are visiting the storm year-year-year-year-old, okay, we are saying that we are going through the meter Manila, but we are going to say that we are going outside the meter Manila at the same time in the Philippines.
So what un the problem in the Philippines is that number of those who have died a lot of ruined programs or the condition of the office.
A lot of ruined or okay billion billion taun-taon yes yes.
His sister rain from the southwest monsoon or lahat ng mga kaluluwa as long as the clouds that are from Thailand Vietnam and then he turned out to be angry at the West Philippines dagat.
We stories of what they are made of insult and we are attendees.
Then I have to fall into that if you see that you can see me 'settle television with those who are going to take advantage of the hope that you will see that you are going to try to put him in jail when he is just right here that he is not so much right that he is not too much of the right thing.
It's a person but why don't we try or what the government is doing before the time of dakilang ia and put them a lot of time.
National bigas production Council yes, you are okay to bisaya you even if you are.
Or whatever it is a waste to visit your soy titig or not a new month.
There is no new idea of cleaning money over sometimes when it is possible to be done.
That is still sources of corruption or okay, they are not even more than walo and their money that they are at ease with the same time, as long as there is corruption in the crying abot of those who do wan help help.
But it is very simple why we don't try it is the extent of damage in the Philippines right?
If in the story, he is getting pregnant but he is not going to be imprisoned or just stress that way because of ramgen slay.
It was the same time when I was going to work with him not to go to sleep without getting drunk in Manila snobbish.
Why did she not do that I would be okay to call the others as close to the Ocean of the Ocean is different so it is different so much.
This is eager to southwest monsoon yes yes there is a big damage here in Manila when it comes here too many rain that is why it should be a month for seven days to say that you have to look at those who have the rivers with rivers.
Bring you too much where that is from the malapit na malapit na said
He will be jailed in the sea when it comes here right in agriculture in all of us all of course of course just too much expenses because you just display salt soy salt, there are a lot of people who work with people.
It is no longer a good solution to no'n, it is the same time for us to find out when Handugan reserba yes to the rain flooding just a few days of water, right there is a cash basis that I have also been doing in other countries or hardin that we are going to be able to use water and hardin. No maliw doesn't have a small maliw w w w w w
It's going to be a while there will be a place.
What is that, what they are doing in the meantime.
There is no water from the sea coming inside the taxi going to the taxi going to the sea, which is not used to all the creature water water.
To be here in order to save that constant prayer is just too much once in the Philippines.
I am going to be a hagdan yes.
The lord is just beautiful because during the day of the month secretary my police here when he comes to the end he said to Mabel paper notebook almost know that yes, how long is our ofw department of vinegar to dry the dry up dry.
Enjoyable.
The display of them.
It will be fit dry that it is the first secretary that is a new secretary, which is a text message that they are taking too much of the item that they are taking.
So that is how simple Matik family is like that when he showered with her soap there, the people who make the siopao are looking for a lot of people who are making the rest of the world so that they will be able to drive the south of what we are going to take a couple of times when they are three later in control of the number of people who are going to be able to deliver a lot of people who will not die there are a lot of people who will benefit from a lot of people who will it is not not not an unknown not to not not do not not not
Your house will be ruined by the people here we are not in the said that they are not thinking of that in Marikina that is the liver they know that if every year growing up with a music.
Up to the height of it because it was signature in the height of the
Second floor they will not be less of course of course.
Or even in Davao, there is a storm in dubai new present to write your house that I will just add to Eduardo there in Pampanga what did to let go of the one who let go of the house.
It is the indibidwal or biya there is a house that is high enough to take place even if he will be able to forget all of his causes for gas yungib free yet for free.
It is the person that is that person.
He is not going to live in the chin his state is high.
Among those Chinese.
The tongue will not pass by the rare threatened of donya boat Really so that they can have food so that is what the brain is supposed to do that the Philippines knows that the Philippines is doing that simple.
Or right?
We also have a lot of grandmother who's going to let us go back to the storm again.
A storm that is the reason why yes yes.
The reason Yes.
Lumilitaw the agreement often yes yes.
So the surprise karagatan attached to those who are in the meantime.
It's the wind or the air.
The heat is the wind yes yes you know in the thesis this is the attitude last span of the same time.
Even the sister Mariz left to ask to ask.
That it was going to be that way.
Tol.
The storm came from getting angry, Shaw timog Pacific will go to the Philippines do that, if we can only consolation there are no lobregand there are no lobregand there are no lobregor.
So why don't try that to do that.
She said that it was expensive.
The strength of the country who was affected by the telepono to contribute to japan revealed but all the months that there was a lot of money being helped in the operatives.
Of course too but what is clear according to all in the world doesn't believe they can't do anything we can't do.
That is the number of the problem you have to training do, that's why it is me in the program agriculture owners of our country yes I said they can be the training that I have given a lot of my family jan super tired I passed by the one that I was working with, I passed by my interest in the floor, I passed by my interest in the floor, I passed by the interests coco. The thick of the barbed blessed agrikultura is like Salt like that is Salt like that.
Kaya
They said why most of the know of course in the Boss I know that it is right that you mentioned to me should be idebelop for example, how to take care of that in what you look at in the Philippines, the children who are said to be the ones who are okay with the children, the children who are said to have been malnutrisyon with the children.
They have to leave that they are growing up or bansot yes and then that's the vermin capacities there is no low bag that has been caught in the Philippines because of the gathering mahigit Three daang milyong piso.
The government did not say anything of our things.
It's your priprision in the barangay destroyed aware of what they are doing of oatmeal and then that's the driver you know that is where they are buying from the young lion drinking malunggay malunggay malunggay malunggay malunggay malunggay.
They do not know a bag of the child, the child, limang taong gulang hanggang labing dalawang taong gulang ha ha.
It is very popular to labing dalawang taong gulang to double tulad mo they don't know that.
Why is it in the Philippines more than the Philippines.
Anything else to do with it.
There are not more of the television what you can show Adam you know.
You don't know you don't know malugay.
When you ask yes.
We spend time with those people you are listening to or buy Amelia igspent what are the ingredients of ingredients.
In Bagumbayan, he is complete with dalawa so he will be able to take a glimpse of him / her with a little bit more syum and then white with milk to milk milk.
We do not know that we just don't want to Madrid that is not just your money
Or there is a research that you have no gay food in chicken alone.
Add an egg to add eggs.
You feed the child his child then will be able to resent his wish a lot.
They grew up quickly, they only lack the information burger, why do not have a cellphone once because the number one in the Philippines number one plague plague.
Ha flooded telebisyonradio in the commercial of the actors actress there are those who point out again.
Tito video you know that.
Isn't it.
What is all that but ask what son-in-law she doesn't know maybe it's probably going to be.
Yes, she immediately went into the backyard in the yard only after I plant it but you have a training schedule of what they can be attening over boarding something that you are saying to get distracted from the heart of his hard care of his hard care.
I help him because I am blinded with that in the national help I am going to have no payment or dalawampung taong gulang I am like I want to give what I know I know.
If there is a swelling that you can't see yet studying if there is someone who has been able to do it.
Then it will be a habit that I will talk to someone who will be able to do it free or look at it is aljo 'to what I have a lot of being picked on here.
It's okay to be hungry in the really face or bisaya or network.
What we need impoinformation formation or the malunggay is the most nutrients that are going to be the one.
Naturally pagkain in the whole world no one can win with that.
To be defeated with no one.
A little thank you to the doctor xda later we will talk after our graduation in radio program, we will continue to be able to do that in the wedding thank you yes that we are yes to us.
