Successful Reyd on the 49th IB who is conducting Oplan Bayanihan.

NPA Camarines Norte (Armando Catapia Command)

April 29, 2012, reporting to be reported by Armando Catapia Command (BHB-Camarines Norte): 12: 11 at noon (April 29), it is successful to rape the 49th IB who is conducting Oplan Bayanihan-Peace and Development Team (PDT) in Barangay Ma-OT, Labo Camarines Norte.
Ten elements of 49th IB were stranded in Barangay Hall, when the red warriors attacked this noon.

The six M16 armalayt seized the BHB, a K3 Saw-Machine Gun, a 45 45 and a laptop.
In the start ulang report, three died in the actual fight and there were wounded on the side of the military.
Along with the walti, the commanding officer of this is 2Lt Eric Estrada.
No walti on the side of the BHB.

The troops of the 49th IB is the one responsible for the heinous massacre in the family Mancera last February 25 in Purok 6, Brgy.
Free, Labo where the two children died along with their father, Benjamin Mancera.
The berblood troops of the 49th IB deserves to pay for the innocent killing of the two children Michael (10 years old) and Richard (7 years old).

Fierce havoc in life and livelihood of farmers in the town of Labo is the berblood troops of 49th IB who are conducting operations Oplan Bayanihan in the name of "peace" and "prosperity."

PDT is the former called SOT, changing the name is an attempt of the regime of the US-Aquino to eradicate the bloody record in violation of human rights by the former SOT of the military.

Since January, the operation of the Oplan Bayanihan of 49th IB was covered in the town of Labo.
The himpil of the PDT of the sentered barrio is a violation of the laws of digma in relation to the use of public facilities and crowded places in pagbabase of the military.
The safety of the citizens will be put in danger of the PDT of the PDT in the barangay hall, the center centers and the actual center of barrio.
The military shield the taumbarrio.

This realization is the response of the BHB to the request of the citizens to give justice to the cruel massacre in the family Mancera this February 25.
The citizens have long been calling here to cast the 49th IB in the barangay in Labo which is being widened by Oplan Bayanihan, because of its cruel record of violation of human rights.



