The brain of the bombing in "land PANGAKO"

In the consecutive "bombing" in Mindanao this past week, the game imagination of some of our countrymen prevailed.
There are speculations that one of the responsible for this is Napoles or allies of it in the government.
As if the media will keep the issue from ten billion pesos of a scandal that is currently being blamed by the public.
With money, connection to the government and experience of the former military officer Napoles's wife, what we can say is.
However, maybe it is too much of "extreme" this thing as a solution to their problem!
There is also a suspicion that this might be one kind of destabilization not to struggle with PNoy like the chaos during the time of his mother, but just a dulutan of non-stop shaking of his service.
For if the bet of the Palace, Mar Roxas will not be preparing for 2016, the triumvirate of Binay, Erap and Enrile!
Hmmm, Enrile?
It can be, however it looks like you have a mix of "praning" that seems to be the espikulation!
Hehehe.
Just a moment of time, is it not so "katwiran" of Angkol Sam, "in the first warning against terrorism that he is the reason for the closed of their many embassy in the whole world?
You can, but "that is if there is a deep step that is being cooked by aydol Barrack Obama and his CIA!
There is also a suspicion that MNLF Chairman Nur Misuari has a tantrum because he will eventually lose the venom if he will let the "peace agreement" of the government and the group MILF.
You can!
But, Nur is going to stomach many innocent civilians to die and hurt just because of pride or ambition in power?
Can you?
Yes, it turns out that the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter or BIFF did not have admitted one of the bombing that occurred?
Hmmm, it's just the difficulty to hold on to the words of American American Kato because the course of his brain is rather unlikely rather than he / she / she is dishog!
Huh!
For now, it's a matter of time, almost all of us are all espikulation because we don't know anything.
Except oprs to those who are doing the series of bombahan there in the "land promise."
But only one certain, there are some demons who will benefit from what they did!
They should have been watching it!
Whoever you are, please stop "that!
PNoy might be touchy and thinking of declare Martial Law!
D there are all of us who are going to hang on!



