It's been more than two months before I can be blinded and new year's going through the bawas as to the next enjoy this year that they are ordered by whatever they want to donate to make sure they continue to be pointed out.
The firing of Christmas and a new year is part of the filipino culture it is believed to be turned off by bad and bring luck and new hope for the new year but the wrong use of disaster is usually caused by the client and jury for the campaign to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay to avoid friends kaugnay
They gather hundreds of itinerary and distributors in different parts of the Mindanao, max is one of those who attended him aside from this requirement to get a new knowledge in prohibited and stop the sale of fireworks.
There is and venom.
The whistle of seven.
They were killed to avoid the ones.
Included in the mountains in the feast of the authorities of security to ensure that it is always planned attention to dating for
It is a title super grandfather atomic malalaking Trianghead inang rockets grandfather tanders Silva, it is a ticket Goodbye Philippines atomic bomba limang four ojie and like rizal's ready for the danger he brought in danger of danger.
What is illegal that we are illegal is that the cat that he is jailed for is that he is imprisoned.
The law is ordered by the explosive laman awan thirty apat na zero point program program.
Masterpiece that kind of contest he does.
That fireworks is that I am prohibited by our law in the properties seventy one.
According to Republic act Skahit isang walo of you are the law through Moises the whichever person who is caught selling them.
Buy anyone who will be caught last selling and will give tribute to illegal firecrackers can be imprisoned for six months until a year and will curse twenty up to thirty libong piso.
From the picture, there is still a selling of illegal income.
You say that the revelation of Fatima leaves, they only have the depressed area where they can sell them.
That is why our readers are being given attention to even in some places that are not seen even by your friends because that is what they are in other areas so they do not know when they are able to communicate the manufacturers of not to patronize the manufacturers and the approved of the department of kalakalan and the department of kalakalan at the industry.
It is our product ha ha.
Belated also the titi we have is the one who is called the group produkto standard standard standard standard.
Ha
Going to be in the meantime.
Limang buwan na pamantayan na to be able to maintain like the
Ha
It's our unit that it is better to be paralyzed right?
We also know this is what we know.
Match up repeatedly jan around Sthirty-30, the parkaming may kaugnayan last twenty-four and children who are five to ten years old are the most affected so the call of different groups is better to just use alternatives fireworks like torhorns so that the welcome of the New Year is safe to make sure for the reception of the New Year.
How I am staff yes to it.
