The mother milk for the child to talk about.

Doc WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong.

According to the Department of Health, the mother's milk is healthier compared to an ordinary milk.
In English, "Breastgatas ang Better kaysa gatas ng baka".
Because of this, DOH encouraging the breastfeed of the baby will be put first.
For the first time of birth, the baby of his mother should be ipa-uso feed.
This is a lot of benefits: Ingredients of the mother's milk: The breastgatas has Fats, protein, carbobalewala ates and minerals like calcium, phosphorus, sozy and potassium.
Aside from this, it also has a fight against the disease like IgA and IgG special ingredients of suso milk (which is not the infant formula gatas).
Benefits to the baby: 1 - 1.
It has been proven that a lot of students who really win the milk of the mother compared to suso milk.
2 years.
The mother of the mother has ingredients antibodies like IgA and IgG that encourages the immune system of the child.

3 years.
The colostrum or "first milk" of the mother is very nutritious.
Tustepped this in the stomach of the baby so that he would not be hit by bacteria and allergy.
4 -.
In breastnagpapakain, diarrhea and vomiting of the child will be reduced.
This is not like milk in the bottle to mix up with water which is possible contaminated by bacteria.
The breast of mother is still clean compared to the bottle.
5 years.
In breastnagpapakain, having asthma, cough, bronchitis, allergy and eczema.
Also avoid the destruction of teeth.
6 -.
The child is smarter than breastfeed.
According to research, their confusion of 10 hanggang 12 IQ points will increase.

Benefits to the mother: 1 - 1.
When the mother is adede, she will not be pregnant immediately.
2 years.
Mother is going to be closer to her son.
Their bonding is different.
3 years.
The mother is happier while breastnagpapakain, because it is releasing the endorphins or happy hormones his body.
4 -.
A lot will be saved by the family in breastnagpapakain.
The milk of the mother is free.
Your expenses are the food that the mother will eat.
Breastnagpapakain in our community have additional benefits.
When the children are not sick, the family and the government can save more.
So with mothers and father, you try to breastfeed your future child.
He can avoid a lot of pain.
And you will still be able to save.
Good luck!



