ISF: ISF is indeed a big challenge!
Vice President Leni Robredo explained yesterday that it is not just construction of structure to be the house solution to the problem of the informal devices families or ISF.
Because he visited the different pabahay projects of the past housing czar and he was crushed at what he saw.
It was vacant and they were just destroyed.
Abandoned.
No one wants to stay.
Alas!
In summary, billions of peso spent on this housing.
How did it happen that there are so many who have no own homes and gossiping to sleep on the road or under the bridge but do not want to live in the vacant housing of the government?
New mismatch?
Just for "that is vacant jobs and a new graduate students.
There are so many applicants and there are also vacant jobs but not similar to the two problems that cannot be resolved.
This is also the situation of the government's housing and ISF try to fit in Metro Manila and big cities.
That is why what VP Leni is praise for, they just don't get away from their houses and roof their heads.
It is necessary, in their transfer community, there is electricity and water.
The economy is important.
It means that there are businesses that they can be able to attend.
It is also the primary ingredients to be idle as a settlement site or housing project is a young transportation and near public schools that will serve as "palaruan" of their children.
Even if it is homeless and ISF, they also think of course the situation of their family will be the condition of the relocation relocation.
It should really be, you can live in the new residence.
It will be their built and their ambition and dreams will be given true for the family.
Not because they do not have a roof, then automatically will bite the transfer of the countrymen.
If this is a big problem of a pabahay czar, it is sad that instead of increase the budget of the office of VP Leni, it will be cut off.
Despite this, the Vice President would gladly accept the smaller OVP budget in the coming year 2017.
But hopefully, the "housing program will be made by a separate fund" even if it is not directly put in the office of VP Leni.
There are so many need to be done with this problem.
Others don't see, the "Decongestion" of Metro Manila or the transfer of ISF towards the new community outside the city can be revealed in so many problems like the congested traffic, problem environment (pollution, garbage, flood) and even the crime rate.



