
A new success has been implemented by the Bagong Hukbong Bayan of Rizal!

Macario LiES (Ka Karyo) NPA Rizal Provincial Operations Command (Narciso Antazo Aramil Command) Nobyembre 21, 2013, 2013.

A taktikal offensive was launched by the NAAC-NPA-Rizal in order to be held accountable for the promise of the land Engineer Benjamin Flor and Bobby Lingan.
The taktikal was held that this is very intense after almost 2 weeks of combat operation by the combined force of PNP and AFP in the countryside of the province of Rizal.
Around 5: 00 in the afternoon of November 20, a platun of the BHB is a Farm of the chicken that there is already owned by Engineer.
Benjamin Flor and Bobby Lingan based in Barangay.
Macabud, Rodriguez, Rizal.
The decision was implemented by the decision of democratic Guuncertain nong Bayan who punish the said farm, because of the extensive pangangamkam of the land, recklessly firing and hurting people.
The left deer was launched because of many complaints received the BHB from the people in the said place.
3 shotgun was confiscated, a caliber.
45, a twenty-two (.22) and bullets.
After the taktikal, the forces of the BHB are safe to retreat while the citizens are celebrate in the said place.
At least, justice has been given justice and will be solved by the BHB for their long request to punish the promises of the land and roads that violate the policy of the democratic government country.

The said taktikal offensive was done by the BHB inside the perimeter of the 16th IB-PA.
59th IB-PA, SAF-PNP and RMG-PNP.
This shows that the enemy of crushing the movement under Oplan bayanihan is not succeeding.
Instead of crushed, the revolutionary movement in the province became stronger.
The successful TO are those who are prepared for rocks to declare that the Oplan bayanihan in the province of Rizal failed.
The BHB supported by the citizens is not a need to be crushed.
Rather, it will get stronger and will continue to disappoint any against insurhevidences program of the Marcos regime.



