Thursday, April 2, 2015.

There is no PARko...
There is no mass: (Repost & Revised) reflection on the Holy Huwebes - Year B - April 2, 2015 - yer OF THE mahirap!

There is a mother who is trying to wake up his son: "Hoy damuho you!
You wake up and you will catch up with the mass! "
Pamaktol to answer the child, "mother, give me two good reasons to get up."
The mother replied, "Iho, the first is the plunderenta years old and you are no longer needed to be told to get up.
Second, you are the priest who will be mimone!
You are able to collapse!
We are!! "
Meanwhile, mother is right because there is no mass KUNG no one and WALA RING PARING KUNG no mass!
This Thursday Santo, there are two celebration: The release of priesthood and the question of the Sakts of the Banal Eukaristiya.
Two sacrament will never be separated.
"The Lord Jesus, last night he was going to pick the bread, thanked, and divided it, and said," this is my body that is being served for you.
Do this to worry about me. "
In the Banal which led by our Lord Jesus, he gave to our two big sign of God's love to the person.
Priesthood is the symbol of trust to us that although we are not worthy of us and chosen to participate in his mission of the pagliserve.
Eukaristiya is the symbol of loyalty and love that led to the offer of his life for our safety.
On this day, we show our love for our priests.
Ipgadbehavior us to remain honest and diligent in the living of their vocation.
May they remain furniture in order for the love of God to deliver to people.
In this day, hopefully we can feel the great love for us by God every time we are being deceived Santa Mone.
His body and blood are offered to be able to use us a new life.
That is why each approach to communion should give us hope that we can be compared to Christ.
Love if he / she is still loved.
Forgive how he forgive.
Serve how he served.
We are called to be like Him.
We may be Christ for others!
And in the Taong of the dukha or Year of mahihirap, we should strive to be Christ to our siblings poor.
Like Jesus who has a unique regard for the dukha may we also hope to be "Eukaristiya" or thanking our siblings who are unfortunate.
What we will help them, especially with their medical material, it is big or small, is a blessing they thank while they live.
In our continuing to help them, we don't realize, it becomes "Eukaristiya" (thanking) we are for others.



