Planted in the Bawat movement.

"The intelligence, like the writer, is always always (necessarily) public," said Prop.
Luis V. Teodoro, pretending to be intelligence and teacher of speech, with his new sanaysay "manunulat at Public Intellectuals."
According to him, the said writing on his speech "Interpreting World: And writer as Public Intellecooo" in the perensya of balangay in the Philippines of pen (poets, Playwrights, Essayists, Essayists.
According to Teodoro, "unlike Pilosopo Tala, it can't be done by the intelektwal as long as it is to hide from where he discovered and understood, let it be discovered by the future, when his duty is not letting go of chaos in the future, which is the foundation he can help quickly."
There is exactly a meaning, however, the praseng "public intelligence" in the US, where it came from and met.
And with the repair of this, contrary to what Teodoro said, it is not always public to be the intelligence and writer - writing a poem, dula, sanaysay or novel.
According to the scholar, Russell Jacoby, who is one of those responsible for the pair of prase, "rusty the term] in general (halos halos)" Decline ng American Intellectuals "1989]" 1989] ".
It is obviously the second divided of the decade "80 written and published the research of Jacoby, because it is still focused on the middecision like newspaper and salt.
In the continuous spread of television and after the Internet in the following decades, the "public intelektwal" of use for this nap will also be released to send the issues that they are involved in a bigger public.
In other stuff, it cannot be avoided, it has been paid for being a intelektwal "famous" or celebrity.
On the basis of this meaning in the "public intelligence," many can also identify in the country, both of the Kaliwa, Kanan and go to the middle of the middle.
But there is a public intelligence that you have a meaningful pay attention to: The one who is Axel Pinpin.
They want to take advantage and useful to examine the prlocked you as a public intelligence.
A lot of Pinpin met with the appointed "Tagaytay 5," activists in Timog Katagalugan who was arrested, was tortured and after being imprisoned for more than two years of the government.
After being freed, Pinpin continues to be activists in Timog Katagalugan.
In the ranks of activists, Pinpin was known for his poem.
He was known, more than the poem he was able to imbag and naisalro, in the poem in gathering - rally, night culture, awards, and others.
Prominent, and he is permanent with the laktowns being launched by activists and citizens of Timog Katagalugan, included in the oorganisa of the ranks, connection with the movement of action, and of course, tumutula in different stages of it.
He is like a special leader for activists.
He is a favorite invite to a different gathering to tumula.
His reading, the silence and finishing of the strong pause are often met.
Many are taking pictures with him and there are witnesses who have also witnessed him a few fans, even if it is not a minor.
It is also a favorite wishes and to share, i-like and share, his poem on the Internet.
The value of his poem is invaluable, especially with the ranks of the masses.
"The theory," said Karl Marx, "is becoming the material force along with its grip on the masses."
And in the actions of Pinpin, it was nailcloser and close to the scene of the common theory in the masses - in a way that conclusion, clearly, earnest, and remembered.
Kongbuilt, because it was published four of the issues and the immediate experience of the masses, during the time they experienced and during the time they were fighting in relation to it.
Pinpin's poem is effective about the pasismo of the Estado, for example, not just because they are good as a poem.
They are effective because they are reading in front of the filipino masses who are fighting for the tickled arization, shift in the ground, demolition and even if they do not take a line in rally - and usually, at times the wounds are still fresh.
He quickly humiliated his wound and was able to heal the wound, and when he was being laid down to further fight.
Pinpin has reached a fame in the academy and the stem of the duck; he has a poem in MRT.
But it is not associated with the rising of his rising often fear and doubt of the faces of the art of art in the west where their likha will be like an image of Cniya Guevarra - in a lot of kamiseta, a source of the system, it seems that there is no radical message, and there is no danger of the rules.
This kind of observation is the witness that Terry Eagleton then: "There is a very understanding tendending and the American liberal and radical, because they are sore from the speed of the chemical Bank of The Significance of teorya, 1990]."
But Pinpin is not alamon and his message is not going to weaken - and there is also no one telling it.
The reason: He refused to be in charge of this.
Eagleton said, "if your most beloved revolutionary that can be eaten by the system can be eaten by a system, this just means that it is not enough to be a chance or suberated, but... they have no real veins in a filipino masses and opposition..." but they have no real root to the one who makes his likhang. Art in the masses is art in the masses.
It was said that it was said by the former director Lino Brocka, he is not interested in paglikha ng the best movie Filipino, but in chaos of the best Filipino audience.
Pinpin, not only involved in paglikha ng talented poem, but in pursuing the filipino masses.
He's not only a organisador of words, but by the people.
He is not only fishing with metapora, said, but also hits people for change.
During the time of the sureksyunism in the Philippines, during the decade, 80, there is a crazy thought to plant armed in the ranks of those who are ready to join.
Maybe, it is more dangerous in the rules if in every move of the masses, those who like Pinpin are planted.
I hope that there are increased, increase, those activists have increased, alagad of art and public intelligence like Axel Pinpin!



