
It is a declaration of ceasefire for traditional Christmas, on the anniversary of the PKP and the visit of Pope Francis's visit.

Committee Bank, Partido Komunista of the Philippines 17 December 2014 salin: Ceasefire declaration para sa tradisyunal na holiday, CPP anibersaryo at pagbisita ni Pope Francis

The Komite Bank of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines (PKP) is released by the declaration of the ceasefire for all of those who are the ones and units of Bagong Hukbong Bayan (BHB) and milisyang town that has bisa in the following time:

12: 01 n.24, 2014 to 11: 59 n.g. of December 26, 2014; 12: 01 n.u.
December 31, 2014 to 11: 59 n.g. of January 1, 2015; and 12: 01 n.U., 2015 until 11: 59 n.g. of January 19, 2015.

In the days mentioned, all the units of Bagong Hukbong Bayan and the milisyang town were ordered to stop the launch of the intense operations against the units and staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, by the Philippine National Police and different armed groups paramilted by the government of the Philippines (GPH).

The declared laration is being released as a cooperation to the filipino people in their celebration of traditional Christmas that will join the celebration of the celebration of the PKP in December 26.

The declaration of the ceasefire is also being released as a respect for the approaching visit of the father of the Catholic Catholic priest, Pope Francis who is looking forward to the filipino people who are a chance for the celebration of the military and the rights of the children, the issue in Hacienda Luisita and the massive lack of land, poverty is the issue in Hacienda Luisita and the massive lack of land, poverty is the issue in Hacienda Luisita and the massive lack of land, poverty is the issue in Hacienda Luisita and the massive lack of land, poverty and taking advantage of the farmers and workers are taking advantage of the farmers and workers, burukratikong corruption and negligence of government in those who survived the disaster and the poor.

While the declaration of the ceasefire is void, all units of BHB and milisyang town should remain in active defense.
All of the kumander, Pulang warriors and milcers should remain vigilant and alert with the cheap operations of the military troops and personnel of the police of GPH in the territory of the democratic guoes nong town.

All units of BHB and milisyang town should always be prepared for the option to negotiate with the aggressive units of the enemy as defence for yourself to stop them to make no pakundangang kalupitan and domination.

The citizens should remain alert in the ongoing campaign of the domination of the Marcos regime under Oplan Bayanihan.
The Marcos regime is using the visit of Pope Francis as a reason to deploy a large number of armed troops in order to stop the citizens in the oorganisa and piled up expressing their national and democratic aspirations in the time of the visit.



