A grade Nine pagong admires the Pangasinan despite his disability, even if his mother is still working on school, then his mother is still lacking and possessed his story to the reporter, who is deliberately his story in the reporter.
Every day when entering school, the grade student Angelica Panganiban is going to go to school in school, Angelica Panganiban about the fact that Angelica is going to go away because of the pain that his mother is taking care of the recognition that she has received recognition in the recognition of the recognition of the recognition that she has received from the recognition of the recognition that she has received the recognition of the recognition of the recognition that she has received the recognition of the recognition of the recognition that she has received the recognition of the recognition of the recognition that she he offered it to his mother to offer him to his mother.
Thank you for all of you.
Of the view of view of view.
You are suffering from it, that way.
Make you feel better.
That it was going to be.
I love you even say something else is going to say that the situation will be difficult every day but if he wants him to do it.
I'm just going to support him always with him.
It can go to the espesyal na edukasyon SPED words but he bought up to the class so he / she was being admired by the management of the school all of the destination that we put up with, according to ram even if it was still ram so that he would
Can go to his class.
Angelika was three years old when he was diagnosed with a kind of thoroughly and rusty cannot move but it was not an obstacle to his education honor student since it was raining once I would say that there might be no classes in the say that he might say that there might be no class in his education.
He can't enter milk no one of the rumors also fond of the art of pinta anjelica just a few of his masterpieces to become a popular artist so that he will pay for the good of his parents no matter what lord give her to do no matter what they give to lord no matter what they give to lord no matter what he has to give.
His own matagumpay.
And then to return all of their difficulties.
They are reading.
