
21 weapons seized in Paluan, Occidental Mindoro Mindoro.

You are Higom Maragang Lucio de Guzman Command- BHB Mindoro November 7, 2014, 2014.

Twenty-one (21) strong caliber guns and other kinds of military were confiscated by the Pulang warriors of Lucio de Guzman Command (BHB-Mindoro) in the realization of the municipal hall of Paluan, Occidental Mindoro earlier at 3: 00 in the afternoon, November.
7, 2014.
This includes seven M14, thirteen M16 and a 12-gauge shotgun, two pistol and a lot of bullets and using military.

The 7 soldiers were killed in more or less than 20 minutes and were wounded including 4 pesos included in 76IB (PA), PNP - PSB, and PNP-MPS that during that time, it was in the municipal hall of Paluan.
The mayor was brought to the retreat of Paluan, Mayor Carl Michael Pangilinan but after being able to speak and mababalaan about the spread of illegal drugs, fishing and illegal drugs were immediately sent home.
The NPA are safe to retreat without any damage and no any damage to the masses / civilians in the area.

The 76IB and PNP-Police-PSB and the Peace Development teams (PDT) / COPD are relentless breaking the rights of citizens especially the natives while conducting operations in the barangay jurisdiction of Abra de Ilog, Paluan and Mamburao, all in Occidental Mindoro under Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos administration.
The Filipino Mindoro continues and will not forget the heinous crimes and violation of human rights (including the arrest, tortyur and killing) of those who have already been attacked by Phil.
Army who was assigned to Mindoro like 16IB, 80IB, 68IB and other units of PA and PNP of 6SFC, 34SFC, 19SFC, 2SRC, 17SRC, 18SRC, 3rd SAF BN] in the time of Oplan after Tamaraw in the leadership of the berblood. It ends after this.

The mask should be undressed by the act of the pension AFP and PDTs who are "nice" and wandering in human rights.
They should expose their deceptions and deception.
The crimes of PA-AFP and PNP should reveal against the people and will answer those responsible for these crimes.

Let's be held accountable and berblood military in debt to the people!

Expose and fail the Oplan Bayanihan!



