Now, We are going to have to be the one to be with us and we will be able to meet the Palatino para makapagtapos sa Britania so this is a different training and the flow of the time there in my country to be training in Yuki with us, maybe Angga pagpasok of the white Mitsubishi with us.
Morning in the audience when doing it.
I am probably so that we can start our conversation with us of your experience with the Britanya
TOMORROW Morning and punerarya that immediately immediately.
It is very good to hinahamon ng mga salitang whisper I am going to be a Filipino who is there to be there.
At we have a lot of kaklase who is the best basehan at those who
Benefits like the sun or students dating
So one of the happy parts of the training we learned a lot of different culture we know a lot of different culture yes but the beauty of the constitutional that we have faced as well as our appointment at the aviation How is also needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukdrains, which is needed by the sukd@@
You also share the one hundred sixty you are not at the same time but it's the one who's going to work out one hundred thirty and those who are the same, they're going to be able to decide that we're going to be the one who will be able to conduct the right one by the bente limang taon-old white Mitsubishi and that's how many of them have been chosen by the Philippines in the sign in London. The one is the one who is the one who is the one.
They will be able to sustain all the attention to the former hand, which is why they are made to join the despair or those who are choosing to despair the call of the community housiattacked by the night because they almost passed past past past past.
The true ander.
Sau.
Im I am very thankful for the white socks on the Philippines para sa pagkakataon na Given.
Sa vote for the dian in the abroad na may kagandahan at nag-amok na
Daang metro na sahig siguro sa suporta ng Pilipinas ang mga opisyal ng Pilipinas at mga lokal na opisyal ng pamahalaan.
It was said to be the first birthday skydiver.
The training has become meaningful inside the money online punuan that is the most important lesson.
You have learned from the china of bringing the sablan in the worst of the very well as they are in the meantime.
Lack of biodiversity that you don't know where you are going to bring this up one of the data I learned there is a positive
At sa aking personal na karanasan sa cebu.
But it's your swimming do, it's the military pangunguna made it look like a nurse seaman ikalawang buhay
What now seems like you want to keber how WAS post on January four of course center of fighting weight water Filipinos are mapapansin of chatting at paglagda sa kuwentong ito ay si Really seryoso also
Or support trap limang permission, mythical una sa Pilipinas, baka
Two o'clock still added to the weather to borrow the training for the apat major of Mario, Mario
A lot of hygienic is rude to you.
You don't always do that, in this serye.
To be told by the NBI to the NBI.
Office of the Office of the Office.
To personally advantage.
O Ma'am'am.
Godbless Xander in the position.
But I also asked our free medicine to UTI how can you find him / her if he / she is going to take place in the Philippines.
In one of the good opportunities for Many taon, I am going to be able to go to school with the 'yo with me and I will return that to our government or through teaching the Philippines By ngayong panahong nakatingin sa panahong ito at the Philippines quite Oxford square.
It's different that it's a lot of fun that it's cute when it's assigned to someone who is supposed to have no espesyal assignment
It's the masses that I just make sense of it.
Maybe you are an inspiration to a lot of watching us your message to them who also wants to be able to training in another country to serve as well as the pinipig of the pinipig.
Or paglabas ng suspek ay pagkakataon na to talk to our youth all the course that that is a response to be blown off or to be the one.
Joy adrianne miyembro ng Pilipinas na si Maroons forces ng Pilipinas.
The third will be jailed and will progress in the country.
BUT an honor taxes to Smaging aral.
Even the manager many thank you very much to speak the story of what is fun once in the Philippines with Angga.
