
Cavalier's Family Sportsmfest: Remembering sa PMA Traditions!

One of the annual activity mixed with members of the Philippine Military Academy alumni Association Inc (PMAAAko) is the cavalier's Family Sportsmfest which is where the nakatapos of the PMA together with their family for a day bonding activity.

Constant fun games will be experienced in this market but all nakatapos (also known for the call Cavaliers) are excited to be with and take part in it.
Because of this, the first objective is fun, and next to win!

When sportsmfest yesterday (Disyembre 8, 2013), I had a chance to join because my assignment was only in Camp Aguinaldo.

Many 'Come-ons' why we have put up with this and included there is to worry about the usual experiences that we passed when we were still cadeon the PMA.
These traditions are showing up to the good bond of the Cavaliers who are in different sectors of society, especially those who are in active service.

Best Company.

The Cadet Corps Armed Forces of the Philippines are composed of eight companies who are called according to the alsmetic designation of this: Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo, Foxtrot, Golf and the Hawk Company.

There is also his nickname of the Corps: Alpha Indians, Bravo Bulls, Charlie Wildpusa, Delta bull aso, Echo Eagles, Foxtrot 'Cools', Golf Gallants and Hawk Hunters.

One of the extreme pointing out of us is the sense of loyalty and integridad that is what is being done in a simple fight to become the Best Company 'our company.
As long as there is someone to ask which is the most best company, of course Hawk Company!
(If we were from Hawk ask)

When we were still cade, there was a regular contests (Best-best competition) that the companies were really fighting to reap.
There is a calling Superintendent's Cup, Commandant's Cup, Jurado Cup, and even Cmawalan Order Drill Best Company streamer.

Who is able to reap award, of course they have the nagyayabang rights and have been ki-claim as the Best Company.

Also because of this, his companies turned into his way in terms of akademya performance, in discipline (conduct), to turn into the field of sports and even in the parade.

The fun Games.

In the design of the fun games, there are a lot of elements of tradition and training that we passed in the PMA.

The graduates are combined according to the Company where they graduate.
As a member of the Hawk Company within four years I was studying in PMA, of course I was included in the tinaguriang 'Hunters'.

The PMA klase is halo-halo there and the most senior is the CRSAFP Commander, Brigadier General Rolando Jungco that he was promoted as Team Captain or Company Commander.

Also like the game, we also require to have a Muse because it is included in contests which is called best Company Muse.
If the good child of General Jungco did not agree, maybe our muse will be a man.

Samo is the fun games that reached seven events.
Most of them are iparating and in front of the task done by the task.

Sometimes the patakaran is complicated but it is just being used to use the imagination of how to make it.
There is no misunderstanding because everyone is after the enjoyment to be with the game.

Simple but our masayang games are a lot of refuge.
We did not set up the preparation on our own through the right stretching ehersisyo.

We are able to negotiate the opponent from the company.
Only when there is a lot of members that are sinasaktan especially the upperest men.
So Sir, also exercise when there is a time!

I am forced to fight the refuge and gampanan of the 'wse' (exercise parts in the Army calisthenics that are being made to form the lies of the lies in PMA).
I remember to plebo which was punished by my Squad leader when the Guard detalye cannot memorize.

Here, turned to the Company call using the sound of an animal or a bird.
Of course, we are Hawk.
What else?
Uwaaaaaaaaaaaak!
Uwaaaaaaak!

In the game 'Fix iyong bunks', it is a front in order of the bed.
In PMA, the cadets are taught by the highest pamantayan of discipline and included there is the right to Fix of bunks.
There should be no trouble, there is a 45 degrees Tupi, the size of upupi is right and the mark of the PMA should not be very different.
Understand each other's graduates how it is doing because the pamantayan passed by one henerasyon was the same.
Oopps, huwag kalimutan na matanda ang towel!

We review the techniques how to fix the bunks in the fastest time.
The Bayanihan was also made here.

Because we are with the top of the colmer in order of bunks, we are proud of the picture of our bunks.

Nagbibihis formation is the call of clothing faster to catch up for a short time given.
It was included in the training of the new staff where it was as plebo, we were in front of the uniform and the ones to catch up with the latter, there was a death penalty.
You, can you get dressed in uniform for a minute?
And, change different uniforms that are being sold by 10 counts?

Now, don't be surprised why soldiers are quick to eat and also quickly get dressed!

In the bath rorace, three robes wear and trot going to the bathroom.
This is a modification in the death of Wear 100 bath robes! "When the upperklase is catching the plebo improper uniform in the toilet.
Huwag kalimutan na batiin ang upperadong lalaki sa gilid-tabi na hakbang ha?

It is weird that it is a race that I joined because there is a selfie pic in the sundial before running and hang out of the ababuniform.
Well, it goes along with the weather of vitality phones.
We are also selfie-selfie when there is a time!

This is where it is possible that he will be able to pay a labada if you are trying to catch up with a atensyon call for a formation.
Even more lamlamis, they will also be greedy when there is a time.

As they say, "We DID ating best pero hindi pala maganda Enough!"
When we peeked at the official scores, we defeated the bull aso By 2pts to save the crown as Best Company in the cavalier's Family Sports Fest!

We still celebrated because the Hawk Company was shown that we are still fierce and is always ready to show the fear to be in the fun games or our service to the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

You are Delta bull aso, wait for our sweet paghihiganti in 2014!



