It is not so that you can no longer be fried force to join that is why it is not so confused or in Divisoria then the good morning is going to be hit in the program with the freedom of freedom of the freedom of the freedom of freedom of the freedom that you have given to the change that you have to give up the best hand that you have to pay for the change that you have to pay for the change that you have to give. The biggest indeed as the biggest as the biggest as the biggest force of our armed strength in our celebration this day will be kalahok today.
We party-in-law involved in the exit of the independence day when the separation of the independence day will be reported in front of the starter slightest, the art and unkabayan of boy will be ara at the same time.
Sa punto na lima naman talaga ang piping like when the titi ninety walong lives sa labas ng presidential vacation
It's really too much that there is so much trouble that you have to build and general acquaintances of what we lose here at the point that I will be able to give the road to the center of the celebration of the celebration knocks on the door of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration of the celebration.
Do that Spain, it means that it is in outerspace to live the length of the length of those who are really the only ones
That message was a different kind of thing.
What are our other programs if we are already here that I am with our soldiers who will be able to share with the medical dental mission in Luneta today, they are being asked to be a sister sale Yap.
Still virgin.
It is the Speaker do, in the channel try also by the national flag day on the spot Alapan imus cavite you are down by rizal park.
Contact with it.
Dajo, the dios will give it there in there.
They could be taken advantage of.
Ronakakainom wet brown barato.
Given to the bulacan.
I am going to choose him.
BLOWS.
Titi excited to be able to do it.
Awesome in this category.
Then do it in the meantime.
Chief Justice bloody bloody is now a brother.
And in the eleven hour, it was the same time when he was able to attend a daily lima, the sabay-sabay was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the flag of the flag pokie topme, according to the okay idea of the sea of the victim who sold it, the cousin of the victim who was sold, would not be overcome by the victim to be exposed to Bibilad By and soaking. The aunt does, but it is tradisyunal, but it is traditional different jan that we are aware of celebrating the day of prime treatment of the prime of them, which is why our flag in squatter means that this is what his sister is really important to do, if you do not get involved with us, if you don't get involved with us.
Especially when I was really able to find out the said report of our said report earlier in the ongoing happening.
The chinese cya don't understand it.
It's going to help in the meantime.
To be able to do it.
That our reconciliation with them is the good morning to us, but anyway, it may lead to what the patients of the said activity can be done by the said activity that we are currently going to be monitoring by the events that you are currently going to be able to make up with a little bit of Adam and patag that Ella used to be in control of the politician.
Let us help Dante.
It's Cada that we start to impact because of the prominent name of the gun.
Have been killed or also killed.
Died.
Ameril Kato 'yong because of it.
However, Tambako also caught them.
"I also have the Better that is also being caught as well, then he will be able to cut the agreement covered in hard gumagabi, which is why all the katangian that he has died has already died.
At the mall in stone-throwing and walong Thirteen right away, after watching them, we gave the capability of the ability of what we gave.
It is because it is a hardware right now that we are pushing the law of pinakamalaking seeing the primary reason why he is still like this when we are still getting better when we are going to be able to open the early rebels in the force of what we have called there is what we have called for their force.
Others don't want to have peace agreement or have the university and there are going to be a lot of things.
Because the other nurse of the gano, is the one who is the
Dahilan they want to have a independent in the use of the Mindanao reported along
We kwento that's okay with the sheep seven ready for our armed strength of the Philippines to be prepared for the quality of the Philippines.
It's also a place.
Here here.
We are grateful to believe in the lotto father of us even if it is possible for us to have the courage to let the strength of child solidarity with the celebration of the day of prime in an unknown tanso tanso.
