It is closed now that there is only one duty wherein there is only a duty job synants or MERS Corona virus, this is not yet in the Philippines's permission to raising and they have died as well as they have died.
Cough cold and fever with the swelling of the throat or or imong ordinary bronchitis but this is also the symptoms of a new disease which can be a joke, which is why it is a civil Acute atory synpanawagan SARS, but it is a terrible thing to be left in other countries like france Italy, but it is fast spreading in other countries like france Italy, but it is quickly spreading in other countries like france Italy, but it is quickly spreading in other countries like france Italy, but it is fast nagkakaisa and nagkaisa in the list of the world health Organization thirty-four months ago from the disease of MERS twenty-four months from Saudi Arabia are thirty-in the list of the world health organization thirty-four months, which is why the country is fully guards against the story of our fellowmen who is an Lion officer of the hotel ministry in Saudi Arabia because of the quick spread again because of the quick spread again because of the quick spread again because of the fast spread.
It is said to be the board board hearing.
Then more then it is not just a yawa feast meter.
We do, that is the same thing.
Pasyente.
Forced to bring you laugh, you can also die.
For now, there are still no Filipinos who have been hit by
He / she was sick of pain.
But the report is on alert here in the Philippines to dugdehydrated and airports especially with the roots of supporters who are from the joke from the joke from the joke.
Those of those countries are coming from there and over the service that there is still a fever mice Rica.
We have an x-ray if you have bronchitis scrabble.
We are going to get you a sample immediately by the deeper there's positive and then I seem to miss a little bit of a little bit more.
And because it is a new disease or vaccine for this here.
The virus.
Here is here.
He is not fast spreading in what is in what is it.
Because it's dying that he got sick immediately to pass on the others.
We are the lord to wash your hands before eating healthy food and exercise to avoid MERS Corona virus also avoid having a direct contact or talking to the people who are positive in MERS Corona virus more than all checkup to the doctor when you experienced a cough fever swelling of my throat.
Mhm.
