Fireworks up to the province of the lump of the Abu Sayaff
They were able to plant the government troops.
The armed forces sent an additional force to keep the civilians in the significance if it is about to be done.
In the knowledge according to those who are visited especially when it is such a semana Week, it is a color, the victim is damaged.
She said.
We are here now we are here in Camp Aguinaldo we are in the lord because it has reached the total nine yes dead in the encounter between the police and military against the suspected bandit group of abu Sayaff.
This includes five bandits three soldiers including an official and a police officer who is wounded in the fight possible that he will also be able to attend the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits based on the bandits.
Reports but now it was different that the authorities arrested the authorities while he was very little and that Defive continued to continue the operation against the bandits, especially since the bandits rushed to a lump on the lump of the lump on the lump of the lump on the lump of the lump on the lump of the lump on the lump of the lump.
The residents were replaced in Inabanga Bohol after the fighting of five soldiers police and a few armed men in the area in the area.
Some residents immediately complained to the authorities who were spotted armed men and when the soldiers and police responded there that the encounter happened in the office of the Philippines bandits Abu Sayaff, the enemy of the gold taught in Bohol.
I was able to attend the dalawampung sampung taon matapos and met each other.
Us.
Based on the basilan, the tourists who were kidnapped by tourists were kidnapped in two thousand and they were kidnapped in the two palresort in the palawan resort in the palawan.
The couple who has said that Martin and Gracia Burnham has already said.
On twenty 16 up to the island hardin city of Samal, there was already abducted.
And with this attack in Inabanga Bohol, the spreading of the bandits of the bandits is still the same.
The province of Bohol is a tourist spot and there is a cloud that the Abu Sayyaf plans to conduct a kidnapping in the area where tourists visited the house of the other where the encounter almost sixty kilos metered away from the Visayas of Bohol Tagbilaran in the Visayas of Bohol Tagbilaran.
Fight in general form of the corner of the armed group of the armed group
The additional forces sent to keep the civilian in the shooting of the gunfire.
According to pnp Chief rock dela roin is still finding out if the armed group has a hostage hostage group.
In the suv.
Before the hint of a dog that was the one who was oppressed in visayas because of the intelligence report of the plan of the bandit group's plan.
But the complaint of civilians is allegedly a big help so they are ahead of the bandits wait for natural choppy yet.
That and in the meantime.
We zero supporters of the police possibly tanso so much.
Ukol sa mga kahina-hinalang mga taong kahina-hinalang nag-aalok ng
He's been in a good example here here.
There was only noon yesterday that the residents in Inabanga Bohol have noticed the three group of the abu Sayaff in the river or that when they saw that there was a weapon, they immediately reported it to the authorities in the clearing operation after three, which was said to be recovered by the military and they were even able to get a improvise explosive strong strong and they were still able to find the improvise explosive strong strong.
The military most of the other parts of the afternoon is the most important part of my afternoon especially the famous tourist area near Tagbilaran Tagbilaran and on the island.
Participation, then thank you very much.
