Dear K, avoid me, PLs.

Jerome Tagaro in the start of classes again, our troops are there every time to enrolment: Long queue, humid weather, and there is no stop going out.
Also included here is the search for the mood of the recovered subjects, they are known for the new classmates, acknowledging the new professor.
But with all my friends, I can only consider one best.
I met him during my tuntong in college, and he did not go to the town since then.
Our bonding with each other is more than that, especially since I have two years to be spent on UP.
He is the kind of friend who will be disastrous.
When I am with him, I am forgetting what I have to do.
He will dictate the course of my semestre.
As long as possible, I am consumed all of the allowable absences in every subject.
My friend is the one who determines when and where I am liliban.
Perhaps he is also a friend of most students in UP.
Someone else is just considered as an acquaintance or "not just a classmate, and also has almost a sibling who seems to treat.
Why is it so so strong of my friend's influence on our students?
You can't also say if the subject is really just catching up while it goes on, or just increasing what is being done, especially with those who have been possessed, or are really becoming lazy from UP while it goes to university.
In this situation, it is important for us to return what is really the reason why we are in university.
Even if it is personal or dictated to us by chance, it is important to us to keep in mind again so that we will not shout on the path that you are going to.
You may be here so that when the time comes to serve the country, help your parents, or not just so that you can do something in your life but whatever reason it is, it should not stop pushing us to learn.
You are a friend of laziness in a very long time, it does not mean that you will continue to fall in the trap in life college.
Commemorate your inspiration again.
But when you turn around again on the basis of your actions, you will slowly lay down the cement on your path.
It is important to keep in mind our parents who are destroying the bone, just pay for our love tuition, your relatives and children who are wooden lessons, and the tax of the people who pays for all of us.

He stays away from me every time I think about all of them.
From now, I will often keep them, I just hope he will finally get away from me.



