
The desire for Bagay or people.

Posted By penpowersong.

The desire for BAGAY O TAO Ni Apolinario Villalobos.

Not all about one thing or people are like us.
With fruits and vegetables they have parts we don't eat, that's similar to fish and meat.
Our husband also has the attitude that we do not want but it is just so hard to make deals with them even if it is associated with a grief because of the pledge of promises and signed contract.
Our children have morals that we also do not like, we have a choice, but just accept their full personality because they already released their mother,.... it is impossible to bring them back to its womb.
Even in our own character, we also have the katangiang we don't like so we are jealous of others.
For example, we do not want our nose pango so we are jealous of someone else with a matangos nose, our pagkapandak so we are jealous of those who are taller, etc.

Even in the town where we were born, there are things there that we don't want so we don't want to go back to, but because it is required to put it in the application form and bio-data we can't do anything but just really write.
In religion it is like that because there are catholic people who do not want to go to church in their actual church... because they don't want the style of the priest in the sermon, but because it is Catholic, it is a choice but to accept Father, because God might be angry.
At work like that... the pinagtatrabahuhan example is that we don't want to because a lot of mosquitoes, and the boss is so ugly the attitude is still ugly!... but we still have a choice because it's hard to find a job now.

That is how we treat President Duterte.
We do not want to be a KANYANG cursing but DAHIL GUSTO to lose vice drugs in the Philippines, even if there are only less men that we are using each other.
Even if it is a MUKHA SIYANG council BUTANGERO, okay, DAHIL is the one who is afraid of this kind of stupid rapist, DRUG pushers, DRUG pushers, DRUG Lord at the other PANG Kris MINAL.

While we live on top of the world, we don't like that 100%.
Sometimes even God who made all of us knocked on because of the calamities happening.... and we especially get angry at him when bad luck in our lives, together, asked, "WHY ko, Lord?"

Who now is unfair?... God who is not fair in giving out the blessings?... Duterte is blamed because of the death of the drug pushers that were left by the payment for the drug pusher so they were able to forget the balot tape in the face and full of stab wounds or showered with bullets?

So that there is no problem, avoid wanting to like things or people when it is full!... to be disappointed, the pain will not be fully fully felt.



