
Initial Word in the book of Sanays of recovery.

Aware and recovery!

"Not everyone was able to sleep at the time of our ancestors!"
This is according to Pilosopo Tnight in Kabanata 25 of Noli Me Tangere of Gat Jose Rizal.
Pilosopo Tnight said that Crisostomo Ibarra criticized what he was writing on the coast (or the first system of the pen of our ancestors), who was called a hiyeroglipiko of Ibarra.
The old man said it was meaningful that it was still meant until this time.

He is real.
It's hard to sleep in the middle of danger, in the middle of taking advantage of the offaring kind, in the middle of the onslaught of the rotten system, in the middle of the violation of the nation, in the midst of lack of respect for the human rights of each other.
But it is more difficult to be pretending to sleep.
Similar to the poor play blind in front of the nagduopened truth of poverty and lack of justice.
Similar to those who are deaf to deaf despite the dinig heard the whisper of pain, grievances and crying of those who are having difficulty and being raped.
It is a sign of lack of care for both pagtutulug-tulugan, and even prefer to pretend to sleep in order not to notice the problems around.
Not everyone is sleeping because there is a period of recovery even during the deepest part of the night to save the country, both, the kind.

But in the paghib, because of exhaustion from the entire afternoon, we are able to go through to sleep and running bored.

When our dream is not good, we will curse immediately in order to chase after.
Because the ugly dream may cause nightmares.
What we are experiencing in the current system of society is ugly, so we should be aware and to be bangon in order to replace the system each other will give a smile, to have a system without taking advantage of people in person.

We will curse up to hug a good goals.
A good goal for the majority is not required to be used to a crooked and corrupt task.

The essays that gather in this book are a result of the siphayo, danas and dreams in order to have a peace of your heart, to share with both, to become aware and the other from the nightmare of poverty caused by the kapitalista, which is dominating in the current society.
The essays here are contributing to the present and next race, and he is the reason for us to return the duty to change the society and unite towards the real prosperity of the people in society, to have equal rights and lose taking advantage of one of his fellowmen.
There should not only be a few in society who experienced but all the citizens.
There should be no sanctuary and some who experienced the wealth of society.

May the essays help here in our recovery from a long time sleep.

Gregorio V. stars Jr.

August 25, 2014.



