She was going to be able to use it.

Amelyn Daga months old passed by what I saw in the newspapers the news ito.Tthis is where it was in the student of UP who committed suicide.
Is it asking for his parents?
I can hear it because I am also a parent and I feel what the parents of the boy feels like that. "
It is painful for a parent to share as if they are not doing any action to meet the needs and tuition of their child.
I'm sure if this kid can hear the accusation that "that's his parent, it's likely that he is angry.
I'm sure they have done something - "they just weren't lucky to achieve what they wanted to give to their child.
If the government was supposed to be responsible for the proper budget for education for education, it wouldn't have been up in that situation.
No young child would have been thinking about suicide or going to stop studying just because of not being able to provide for his needs as a student.
I believe that there is no parent who will not do all the way just for the needs of their children.
I am one of the parents who "that would do everything for the future and dreams of her child.
I don't care even if I'm judged by other people or tried to stop me.
I'm not a perfect person.
I also have a weakness in life.
But the imporatante, my desire is clean.
Not everyone sees it is suspected and not all suspected is true.
I am a child "that and I am ready to crawl him out of the difficulty he just graduated from studying.
"I will not allow him to suffer because he has to pay for tuition or no fare to enter school.
The young man felt so much hurt by the event if he could not handle it and he finally killed his own life.
I hope that we learned something from what happened.
"We do not know if the tatag or weakness of our children as long as they do not experience a severe problem in life.
And it hurts, too much pain, of feeling for a parent, if they can't do anything more than they have done and accuse that they are irresponsible parents.
The course he took four years and nine months from now, I will be able to work with a college child.
I do not regret spending money on my responsibility for him as a parent, because he is hardworking young and has dedication to study.
That's why I need to persevere so much and rulet the rumaket - even if it is labada, sell a load of old clothes - all that I have put up with and even if writing, I will be able to ask for money as well as I can earn money.
I do this because I am a mother who has a simple dream for her children - what I see them have a good life.
And wakas, I lose the world, they will not forget that their parents are not responsible for giving them the right education.
If the government is supposed to be like someone who is responsible and good parents to the French like UP, this is a big help to those like Kristel, to those like my child, and for many more youth.



