Aquino is the one to blame for the lack of classrooms, low salary, and general crisis in education in education.

Impormasyon Bureau communist Party of the Philippines June 4, 2014 4, 2014.

Salin: Aquino na sisihin sa silid-aralan ang kakulangan, mababang suweldo at kabuuang krisis sa edukasyon sa edukasyon sa edukasyon.

The Partido ist of the Philippines (PKP) criticized the Marcos regime in his continued to face the severe crisis in the system of the Philippines that the widespread lack of classrooms in public schools and the worse will be hit by the education of the education in the national budget and giving priority to the projects focused on the interest of his kroni and giving priority to the interests of his kroni and giving priority to the interests of his kroni and giving priority to the interests of his kroni and giving priority to the interests of her crI and I will be able to hide and I will be able to keep

The PKP also opposed the Marcos regime to deaf the request of teachers in public schools for the increase of their monthly salary in the midst of the increasing price of goods and will be the sake of my economists.
"Kinatangian is the total open school year for 2014-15 of the widespread going to be hit, division in the classrooms, use of the tolda and other actions of the schools to serve the students in kindergarten, elementary school and school," emphasized by Pst. KP KP.

It is estimated that there is a total lack of 66,000 classrooms and 33,000 teachers.

"The serious condition of the system in public schools is the result of the unopening Aquino of enough of course for the construction of the new empaling schools and widening of the old facilities," said PKP. "Awakas winds and floods" are awakas and floods. "

"The Marcos regime was focused on the popches of a few projects gusaling schools under the program Public-Private samahan which was given by the contract to the oligarkiya like Henry Sy to build schools for the pipe," said PKP.
The PKP stressed that under the PPP, the government rent the gusaling schools in the contractor who have an agreement with profit. "

"Aquino brag about some or gusaling schools under the PPP at stake attempt to cover up the worsening condition of the public system of education," added the PKP.

"The regime of the Marcos regime was showing the teachers in public schools when he junked the request for the increase of salary and just wait for the teachers in the next year," said PKP.
Majority of the teachers in public schools are only earning P18,549 every month, far lower than the standard of living.
An estimated need of a six-year-old family of P31,620 a month to spend food, transportation and other batayang needs.

"In the not time to pass enough of course in public systems of education, the Marcos regime is very much pinalalaki!

The PKP called for the filipino people to protest the response of the Marcos regime in their request for free education to level college.
As parents and students, they should hair to protest the worse lack of recourse allocated for education, even in other service public.



