The troops of 57th and 8th IB, ambushed in Bukidnon and North Cotabato.

The town 7 April 2012 was ambushed by Front 53 under Herminio Alfonso Command of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan-Southern Mindanao the force of 57th and 8th IB in Sityo Bantaan, Bagumbayan, Magalaga last March 29.
A soldier was killed and another was injured in the ambush.
These units are the ones responsible for the execution of fierce espesyal operation, harassment to the people and nonstop bombing in Magalaga, North Cotabato and Kibhanga, Bukidnon.
As a result of this, the widespread location of civilians took place and samutvarious violations of human rights in the area.
Ka Nonoy is going to take advantage of it, a Pulang warriors, in the fight.

As revenge, the AFP of the two airplane equipment sent and a OV-10 and mercilessly bomb in the civilians community of Bagumbayan, Magalaga within two days.
In addition to this, the AFP also locked the two 105 from the public school in Bagumbayan and in the baybay of the river of Kabacan in Barangay Binay, Magalaga.
The forced to evacuate in the area was up to the elderly family due to the severity of the bombing.

Last April 1, in the sanctity of the operation of the operation of the AFP, the Pulang warriors were hit by the BHB of the command of command explosive explosive (CDX) a siksbay who bring the reinformed while traversing the haywey in Purok 4, Mateo, Kidapawan City.
Because of this, the scheduled operation of the AFP in the area was derailed.

At the same day, the Pulang warriors were ambushed by a tim of the 8th IB in Barangay Sampaguita, Kibhanga, Bukidnon.
Two soldiers were killed.
After the ambush, the airplane of the AFP had a deposit of eight bombs in the area who killed Jenay Maguate, a civilian.
Some animals were also killed in the farm caused by the bombing.

To give straight the bombing and attack in civilians community, the AFP revealed the operations against Ka Parago, Commander of 1st Pulang Bagani Company.
Parago was supposedly uta in the mountains of North Cotabato-Bukidnon.
But the truth is, the operations of the military are ganting to the punishment of the BHB of Patrick Wineger, an important aset of AFP, who initiated the murder of Father.
Fausto Tentorio.

The AFP will not be able to cover any defamation in the BHB of the horrible crimes against the people of Mindanao.
Part of this is the extensive tickled that resulted to those who were about to take advantage of the murders of the killing of Father's like Father.
Tentorio and a lot of violation of human people.



