
To be a monster in the kapatiran.

The report is saddening that four students are the new victim of hazing by a fraternity.
One, Guillo Cesar Servando, 18, died after being ignored by the difficulty of hurting him.
The Manila Police District has a lead to capture those who held hazing with Servando, sophomas estudyante of De La Salle-College of St. Benilde.
The three companions of Servando, also students of said school, are recovering in the Philippine General Hospital.
They are a life witness for the solution to solve the case.
They should be strictly guarded by the authorities and will be put under the witness protection program.
According to the police report, after hazing, they just put up in a condominium in Manila.
It is a Kapatirang Alpha Kapyet (AKRHO) recruit in the victims.
Every time the school year starts or not passing through a whole year, it is impossible for no one student who will report that victim or killed in hazing.
For the time now, violence in the youth is "just not seen in the streets but to the schools and university.
Even a sororities go through the cruel ritual.
There are many reasons why there are youth who have put up the fraternity: To be cool; join new friends; and have protection in bullying of some groups.
Although there is a law against hazing RA 8049 passed in 1991 after the death of Leni Villa, student of Ateneo de Manila School of Law, the violent and heinous killing under the said ritual continues.
Even hazing in military and police akademya, it is difficult to end.
This is one of the said reason why some of those who are leaving the Philippine Military and National Police Academy are becoming violent, cruel, months and coming at a point breaking human rights in service.
Hazing is also widespread even in the institution that is said to have a high level of teaching.
According to Senator Tito Sotto, the killer will continue to increase in hazing if the Department of Justice (DOJ) will not be resolved.
"Nalutas na ang mga nakaraang hazing na insidente.
Ang DOJ ay dapat na magsikap sa pag-uusig ng These cases.
Kabaligtaran naman kasi, mas marami pa ang namatay sa Come ".
There is no ability or it seems that the state does not want to punish those responsible for hazing.
The fraternity, particularly in the legal propesyon, are continuously being denied to punish the "siblings" who were sentenced to husgado.
Leni Villa's case lasted 20 years before his family has achieved justice.
Violence and cruelty should not be taken or promote in groups or kapatiran.
The management of the university and estudyante Councils should act on the formation of advocacy and campaign to instruct the students who avoid the monster kapatiran.
Stop hazing!



