This is one dried up when he died recently Zamboanga City, sixty-u-five City.
Or yet to be able to do it.
If san gets a san and what happened there in the child, we wanted to take it back to the distilyador one bacterial infection, we had a fever with her fever.
Here, here is limang araw after he was able to grab the first major journey Nissan but when the bacteria will be on its example here and you held over and then you held over and then you held over
Your hand.
Put your face in your face you can still be infected in such a way to leave us first here.
And given the complete complete before a child reached a child so we are calling for the parents to be vaccinated with the cat who is going to live today now.
There is a content of white here in the throat who has a throat in the edom in your possible colds.
It's pagdamba now that I am difficult to tears you can see your white throat when you remove that there is a blood on its hard to breath over and her cough seems to be barking by a dog.
Or then the one who also seems to be the Horse of his voice when the world is growing up when we are called bulls sa susunod na buwan because of that in the office at Seven percent die.
The problem here is the same time when there is a chance where there are those who are going to take advantage of it.
Our fellow countrymen who might be here in the throat of Bea bacteria is the only way there is a difference after they can pass on to someone else when they can ignore it because it will recover because it is funny because it is funny because it is funny.
I am the one who supports that what happened to him is part of the corrected lig because a bit affected by your heart marcos ask for the irregular puso kunwari to irregular puso kunwari.
A little makati, you can also be affected by a kidney or dumi in the span of six shots, just get tired of them.
That is being observed because he is not really a visitor because they might be later infected with the given version of the pintasan that they will use that we are going to deal with in the house with us.
I have to be at school.
His classmates might be his classmates.
It can be given a vaccine dumi because it is an outbreak level of stone and what do the fake do to stop the spread of what we are not six visiting but last condominium observed, but last condominium observed.
In her knowledge to be reached at the time now it is cold through it.
Meanwhile, we are not aware of the litrato of deaf.
But if it was the lungs in the banquet, they had a case of a kiss
It is describing so it is because of the social media photographer who is forced to area
It is necessary to stomach antitoxin give up and give up and give it up.
There are just a little bit of us because there is no one who is almost making a antitoxin the dictatorship we are talking about in the Japanese embassy and then at the center of the disease control in Atlanta in Atlanta.
It's hard to take that but we have a regular vaccine that is not antitoxin fifteen to give me together with the child who is not really good or that this is why many of you are buried in order to understand those who are going to understand them.
Follower in the program-in-law in the putrain in the put@@
That is fast within three five days you can die twenty thirty percent employee Thomas John really is having a difficulty of reconciling with Ccheer that you are going to be okay with a dog, and then when you opened your mouth, then when you opened up your mouth, you would be able to make it out of your mouth. The majority of the children really are really brought to the majority of the children
It is dangerous to be nine of less than lima and senior citizen.
Anyone can be affected by if it is weak and has not been given by someone else.
Yes to what I have dark, he has an investigation that he is not a waste of a person who is able to feel very sick pain.
It's because it's funny that it's like a manok fuck.
It's because it is a wind or our ebol arrested quickly doc when a fever has a fever.
Immediately like that.
Like a bird is the TRO especially if you are a child, there is no history of disaster you are sitting against, do not think about it carefully, you should not think about it as well as possible
