Tonight: Sipand in the condition of the Special Education in the country.

Sina makabagong iza Plamenco.

"Sister, when will you come home?"
Scream and my younger brother Yodney asked again when we talked on the phone this past.
More than a month passed before we talked again, so as romance, I also answered several times.
When she got tired, she returned the phone to my Mother when she didn't bid goodbye to me.
The whole family was very happy when Yodney was born.
It is different from what we denied Kuya's color, he inherited the white and smooth skin of Mother.
To our siblings, he is the only one who has a deep biloy on both cheeks.
But to all of us, he was the only one who had difficulty to grow up like the ordinary children.
He was three years old when the symptoms started to appear: Sometimes he suddenly minor without a reason, unable to speak properly, and also seemed to not understand what the surrounding him was saying.
Later, we found out that Yodney - a espesyal na anak is my brother.
However, it was a deepest thing I didn't think he had been a burden in my life.
He is still very naughty every time there are visitors in the house, but he is usually just soaking on the computer and watching YouTube videos.
Sometimes, I will just be surprised that he has brought away and washing our kinainan.
Yodney's only about eight years of Yodney this past Sunday.
With her every smile, the hope of our family will be awakened by the people who are going through the usual people - to study in a school, have friends, and facing the sadness and joy of life.
It was the first step Taong 1999 when the doctor advised Yodney to the private schools in Manila that offering the Special Education (SPED), to improve his situation.
So when he was four years old, our parents were transferred to Samar under Manila.
The SPED is divided in two types of students: People who are mentally gifted; and young people with disabilities like blind, pipi, deaf, and there is a developmental disorder like my sibling, according to Ma'am Mirla Olores, SPED Division Chief of the Kagawaran of Edukasyon (DepEd).
It's not like that it's purity to find a school with a young tuition and well facilities for the espesyal children in the Philippines.
In fact, for more than five million espesyal children in the country, it is only more than 230,000 is able to study SPED, according to the record of DepEd.
The story of Mother, they were able to fall in search of the schools near our house.
In the end, Yodney entered a private school in Ortigas that the tuition every year is up to P60,000.
The family could not take the expensive tuition, so Yodney was transferred to another school in Mandaluyong.
It is not even singloved before, the expenses are still heavy in the pocket.
In 2004, my brother had to go home to Samar.
Second cheap in five years of schooling of Yodney in the private school, he learned to mention his name, read, to write a spoon, and later, built simple sentences.
In 2010, we put him in a public SPED center in Samar for a few months.
When I once asked Yodney, I thought about the condition of other children who didn't study in a better school.
Is it focused on each other?
For example, Yodney just allow some of his teacher who suddenly came out of the classroom to play.
It is said that my brother is smart, right to answer when asks.
There will be no evidence of being paid for 381 public SPED centers in the whole country, but cannot hide the lack of these teachers who are going to fire and be the equipment.
Not all the SPED center in the country has tools for every kind of disability, says Olores.
Even if the SPED Division of DepEd will improve their service, they are still struggling due to the perenyal problems that the government is not able to meet.
According to Olares, though the government will raise the budget of the SPED this year in P180 billion from P115 billion 2012, it remains enough to fix every public SPED centers in the whole country or can buy important tools like braille writer for the blind.
In the experience, the facility is not far better in private schools that there are also enough teachers - as if there are only money that there is a chance to lighten up the education of the "specific yal" who loves life.
It is the last choice aside from a small budget and lack of teachers and professionals, the issue of the right pagtutpointing at the espesyal na anak is also there.
A sincere training is needed to the teachers about the right teaching and dealing with different cases of the espesyal na children, according to UP station c SPED Department Head Dr. Edilberto Dizon.
"It's the one of those who urge me to study the SPED is because my child is a espesyal child... most of us are studying because of our loved ones," says Kristina *, a doctoral estudyante of the SPED in UP College of Education (UP Patrol).
But according to Profe Myra Tantengco of the Racc, they will still want most of the same work in other countries where the salary is bigger.
From 2005 until 2010, there are 2,768 Filipino teachers who flew to the United States, where the teachers of the SPED, according to the National Statistics koordinasyon Board.
Olores added, the therapists are counted on the fingers of the espesyal na children who are working for public SPED centers in the whole country.
Compared to P130,000 every month salary of teachers in the US, the salary received by the teachers in the country is small than less than P18,000.
"But we are convincing our students to serve the espesyal na children here in the country," says Tantengco.
Meanwhile, it is planned to present the SPED Department of UP Wonc in the administration of UP having a educated "kasali sive" for special students in university.
"We believe that the study of the espesyal na children in UP will be made more wealth if they will be included in the regular scholar of the town," says Dizon.
The preparation will be intense and a big recourse will be spent for this, ani Dizon, but if you pay attention to UP and government, this is one step that will open education in university for everyone.
As a university of the nation, this will serve as a good example of UP if it is properly implemented which can be followed and imitate by other institutions of education.
However, any desire to improve the SPED in the country will only lead to failure if the overall condition of the system of education remains to be tragic.
In the ongoing and I will be able to attend the government's way to the sector of education, it is inevitable that the SPED will be affected by the private schools that are often just based on private schools.
After all, it is only a small gift on my sister's birthday to research and write articles about his situation.
Until now, we are still hoping that Yodney will come to live with normal, and study in a cheap school but quality school, where he can recognize the same and he does not like that he will learn and will discover in the mystery of life.



