In the week of the fight of the national fist but the question knows that this is why our siblings find out that it is Jerry fate with Jerry fate.
Good Morning here we are now in ermin Garcia here with the edin and then come up to find out about our siblings when and who are the enemies of fighting Senator Manny Pacquiao.
It is necessary and who will fight against Pacquiao yes new.
Boyfriend.
You want to baga who is and need to fight Manny Pacquiao I don't know.
I don't know the money Pacquiao failed to know you know I don't know who and the fight of Senator Manny Pacquiao first WAS tomorrow should not be abused because it is super excited because it is super excited because it is super excited.
Week thousands of whom he will fight with sir bargas
Ha
It is a joker and pure anger or name of the woman.
Mabel said it's not Marga.
Ang mga
Offered.
Zero zero.
Nine.
One factor of the land in Juda needs to fight against Senator Manny Pacquiao ah
He is also beautiful to have his pet Margot, is that he is the first one before we have the end of God, I do not know how good it is okay there is their name, right?
Of course because of that brother, there is a free handshake!
And that is the latest from here in the ermin Garcia, it is still an action juice.
Aban lumarga.
I was filled with a sudden while to strengthen the attacks of the fighting senator to speak with us on the line of the telephone everyday criticisms of Mister Denise prince idol good noon sir, sir.
So much better.
In the morning in the morning.
Why do some Filipinos do not know how many Filipinos are against Pacquiao compared to the previous fights.
Go to see what seems like a little different interest is low-interest level kumpara sa mga nakaraang laban sa mga nakaraang laban.
Maybe I can control that because it is the first one to be able to do
It was the same time that the teenager did not release anything.
Walang
In the laboratory of the night I asked that is the headache that we decided by Pacquiao.
My name.
Or what will be next.
I am going to fight.
It means that they know tito okay, the former contents of the house will be locked up with the house right away from the store, maybe the store is still there but it is true for them to rest but at first, maybe we can still be living together, but maybe that's why a teenage boy, who is not allowed to be higher compared to his previous opponents, is not allowed to be higher compared to his previous opponents, which is why a teenage boy is not allowed to be higher compared to his previous opponents.
Or Mister prince based on what you have seen in the training of Pacquiao in your movement, Freddie Roach said that coach Freddie Roach said that it is an ice water DONE in the form of Pacquiao right now how big it is that they can enter the form of Pacquiao.
Pacquiao thought I was about to fight with me or I have not watched any training but go when we have to call someone who will stick to my mind that what I have talked to is that I am not going to name anyone else but I told me that she is worried about the week '
What will be done with the two or three cows training schedule that money is going to concert but he will be able to face the creature of this creature, but when you accept that I will be able to catch up with my knowledge for the first day as well as possible, I will be able to take advantage of it for the first few days of training session at the same time when you are counting on the first month period of training. Trinidad will not be able to affect Trinidad too much.
Here but it seems that this is going to be easy if it is our mom's tomorrow, this is where the pupusta will be there when the exchange of explanation should be prepared for it is dangerous to be related to it.
Of course, the training is painful so it means that it is here to me, yes, he / she said that we are going to have a serious deal with this if we ever look at it if we look at that father and father.
But that is not true so I actually want intrigues yes to be there para sa pera when it comes to this fight against this fight.
He knows you are going to be alive.
All of you should be your protection husband princess.
It's really okay to me.
Because the hotel ccentered does not matter to the angkat.
Flour yes I can see here money Pacquiao town is convinced that Pacquiao has a four-month-old baby car in the opinion of Pacquiao but if I have to ah I think that it will come from Jase's back, which is why I do not seem to be able to focus on Base's back.
He is the juicy burger stand that I am going to be able to waste.
