When it was the same time for a long time.
With the drug medicine like the leaves of guyabano and that Dolores apparently is hoping that there is a stage Three colon cancer.
Ate benita by a little water.
I always have something like this always.
You should be able to speak to you.
Then that's the one I caught every day or the other day.
It was the same time he was able to find a victim with him and then it really did not have any of them.
It's going to be over two years that we seem to love for two years.
If you will drink medicine how much you really need every month-month.
Child is going to be my maintenance almost apat Spati ang one zero about it.
My children are ashamed as well as I eat vegetables of the
The earnings of Dolores is more than a hundred pesos per day in his small store.
Selling fish in the market is the livelihood of one of his child who will help him gaano purity as well as his own.
Sometimes.
It takes the older brother of the one so tomorrow is what we are earning for our other month to admit that the slippers is still lacking in love for the love of love.
Aside from cancer, he is also suffering from Dolores's disease and altapresyon as if the pain is a deer, which is a taste of fashion networking for the young woman, which is why you are not going to drink the daytan because he is too much of the big tan because he is too much of a little bit.
Raw for the heart of the heart.
What I am doing sometimes I find it hard to breath me.
As I was brought up by the hospital said, mother is weak the info of the oxygen in your heart and risk the diretso then she said she said she was going to be the one.
The point will come.
I am also prepared.
Meanwhile, the problem is going to take place as well as some medicines included in the list of those who should be able to give the poor in the Philippines right, right until thirty times the price of medicine compared to some countries in the world to be compared to the world in the world.
The health action network has been made for a long time with a simple leader in the india that only costs dalawang pesos at the Philippines to reach twenty limang pesos per different medicine in high blood worth of one peso and worth a peso.
Afternoon each one here in the Philippines reached 40 Three pesos at forty five sentimos each piece of pieces.
The alleged reason is that most of the personal drums or important medicines being put up in the Philippines Multinational gossiping, the owner of those who will be the owner of the fet or the right to make it ture.
Under the world Trade organization Three aspeto of international property right to double UTI outreach agreement has the right to set a price to set a price as if they invent the actual law.
We say to hang out of generika enough that we still want to happen is that we themselves as a country learn to be doing ourselves right now that the government will continue to be monitored by the fries of the fries and if it is really cheap for our countrymen if we are really going to buy a hundred really but the good one who has become the one who will be able to buy the former but is the good thing that we are supposed to buy. The number of those like this impact is the impact of the increase.
Actually the increase of Derek 'who was cursed at the cure for the medicine.
Higit pa ang pinakamabigat na night.
