
Reveal and fight the rotten and pretend to be Oplan Bayanihan!

You Wigan Monconforth Nona del Rosario Command, NPA-Ifugao Marso 31, 2014 Noong at eleven o'clock in the evening of 21 Marso 2014 in Barangay Camandag, Asipulo, launched a team of Nona del Rosario Command, New People's Army- Ifugao of the harassment against a unit of 54thInfantry Batallion.
After no one minute of setting up with companions, the more or less 30 military that will be opposing before the drinking side of the school building and Barangay clinic.
In accordance with the united policy, Pulang Mangames avoided being hit by the structure.
Based on the report of the masses, two are injured in the military and the condition of one is critical.

It is called the "Peace and Development Team" the units of the BHB.
They said they are not "resistance" because their job is to implement Oplan bayanihan.
They will allegedly establish school in Barangay.
But the masses do not believe in the fact that it is the military as well because aside from carrying these strong weapons and bullets, these are even allowance by so many bottles of alcohol in their going to said barrio.
They were able to escape and destroyed the school that they were able to look at and shot a goat.

A long record of the AFP.

Baryo Camandag is one of the barangays who will always be visited by the mersenaryong hukbo.
In 2010, the 54th IB of Ifugao has already been puated.
They have been camp in Sityo Pihipi, where a high school is standing.
Aside from preparing the youth who entered the opposition of their jobs and courting the young women there, that is also the Tiemus widespread news that the military is very happy because the value of the women in Asipulo are very happy.
Last March 2011, the elements of 86th IB cut the trees of coffee in the area that they had no goodbye to.
Last October 2013, after the units of the NDRC, the houses were shot and attacked by 54th IB, they burned the floor made out of the bamboo of a house, destroyed the walls and planted rice and blocked the masses to go home to get their children.

This is just some of the long and bloody list of abuse of the military.
Whether combat or a civil military operation, the people are the citizens of their terror in peace - threats, pointless to date the civilians as rebels, no goodbye to the houses, stealing and other violation of the masses, just blocking the projects of the masses and other violations of the masses and other violation of the right violation of the masses and other violation of the right violations of the masses and other violation of the right violation of the masses and other violation of the right violation of the masses and other violation of the right violation of the human and human rights are human rights.

It is not a mystery that because of these acts of the hambog military, the people are far from them.
Instead, the masses themselves are moving so they will be cast away from their place.
In Sityo Landing where the Elementary School is there, for example, parents and teachers strongly what they do not want to camp there the military so they want them to evict them.

True Bayanihan: Helping the NPA and the people.

History that will prove that the Bagong Hukbong Bayan is the real associated with the citizens in meaningful and long-term change.
In Barangay Camandag, for example, with the masses armed with the sharp examination of the characteristic of the project hydropower plant of sn Aboitiz Power.
In the guidance of the revolutionary organizations of the people, the masses are united to fight for their rights as national minority for your own decision.
Along with this, in accordance with the principle of the sanctuary in your own abilities, armed along with the masses in the lead of the rebolsolution agraryo to raise the level of their production and livelihood.

In different parts of the country, the NPA is welcome non-stop serving the wide citizens.
This is lively with the masses in their economy and polikang condition and struggling to share at work in the p of the roduons, the revolver culture needed in the success of the Pambansa-democratic Rerevolution, and as the right protest of the military, the abusive troops of the military are ready to add to the problem of the people.

The democratic rebolsolution Bayan is correct that the Bagong Hukbong Bayan is pushing.
The citizens should just be charged with the berdugong military in their sins and block any attempt to stay in public places like the school building, baranagay hall clinic and others.
It should only be together with the BHB and the masses to fail in the goals of the military and dusahin the armed troops punitive to them.
With the cooperation of the masses and hukbo, the success of DRB will probably be allowed to be the only solution to the problem of the society society.

Fail the Oplan bayanihan!
Push for the Digmang Bayan!



