Very GOOD by PNOY SA survey and the KASINUNGALINGAN.

The skin is mixing in the prudence in the destruction of typhoon Yolanda in the Visayas Region.
This is about the sent out of the Social Weather Station who is "Good" the given score of the victims of Yolanda to President Benigno Aquino III in its action for them.
For the tsuwaration of PNoy in the Palace, after the SWS survey came out, they even seemed to have one of the joy.
The problem is, the thousands of citizens and victims of the storm appeared in the streets who say "the grades of PNoy landed in them.
12,000 NAG-rally Tinestimated 12,000 victims of Yolanda was the rally this past week to condemn the extreme importance of the government in helping them.
Many are allegedly not able to reach those who said they attended and joined.
Many are still riding the jeepney who came from Samar to stop the road of the police who attended.
There is an additional PA according to the People's Surge that led to the indignation rally, the victims who want to join the coming rally are quickly increasing.
It comes from exactly those who want to go with the rally in the Visayas Region, victim and not by typhoon Yolanda.
There is also a call to other citizens and organizations outside of the kinalamidad places that they help in order to wrap the wetfifty of the government so that they can quickly act and have to respond to it.
Very GOOD according to the said SWS survey, PNoy's grades are higher from the victims of Yolanda instead from not the victim outside of the kinalamidad places.
"PNoy is very good, said, in Leyte, Samar and nearby places in the gradong 79 percent together with + 54 percent of trust for him while outside of places mentioned, 69 percent is a score with" lies "the survey," said the rally.
If the survey results lies, which kind of thick face came from the data of SWS?
Three months of BOKYA three months since Yolanda devastated last November 8, 2013 but the victims considered the government to be favored by helping.
If there is, up to some noodles, sardines and rice only.
There are foreigners and private help as long as it is just hidden by the corrupt like the imported food and kind of personal until they see that they sell to the grocery and mall.
There are also a housing project like the bunkhouse.
But, it is a child of towa, it is still the anomalies of the officials of the government.
It is a good thing that there are private people and organizations that give a bigger help to the victims.
Do not want to get to know rehabilitation czar Ping Lacson who are involved in the bunkhouse scam but the result of the investigation of the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group is near.
In case there is evidence that the bunkhouse is a era, can you count on, idol Ping, to reveal the public the stupid who got close to death, suffering and hunger of the citizens?
The businessman and the People's Surge are not victimized by the People's Surge, not the victims of calamities are given importance to the rehabilitation program but the businessmen.
The government of the projects will be published which will challenge up to 300 billion funds that are funds for those who are alamidad.
But this is not saying that somehow it is good to direct help from the calamities but "it is that you are able to borrow 30,000 in those who have tuluyang nasirang homes and 10,000 in those who have bahagyang napinsala.
But with the explanation of DPWH, construction materials will allegedly be given and a little salary to those who will make it but for only a few days.
P40,000 is needed according to the victims, the government is better to accommodate every family who is damaged by typhoon worth even P40,000 and they will be able to get rich here.
For them, they will be thinking about how the value will be used for their immediate need, including the capital for their livelihood.
This situation is far from what DPWH has said and is also far from the contents of rehabilitation program.
In the position of DPWH, the schedulate who are making sheets, cement, hollow block, nail, alambre and what are more than the citizens who have local materials that they are acceptable to use.
If they depend on the rehabilitation program, they also like a horse who is hungry by the taagl time before they can give help.
For so long, it will take a long time for one, two, three, four and five years.
Next time, the relatives of the residents of the Palace have released a lot of Good grades in Malacanang, they should be able to buy them first.
They do not wrap the truth because "they will repeat it again, maybe there will be kicked out of position without the time.



