Monitor, LEPTOSPIE, LEPTOSPIROON.

While there are a conamball many about politics, Bro, we give attention to the diseases that go to us this rainy season.
Especially dengue and leptospirosis.
Although they can be treated, many are still dying and of course, many ends up hunger and suffering.
Especially if you think that many of the strikes are poor.
We have a few record Tchecked for some record, Bro, about this illness.
This August, there was a hit of dengue 2,166 in Zamboanga and the Lord took 15 to them.
The tinatamaan and dying in other provinces are different.
We are still following about leptospirosis and have been reported when he died in Bacolod City.
But last October 2013, what happened was bad that started in the month of January.
There are more than 131,000 cases of dengue and have been odas 470.
In leptospirosis, there is a case 1,964 and the Lord has taken the 307.
That is how strong dengue and leptospirosis.
So don't dare to be here, especially this rainy season when we get worse sick of them.
Almost the same Pag-aralan, Bro, those who are going to the hospitals who are sick of dengue and leptospirosis.
The patients of patients reached three weeks.
If the patients will live, the size of expenses in three weeks will be too much.
A moderate P20-P30 million is the expense here.
But for these poor only while it takes hundreds of peso to millions to the rich.
What if the two were hit, three or entire family?
Except for this expenses the fare, money and payment for those watching.
If you are a laborer, two or three months wages. "
That is why you will surely run away from the usurero and bumbay to ask for help.
And that's where you're going to get along with the debt.
P20,000-P40,000 in the funeral home, you are already dead, you will not be forgiven by the funeral home.
In the provinces, you can not use the funeral home and can not be blessed by the priest who will accept the drop of the Holy tubig to your corpse if you want to be frugal.
You just called to manate and you will be fooled by the rosary within nine days and it may be coffee and rice cakes will be given to them until you are 40 days.
But it was really an additional expense "when you were unlucky in the hospital.
You will pay for the hospital of P20,000-P30,000 plus an extra expense for taking care of the patient, this is also the payment for you by the funeral home.
The expenses in the wake are still places.
So, in total, Bro, you will consume P40,000 to P80,000.
If you are a laborer that minimum is the salary, you will pay for a few people who will pay for the usurero or Indians your illness or death?
EKSTENSYONG tremendous OT, we are just crying for the news and coming to us asking for help.
Many cases were not being taken out of the hospital the patients because there was no payment for full, even in morge if he was unlucky.
If your corpse was released, many posted the burial because the victims were not able to save the right time for it.
That is why they are doing so much kind of travelling.
Someone is running for captain, mayor, gob, DSWD, PCSO and others.
In Manila, a relative is carrying a death certificate to ask alms from the jeepney drivers.
Why would it not be a pupwedeng fire if there is no death certificate coming from hospitals, municipalities and others because of the lack of payment.
It is just lucky to be helped by those who have just been killed.
It is, if there is a catch of the police, you are dead.
The burial will take more the burial.
"Oh, isn't it, that's going to cry?
What are the ones to do?
To avoid or less of our illnesses or too much suffering in these diseases, it is good to be able to ep us well.
First, don't be lazy to go to the neighborhood health center so we can know the symptoms of these diseases.
When we have symptoms, we make sense to go to these centers and consult.
Don't rush with the strength of them, especially if children, old people, pregnant and sick are the symptoms of them.
When you will only take action if it is an emergency, you are dead.
Second, the knowledge of knowledge is a big help on how these illnesses are getting.
Said, from the mosquitoes the dengue while from the urine of rats and other animals are leptospirosis.
But how to eliminate or avoid mosquitoes that we are just in our surroundings and how to fight the lepin which is really going to turn and spread especially in the tagfloods?
You will also be epalepated.
Third, don't forget relationships.
Both, neighbors and others are our maid in fighting against these diseases.
Both will run us to the hospital, we will surface in time of need and ready to help even if there is no replacement.

Ultimatum / Benny Antiporda.



