The big success in progress will be popular, the Oplan Bayanihan in the year 2013 will be released again.

Maria Malaya NDFP hilagang Mindanao Chapter Marso 29, 2013 2013.

We celebrate this March 29, 2013 the 4th anniversary of the Bagong Hukbong Bayan brought the success which has been achieved last years and full of sigasig that will be recognized in the coming success of the revolution.
The BHB is the primary weapon of the Partido Komunista of the Philippines to implement different tasks in the launch of the democratic Rerevolution of Bayan.

The National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) of the Northeastern Mindanao will greet all of those who have suffered, Pulang warriors and all members of the milisyang town (MB) in perseverance in order to achieve success in front of the malakihan and extensive operations military under the Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos administration.
Our success in the year 2012 will be taxed by the revolutionary martyr that Ka Arnel, Ka Kenel, Ka John, Ka Rico, Ka Rico, Ka Mario, Ka Mario, Ka Mel, Ka Mel, Ka Sknow, Ka Akdong, Ka Alex and Ka Anghel.
They salute each other and parangalan with the hundreds of martyr of our region.
They will remain our inspiration to our pursigations continuation of giving birth until you are deeply successful.

The pasulong movement of the revolutionary movement in Northeastern Mindanao in 2012 was the highest reach since he was able to build the democratic Rerevolution of Bayan.
These success has been served in the strict leadership of the PKP in the BHB and in the entire revolutionary movement, especially for the launch of Irust Daksome Kilusang Pagwawasto (IDKP).
Through this, the Marxism-Leninism (MLM) is more made in touch (MLM) in giving birth and winning the mistakes that have been done last year.

The BHB was successful disappointed by the Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos regime in 2012.
The advancement of the revolutionary movement in Northeastern Mindanao is continued with the real armed town and Partido of it.

It is up to two battalions that have been strong than the BHB this year.
It burns in the gerilyang platun in the towns of four prubins of the region.
In the barrio, the partaym members of the BHB are there, the MB that reached five battali.
But there are only a few of them who are holding the strong riple.
Growing up this grows because last 2001, the armed force of the BHB in our region is only one small battaliand more than 500 members of MB.

Up to 148 taktikal that was offensive was implemented last 2012.
The batayang taktikal offensive that it is promoting to get strong weapons reached 19.
Enough weapons will be locked in order for us to be able to create an additional platun of the BHB.
There was a launch 107 who was sentenced to hit by 142 dead and 115 injured on the side of the enemy.
The 16-year-old military launched that punishment for the companies that are denied to the authority of the revolutionary movement.
The primary punished is the plantation of banana Dole Phils. that destroy the environment and being destroyed by the livelihood of farmers.
Nevertheless, the taktikal was only increased by 10 pesos which was offensive in 2012 kunwhere we were almost able to maintain the number of 2011.

The revolutionary built based on the mountains of Northeastern Mindanao was strong.
It was established and the attacks of the enemy were able to make it.
This is the highest level that has been achieved in our region.
But there are 1 / 3 parts of the barrio in our region that need to reach the oorganisa, especially the center of the towns and cities.
The population is up to 640,000 which is within the baryong nakikilusan, but 1 / 3 more part of it is considered to be the revolutionary baseng masses.
Beynte percent of the baseng masses are the ones who are inorganisa in the sektoral organizations.
If it is still a big part of the population in the baryong will be the ones who need to be inorganisa in order to expand and be able to lay the revolutionary force of the people.

The families who are endowed with different form of the revolver agraryo are increasing.
It is up to 43,779 families or 218,800 individuals benefit from the rebolsolution to 330 barrio inside 29 towns.
Many benefit from 2010, where 33,000 families have been served.
In 2011 and 2012, the additional 6,559 families benefit from each year.
Through the program of the BHB and Partido returning to the mountains in the mountains, up to 4,220 families inside the former big konsession of the trologs the free one was able to go.
In these places, it has already started development in farming promoting to answer the food and other batayang needs of the family and community or to build the economists with four in Sarili.
The whole five batalyon of the AFP, the 75th IB, 36th IB, 30th IB, 3rd SF BN and four companies 26th IB and 38th IB, Scout Ranger Company, 401st DRC, together with the PNP and CAA / CAFGU are used in Oplan Bayanihan of the Marcos administration.
It is targeted to be crushed by the entire revolutionary force in Northeastern Mindanao.
In 2012, four times of military operations were launched by the enemy and a large part of it was done in the areas within the scope of big mines.
The one who made "the success of the success" of the operations of the operations that are owned by the troops of the AFP / PNP to those who were abandoned by the temporary camp of the BHB.

In the 74 operations of military, four of these are big operations that are directly led by based in Davao who are EASTMINCOM that he is the highest number of the AFP here in the eastern part of Mindanao.
The operation of military last April 2012 at the bottom of the EASTMINCOM was the biggest, kunwhere reached 1,200 troops were showered in the mountains of Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur and Agusan del Norte.
This is bigger than operasyong military during the time of Oplan Bantay Laya (OBL) 1 and 2.
This is what pushed the Lumad to leave their community and rushed to the unsuran in order to express their tragic condition and protest against the violation of the military to their human rights.

The operations operations under the Brigade Command and 4ID PA reached 30 times; ten times under the battaliand 26 times were launched by different companies of AFP.
There are only four operations that are done by the platun of the AFP.
The AFP / PNP used the maramihan and its troops in the belief that it will be crushed or makukub the scattered platgerilya of the BHB.
The AFP has a wrong belief that they surrender the Pulang warriors (which they think are caught up) after getting caught up by their mababangis and big operations of military.

The four big operations of military under the EASTMINCOM were answered by the BHB of 28 kilometers ment and there was a helikopter that was hit and the body was able to hit.
The 30 times that operation of the brigade / 4IDPA was experienced by 43 pesos, and there was another helikopter that was hit and also cooked.
Up to the 104, which was launched by the BHB and three ambus without a confiscated weapon.
In the attacking attacking, it took 140 dead and 110 injured in part of the enemy.
Nine Pulang warriors sacrificed their lives.
Some gerilyang platun the 13 defense of the 13 defense was also experienced but it was used to be able to take a glimpse of himself.

This 2013, we should double our achieved success.
We should be persistent to implement the works that works this year.

The batayang taktikal is a pattern which is offensive so that the troops will be able to borrow more weapons and will be able to earn more weapons.
In that, the force of the enemy in the meantime will be reduced and there will be weapons for the additional platun of the BHB and study more in MB.

We double the amount of BHB.
Strengthen the campaign pagpapasampa in order to rescue the gerilyang platun all the towns in the region.
The youth have a big need to study in order to make the farmers and workers who are Pulang warriors in implementing a lot of tasks.
Because of this, the oorganisa should be given attention to the schools within the scope of our passengers.

The solisik need to be put up in the barrio.
All of the sektoral masses and form the revolutionary government in the barrio are organthemselves.

Widen and strengthen the revolver agraryo.
It is a step to lessen the rent on the ground and sweating the contents of the minimum which is the goal of the rebolsolution.
Let us prepare the rekisitos for free distribution of land owned by the big Lord mayland.
Start the free distribution of land to the kasames if the condition has been stopped.

Push for the livelihood to the barrio through developing the economists who are able to block four-self.
Work together at work in the farm and the share of the harvest to the size of the strength that has been listed four.
Establish the cooperative in order to solve the problem in the recourse of the families and community and to start answering the needs to the equipment in the farm through cooperation.

Continue and more to push for the different form of the struggle against the disastrous big foreign mines and the plantation that are being destroyed in the farm and surroundings.
It will continue to reveal and protest to the one who tickled the struggle and the violation of human people who are twin.



