
Every day is the fear of the patients of the Philippine Orthopedic Center.

By Pkanyang Pasion at Kenneth Roland A. Guda Pebrero 1, 2013 2013.

Until the corridor of the hospital, the Philippine Orthopedic Center is full of poor patients.
They worry that they will eventually be kicked out of this if the government is already able to make it.
(KR Guda) Labimpitung years when Mario Maniyabang was confined to the Philippine Orthopedic Center (POC).

And he is not the only patient who is going back to the hospital.
One day in 1996, after an operation in the stuck veins in the neck, Mario stayed in POC in Quezon City.
He was killed, unable to move and where he was buried by the respirator.
Because he didn't have the money to buy for the shoator, he stayed in the hospital.
He stayed 17 years.
His feet are jailed, for so long that it has been used.
And the lives of their family, finally dumausdos.

His wife Susan Maniyabang, the entire time guards with Mario in POC from 1996.
He said, they can't leave because they don't have money to buy, even if it's a ikalawang-hand, it's a private ator that they are going to be with P450,000.
The whole time, they depends on the hospital.

Young patient of POC (KR Guda) "we have spent our whole life (married).
I have nothing to do but cry, because I don't know where to get her to spend every day.
"Our three children, were separated when they grew up with relatives.
I didn't take care of it as a mother.
"It hurts for me (this)," Susan said.

They have many, and are being added everyday.
Because of the frequent livelihood of many citizens, and the lack of the system of the universal health care in the Philippines, there are increasing dependent on the few - and kuunting - public hospitals in the country.
It is public hospitals that somehow it is free or the treatment is cheap.

Some public hospitals are in danger of this now - which will be given under the program Public-Private partnerships (PPP) of the Aquino administration.
The first hospital who wants to sample the government: The Orthopedic, or POC.
Depending on POC Abest to 700 patients the day seeking treatment in the patient department of the hospital and those were recorded in 300 are recorded in the emergency room of POC every day.
The poor Filipinos are in 95 percent of these, according to Alliance of Health Workers (AHW).

Aside from them, the same with Mario, which is the whole time depends on the use of the official of POC to live.

Rulistens Mercurio, 25, from Tondo.
He was not able to take care of an accident with him.
When the Pinoy Weekly visited, he was recovering because of the turn on the hand.
(KR Guda) in spite of this, Susan feels the lack of budget of POC.
There is no livelihood because of the illness of the spouse, he still needs to spend P500 every week, because there needs to be bought a diaper, medicine and food outside.

It was a pain that he was doing laundry for nurses in the hospital, so somehow, he earns 150.
Sometimes, he is selling coffee even if the profit is only a peso.

"We are just hoping for the help.
I would like to be a beggar.
"The rationation of food here, we just divided two.
If there is money to buy porridge, "what he cannot eliminate," that is what I will eat.
We are just hoping for the help of the nuns (pana-time go to the hospital).
We have divided other patients.
"If 10 are needed to be medicine to be done five just because other patients also need to be," says Susan.

Susan who knows about the brag of a lot of politicians service: For so long that his wife is bedridden in POC, he can't count the politicians and agency he approached to ask for help.
Retail-retail, but it really can't give the medical service that needs to be a poor patient like Mario.

"If you don't have fare you can't go.
If you can go, they will always be back then you will be sent back.
You will be able to take a few back then you can't get anything.
"We were able to get in the Senate once," Susan said.

Their debt of POC is reached more than P1 Milyon in the opposition only.

Mario is in need of P450,000 to have their own pilator in order to stop the wolves of their debt.

Susan is more nervous if the privatization of POC will push through.
They know that they know the system in private hospitals - there is no service if there is no payment.
They don't have to pay for it, surely etin except for the isinribadong POC.

"It's just the entrance there is probably a payment.
A lot of patients are going to look like pitiful, "Susan said.

The facilities of POC are old.
They are still using tractions to their patients who have a problem with the bone.
(KR Guda) complained of the poor, the POC is not yet achieved, and even if it is cheaper or free medical service given, the needy for additional expenses for treatment here.

"We are all debt now.
Our food is in P350 pesos and 150 is 150 in the sun.
The earning of his father tricycle driver is only in P200 every day, "Josephine Mendoza, 53 years old, in taking care of his grandchild Chrisvel, 12, who is patient in POC.

Chrisvel fell on the stairs in his school and hit his sfinal kolum so he has a big lump on the back and can't walk.
He did not answer school because he was on his way home and they did not take responsibility for the accident.

Ward to POC where the patients are carrying before surgery.
Like other ward in the hospital, it was full of patients.
(KR Guda) "I have a PhilHealth case he is not (Chrisvel) jurisdiction of it because he is just my grandchild.
So we will just approach the politicians, "says Josephine.

As well as the condition of Rubelyn Mercurio, 25, of Tondo, Manila whose hand has broken and rolling on POC.
He's been in the hospital for more than a month and also doesn't know where to get to spend.
"My three children who were studying since I got an accident.
"My husband's job is just a sidecar and he is in P250 income everyday - it is not fit for the payment for six of our children," said Ruaven.

Janet Henolos was tied up, 32, from Paranaque and two months in the hospital.
Two of his four children were studying and his wife was having a hard time with their situation now that he was in the hospital.
"I used to be able to help you to help to spend.
My husband is just a welder so it's really a big difficulty for us.
Especially the medicine in P127 every day.

"It's the most expensive P84.
"Then we paid for the caregiver P2,000," according to Janet.

Janet was also a member of PhilHealth.
But not all expenses are covered by PhilHealth.

Emily Villamor, 43, is seven months when it is in POC and needs two operations.
Emily is also hoping for the debt of expenses in the hospital.

"It's difficult and it's more difficult now.
My husband and P100 are only a tricycle driver every day, "the rasyon of food here we just share.
Instead of buying food we just buy medicine, "he said.

The patients of POC feel that although the service service in public hospital is cheap, they still can't dominate the expense for treatment.

The budget of POC is lacking to meet their needs.

There is no place in the needy who is full of the patient who is Orthopedic, but the patients said here, there are still trying to keep a lot of istap of the hospital to serve as well as humane.
But they don't know if it is still like that when the POC is private.
(KR Guda) when the privatization happened, they even worry even if they hit the inside of POC, they cannot do it.

"It hasn't been a pribado, we are having a hard time.
You will not be cured from thinking of bills.
"It's annoying, they make the Filipinos suffer," said Janet.
This is also the sentiments of Rubina Padasas, 42, from Marikina who broke bones when slippery.
He said, the poor are pitiful because they do not have the ability to pay big.

"I just now found out about the privatization that is because the truth is that I have no interest because they are both promising.
I don't want to vote because it's like that.
"It's about the storm that I have the interest in the news instead of what the president says because they are all the same," said Aling Josephine.

For Keisha Orayan, 21, from Madruined and two months in the hospital due to the pain in the neck, even if it is said that the PPP and facilities will be able to make the tools and facilities, it is worthless for them if they cannot pay for his service.

"The privatization is really ugly.
The patients are pitiful.
"I disagree (here), because I don't see any good outcome in the privatization," according to Keisha.

The said patients fear that the privatization will change even if the nurses and doctors are very dealing with their needy.

Now, they said, they are well and humane to deal with the tap of POC, even if it is lacking in budget to improve the facilities and increase of their employees.

According to Susan, they did not neglect Ortho in their 17 years here.

He said, there are doctors who are also helping them feel bad for their situation.
It gives them financial help, although the others stopped because they are supposedly pity because of their long time.

"They have made a way here to live the patient.
I don't know if that's what they're going to do when it has been approved or you need to pay first before your life will be prolonged.
"So you brought the patient to the hospital to prolong life," Susan said.

There is no assurance even the work of 900 health workers who are working now in POC if the privatization of the privatization of this will push through, according to Sean Velican, nurse and president of the union in POC.

For sure - based on the experience of many public agencies to undergo privatization - there will be removed from work in order to replace the contractual, Veldren said.

Members of POC will be babad at work.
They fear that they will be removed from work or less benefits if the privatization of POC will push through.
(KR Guda) poor against the process of pre-bidding will be put under POC in PPP, or privatization it.
Last January 25, a pre-nagpapaalam conference was held for businessmen who wanted to invest in asapits.

An estimated cost of P5.43 billion is the privatization of POC, and the government is going to spend the P260-M for building a modern "super-specialty tertiary Orthopedic Hospital" inside the compound of National kidney at Transplant Institute or NKwhites, in East Avenue, Quezon City.

A series of protest launched by poor people who live in the city, including the Kalipunan of Damayang Mahihirap or Kadamay.
Meanwhile, even the members of health members led by AHW, are also active in protests and campaigning to stop the privatization of POC and other public hospitals.

The patient of POC is also full.

But they encourage the citizens - they wish for the best of health service and the protector of the government and caretakers of their rights and health - to cooperate in fighting against the privatization of POC, and other public hospitals.



