Ha
Hello just came to the boxing ring Manny Pacquiao of dalawang libong Skahit according to Comelec Spokesman James Jimenez letting the government release this fight in General Santos City, it is not clear how it was done by the comment but Pacquiao explained that he was also running for the congressman, which is why he had to limit Pacquiao in boxing but he was defeated by Pacquiao in boxing but he was defeated by Pacquiao. The election in the election in the election election in the election in the election
In April again Pacman will compete against Timothy Bradley Judio.
The fight against Babylon is relevant to the pagkasenador that you are running for Pacquiao so if they want to be in their former Akbayan partylist representative Walden Bello the publishing of the fight against the fight against the fight.
Supposedly against the operation, in the operation of what happened last two libong Seven possible to happen again possible possible to happen again.
It is also possible that we will not see tomorrow talk about the Bangkal
Comelec spokesman James Jimenez did not break a substitute for the thing that he did at five o'clock in the two libong delight.
The government cannot stop this one who got in like Pacquiao night a little deep talk about that, right?
Even if it is the same time, it is as if it is a biser ordinary Filipino.
It will take a paglilihim sa karapatan ng Pilipinas los.
On the way home, the media report, according to the media report, Comelec commissioner Rowena Guanzon possibly fought Pacquiao to fight Pacquiao.
But it is said that it is a different agreement if the fight will be shown in the Philippines.
Guanzon added when Pacquiao had a violation of their offer in the effect he said in his soul in his soul.
Pacquiao answered the outside of this politics in your years that will prevent it.
There is not going out in the Philippines the people will not be angry at them.
That this is what it is.
We honor all that it is not for me or for only one now that maybe it is a question because it is only a question because it is the only one.
A lot of things.
To be able to do it.
Just as if he is a grandmother tuning Romulo, the release of Pacquiao-Timothy Bradley should not be prohibited, it will not be considered as political advertisement to video add to the side of Manny Pacquiao, there is no one to do because he will be released by the bidyo entities, that's why they will not be able to do any of the problems that are not your video problem.
Julia.
