Council of Manila disorder with P14-billion budget?

Posted By: Jerry Yap on January 24, 2017 sa opinion

The cunning and corrupt leaders have a saying, so that a group is easy to lead the rule of taktika.
But hopefully, this is not the reason of the case filed by Manila Vice Mayor Maria Shiela "Honey" Lacfirst-Pangan against the group of majority palapag leader Councilor Casimiro Sison with the 17 councilor of Manila.
VM Honey filed a petition to stop the implementation of P14-bilyong city budget for 2017 after discovered that the budget of his office was lowered.

But Judge Armando Yanga of the Manila Regional Trial Court Branch 173 is not favored for temporary restraining order (TRO) because they lack of merit.

According to Lacuna there is a "unauthorized pagkilos" that some people "particularly the committee on appropriations.
The budget of other departments including the Office of the Vice Mayor, City Administrator's Office and the council, did not mention the hearing, according to the vice mayor.

That's why he was surprised when he saw his office, "the P360 million meant for the job uutos, contractual kawani, tanggapan-eskwela and donasyon.
Well, that is why it turned out to deny his budget!
That is indeed a big mess!
The elderly said, don't bother the kitchen of the kitchen if you don't want trouble.
One more thing, isn't VM Lacfirst-Pangan is the presiding officer of the Council?!
What caused VM Honey of his konbribes, "I mean" councilor?!
Is it really when it comes to the matter of money, "then there is someone who is fighting and fighting?
It looks like we smell free and early politics in the Council of Manila.
To whom VM Honey will go to the transfer of VM Honey?
In the majority floor leader?!
Who is the one who ordered to be cut off?

Anyway, it would have been realized by the Council that while they were in trouble, there are people or groups who are happy.
What is the use of a nagkakagulong council?
Nothing.
Maybe "that will be the spark of their defeat next election because they did nothing but quarrel in the treasury of Manila instead of service to the people.
Just plead to the Council of Manila, do not be uto-uto!



