The secret of Jolo.

It is small pero it is very good for Jojo James Stagen, 5 "4 talampakan Pinoy undefeated martial arts champion in Canada.
How did he managed to succeed in the contest of courage, from and strength in the town of white?
Jojo is still in the Philippines he loves to face challenges.
Even then, he could feel the fondness of martial arts, so when he reached America, he immediately tried to study an taekwend along with the school in school that started the direction of his life.
He said that he was a bully at first but because of the taekdies, he was taught by discipline, perseverance and heavy work.
Jojo did not stop training and gathering knowledge, he studied the other types of martial arts like judo and jujitsu.
So when he joined the competition, he would be able to find out every challenge.
In the people 1987 until 1994, he was able to lose Illinois state champion because he was always winning in the contest that he was being attacked.
1993 when he achieved his very first national medal.
After his wins and success inside the ring, Jojo decided to share his knowledge in martial arts in those who wanted to learn it.
He opened a martial arts school- the Power Kunk.
What he earns from his teaching here is what he has to pay for while he is studying college, because aside from his interests in martial arts, he also dreams of becoming a police dream when he is still young.
Even if many are doubting and hesitant about his abilities, he continued to give up on it.
"When I was in the proseso with the pagpu-police, maraming taong driving.
Masyado kang maikli, hindi ka naman gonna dumaan sa pagsubok.
"It's the pisikal n that is terrible," he narrative.
Pisikal test, psychological test and medical test - that is just some of those who needed to pass and pass by Jojo to be a police.
"Examination WAS Really tough, so When alam kong kunin ko na ang pagsubok ay mas mahirap akong tiyakin na dadaanan ko ito", he said when I asked how he was able to make amends with them.
A champion, instructor and police - "Jojo James Sta-Gen.
Perhaps a question playing in your mind - how did he have achieved his success?
"Here is his answer:" Don't tamad, ALWAYS do.
You have been productive.
Not, it's just the block, you have to plan ahead.



