Frankly: Duterte has no immunity to the International Criminal Court By Ellen Tordesillas August 17, 2016, President Rody Duterte always tells him that if he is threatening to kill him, his mind is the plague of society that is why he is strong because he will not be able to get along while he is the president.
He said this when he visited the wounded soldiers in the V. Luna AFP Medical Center and he was annoyed with businessmen who did not follow his command to stop the "endo," taking advantage of the worker through five months contract and not become permanent at work.
"I was just a warning: Tumigil na rin ang kontraktwalisasyon o kill income," Duterte said.
"You know kung bakit I can speak that way, the President?
While ako dito, I have a legal] immunity. "
It's true that while he's president he won't be able to come with him.
"It was stated in the Constitution.
"That is right because if the President is worried about the cases that can be filed with him while he is making decisions for important things for the country, maybe he cannot decide.
But it does not mean that when you are president you can do whatever you want that even if it is against the law.
Many are worried about a lot of people who are connected to Duterte's campaign against illegal drugs.
Up to 646 have been killed since Duterte took office in Malacanang last June 30.
If it was counted since he won last May 19, it was too much of 800.
This is according to the number of Philippine Daily Inquirer (PDI).
Most of those who were killed were no case and there was no warrant of arrest.
There are some cases that police killed - allegedly fought back and grabbed the gun even if the victim was handcuffed.
Most people do not know themselves.
But Duterte defended the murder.
He said to the soldiers when he visited Capiz: "If I order killing a person, I can't arrest because I have immunity.
I also have power to pardon and if you do what I ordered, I will pardon you. "
Many are worried about what Duterte says.
Because it is not true that he is not the subject of the law.

If he has an immunity to the Philippines, he is not exempted in the International Criminal Court (ICC) and he can charge him there.
If he was sentenced to "krimen laban sa pagkatao" he can catch him even if he is President.

There are presidents in the country of Africa who are convicted and are imprisoned now in killing "crime laban sa pagkatao".
This is the reminding to him by Kabayan Rep.

Harry Roque who is an ally in Congress as a member of the super majority.

Roque is Human Rights lawyer before he became a congressman.
Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aquirre II said that it is not "krimen laban sa sangkatauhan" the murder of criminals.
But Roque said the one who could tell if "krimen laban sa sangkatauhan" the killings happening is the ICC.
And when they saw the liver wide, they could clean a president if there is a case that will be filed against the country who can take advantage of the international court the president of the Philippines.
It's good to let President Duterte a ally.



