
Series of taktikal offensive in Rizal, successful!

Macario "Ka.
Karyo "light NAAC-NPA-Rizal November 10, 2013

A series of taktikal offensive launched NAAC-NPA-Rizal to be responsible to destroy the environment, the mangangamkam of the land and the lansakang who violate the rules of the government Demokrationg Bayan, led by the CPP-NPA-NDFP.
That was the taktikal opensibang this after almost 2 weeks of combat operation of pinagsanib force of the PNP and AFP in the countryside in the province of Rizal.

Around 4: 00 in the afternoon of November 9, a platun nireyd of BHB the East Lumber, a company of the quarry owned by Mrs. Veronica Lee and Mr. Robles and based in Sitio Paenaan, Pinugay, Baras, Rizal.
BHB enforced by the decision of the demokratikong Gubyernong Bayan to stop the operation of the said company because of the widespread pangangamkam of the land and the destruction of the environment.
It can be recalled that the said the quarry operator was the sumira in the panamim of the farmers in lupaing they pwersahan kinamkam using the fraud and violence.
Confiscated the 3 shotgun, 2 pistol, 3 icom and documents of the company.
Together with the stoppage in the said operation is the warning that if they continued in the destruction of the environment and the lansakang violation of the rules of the DGB finally ipapasara, the said company.

5: 00 in the afternoon, after which nireyd of a Tim of BHB went to the house of the couple Ariel and Regina Bisgueras reason for their pangangamkam of the land and threats to the farmers in the same place.
Confiscated from them the uniform and the important document that can be used in the BHB paniktik, discovered that the couple is the reserved hukbo of the AFP.
Warned them to stop their pangangamkam of the land and violence in the farmers and warned that if they are not changed, that a more severe punishment will be imposed on them by the rebolusyonaryong movement.

After an hour, nireyd of another Tim the Treasure hunting Compound owned by the retired Philippine Airforce Col. Lorenzo Deris.
In Sitio Kilingan, Paenaan, San Jose, Antipolo City.
The atas BHB enforced by the government of demokratikong Bayan to close the said treasure hunting reason in destroying the environment and violation of the rules of the DGB.
Confiscated the items used in the treasure hunting,

After the series of taktikal opensibang that this is a safe nakaatras the forces of BHB while celebrate the people in the area.
In the end, who was also given a justice for a long time that they will be solved and mistreatment of BHB request for a long time that they will be punished the destroy the environment, the mangangamkam of the land and the lansakang who violate the rules of the government demokratikong town.

The said taktikal offensive was done by BHB inside the perimetro of nagkukumpulang the camp of the 16th IB-PA.
59th IB-PA, SAF-PNP and RMG-PNP.
This show of not succeed the pagsiskap of an enemy to crush the rebolusyonayong movement under the Oplan Unity.
Instead of smashed, it became stronger the rebolusyonaryong movement in the province.
The successful to is a panandang rocks failed to declare that the Oplan Unity in the province of Rizal.
The BHB supported by the people are not kailaman madudurog.
Instead, and it will continue to fail in any counter-insurhensyang program of the regime US-Aquino.

Long live the new hukbong BAYAN!
Long live the party communists of the Philippines!
Long live the Pambansa demokratikong PRENTE of Philippines!
Long live the sambayanang ourselves!



