
Fusion film

By Rolando B. Tolentino July 25, 2012

Rebyu of Tambara (Orvil Bantayan, 2012)

Last June 29 to July 3, 2012, idinaos of Film Development Council of the Philippines is the first-time actors in Pambansa in Davao City.
From the 120 that isinubmiteng skript, choose 15 for the feature film - tiglima in Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao-to pondohon, and 10 in the end and shown in the festival.
I liked in the movie but does not notice of the other judges, the Tambara.
Halaw in a short story of Macario Tiu, this is about a teacher in elementary with husband in the kabuwanan.
A symbol of powerful Katolisismo and modernismo, the teachers are worried to cure the shaman in kinukumpuning chapel.

In her anger, even the traditional tambara (the altar of aalay) was destroyed by the teacher.
When there is a delivery of her husband, and also due to the strong downpour of rain, was forced to the teacher went to the shaman.
The shaman is nakakapaghilom because of his conversation with the old cellphone to Apo Sandawa, and it was discovered, he got mad because the toppled destroyed by the teacher tambara.

Pinagsayaw of shaman the teacher in the downpour of rain to remove the anger of the toppled.
The movie, there will be no inobasyon but nakapaglahad in the form of a story from the region that we do not see ordinaryo'y in other movies.
Even in the current indie yet, only Sherad Anthony Sanchez, Teng Mangansakan, and Arnel Mardoquio is leading in expressing the image and stories from the region.
Ipinapaako to them that the weight of sharing stories of you Mindanao-Wan.

It's films natatangi Orvil Bantayan-together with three more films from Mindanao batch of first-time actors in Pambansa - because of the influx of the stories from the regions to be under-represented boom of indie yet.

However, there are two issues that should be considered in the movie on-time actors in Pambansa.

First, the paghalaw and the use of material from the region as naratibo impetus in the movie.
In the case of Tambara, this is from panitikan from the writers of the region, and needs to be isalin audiovisual work in the media.

The ability of the film is capacity this create biswal space that the familiar, is not familiar.
Or in the case of be under-represented that heograpiya, are not familiar, is unusual familiar.

Although the location, people, and kaligiran is in the region did, he can also imagine, province of Rizal, Nueva Ecija or Quezon.
It is not the lokalidad - the visualisasyon - and if that is the case, the pagpapadaloy of material in the media of the movie.
A particular wishes to the non-Metro Manila that story and movies make the integral audiovisualisasyon of material.

Not on the level of exotisismo like tarheta by the Department of Tourism but on the level of etnograpiya space.
I am thinking that this is the audiovisualisasyon of lunan of the former Davao airport in the movie of Sanchez and Robin Fardig, Balangay (2010) nakapagpahiwatig of kontradiksyon of not equal to progress and coming-into-being.

The kawing issue is the panitikang modalidad of the movie.
The Tambara is very sumandal in the story of Tiu, not in the media, is an effective naisalin film three dimensionalidad of staff (biolohikal, saykolohikal, and be), and just like the familiaridad said that the unfamiliar location and been found of the story.

The second issue is about the lack of the transfer of knowledge in the area, and most of all, the staff given-representasyon of the movie.
If this is the movie found in Metro Manila, many givens that does not need to discuss.
But because it is rehiyonal film, there are a lot of givens should lay out of the filmmaker: Sikolohiya of shaman and why cellphone was used in healing, panlipunang his relationship with foreign teacher and the indigenous people, pagdadalangtao in a secluded area, and others.

In the movie, to also foreigners the treatment in the details: Were given pribilihiyado, the sewing the diegesis who have the society and subhistorikal that motivation in the relationship pinaunlad in the movie.

In need, if that is the case, the more studies in the community for matumbok integral that the motivation of the story in the movie, especially if they are from the region.

Should consider the media of the movie is focused on towards featured klimaktikong situation that magtatahi of all the elements't scene ipinaloob of filmmaker.
If there is no absolute pagkalatag, no one is former the climax, and it is sad to say, the entire movie.

The potential is not thoroughly narerealisa, and this is the danger of the rehiyonal welcoming address that filmmaker (patience that there is still no't is appropriate for term): A atas that more organized to study and isapelikula the details't elementong candidate.
That is why it is and pumapaloob in nosyon of-time actors in the national (National yet), because it is not that-representasyon served in the dynamics of making movies in the country.

Before humayo't to make a movie, humayo't study first the society to iinugan of the story of the film.
In other words, humayo and study the society.



