I hope for the modernization of PN at PAF

Hopefully there will be a real hukbong sea that our Philippine Navy next year after ipahayag of the Department of National Defense in a day, his plan of buying two sopistikadong ship from Italy.
The modern ships, Maestrale Class that frigate, have the ability to magpalubog submarino't both ships and lessen the airplane because of the various weapons it carries, including the so-called "surface-to-air-and surface-to-surface missiles, the torpedo and automatic that kanyon.
More than strong in the Hamilton Class cutters that sold it to us by the United States Coast Guard recently.
This is the ship kinomisyon of Italy for their hukbong sea last 1982 and ireretiro in January of next year.
Although the P11.7 magkakahalaga billion is the morning after ship this will help a lot in the maintenance of security in our seas especially now that is not good with our People's Republic of China.
As a arkipelago should be even before the government pinalakas our hukbong sea.
Our hukbo hilarious because most of our Army stronger than the Navy and air-force more istratehiko when the value of the last two forces mentioned.
Dangan because it was given attention by the government that the insurgency as a result of poverty that likha of greed of the pul-politicians and businessmen.
If before the straight path of our government should not have the insurgency and we had the military forces igagalang of our neighbors are the country.

The 18 senators is lucky to receive P1.6 million as a Christmas present from Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile.
In spite of the fact that a lot of workers are not sumasahod right and there is no Christmas bonus, here is the our lawmakers and a tumataginting that Christmas present.
It is not surprising that many of us are wanting to be a senator.
It's because their lives compared to our small not eat if not magbabanat bones.

I wonder why it is allowed the tricycle in our main streets like an example of Maharlika Highway.
Aside from the cause of pagbagal of the flow of traffic, it is very dangerous for passengers, driver and pedestrian.
Aside from being rude of the majority of the drayrber this't slow flow, many of the motorcycle of the tricycle, against the mother-nature because they are very mausok.
Dumaragdag the smoke of them on the is the factories, old jeepneys old jeepneys buses and jeep.
Made worse by the tricycle the pollution and the heat of the world or global warming.
Really in here is "live and your own Risk" kodang is not written (unwritten code) to obey of all.
Like "wild wild West" yeeehaw.



