
Sipunin

Sipunin (Lk.
11: 37-41) is going to be usual, I sipunin.
This is not new to me.
That is why I am always has a handkerchief in the pocket pamahid colds.
Sometimes two handkerchief was still my.
But what is difficult in this is when in front of the people.
I will look at.
It can still hear the people my pagsingkot because of the microphone.
And it would be embarrassing to nagmimisa dripping to the cold.
(More embarrassing to the tsiks... dyahe mate... ha ha ha... said that of Mike!)
I have forgotten last sometimes bring a handkerchief.
When I consecration part attacked the cold.
I searched for my pocket.
I am Panick.
There is no handkerchief.
Here is that the cold.
Dumudungaw.
I can't stop the mass.
I saw the purificator in front of me.
I was cut your used to pahirin my nose.
(Hwag ipagkalat that and maybe you know the other priest... ha ha ha... pinalabhan I immediately that I.) to the doctor.
Doctor said, maybe allergy.
I thought that the term "allergy" term as rich, so I am sure that it is not allergy my being sipunin.
Anyway... niresitahan me of drugs.
I Ininom that.
Lost the cold.
But some time only, to return.
Loves that I am really loves the cold.
That's why I accepted that I am sipunin.
I just say that the child was really like that.
I was thinking that if I became a young man is magsasawa that the cold and I will never leave.
I was the research to determine the cause of this.
It can be a sign that the immune system.
That can also lacking in Vitamin C can also natuyuan that because of sweat.
Or because of the dust.
But according to safeguard... needs to be clean to not get sick.
You need to wash your hands before eating.
That is why they are pointing out that the parents of the children to clean the hand to remove the germs that can be a part of the food.
Not only the Filipinos this can be found.
Even before the Jews developed was ordered it.

This is necessary to be clean.
For them, this is included in the task nagpapabanal.
But there is a reminder: "Jesus is not in the mouth of the nagpaparumi in person, but it appears in the mouth of the nagpaparumi".
Alalaumbaga, in the heart and mind to the evil of the people.
What is the color of the mind that is also in deed can be found.
It is important that the physical be clean.
But it is more important to clean the feelings.
Dungis of a person is not in his worth, but also in how kabusilak his personality.

You are not huhusgahan of God in how you kalinis in the body or how you kabango.
You are huhusgahan kalinis in how your heart... until it just... singhot me first... that person is it!

* nasan that I tagapahid kase the cold?



