
Pasistang terrorism of the AFP, Nakaligtas in the bomb of BHB-Masbate!

Luz del Mar, Public Information Officer Jose Rapsing Command, BHB-Masbate April 3, 2014

March 30, 2014 - after two days of pambulabog and spreading fear in the common farmer of some barangays in the town of Cawayan, Placer and Palanas, successful inambus of New Hukbong Bayan - Jose Rapsing Command (BHB-JRC) in the province of Masbate the pay and reaksyunaryong komboy of mixing 92nd and 93rd Division Reconnaisance Company (DRC) under the ninth ID.
9: 00 in the evening, shot and pinasabugan of command-detonated explosives (CDX) the vehicle of the soldiers in Sitio Pulanduta, Brgy.
Tuburan, Cawayan, Masbate.
This resulted in the death of the two soldiers and the injury of the six others with their official, Corporal Piñano.
Even tried to hide the incident, the two bodies and not mapapasinungalingan naghandusay wounded on the side of the road, scattered pyesa of destroyed vehicles and other traces of pagkapinsala of pasabog.
Before this, a few days also naghasik fear the strength company military operations in the ranks of the masses.
Some houses have entered and searched by the military to look for evidence "" of the support of the masses to BHB and rebolusyonaryong movement.
Direct violation on the rights of the people, because they do not have a legal basis or search warrant for their burden.
Also a big damage caused by them in the livelihood of the masses for a few days in the paggalugad erya.
It is not free nagampanan of the masses their daily tasks in the production because of the fear of the anger of mapagbuntunan was military.
Even the annual happy celebration of the day to the end in some schools was delayed for a few hours and binalot of fear.
Pagtakpan for their failure, they were forced to magIubid lies of the military.
They hid the true number of their fellow troops killed and injured.
According to them, is missing and they kidnapped two of their co-workers who are Pfc. Erwin Talla and Gilbena Mechica.
But according to those who witnessed an after the incident, the two bodies were found lying on the road.
There are some people were also nakapagkwento with six soldiers were put in the provincial hospital of Masbate immediately also transferred to Legaspi City.

There is no nabihag the BHB-JRC.
Died in the explosion of their vehicle, the two soldiers iniuulat missing and they were abducted.
They do not want to admit that their operation is the failure and demoralisasyon in their ranks.

As the torong steaming the nose of the pasista after the incident.
In that they tsekpoynt near the ambusan nagpakaamba, while their weapon, one by one of their pinatigil the civilians and forcefully siniyasat.
Some civilians were not able to stop the tsekpoynt because of fear.
In return for this, beaten, kinulata and dinitine.
Meanwhile, pinagpipilitan they also had a .38 caliber, Dong Dong Condor, a civilians were riding a motorcycle, that's why they arrested.
They can be made to come out of BHB co-JRC, Dong Dong.

They entered and searched when there is no search warrant also some kabahayang near the surrounding was ambushed.
Spread the equipment, isinabog the rice, corn and other food from the container in searching for evidence.

The military is at the back of the operation of the military pagkukumahog to reach their mission of paglusaw in rebolusyonaryong movement under the Oplan Unity.
Aside from the goal to confuse the celebration of the 45th anniversary of the pagkakatatag of BHB, also used by the palalong soldiers their actions to ikintal the masses that they can use the fierce face of the state.
Openly showed that they are not put first for them the welfare of the masses, along with this, the flying of airplanes of Filminera Resource Corporation in pagsarvey of yamang mineral of Masbate.

The Masbatenyo, together with the Filipino people, you should be united't fight the violation of their rights of the paid abusive soldiers.
The Sandigan BHB of the people being oppressed and fighting.
Not won't be moved by and continue to increasing the BHB any OPLAN their try due to the support of the people.
Who will fight for the rights of BHB demokratikong and safety of the people against militarisasyon and the abusive associated with it.



