
21 weapons were seized in Paluan, Occidental Mindoro

You Higom Maragang Lucio de Guzman Command- BHB Mindoro November 7, 2014

Dalawampu't a (21) heavy caliber gun and other kagamitang military were confiscated by the Pulang warriors Lucio de Guzman Command (BHB Mindoro) in a reyd in the municipality of Paluan, Occidental Mindoro earlier at 3: 00 in the afternoon, November.
7, 2014.
This includes the seven M 14, thirteen M16 and a 12-gauge shotgun, two pistol and there are still a lot of wounds and using the military.

Killed in more or less 20 minutes fight the 7 soldiers and 4 more were wounded in 76IB (PA), PNP-PSB, and the PNP-MPS that during that time, in the municipality of Paluan.
He was brought to the retreat; the mayor of Paluan Mayor Carl Michael Pangilinan, but after a talk and mababalaan about the proliferation of illegal pagkakahoy, fishing and illegal drugs, he immediately deported back.
There is safe nakaatras the NPA who is not of any damage and without any damage to the masses / civilians in the area.

The 76IB and PNP-PSB and the Peace Development teams (PDT's) / COPD's is reckless are the human rights of the people, especially the indigenous people while conducting a military operation in the town in the jurisdiction of the Abra de Ilog Paluan and Mamburao, all in Occidental Mindoro under the Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
The ongoing and could not forget the citizens Mindoreno the a heinous crimes and violation of human rights (including the arrest, pagtortyur and killing) of the other battalions of Phil.
Army who were assigned to the Mindoro like 16IB, 80IB, 68IB and other units of PA and PNP [6SFC, 34SFC, 19SFC, 2SRC, 4SRC, 17SRC, 18SRC, the Engineer'g Bn, 3rd SAF Bn] in the time of Oplan are after Tamaraw in the leadership of berdugong, Palparan and after it.

Should hubaran pagpapanggap prayer of the mask of the AFP and the PDTs that "" kind and wandering in human rights.
Should reveal their deceit and fraud.
Should reveal the crime of PA-AFP and PNP against the people and pananagutin those responsible for the crime.

Will hold the pasista and berdugong military in the debt of the people!

Showcase and upset Oplan Unity!



