We can do: He is not a hero By Harvey Keh August 5, 2016 May the news that we are discussing now in the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos at the Libingan ng mga Bayani in the next month.
This is the issue in the election and this is one of the pinangako of President Rody Duterte during the campaign.
Many of the group and surely object with of Duterte.
Even Vice President Leni Robredo, who is against the plan to this.

In my opinion, it is better that the proposal of former Senate President Aquilino Pimentel "Nene" in the town of Batac, Ilocos Norte to bury the remains of Marcos.
According to Pimentel, she loved the people there in Batac, that's why it is better perhaps that he is just going to be buried there to stop the few people who debate about this issue.
For me, there is no need to bury Marcos in the Libingan ng mga Bayani.
Marcos is known in the whole world as one of the leader of the country with the biggest stolen from the government.
He was known as a Martial Law where thousands of Filipinos are lost and killed by the military and police.
Cemetery is considered to be known as the one who stole billions from the country's budget?

Cemetery is considered as a leader, which ended in our freedom and allow the left't right murder of the expressed resistance to his pinatupad that martial law?
Until now, it is still not ibinabalik of the Marcos family, their stolen in our country.
Until now, still call for justice for the thousands of families who lost their relatives during the time of martial law.
Even students in grade 3, don't know what is the meaning of being a hero.
We can be considered a hero to a person nagsakripisyo for the good of others and of the country.

We can be considered a hero a leader used his power to enrich himself and his family.
If we are not object and we will no longer allow the burial of Marcos at the Libingan ng mga Bayani, we shows the youth to a hero the pinunong umabuso in his power and robbed from the treasury of the country.
Of sometimes, apologized and asked for an apology to the Marcos family was at fault in our country.
This is what kind of leadership the we want to make an example for the next generation of Filipinos?

Hopefully not.



