Call to the youth in the Independence Day

Kalakhan to us, there is still no innocent or not yet alive during the time of the military based on the United States in the Philippines.
We saw the American soldiers who nakahimpil to Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Complex.
We do not witness how to be put in danger for our country in the giyerang agresyon of the United States in Vietnam and Korea.
It was reported that there is a hidden weapons nukleyar the America before in our country.
But we were caught up with the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) for the American pwersang papasaukin magbase again in the country and their military.
We saw the meddling of the Chinese in the islands of the Kalayaan (Spratly Islands) and Bajo de Masinloc (Scarborough Shoal).
We saw how the conflict and America and China to control over the South China Sea or West Philippine Sea and the entry of their big warship in our seas.
Also directly the display of domination of China in the island of Day in the construction of their facilities in the island.
It is also not makapangisda to the Filipino people mamamalakaya in our seas because of the threat of the Chinese.
And do not forget the destruction of our national wealth to the Tubbataha in Palawan last 2013 because of the USS Guardian that pagsadsad puminsala in almost 4,000 square kilometers of garbage.
There is also the disposal of a poisonous chemical in the sea and violation of the rights of the people being conducted during the annual recently concluded Balikatan military exercises.
In time to be put in danger our national freedom because of the arrival of the foreigners, we duties as a citizen the tumindig and defend the town from the domination and violation of our freedom and soberanya.
Cast out of the bad-samang action of the citizens in the early part of the decade "90 staying of the based on the military of America in our country and we continue to objected the VFA and EDCA.
We are not agree to make the station of their arms and force to launch a war in the Asia-Pacific Ocean.
We are not in the papagitla agresyon of China in our territory.
The Philippines is for the Filipinos do not ever for any foreigners.
So-called by the time the youth and citizens with love and concern for the motherland.
To defend her wealth and nature, his freedom and freedom from the foreign corruption and destruction.
It is important the role of youth in our call and fighting.
Not became an obstacle the young age of the national release like our hero, Andres Bonifacio and Emilio Jacinto who are all in their youth to launch a revolution against the Espanyol.
That's why we went with't right now and take the 12 of June in the embassy of China in Makati and the United States in Manila.
Show our unity in the fight against mapanghimasok foreigners and insist on our kasarilan.
Tumindig in the upcoming Independence Day.
With the vast ranks of Filipinos are filled with diwang patriotic and insist on the national soberanya and integrity that teritoryal.
There is no other defend our country but his citizens.



