NEVER-SAY-sine die lived!
By Ramil Cruz August 29, 2016's life is never-say-sine die last night, the umahon Ginebra from 17 points down in the Second period, sinuklian that is still in the lead of 19 in the fourth towards 116th-103 come-from-behind win against the Star in the PBA Governor's Cup last night.
The latest stage of Manila Classico between the two teams is sinaksihan of 16,460 paying patrons at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
A few days before the game was sold out the tickets, and became the fourth blockbuster the Match in 2015-16 or 41st season.
Four starters in the crowd darlings the him by 13 points above that Justin ginalamay Brownlee in 38.
A 21, Japeth Aguilar, 14, Sol Mercado and 13, La Tenorio.
Also reach the 28 straight conference playoff stints the All-time record of the Gin Kings.
An important team-high 10 rebounds and six points, Scottie Thompson but he miraculously Top local rebounder team at present, fourth overall in the league then of June Mar Fajardo, Calvin Abueva and Asi Taulava.
Was the start of the Star, even in the First non this'y it is also a proof of the 31 points and 13 rebounds by Joel Wright and 22 markers of PJ Simon.
"Jason (Webb) had prepared them.
They prepared came out, we came out a bit Shell-shocked by how well they came out the played This early.
We DID a lot of uncharacteristic things, "Lahad of Gin Kings coach Tim Cone.
"We talked about staying on the defensive" side.
Trying to catch up to 49-32 at the end of the Second, most are not working the fightback by Kings on the back of Brownlee, Aguilar, Mercado and Tenorio.
End of seven assists, Mercado and there is a non feeds, Tenorio.
Intended for Ginebra the night, the Second straight nilaklak Victory to join in the eight Last League-leading TNT katropa (6-1) and kasalo of Gins in the Second that Mahindra (6-2).
Four to reach the pagmukmok in the corner of the Hotshots namemeligro mapagsarhan that when the last this form of tripping where the quarters in getting buried in the 11th in the 1-6.



