Of domination and fighting against Bikol

, the soldiers, they introduced himself as the members of the government: The partner of the Department of Agriculture in gaining the sensus in Brgy.
Sinungtan, Guinobatan, Albay.
They want to know who are the poorest families in the area.
But the movie-sensus they was, according to the pledged testimony of civilians residents in the area, who are supporting the rebels.
They are saying that Tilang who had the poor in the area, they are also supporting the rebels, but even the rebel New People's Army (NPA) himself.

They used "based on the barangay hall," said Fernando Paloyo, farmers from Brgy.
Sinungtan.
July 22, 2011, this happened.
The next day, they have started by the military that the patawagin "" poor residents.
When it is time of Fernando, to magreport in the military, he was firm that and immediately went to the barangay hall.
But here, it seems that he placed in the interrogation.
The entry of Fernando, binagsak of a soldier's door and asked him.
The already admit it to him, he said that the NPA, and he is the "" Ka Pando.
Vehemently denied it, of course, of Fernando.
In spite of this, she was forced by the military to hold a plakard written that "Ka Pando" and "" MGB.
Like prisoners, like criminals, he kinuhanan a photo.
After that, he pinapirma and pinamarka of thumbprint in a blangkong role - to "clean his name".
Until the handwriting of this article, the military in the area of Fernando.
According to the farmers in other't Kabikulan is widespread in a different place, and getting the militarisasyon in their area.
There is no other way the farmers to express their opposition against the presence of the military in the community, but also the magprotesta.
Nagkaisang voice last February 25, 27, on the anniversary of the uprising in EDSA, nagrali the thousands of farmers and members of the militant groups in Bikol.
Together, the four province, they are going to the sentrong bumulwak town to state: They patatahimikin of Nakaumang that the gun.
They know their rights, and they will force what this in spite of paninikil, in front of the threat.
Of Guinobatan, Albay, up to 1,500 farmers and militants protested.
In Sorsogon, reached by 3,000.
In Bula, Camarines Sur, 350.
And of Daet, Camarines Norte, 300.
They are the civilians of 20 municipality of the region that napapasailalim in fear of Community Peace and Development teams of the military.
With the members and leaders of Karapatan-Bikol, Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, Kilusan of citizens Laban in Militarisasyon in Kabikulan, and others.

Vince said Casilihan of Karapatan-Bikol, they recorded 37 civilians - many of them'y activists - that since she sat in office, President Aquino.
In this case, all others't other elements of the military against the suspect.
This is apart from those who let others't other units of the Philippine Army in the civilians that the community.
Fear the surrounding the many of the community in the province of Albay, Sorsogon, Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte.
"Many of us, it's not that makapagsaka, leave their farm and houses because of the fear," story of Felix Paz, leader of the Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas in Bikol.
Terrible memories except on the anniversary of the aalsang EDSA - that nagpatalsik in diktadurang Marcos, although she maintained the mapanupil that the way he - commemoration of the militants is the first year anniversary of the massacre of the Mancera in Sitio Mapatong, Purok 6, Brgy.
Free, Labo, Camarines Norte.
February 24 when shot at the house of the family of Mancera suspected members of the 49th Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army that there was allegedly the gerilya of the New People's Army.
Was killed in pamumutok, Benjamin Mancera, as well as the siblings, his son, Richard and Michael.
"Kasuklam-suklam is still can't achieve justice (for the family who Mancera) because of the culture of impunity that they are facing in the country, especially in relation to the case of the violation of human rights," said Maricel Delen, coordinator of Karapatan-Camarines Norte.
Up to the present, said by Delen, full of teror the citizens of Brgy.
Free.
It seems that the camp of the soldiers of the members of the "Peace and Development teams" of 49th IB the barangay hall of said barangay.
Part of the troops of Charlie Company used in Malaya and nearby barangay Pag-asa.
The "Commander, 2nd Lieutenant Dominic Olayvar, is responsible for illegal reyd in the office of Karapatan-Camarines Norte and Kilusang Magbubukiod of the Philippines on November 22, 2010," also said by Delen.
In spite of this, and with the help of the organization and the people are for paghangad of justice and fighting against militarisasyon, meanwhile, the wife of Benjamin, Leonisa Mancera that will hold the guilty.
Showed of Leonisa, and the farmers who protested including Fernando, instead of fear, the more they tumatapang pinagkakaitan rights and justice.
They learn uniting the voice, to fight.



