If you want it, there is a way in the term Extension PNoy.

The elections in the recent Yahoo Philippines about running or not by President Benigno Aquino III in an election for his second term.
Olats or losses PNoy, Bro.
The majority of voters do not want to stay in the position of the President, who is the son of ex-Senator Ninoy Aquino and ex-President Cory.
Here is the result of the recently concluded election.
There is a total 47,058 wants to step down, PNoy as president while the 34,674 in favor of her stay in the position or power.
The question Tanong of Yahoo Philippines: Should Aquino be allowed to run for A Second term?
For the favor, this is the line of words: Yes!
He needs MORE time is going to be a president.
For against, here is the line: No.
He should step down in 2016.
Olats PNoy.
The only vote 12,348 does not want to PNoy that I love as the boss of the Philippines.
In other use to determine, the Bro, 58 percent, the irritated with PNoy while 48 percent, the sinusuwerte in him.
Bigger in SWS, Pulse Asia more the number of those who voted here compared to respond to the sarbey that of the Pulse Asia and Social Weather Station with 1,200 that "respondents" only.
What is the love-means, the Bro, it is up to you to think.
But is open to the public the election in Yahoo Philippines while the extract of sarbey were made to come out of the SWS and Pulse Asia.
Does it mean it is more believable the election in Yahoo Philippines than "election" in SWS and Pulse Asia?
It is up to you to the answers or his own beliefs and we are not where "that.
But what is clear, the one percent that uusapang any mistakes.
As long as the election held a month might be.
May pinalulutang has his own the camp of PNoy that sarbey.
Overwhelming or landslide said the will of the Filipinos to the asyenderong son of Ninoy and Cory.
And this was triggered by pagpapalutang of the news for the second term of PNoy.
What will be the voice of her boss, maybe this is what he will follow.
He said, hopefully it is not PNoy will replace to Benigno Simeon Aquino III in the position to start 2016 until 2022 and more.
There is no candidate the party of PNoy in 2016 because the is given a chance does not want to encourage the masses.
If it may bite, "the bite him the truth in the election for him not to enter the Malacanang.
REMATE survey Parang survey that was also done by our pahayagang Remate about staying or not PNoy in Malacanang.
The question that we have in the past the entire week is: Is it right to change the 1987 Constitution just to remain in his position, President Aquino?
If you nasubaybayan the many texted, the Bro, you will be surprised at the reaction.
Many are in favor of PNoy.
But more the against PNoy... aside from anger with the help of the Constitution only to be done by PNoy will want to stay in Malacanang.
In our pagkwenta on the result, including the we do not released because of limitasyon in time and space, in the 75 percent are against PNoy while at 25 percent is the only in favor of him.
If you want it, there is a way at the trip of PNoy in the country in Europe in the coming days, he natanong about the issue that term extension.
The child of the tofu, kasagot-answer is, if he wants to, "", there is a way.
And until now, he continues to dinirinig the voice of his boss.
Who is really his boss, the Bro?
Many are doubting who was his boss.
But what was one of the many.
He was the boss, his men who are ready to give him all the way he pupwede towards he wants to kamtin.
In the Constitution Pinakamabisa RETOKE the pagretoke in 1987 Constitution for the term extension.
The three because of the 1987 Constitution way to maretoke it.
One of the Constituent Assembly or pagbubuo of the congressman and senator as a duty to change the Constitution.
This is when they can retokihin together or separate, it depends on what they want because they really want to disregard the meddling of the Supreme Court here.
If this happened, it might not only term extension will change.
Pupwede parliamentaryo they make the system of government and disband the presidential system.
"When it happened, the Bro, there is no election in 2016.
And will be prime minister PNoy that most powerful officials in the Philippines.
Because of too much immediately masuhulan that the act as a lawmaker, pupwede to be lifetime Minister being the leader of PNoy and will be lifetime is also the term of his KKK or asungot.
Hehehe.
Martial law can also in the number of those I love making trouble at the Philippines from the kidnappers for ransom that the police until the Abu Sayyaf and New People's Army, pupwedeng repeat the bombahan anywhere and blamed for all of the "nanggulo" this, following the declaration of martial law.
It is easier for the term extension because the end of the gun of the military and police will be used to stay in the power of all the lust in space.
Kakatakot!
I hope that there will be no events is like this.

Ultimatum / Benny ANTIPORDA



