
April Fools Day 'Reception of the New PMA cadets: My personal experience

The April Fools' Day (April 1), the traditional day where the normal behavior is prohibited.
That means, that the '' and the practical jokes is authorized on this day.

The so-called Reception Day in the PMA, also itinataon in April Fools Day 'probably in that is the day that most of the new recruits naiisahan, what is the meaning of reception.

I was also one of the 'deceived' because this is where I thought the reception and will have a background music more awit of Luciano Pavarotti.
Kaloka, is the 'Reception Ceremony' the PMA isn't it?
This is apparently mananakit your whole body because of different ehersisyong samo't your pagdaraanan for the first time.
Added to that, it may also be your voice in kasisigaw of "suh Yesss!" And "No suh!" When he repeatedly.

Secondclass Cadet (3rd Year) to me when I experienced will be members of the so-called Plebe Details that he receive in the new cadet members of the PMA 'Mabikas' Class of 1996.

Kainitan the afternoon, but it is still a cold breeze when we, the arrival of the new Plebo (1st Year cadets) to get a taste of our '' 'karinyo military' for the first time.

In the conversations we then, we want to make it up to our experience '' 'be fooled' in Reception that we thought, bonggang party and are scattered all over the delicious food.

Let us see "who will not be drawing the face of shock and for warshock in the first attack was dropped by the military training," said one boyfriend.

"We can see what you will not know what to do and maluha-tears in maranasang mase-mase," said the one.

I remember we memorized the names of the kadeteng our, we receive that day.
The doing of the Plebe Detail isinisigaw members, the last name of the kadeteng become a member of the squad.

In orientation, because it is saying that to us, we are in our family name if it will become a member of the military, especially in the Plebo.

Sometimes it is not just the Reception Day because of this.
For example, there are the first name and last name that can magkapalit happening in like kadeteng lumilingon in the name of Cadet Juan Melchor.

For example of Cadet Melchor, the tailor made a mistake to make the uniform he.
Instead that Melchor in the name patch is the JUAN placed.

I like the shouting of the team leader, of course, we read the name cloth in the chest of 'shock that all' Plebo: "" JUAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAN!

Of course, the plebo shocked because he does not want to mamansin.

"Sanamagan, why you do not want mamansin" hijo?

The eyes widened in fear of it saw a ghost, answered the plebo: "Sir, I am not Juan!
I was "Melchor!
You are dead.

If memorable to us the Reception Day as Plebo, this is the same this are memorable in the ranks of the 2nd Class Cadets that he 'magpalaki' and mentor in the cadet for the first time.

All we both mamamaos in kasisigaw in Organized chaos that idinadaos in Borromeo Field, the 'sacred ground' of the PMA for those who are cadet here.

The Reception Day is one of the memorable topic to be talking about the old retired General when each other even if any occasion.

If you see by the soldiers who nagtatawanan in a corner, it is included in the agreement the experience in April Fools' Day.



