
There is a hint of-revenge

The right comment of the catholic bishops conference of the Philippines (CBCP) in the failure of the administration of President Benigno Simeon Aquino III to raise the quality and level of the lives of people, but it is sad that the narration, it seems that this is the result of revenge than love for the country.
According to a statement of CBCP recently, are the steps of the current administration to stop the spread of the crime and corruption, alleviate poverty in the country.
Diniinan by the bishop was the continued violation of human rights and the extrajudicial killing.
They also said, she is also being neglected the pundamental that the rights of the people for their livelihood, is a decent house, akses in the right way and young medicines, de quality education and the right to inherit the land till (a jab in Hacienda Luisita this) while it creates the new rights (innuendos this again into the RH Law but a "did not openly accepting that this is the right).
They also criticized the failure of the administration to approve the Freedom of Information Bill which will give-raan masiyasat in the town so that the transactions entered into by the government.
Hilarious fear that the administration of the FOI when the program of the government is "" straight path.
", why are they afraid that people place your trust in the truth behind their leadership? "-usisang question of the prince of the Catholic Roman Catholic.
I cannot say that it is wrong to the comment of CBCP because it is true that those.
It's just what I wonder about, this is also the problems that we are facing in the time of the regime of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo but why no silent the prinsipeng before?
I remember how many times the people in the mabunying prinsipeng this for a letter that pastoral kokondena at the time of the regime Macapagal but it remained nakahimpil their pluma.
They kept their mouth shut in spite of the corruption that's exposing at that time, but they still nakipagsayaw to Macapagal (like the-night dancing in dictator Ferdinand Marcos in the first part of the time of his dictatorship).
It can be recalled that the some of the obispong of many in favor from Macapagal-like an example of the grand Sports Utility vehicle (SUV) Mitsubishi Montero (victor brought back after finds).
That's why the statement of CBCP is obvious that only pagganti in the current administration even especially't ignore that if he was embarrassed when only after failing to stop the passing of the Reproductive Health Bill which proposed by Pres.
B. S. Aquino.
Although't it looks like there is another motive is the bishop in they made the statement, the truth in their message, it should not be neglected.



