Ambush of the NPA-Rizal against Division Reconnaissance Company, successful nailunsad

Macario light Narciso Antazo Aramil Command - NPA - Rizal January 21, 2013

Successful nailunsad of a platoon of the NPA - Rizal the ambush against nagpapatrulyang the members of the Division reconnaissance Company of 2nd ID, which is headed by Lieutenant Guzman in the morning of January 18, 2013 in Sitio village Barangay Santa Inez, Tanay, Rizal.
It lasted an hour of the fight that resulted in the death of a (1) someone of the soldiers and the injury of two (2) their co-workers, the DRC consisting of the pinakapiling soldiers who skillful in the fight and the inauguration of the combat and Strike operation is tails were sagging who ran back to their camp, while nakaatras are members of the NPA when safe and there is no by-even one wounded.
Launched by the members of the NPA in Rizal as pagtalima in the call of the Partido insist the Philippines last January 15, 2013 in New Hukbong Bayan (BHB) for an to return the opensibong posture, take inisyatiba and prepared for the expected opensibang military to be launched by Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) against BHB and rebolusyonaryong masses at the end of the temporary sabayang ceasefire that day, and as a punishment for openly violation of the AFP of human rights by the people in the area.
It will serve as a warning to the younger officials and soldier of the military and CAFGU to rehabilitate and do not follow in their officials that they only doing pambala in the operation.
You are in the entire time to have a debt of blood in rebolusyonaryong movement and the people.
Do not allow the units of BHB in Rizal all the form of abuse in life and livelihood of the people in the whole province.
All the members of the military, CAFGU, intelligence, and other active are cooperating with the enemy against rebolusyonaryong movement is the primary target of the units of BHB, and it's certain that it will take a long hand of rebolusyonaryong justice.

The whole rebolusyunaryong am dramatikong movement in the success of the units of BHB in Rizal in defending and pagpreserba of ranks against the intensified combat operation of the AFP even at a time there deklaradong sabayang ceasefire.
Tribute to the rebolusyonaryong people in the area who gave their warm support and in the naliliwanagang CAFGU and young officials of the soldiers in giving information that helped to be successful in taktikal opensibang that this.

Long live the Partido insist the Philippines!
Long live the New Hukbong Bayan!
Long live the Pambansa demokratikong Prente of the Philippines!
Long live the Filipino people!



