
Wednesday, April 11, 2012

Makauring awareness

MAKAURING awareness

Published as Editoryal of magasing Ang Masa, April 16-May 15, 2012

Every May Uno, SONA, November 30, and other action, umaalingawngaw on the streets is called for that kind of "Manggagawa", Hukbong liberating!
But how did they understand the workers the hukbong free in the town from the aalipin of capital, the release of the workers is in their own hands.

The problem of the workers'y in his own himself, because he does not have trust in his own strength.
He did not know that his real strength, that's why he is not yet used it for his release and defense in his interest, because they are using and benefiting from the combined force of the workers, the capitalists have.
It was still not known of the workers that he is the one feeding in the whole world.
The strength of workers in that if it is called the "" strength-making.
This is the items being sold it to the millions of workers in the capitalists have in every day, and the source of limpak-limpak that remains binabarat from capitalists have while the salary of the workers.
Try of the workers simultaneously stopped working and it is certain that the factory titirik, stop the candidacy of ekonomya of the country, the whole kapitalistang itirik system.

That is the strength of the workers that they have not seen until now.

Because the perspective of workers in his own'y only a simple employee, a simple workers back and forth in their factories, the factory or office in order to raise his own family in the't sweldong given by their capitalists have or employer, they think of their work't income'y debt of gratitude in the capitalists have, that the capitalists have the ones keeping them, when they are the ones keeping capitalists have.
Should know the workers himself as aware-in-kind.
It is not yet known of the workers that they formed a kind of society, that all of their interest in all the same way to live, the magpaalipin in capitalists have in exchange for the slightest salary, that they'y all no inaaring things in the production, which is the only thing they owned'y their strength-making.

We need to know the workers himself as a kind, because this is the first the field of the fight, the release of the mind of the workers from bansot fed a mind that the kapitalistang system in the whole country, in the whole world.
In other words, not only should fit the workers in the issue of the increase in salary, winning of living Wage, and being a good of the condition of the sahurang factory as a slave.
Most of all, they will be awakened'y-in-kind of workers who has goals to crush the rivals of their kind, the kind of capitalists have.

As aware-in-kind of workers, they should prepare for the construction of a society'y their next partner in the rotten system kapitalismo and inuuod, the pagtatagumpay the dictatorship from the kind of workers, until their scheduled to build the society, the society is not taking advantage of the people for the people, the Philippine society SOSYALISMO.



