Panalanging Lampoon

Written on the Rigveda 1500 BC, the oldest holy document that tumipon in the himnong Sanskrit.
Custodian care this are the Brahman.
The Brahman were both priest and makata.

Whatever happens.
Whatever is what is is what I want.
Only that.
But that - Prayer, Galway Kinnell.

The powerful Amen at the end of each prayer.
This is not a simple wish.
She said of abracadabra for you.
There is no doubt.
The inusal you is fulfilled.
However, not all of the prayer is achieving (because it is not an award which is in the heart of usal of prayer? Because this will happen in God's time? Because God is really has the final say and no one in-abracadabrang power the prayer of anyone? Or because the's praying, it is also really should fulfill his prayer - there is a God or not?)

And the prayer is used more tool to lansihin the ordinary person.

"Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, the soul of soulless conditions.
IT is the opium of the people ".
Maybe you are familiar with the quote that "that of Karl Marx.
Especially the popular "Religion is the opium of the masses".

Organized religion the drugs of the masses?
With the number of an example of culture popular now that effective napapakalat in the mass media and social networking, "the religion - or, in particular, the leader of every religion - to bring the masses to dreamland lusawin? For the brains of the masses?

God "father, the lord child, diyosa spirit Week!" I do not bulagin'y of the kalmen and estampita "- Avenue, Avenue, Pater Patrum, Rogelio Ordoñez!

A satirikong poems, the Avenue, Avenue, Pater Patrum! That written by Rogelio Ordoñez last visit Papa Pablo VI or Giovanni Battista Montini in in the country (November 27, 1970).
A lampoon that prayer / himno / pagsamo in santisima Trinidad.
A exposé of the cruelty and obscenity done by the leader of the religion in the country.

Effective this walking lampoon or parody in the prayer like what was done by Marcelo H. del Pilar in dasalan and Tocsohan.
He used the popular panalanging dispersed by the friars to reveal their exploitation.
For example, he did alter the Father we: What we amain we amain sumasaconvento sumpain you, the name, far from us the greed, quitlin the liig here on earth to when in heaven.
You Saulan cami now when our burnt your inaraoarao and patauanin cami you in your pagungal for you to papataua if cami'y nacucualtahan; and huag we ipahintulot you in your manunukso iadya cami bad to you and your tongue.
Amen.

The "amain" bad tongue needs to take his neck!

Meanwhile, here is the his alter the Aba Mister Maria: The Aba Guinoong Baria: Well guinoong Baria nakapupuno alcancia you when the Fraile'I sumasainyo aside from you are his pinagpala't higuit asked for all, pinagpala you were able to enter the public funds.
Santa Baria Ina when Deretsos, pray for you caming huag anitan now and cami to be killed.
He naua.

Have been used to these teknik at the time of the campaign to oust Gloria Arroyo.
For example, this tulang written by a anonimo: Oh, wow Gloria Puno grace of the wealth of the people'y sumaiyo.
Aside from you nandaya woman at all.
Also Pinagpala, your husband't child.
No one was left in Amen.

The weight of Amen is an effective naisalin in "us" or the public's pocket is nasimot because of the corruption of the entire family of Gloria Arroyo.
There is also this lasting effect the line of the poem by Rommel Rodriguez also parody of the same prayer: Well Mrs Gloria you are getting fed up of pantasya the power of the fear, you are hunting sumasaiyo, aside from the fiery while you nagsasaboy of evil.
Oh Mrs Gloria right that you were embarrassed in the law that you will never heal, panakip-hole pakanang'y scratches make peace, peace in the wish.
Oh Mrs Gloria why not look in the mirror?
Ask himself, then bigkasin: "Mirror, mirror, glass in Malacanang, the terrorists who't Nanliligalig" in the country?
But the mirror, it will not yet because the answer to the question.
He is.

Nakadirekta with the leader of the religion the tulang stones in Langit, Ang Tamaa'y will surely be angry of Valentine Dula, especially the first saknong: In the name of the Father, the Son, of espirito Santo't the sacred, this'y for special - the special individual bragging to already once "not nagsalsal; sandaang times every day if pray and kumpisal; ipinamamalitang makikipagtalik only after married.

There is a ritmo of-rap beat the pagbigkas in the poem of Dula that the blade of the line.
There is a skill in pagpuputol of the taludtod like this: In their beliefs is the way towards the sky.
They are only maisasalba if all is that he died in the upcoming paghuhukom so they immediately approached when he even how are you uumapaw sin.

In the time of insisting the truth in the Accountability regime BS Aquino, what panalanging lampoon so the surface?



