
The taktikal Timbangang offensive launched against the operation of the AFP and Oplan Musang PDT

Maria Roja Banua Spokesperson - NDF Bicol November 4, 2014

Inambus of the red warriors Santos Binamera Command the two soldiers of the 2nd IBPA in Brgy.
Anislag, Daraga, Albay and sinabayan by operations haras in the very tactical Command Post of the 2nd IB in Brgy.
Maopi, Daraga.
Meanwhile in the island of Burias, Claueria Masbate, launched by the Jose Rapsing Command the taktikal offensive in the security patrol of together troops of the AFP and PNP.

Pfc. Dario Manawis were killed and Pfc. Jerome Sambrona and were seized the two .45 caliber in ambus while in Masbate wounded a 3 Johnson Ozaeta of the 5th Regional Public Safety Batallion of the PNP.
This is the answer to the person who todong military operations in the two probinsiyang mentioned.
The hope that "zero insurgency" in Albay in 2016 almost full of detatsment and camp the place, the operations kombat and then nilulunsaran of operations PDT.
Meanwhile, where the Oplan Musang of 903rd Bde PA the Masbate that they ikinasa since April 2014 up to the present.

In the midst of the calamity, there have been successive violation of human rights.
The murder and threatening the 2nd IB in Albay.
It got its eighth by less than seven (7) cases of human rights violations in the month of July and August present year and a case of murder of Edgardo Lopez of Brgy.
Bigao, Daraga, Albay last July.
This is contrary to their saying that they allegedly takes care of those in the evacuation centers since typhoon Glenda last July until the current calamity of nagbabantang explosion of Mount volcano.
The crime enemy troops of the citizens, is more than a nuisance and traitor in the interest of the people instead of the natural calamity.

Humor the lies of enemy troops in the allegation that they nambubulabog only the New Hukbong Bayan in every successful taktikal offensive and nakakasagka in the ebakwasyon of the citizens in relation to the calamity.
The high value protocol of all for the civilians.
Pinagpaplanuhan of organized and isn't hesitating ikansela in spite of the big percent of success if mangangnganib civilians.
To the best of the best are conducting the relip and other services the BHB separated from the humanitarian Work of the minobilisang friends.



