
The Disiplina

Posted by penpowersong

The discipline of Apolinario Villalobos

If there is no discipline in a house, weaken the foundation of the morality of children grow, that's why they are losing the respect of one't one and the parents.
The loss he is also the reason for the failure of the parents to implement the policy that are supposed to guide the children to grow.
If you had shortcomings in the things that this is the parents, the children, they are losing the respect of time, money and trying to refuse in recognition of the things that they need to grow they normal.
In the tahanang no discipline, the children what they want... that's why because they want to, for example, the Hotdog, a hamburger and chicherya, who was given the parents because they love their children, they do not want to going against his will.
If you get sick that the children to grow, or sickly, it is funny the other parents, because of their doubt, and the pagbubuntunan the blame is dirty water and wind is!

No matter how kaunlad a country, most of the people, there is no discipline, the progress is losing its meaning.
The lack of discipline will become a barrier to the development of other countries.
Under the democracy, lack of discipline is the reason why there is a lamangan greed and the citizens.
Planted in their minds that the implementation of discipline, repression in their freedom, that's why they are nagdadaos of the rally to show their opposition against the law has something to do with it.
Not also helps the magistracy that are authorities in the explanation of the law because they are not considering the issue of the Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) because he is in accordance with the Constitution and democracy.... but when one hole that we can peek at the corrupt so nilla naaabuso.

The country Singapore will succeed in pagkaroon of really real progress because of the pinairal discipline.
At first, the citizens protested but later on, they also understand the good purpose, and use of like iron hand is the leading to them.
She is jealous of the citizens of other countries, the progress of Singapore.... just nainggit.
Not thinking or does not want to accept the people who are envious of the partner in the development of Singapore, objected to discipline those who are envious of this will be implemented in their country like the Philippines because repression this in their freedom!

Inside a jeepney, excited that a woman is talking about his tour in Singapore.
Tumatalsik other palaman of sandwich from his mouth while sharing because he sinasabayan of food.
The area is of the road in Singapore, that is just love the hotel.
When he ran out the sandwich and the contents of the bottle of mineral water, he was thrown the shrouded with sandwich and on empty plastic outside the jeep while it was running in the length of the Taft Avenue!
When questioned by her friends, she answered,... "it, there is a cleaning the streets"!
Now, who are not makakapagmura because of the attitude of that?



