Zumbathon pinaghatian titles of 4 By Ramil Cruz December 18, 2016 hatian in primera position, Jazz Pablo Villanueva, Marites Generao, Noel Adufina and Ricardo Montecillo in zumba marathons in tinampok yesterday morning 2016 game't happiness in the park Program Culmination Shrine Pinaglabanan Activity in the City of San Juan Government Center grounds.
1-2-3, Villanueva, Churchhil Ocante and Liz Navidad in Women's 18-40 age group, while 1-2, Montecillo and Michael Poblete in Men's side; uno-two-three in the female 41-60, Generao, Yen refined and Margie Chua, while the male division were Adufina, Mark Pelayo and Dino Dimaano.
Blessed the Top three winners are the 1,000 pesos, P750 and handed cash prizes of Philippine Sports Commission program, research the development division chief Doctor Lauro Domingo, Jr., who represent with PSC chairman William Ramirez, and the game't happiness in San Juan City coordinator / monitoring head Jean Bulda-Dinglasan.
"Many tells me that I am tumataba so I thought of to zumba to lose weight is also to gain MORE FRIENDS.
I did not expect that I will win here in zumbathon of the PSC, "bulalas of 37-Year-Old, Brgy.
Worker, Quezon City sari-sari store owner and mother of the two women, Villanueva.
Dimaano is also the nakadale of Wackiest Dancer for additional P500 cash, and the face of the Day is Marjelie Sta.

Barbara, 24, of Sta.
Mesa, Manila that there was also handed.
In badminton, there is a reward gayang Top three winners are just kept on the female division, SCUAA-NCR campaigner Jasmin Jill Dumasig of TUP-Mla. and San Juan City National High Schools bets Mary Ann failures and Louisse Joy Perono; and the male, Christian Bocanegra and Marvin Redona and Joel Llanera.
Led, pumangalawa and pumangatlo in the beginners group Girls ", May Chrishia Reign Decada of Pinaglabanan Elementary.
Sch., Shania Klein Banan and Daniel Acle; and the Boys ", Mark Anthony Racelis of SJNHS, George Mafar and Lean Angeles Bonifacio.
Volleyball champion in the Team SV of QC that some of the members'y, Charles Momog, Christian Gallares, Joshua Mendoza, Aldred Octavio, Audrey Valenzuela, Ypril Tapia and Allen Esteller.
Second Team BVA-Mla. and the third the Team Pasnia of the host city.



