Interview | "fail the All-out all"

One week after the declaration of the president, the leader of the southern nakipanayam rebolusyonaryong Katagalugan.

PW: What can do'yo in the call of Duterte that All-out all of the communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) / NPA?
Jaime "Ka Diego" Padilla: Failed the oplan of the past the regime, from the Oplan Lambat BITAG 1 until the current Oplan peace.
It is also not all-out of the total of all like Cory Aquino that will solve the armed rivalry of the country.
Just Mahahanay Duterte to first the President will fail in their attempt to suppress the rebolusyonaryong movement.
The armed hukbo always ready to face any lashing of the state't fight for the rights of the people and to carry out a real, just and long-lasting peace.
PW: Who will get hit in the All-out all of President Duterte and the operation of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP)?
JDP: The people the victims of the All-out all of Duterte.
Being certain of our more and more people are human rights violations.
In fact, even before the All-out, all the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) of the operation of the community that is causing the violence.
PW: To think'yo Sinsero, the government of the Philippines (GRP) to implement the Comprehensive Agreement on Respect for Human Rights the International humanitarian Law (Carhrihl) especially't Duterte stopped the talks?

JDP: Remains imprisoned, more than 400 political prisoners who.
He still has the statement about the arrest of the konsultant of the National Democratic Front (NDF).
Tomorrow the Melito Glor Command- NPA Southern Tagalog in had the members of the NDFP Negotiating panel at a time they'y tutugisin of reaksiyonaryong government.
This is part of the responsibility of the NPA as armed hukbo of rebolusyonaryong movement.
Assurance that it will not again that the members of the NDFP panel to makagampan them of their duties while there is no peace talks talks.
PW: Wants to do is still'yo to continue the talks?
JDP: Would we still push for peace talks while there is a fight.
Here we matitiyak that our hands were tied while free naglulunsad of the military operations the AFP in the based on our rebolusyonaryong.
The talks, it can still continue to be able to analyze the problem of the armed rivalry and answer the root of poverty in the country.
PW: What the call n'yo to Duterte?
JDP: For us to Duterte to continue the peace talks to answer the five decade-long fight ends in the country.
As well as, to see his Sin-seridad in the agreement, we need to free the political prisoners who as a duty to the Carhrihl mapoprotektahan of Jasig and make sure that the NDFP konsultant.
PW: What do'yo the call of the people?
JDP: The red warriors who continue to push through with the peace talks talks and join in the national issues.
Let us show in the regime Duterte still severe poverty in the country.
They need to act and participating in it was known by the porum in order to know the condition of the peace pangkapayapan.
They can get closer to the Pulang station of the NPA or rebolusyonaryong the organisasyong masses to makipagtalakayan on the issue.



