"He wants, we are still happy and in her mind, she would recover..." - Director Carlo J By GORGY RULA January 19, 2017 last night opened the wake of producer for Golden Lion Films, Donna Villa.
I went to Manay Lolit Solis go yesterday afternoon at the Cosmopolitan Memorial Chapels in Araneta Avenue, Quezon City.
Just preparing the chapel and even inaayusan Tita Donna in his coffin.
Also arrived, Director Carlo J. Caparas, together with his children.
They are preparing the mass before it can be cremated.
Aunt Donna because the advice to be cremated first before he opened the wake.
There was the mass attended by the family and close friends.
Clarified to us by Director Carlo J that cancer of the uterus was the cause of death of his wife.
Not yet nasi "-sink in to me that Donna, "pakli by Director Carlo J.
"'yo" you know that is how he katapang.
Even if he had a fever, I have no maalalang "" that, he said.
Explained by Director Carlo J what happened that diagnose with cancer placed in the uterus Tita Donna.
The end when they found out that this severe.
During the to-CT scan, there's a big myoma was placed in the uterus aunt Donna.
Spread this and they do not know if he would be prevented.
Director Carlo J did not know what she will do when they talked to the doctor.
The wants of Director Carlo, ipaopera and remove, but he told the doctor who ooperahan only if possible.
I fell, "there.
The doctor said war'ng if possible.
I do not know how I can say to him, "statement of nobelista and director.
They said it was about to get married and be strict ipinakiusap aunt Donna that even if there is no makakaalam close friends.
That's why the showbiz was surprised when it passed out to Cancer.
The speed of the incident.
War'ng last month just came in the hospital, more than a month, here is that what happened to him.
Since worked in the hospital, Tita Donna, this is not left by Director Carlo J. Kahit last FAMAS Awards, she said she was forced to attend aunt Donna but he was not able to leave her husband in something'ng condition.
"He really wants to remove the tubes in his mouth, so he was just going.
"He even said to me, if I was in the hospital, he said he will leave me to just accept the Award.
"But I don't want to really.
I need to, go with him.
Iyun still, she is thinking about it.
"In her mind, malalag!! Carrying n'ya" to.
He doesn't want it was sad to us.
He wants, we are still happy and in her mind, she will recover, "continue by Director Carlo J. can still difficult for him to accept it happened to them.
He did not know what she will do that Tita Donna to live with her partner in all of what he is doing.
"Last night, when I arrived home, he is still what I was seeing.
I was seated beside him of 29 years in all the trip.
"29 years we have been together for that he is the only beside me to sleep and for all that we are doing to him, I am just" follow.
He needs to magpakatibay because if he would just give him, he knows he would just give the children.
Until tomorrow the wake of Tita Donna and the advice for them to be stored the ashes in his parents, so they will be brought in Cebu.
Director Carlo J's still finishing the film venom of drugs and he has not yet thought of how he this does not end when his wife, he is with all the time.
We sympathize with those who to Director Carlo and to all who were left behind by Donna Villa.



