
The arrest of Palparan in the middle of the around Palparan that the violation of human people

In the information bureau Partido insist the Philippines August 12, 2014 the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) now days that too much delayed the arrest of former Philippine Army General Jovito Palaran earlier this morning when the agents of gubyernong Aquino in the middle of the ongoing and widespread abuse of the military and police and malalalang violation of human people, especially against the common farmers and the national minorya.

"Has horrifying when the justice to the thousands of victims of the campaign teror of General Palparan in the crime and abuses done by the pasistang troops of the AFP to his headed," said the PKP.
According to the PKP, the campaign of teror itinuon Palparan, in the right armed activists in the ranks of the farmers, workers, students and other inaaping sectors that are helping to organisa of the oppressed masses to maipagtanggol their rights and improve their demokratikong interest.

The PKP "that in spite of the words of General Palparan against New Hukbong Bayan (BHB), there is no binatbat the record in kombat against BHB," insisted that the PKP.
He became "bantog in the use of terrorism of the AFP against civilians and activists ibinibilang and that he is being treated as the armed kombatant".

Wherever she appoint, nagmamantine and direct, she kinukomand a death squad who are conducting the kidnapping, pagtortyur and ekstrahudisyal murders in the activists and was the suspected supporters of the rebolusyonaryong movement.

He and his staff was directly responsible for the kidnapping pagtortyur and loss in 2006 in the activists of UP, Sherlyn Cadapan and Karen Empeño and their fellow activist, Manuel Meriño in Hagonoy, Bulacan; in the kidnapping and pagtortyur in 2006 in the siblings Raymond and Reynaldo Manalo, in San Ildefonso, Bulacan; in the murder in 2003 in tagapagtaguyog of human-year, Eden Marcellana and activist, Eddie Gumanoy in Mindoro; and many other crimes.

"Upisyal who supported and pinananatili endorsed, the AFP taktikang teror used by Palparan against the people, according to the PKP".
Recently elected leader of some battalion and division first of Army in Ilocos, Mindoro, Eastern Visayas and Central Luzon time when he let the paghaharing teror, abuse, pagndukot, tortyur, forced disappearance, blokeyo in the food and ekonomya and around martial law coercion in the whole-buu "community.

The PKP that should be strongly kundenahin malalalang Aquino regime of the abuse of the human person who did the AFP under the campaign of of domination of Oplan Bantay Laya I and II.
A "upisyal military napanagot in more than isanlibong ekstrahudisyal case of murder and to be measured to the kso of the abuses of human-people who did" of the AFP.

"Decorations that only the upisyal retorikang pangkarapatang-people of the AFP to cover the brutalidad done by the Commander and troops in the conduct of the gerang mapanupil Oplan Unity, kalakha'y focused on the civilians halaw population, that the way that will be used by pasistang general, Palparan," said the PKP.

In Iloilo, killed by the elements of the 82nd IB of the AFP the 38-year-old farmer Gerardo Larbo last July 17 while it will harvest of their corn farm.
He Binansagan of the AFP to kombatant of BHB.

Is the worst "the violation of human people of the people in the area of the AFP pinaglulunsaran of the operation of the Oplan Unity, common to the secluded place where they want to rob and dambungin of foreign big mining, trosohan plantation and the land of farmers and citizens minorya," PKP added.

"From Mountain Province in Cordilllera until Pantaran range of the Talaingod in Mindanao, reckless binabagsakan of bombs and kinakanyon of the units of the AFP the community of farmers, pour in the eryang inookupa residensyal, the home of the people and they accused supporters of the New Hukbong Bayan, the baraks the school, said that the care center and the barangay hall and isinasapeligro the life of the citizens and are their human civilians and pampulitika and threatened the children and old".

"Was arrested, General Palparan but his pamana of the ekstrahudisyal murders and terorimong military is life under the regime" Aquino.



