
A new success the nailunsad of New Hukbong Bayan of Rizal!

Macario light (Ka Karyo) NPA Rizal Provincial Operations Command (Narciso Antazo Aramil Command) November 21, 2013

A taktikal offensive launched NAAC-NPA-Rizal to will hold the mangangamkam of land, Engineer Benjamin Flor and Bobby Lingan.
The operation was taktikal opensibang that this week after almost 2: Combat operation: The pinagsanib force of the PNP and AFP in the countryside in the province of Rizal.
At around 5: 00 in the afternoon of November 20, a platun nireyd of BHB a Farm of chicken that pansabong owned by Engineer.
Benjamin Flor and Bobby Lingan based in Brgy.
Macabud, Rodriguez, Rizal.
BHB enforced by the decision of the demokratikong Gubyernong Bayan that will be punished the said: Farm: Because of the widespread pangangamkam of land, indiscriminate firing and abuse of the people.
Launched the pamamarusa because of the many complaint received the BHB from the people in the area.
Confiscated the 3 shotgun, a caliber.
45, a twenty-two-( .22) and the bullet.
After the taktikal opensibang that this is a safe nakaatras the forces of BHB while celebrate the people in the area.
In the end, who was also given a justice for a long time that they will be solved and mistreatment of BHB request for a long time that they will be punished the mangangamkam of the land and the lansakang who violate the rules of the government demokratikong town.

The said taktikal offensive was done by BHB inside the perimetro of nagkukumpulang the camp of the 16th IB-PA.
59th IB-PA, SAF-PNP and RMG-PNP.
This show of not succeed the pagsiskap of an enemy to crush the rebolusyonayong movement under the Oplan Unity.
Instead of smashed, it became stronger the rebolusyonaryong movement in the province.
The successful to is the panandang rocks failed to declare that the Oplan Unity in the province of Rizal.
The BHB supported by the people are not kailaman madudurog.
Rather, it will continue to fail and any counter-insurhensyang program of the regime US-Aquino.



