
The current PMA Honor System

In the end, I can be revealed when the small piece of the puzzle to be able to explain to anxious in the minds of many of our countrymen: What this accusation "irregularity nabagong" because of the votes of the Honor Committee where from 8-1 (guilty vs. Not guilty) was a 9-0?

I myself how to be confused that there is a so-called 'chambering' in Honor Committee trial.

The 'chambering' or executive session when there is a dissenting vote is not part of the procedures on our time where minsanan only the secret balloting and what is the result, then.

I said on the first articles, there was a change in the Honor System after the study of the PMA about naaakmang procedures that are appropriate for this current time.
This is not is surprising because even in the United States Military Academy, they also had the changes until they can be established, the current system of pagpairal the strict regulations of Cadet Honor Code.

Just accept that we need to take the PMA of the positive be according to the needs of the time and the goal of all of this, he will be continued to be the main purpose is to produce the Leaders of character that maninindigang do what is right for all the time.

The current Honor System

There is a big change what happened in the Honor System in the PMA.

First, she removed the previous practiced 'ostracization' where the kadeteng chose to stay in the Cadet Corps after being sentenced to guilty verdict is given '' cold treatment of all of the cadets.
In exchange for are many tried to system like 'Remediation' where they will only touring punishments and sure-indoctrination the offenders and allow them to rejoin Academy.

For some reasons or another, they also had a problem here and that is why decided to do charcoal separation from the Academy, the decision for the mahatulang guilty in the Honor Committee trial.

Also had a big change in the system of the Honor Committee trial.

According to the part of the interview with Colonel Rozzano Briguez, the Commandant of Cadets, the Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news, "The procedure agreed upon by All cadets that is followed by the Honor Committee is that in a 7-2 or 8-1 vote, the committee members will go into a jury type executive session termed" chambering.

Added Col. Briguez: "IT is like again additional explanation where it of them would go to the ante room to discuss what Are the reasons why they voted guilty or not guilty.
This has been their procedure since they started fourth-Class Year until the First Year the everybody accepted conscientiously "IT.

According to a junior officer, who was a former member of the Honor Committee, there is no forcibly in isusulat in secret ballot after the said executive session.

"Being discussed, there are only a point that can be used in the decision in the letter of the final vote that he standard in the decision of the Committee.
There are moments that became a 7-2 after the chambering and this is respected in the Honor "Committee.

The official added, if the initial voting, 6-3 (guilty versus Not guilty), does not need a 'chambering' according to the agreement with the current Honor System.

Tabuada versus Lagura: WHO lied?

According to the statement of Commander Junjie Tabuada, of Cadet John Lagura allegedly said that one of the members of the Honor Committee member who "" was forced to change the votes.

This is the part of his affidavit that published the article of rappler.com:

When "he was about to leave I called him, 'Lags, halika first approached the' here, he has the I let him sit down in the wheelchair in Front of my table.
I told him the asked, 'was really nadali..... Cudia, what happened?
To Tagalog or and 'Bisaya you?
He replied, 'really NOT guilty the vote to him, sir, I asked him, the' 'oh, why the guilty isn't it when there is someone who NOT guilty, abswelto'?
He replied 'Chinamber, sir, I was listening to justify why NOT guilty vote, and I am also pressure, sir, that's why I changed', sir.
So, I told him, he will be a ', intelligent and kind, he replied'and' 'yes, sir.
After that conversation, I let him go ".
(I asked him about what happened to Cudia.
He said I voted not guilty, sir.
I asked, but if you voted not guilty, then he shouldn't been acquitted?
He replied: I was put in the chambers was asked to justify my not guilty vote.
I was pressured to change my vote, which was what I DID,) ", sir.

According to investigation done by the Commission of Human Rights, deny, Cadet Lagura '' that he was forced to change his vote.

About the said issue, this is presented by Col. Briguez in his interview:

"According to the Cadet, IT was his own voluntary volition (sic) to change his vote from not guilty to guilty after he Heard cannot the explanation of the other members of the voting members of the honor" Committee.

Here now, who are having problems in their two gave the failure in that statement?
(Tabuada versus Lagura)

According to Col Briguez, Commander Tabuada is to investigate about his allegations.

The question

Whatever would happen in the investigation of the PMA about the affidavit of Commander Tabuada, there are still remaining questions that should be will:

1\.
Who is a member of the Honor Committee the nagsiwalat of sensitive documents to the media?
They only have the Access in said documents like the affidavits, Delinquency Reports, Honor report and the Written Appeals by Cudia.
You want to say Ms Avee Cudia?

2\.
In tinagal is long time by Cudia the PMA and as one of the class is really clever, he does not know that there is a system 'Chambering' or 'Executive Session'?

3\.
Who is said to Ms Avee Cudia in the half-truths about 'Executive Session'?
The said trial is only for the cadets and never to isinasapubliko because of the PMA that does not want to be embarrassed the accused.
Add-for his information, is going to be expected.

Conclusion

For me, I stand my belief, Cadet Aldrin Cudia is guilty of 'Lying' in the Honor Code.

I am also believes that the Honor Committee is the right process, according to the current rules of the Honor System that her guidance in the trial with Cudia.

If the current Honor System is not appropriate for the Constitution and if nalabag the rights of Cudia, the said issue is better be resolba of the Supreme Court to her final arbiter of issues related to the law.

The pinakaimportante of all, should also remember that the Honor System is just for the cadets but the Honor Code, we should isapuso and stand in time to join the new official of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.

If you are honorable or not, at the time you makasalamuha the few corrupt and pasiga-bully that the powerful creatures, there magkakasubukan and magkakaalaman.

It is hard to fight but if we are going to be together to do right, we can give hope for our country.



