Failures and corruption in an epidemic at measles

The Department of Health is scrambling to walk it against the quickly spreading measles.
Now called for the DOH in all of the other branches of the government to help in the fight and the deadly disease nakababalda.
Included in those who are implicated in the DOH the Department of Education and the local government to help him.
Even the private doctor, a nurse and other medical professional, he also called to help.
Many drugs are saying that many of the DOH and enough the vaccine against measles.
But it is only now becoming clear this because in the ranks of the barangay health center, umaalingawngaw the statement regarding the shortages or lack of vaccine.
That is why, many of the barangay health center is an annual thing for pagbabakuna, in spite of the fact that every day that there are ipinanganganak children that should be done in due time.
It appears that it is just lying or nambobola the DOH or the government itself about having enough vaccine in pain, there is still no certain drugs.
There is no doctor, no nurse experience of all the extreme shortages or lack of appropriate health professional in the barangay health centers.
"That there is no doctor, a nurse or other has sufficient knowledge in pagbabakuna the health centers.
That is why, even if there is enough vaccine against the illness, there is nothing to act on the pagbabakuna in due time.
Countless finger in the barangay health center only the "Mother Leader" or had no idea about the treatment that the volunteer the to man.
PAGBABAKUNA at the complaint of many mother, not just shows the health center, especially the doctors.
Instead of inginunguso, the mother went to the private clinics by the doctor, even the doctors of the government, to be vaccinate there.
But you should pay when a loved one.
"Where from the using drugs in the vaccination of the" government doctor "?
From the free supply of the government or in the supply of the company of medicine so love?
Included in those who are not just the medicine for vaccination but the iringilya, bulak, consultation and taking iiniksyon.
Emergency and vaccination admit it or not of the government, there is no sinoman now to the people are saying maalwan their lives.
Be counted among the finger was the family in Barangay saying that she felt the life and they can be vaccinate even private clinics or hospital.
That's why, the father and mother are forced to find the sources of income for "finishing" only in the daily expenses.
't napakalaganap especially now that the kontraktwalisasyon nagtitiyak provide employment only for five months of the year before and up again can provide employment the tanggal at work is the cause of kontraktwalisasyon.
The government is also the one who started the kontraktwalisasyon in making the law to this, the so-called Herrera Law.
Because of the crisis to live with their family, did not meet the mother or father in the call to pagbabakuna that when son.
The driver can be included in those who are having a hard time pagpapabakuna the family of the driver of the tricycle and jeepney driver.
Everyday crying because of how hard it is to earn money for their family, especially in the food and money of the kids to school or taking care of them if kids only.
Crying because of the difficulties in swayed by the loved ones who diesel and gasoline their income and lumalamon for them to the police and traffic enforcers who live in the police extortion.
They are also pinahihirapan nagmamahalang electricity, water and others.
Nagmamamahalan the petroleum products, electricity, water and other a basic needs because of the very high tax that the government from here, except the cheating of the company owners or has control over the business said.
The poverty in life that likha himself of the government is a big reason why he didn't go to health centers so't tiyempuhan vaccine, especially the pagbabakuna in any of the program.
All blaming in spite of all this, there will still blame the government for the citizens in the spread of the calamity.
The government are saying that the negligent mother and father and this is what should be done to blame why sick, nababalda or die of measles their children.
Change the need to lead the government situating the changes in response to the disease of measles.
Included in those he should do the pagdurog in corruption and negligence in the program health, instantly hired by the doctor, a nurse and others to take care of the people.
But he should also focus the attention of the rules in tax, petroleum, electricity and others, which is the cause of poverty and illness.



