Kamtin those pushing for the huge success of progress, biguing again Oplan Unity in the year 2013

Maria Malaya NDFP northeast Mindanao Chapter March 29, 2013

Our celebrate last March 29, 2013 the the 44 anniversary of the pagkakatatag of New Hukbong Bayan brought the success that claimed last year and full of sigasig tumatanaw that this is the success of the revolution.
The BHB the primary weapon of the Partido insist the Philippines to implement the others't other activities in the launch of demokratikong revolution ng Bayan.

Talk of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) of the Northeastern Mindanao all the kadre Pulang warriors, and all the members of the milisyang town (MB) in perseverance to achieve the success in front of the malakihan and extensive operations military under the Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
The victory we last year 2012, some have given their lives of the rebolusyonaryong martyr, Ka Arnel, Ka Kenel, Ka John, Ka Rico, Ka Eugene, Ka Mario, Ka Bravo, Ka Red, Ka Mel, Ka Salam, Ka Akdong, Ka Alex and Ka Anghel.
They saluduhan and parangalan us together with the hundreds of a martyr of our region.
They will remain an inspiration to our those pushing for the continuation of pagrerebolusyon until the total success.

Moving forward that the progress of rebolusyonaryong movement in Northeastern Mindanao last 2012 is the highest reached since the naitatag demokratikong revolution ng Bayan.
The success that it is claimed to strict leadership of PKP in BHB and in the entire rebolusyonaryong paglunsad movement, especially in the second our Great Kilusang Pagwawasto (IDKP).
This is most napanghawakan the Marxismo-Leninismo-Maoismo (MLM) in pagrerebolusyon and pagwawasto in the mistakes that last year.

Successful the BHB Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino in 2012.
The advancement of rebolusyonaryong movement in Northeastern Mindanao with the real hukbong town and Partido.

Up to two battalions that there is a strong riple the BHB this year.
Nakapakat in the gerilyang platun in the town of four prubinsya of the region.
In the barrio, there are those who are members of the partaym BHB, the MB that up to five battalions.
But only a few of them holding a strong riple.
This is how Signipikanteng because last 2001, the armed forces of BHB in our region, only one small battalion and more than 500 the members of the MB.

Up to 148 taktikal offensive the nailunsad in 2012.
The a basic taktikal offensive measures to get a strong weapons, of 19.
Nakasamsam enough weapons to build an additional platun of BHB.
There is a nailunsad that 107 to harasment / isnayp that nakapagdulot of 142 dead and 115 wounded on the side of the enemy.
Launched the 16 aksyong military that I punished in the company that tumatangging kumilala in the authorities of rebolusyonaryong movement.
The primary pinarusahan is the banana plantation of DOLE Phils. that destroy the environment and nangwawasak in the livelihood of farmers.
However, increased only 10 when the taktikal offensive last 2012 kunsaan almost namintina we just the number in 2011.

When the rebolusyonaryong based on strong naitatag here in the mountains of Northeastern Mindanao.
Pinatatag and pinanday of the attack of the enemy.
This is the highest level that reached to our region.
But there is still a 1 / 3 part of the barrios in our region that they still need to reach the oorganisa, especially the center of the towns and cities.
Up to 640,000 where it is the population of baryong nakikilusan, but 1 / 3 was only part of it was considered rebolusyonaryong baseng masses.
Beynte percent of the masses baseng the naorganisa in the sektoral that rebolusyonaryong organization.
If that is why it is a big part of the population in the baryong kinikilusan what needs to be maorganisa to further expand and mapatatag rebolusyonaryong the strength of the people.

The number of families who were of others't other form of rebolusyong agraryo.
Up to 43,779 family or individual 218,800 benefit from rebolusyong agraryo in 330 flock inside the 29 town.
The nabiyayaan Pinakamarami last 2010, where the nabenepisyuhan 33,000 family.
In 2011 and 2012, the additional namantini 6,559 nabiyayaan families every year.
Through the program of BHB and Partido that back to farm in the mountains, up to 4,220 family inside of the former big konsesyon of pagtrotroso the free nakapagsaka.
In the area, have started the development in farming measures to answer the food and other a basic needs of the family and the community or to build the Ekonomiyang nakasasapat himself.
The whole five battalions of the AFP, the 75th IB, 36th IB, 30th IB, 3rd SF BN and four companies that 26th IB and 38th IB, Scout Ranger Company, 401st DRC, together with the PNP and the CAA / CAFGU is used in Oplan Unity of regime US-Aquino.
This was the target of the entire rebolusyonaryong pagdurog forces in Northeastern Mindanao.
In 2012, pitumpu't four times that the military operation launched by the enemy and a big part of this is done in the place where it is a big mine.
The "tropeyo" of the success of the military operation that this is the its of the troops of the AFP / PNP in the abandoned when the temporary camp of BHB.

In 74 that four military operations, this is a big operation that directly pinangasiwaan of based in Davao that he is the highest kumand EASTMINCOM of the AFP here in the eastern part of Mindanao.
The military operation last March-April 2012 under the EASTMINCOM the biggest, kunsaan up to 1,200 troops poured in the mountains of Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur and Agusan del Norte.
This is bigger than operations military during the time of Oplan Bantay Laya (OBL) 1 and 2.
This is what pushed the Lumad to leave in their community and rushed to kalunsuran to ipahayag their met a tragic situation and magprotesta against the violation of the military in their human people.

The military operation under the Brigade Command and 4ID PA, 30 times; ten times under the battalion and 26 times of others't launched a different company of the AFP.
Just the four of the military operation that was done by the platun of the AFP.
Used by the AFP / PNP the many and malakihang troops in the belief that madudurog or makukubkub the scattered the platung gerilya of BHB.
There is a wrong belief the AFP to their mapapasuko the Pulang warriors (who they think are stranded) after he was caught by their mababangis and big operations military.

The four big operations military under the EASTMINCOM sinuklian of BHB, of 28 harasment / isnayp and there is a helikopter who was hit and nabutasan the body.
The 30 times that the operation of the military Brigade / 4IDPA is nagtamasa of 43 harasment / isnayp and there is another helikopter who was hit and nabutasan.
Up to 104 harasment / isnayp the nailunsad of BHB and three ambus that there is no confiscated weapons.
In the counter-atakeng this, got its eighth 140 dead and 110 injured in the part of the enemy.
Nine Pulang warriors are risked their lives.
Also Nagtamasa some gerilyang platun of 13 depensibong magiting nakapagtanggol action but it to himself.

This 2013, we should double our claimed that the success.
We should implement the naitakdang persistent tasks this year.

The Padalasin a basic taktikal offensive to makalipol the troops and makasamsam of more weapons.
So, the forces of the enemy in erya and there will be a weapons for the additional platun of BHB and aarmas in the MB.

We double the amount of BHB.
To strengthen the campaign to masaklaw pagpapasampa of the gerilyang platun all of the people in the region.
The needs of the youth who are able to go to school to makatuwang of farmers and workers who are Pulang warriors in the implementation of the many tasks.
Because of this, we should give attention to the oorganisa in the school where it is of our erya.

There is a need for a-solidification-siksik that oorganisa in barrios.
The Organisahin sektoral that all of the masses and organisasyong rebolusyonaryong figure came since the government in the barrios.

Widen and strengthen the rebolusyong agraryo.
Step-step to lessen the rent on the ground and pawiin usura that the contents of the minimum goal of rebolusyong agraryo.
We rekisitos prepare for the free distribution of land owned by the big Lord maylupa.
Start the free distribution of land in the kasamá pinahihintulot if the situation.

To push the livelihood of the flock through the development of ekonomiyang nakasasapat-to-self.
Where the work in the farm and ibatay the hatian to harvest the size of the strength-making that nailapat.
Build of the cooperative to solve the problem in rekursong money of the family and the community and to maumpisahan that the response to the need for things in the farm through cooperation.

Continue and more than to push through with the others't other form of fighting against the disastrous big foreign mining and plantation that wawasak in the farm and the surroundings.
Continue to reveal and protest against the kaharasan of militarisasyon and the violation of human person twin.



