11 Filipinos safe in "USNS IMPECCABLE"

"IMPECCABLE," or in the word Filipinos are "" perfect, the help of the United States Naval ship (USNS Impeccable) in the 11 Filipino fishermen in the West Philippines Sea last week.
This is the truth: Towards the USNS Impeccable in Subic Bay when the matanawan Filipinos in their boat that is full of water and palubog in the sea.
Hesitate iniligtas has no chance of the joint action that civilians and "Navy Men" of USNS Impeccable the 11 Filipino binihisan, he fed and he was brought to the Subic Freeport isinalin where they are in the custody of the 111th auxillary Squadron of the Philippine Coast Guard headed by SBMA Deputy Administrator (DA) Randy Escolango.
Personal met and who accompanied the fishermen of Escolango in SBMA Dispensary to examine the state of health and the blessing of SBMA chairman Roberto V. Garcia, was brought by a SBMA bus on his way home to their respective families in Zambales.
This is the truth: Although't owned by the US Navy the USNS Impeccable, this is not us but have "survey" of the ocean and bottom.
There is no 50 people were riding this who were all civilians aside from some of the active members of the US Navy.
This is the truth: Last 2009, several times hinarass of Chinese vessels the USNS Impeccable in the West Philippines Sea without care and aroganteng are claiming of China.
In a separate incident, naroong block and forcefully pinahinto the USS Impeccable of Chinese vessels, tinawiran of paroo't parito in front of no notice of what the intention of these, hinulugan of wood the front and sometimes, was approached by the 25 piye just like that.
Bomb of water is the only defense of the USNS Impeccable that are not armed because it cannot military ship so pagdaka'y forced to leave the Chinese vessels.
For a long time and there are many times that nangha-harass the country of China in the West Philippines Sea even if the ships of the American.
What more so the fishermen that our pinagkakaitan their source of livelihood.



