Essential tremor By George Nava-TRUE II August 31, 2016 will be shaking hands.
I have Parkinson's disease?
I have not who the doctor.

Because of the illness, I did not makasulat and able to use spoon properly.

It is difficult to stop the shaking.
I hope you can help me. - Charles Kelvin Santos.
When will be shaking hands, in the minds of many symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Often, this is essential tremor, a nervous system (neurological) disorder that can affect any part of the body.
It is common to see it in the hand, especially when he is being used.

Because of this, it is difficult to drink, eat, write or magtali of the shoes.
If the voice, it is hard to speak.
Not dangerous the essential tremor but just to worsen.
Without choosing that the age of the disease but often appeared at the age of 40 and above.
The shaking starts and is slowly getting when moving.
It is possible that one or two hands were affected and becoming a bit when you are tired, drinking caffeine or because of the stress.
Can also be affected the head ("yes-yes" or "no-no" motion of the head).
The essential tremor in Parkinson's disease where the be shaking hands even if not in used.
In Parkinson's disease, we are not of the patient, the slow movement and it is hard to walk.
In the essential tremor, hands, head, and the voice is affected.
's in Parkinson's disease, and the trembling in the hand and can spread on the leg, chin and other parts of the body.
Usually the essential tremor was the effect of the genetic mutation who inherit (familial tremor).
To others, don't know the cause of it.
If the little symptoms, there is no need to cure this.
But if this becomes severe, go to the doctor to be given the right medicine.
Included here are beta blockers, which is often used for high blood pressure.
For example, propranolol.
Do not use this if there is a asthma or heart disease.
Can also use of anti-seizure medications or drugs in epilepsy like primidone when there is no effect beta blockers.

Other for example, gabapentin and topiramate.
The side effects of this is aantok and dizziness missing by.

It also helps the tranquilizers like alprazolam and clonazepam if pinapalala of stress the shaking.
May maantok or get tired, because of this.

Follow the follow the doctor because this habit-forming.
Coincide with the Botox injections in the shaking of the head and voice.
The effect of this to 3 months.

Do not use to weaken hand because the finger.
If used in the voice, it might be mamaos and suffer maglunok.
Also improve the movement through the physical or Occupational therapy.
You will be taught the exercises to strengthen the muscles and have control and coordination.
If there is no effect what I mentioned, the last resort is deep brain stimulation.
The doctor container of the long and thin probe the brain connected to the pacemaker-like device (neurostimulator) nakabaon in the chest.
Trying to stop the part of the brain that is related to the trembling.



