Accusations of the AFP in might ekstorsyon in the election of BHB, tinuligsa of PKP

In the information bureau Partido insist the Philippines April 29, 2013

Tinuligsa of the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in "crooked propaganda" nangingikil of money is that it is the New Kubong Bayan of the candidates in the election and insisted that there is no uimiral "regulations that oobliga of payment for the pribilehiyong mangapanya in the place where it is in the jurisdiction of the demokratikong gubyernong" town.

These past few days, ipinangangalandakan of Major Genrenal Jose Mabanta, Commander of the 3rd Infantry Division assigned to the island of Negros and Panay, "half of all the naglalaban-against politics" in his erya ", who are paying for the protection of BHB".

"The most important is the purpose of the rules of the demokratikong gubyernong reaksyunaryong town in relation to the election is fixed the conduct of the campaign in the election in the area of the jurisdiction to make sure that the rights and not nalalapastangan kagalingan insisted that the masses," PKP.
"All of the candidates on the election reaksyunaryong who campaigning inside the erya of gubyernong town should be followed in the regulation" this.

"Will not the implementation of BHB of the policies of the demokratikong gubyernong" town, according to the PKP.

"In their own decision, the large majority of the candidate that the candidates for the reaksyunaryong election is coordinating with the rebolusyonaryong authorities to have a possible pagkasunduan in relation to the cooperation and ikoordina" their activities.

"Urged the rebolusyonaryong force the candidates in the election to support the struggle of the masses for reform in the soil, to make the programs that are beneficial for the citizens, protest against the militarisasyon in the countryside and the patriyotikong flag against foreign dominasyon" and interbensyon.

"The coordination and cooperation between the candidates in the election and the organs of demokratikong gubyernong town is implemented in kalakhan without any elements of pamimilit and from a priority for acknowledging the pampulitika and panggubyernong" authorities of the latter.

"Repeatedly nililinaw of PKP the policy he lumalahok when tuwiran or the BHB reaksyunaryong tuwiran in the election.
All of the candidates who are cooperating with the authorities and nakikipagkoordina rebolusyonaryong is ginagawaran of equal opportunity to campaign in the area of the jurisdiction of the gubyernong "town.

"Ikinokoordina their pampulitikang activities in the area who is under the authorities of gubyernong town in order to avoid the pagsasapawan of the scheduled, make sure that the peace and order and the rights and kagalingan" of the people.

However, the political "armed tampalasan that she does not want to follow rules and do not want to the rebolusyonaryong makipagkoordina authorities, is under armed implementation of BHB," insisted that the PKP.
"Common to them, those who are responsible in being accomplices in the AFP in gerang mapanupil this against the people, those who are kakutsaba in the illegal drug trade and other criminals syndicate, those who are corrupted and nanira of the surroundings and those who are when-mistreated and taking advantage of" citizens.

"Opposed to the policies of the BHB and even if there is a restriction under their own laws to this, the AFP in active lumalahok reaksyunaryong election, using the armed strength to scare the people in supporting the candidate they tinatakan 'as enemies of the people and the simpatisador' 'of BHB"'.



