Bombing and widespread militarisasyon in Mindanao

A brutal todong digma and who is now the regime launched US-Aquino against the citizens of Mindanao.
This is in relation to the counter-citizens and anti-national programs to pay laya the corruption of the foreign company in mining, pagtotroso and komersyal that plantation in the natural resources of the island.
From the start of the 2012, incessant bombing and iistraping and other violation of human people were done by the armed hands to the civilians community.

The sustenidong aatakeng konsentrado for it in the area of the operation of the multinasyunal mining and company agribisnes like the boundary of the province of South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Davao del Sur and Sarangani where the SMI-Xstrata; at the boundary of Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte and Agusan del Norte where the big mining of nickel like summer Anito and Nickel Asia; the vast plains of North and South Cotabato where the plantation of DOLE-Stanfilco; in Davao Oriental and Compostela Valley where the giant Russell Mining; in Zamboanga peninsula where the Toronto Ventures Inc.; and in Bukidnon where there is a malalawak that plantation of Del Monte, DOLE and Sumifru and the First Gen hydroelectric Power plant.

Emphatically kinundena of the indigenous people, the progresibong group and the lawyer of human people were brutally and widespread bombing of civilians community of the indigenous people in Mindanao.
Last March 30, marched in Butuan City the native forced to evacuate in their community.
They criticized the incessant bombing and insisted that the immediate evacuation of the troops of the AFP in their community.

The military operation of the AFP, and pinasaklaw pinalawak using the Special CAFGU Active Auzxillary units (SCAA) that was and pinalaki on the strength of the order of the regime Aquino last October 2011.
The pagbubuo of the SCAA, according to the rules of the regime to pay laya and protect the big foreign companies in mining.

In total, up to 3,000 people were forced to magbakwit in the time of tagtanim and summer harvest.

Three separate incidents of forcibly ebakwasyon and other violation of human people in Bukidnon, Surigao del Norte, Agusan del Norte and Compostela Valley is recorded by the organisasyong defending the human person last February-March.
Up to 250 families were forced to evacuate in their community from Kitcharao, Cabadbaran and maburol part of Butuan, Agusan del Norte, Claver, Surigao del Norte and Barobo, Surigao del Sur.

More than 120 families were nagbakwit from Magpet, North Cotabato, more than 50 from Kibawe and 19 family from San Fernando, both in Bukidnon and some from Barangay Tibagon, Pantukan, Compostela Valley and Barangay Balabag, Bayog, Zamboanga del Sur.

Included in those nagbakwit the entire family of the murdered leader-indigenous people, Jimmy Liguyon, together with the other someone of their family and community in the middle of the continuous threats of Aldy Salusad, leader of the New Indigenous People's Army Reform (NIPAR paramilitar), a group that is being operated by the 8th IB.
Was killed by NIPAR Liguyon last February in his house in Dao, San Fernando.
, Salusad, someone of San Fernando Matigsalug Tribal data was incorrect (Sanmatrida), a group of big sinuhulan foreign company of mining to eliminate the local resistance against the operation in the area.
Nakatigil now those from the Dao in Malaybalay, kabisera of Bukidnon.



