Bible CHRISTIANS: Reflection for 3rd Sunday in Ordinary time year A - January 22, 2017 - year OF THE Parish

In the coming Sunday, we will celebrate the Sunday Biblia or Bible week.
This should be, will be the start of January 23 and ends in January 29.
But the reason that we ipagdiriwag on January 29 the feast of San Juan Bosco in our parish, minarapat I just kept on it now our celebration of the Bible Sunday.
Why is important for our Biblia christians?
What is the meaning of Biblia?
There is a grandmother reading Biblia and while she was reading, he stares at his grandchild.
The child was amazed in panood in him.
He approached and asked: "Grandmother, I know the meaning of Biblia"!
The old man and asked what, ":" "Grandchildren?
Answer of the child: "The meaning of the Bible, whose five this: Basic Information Before Leaving Earth!
When you leave in this world "grandmother?
What is the Biblia?
What is really the right reading and intindi this?
"Where it should be used?
In the past few days, there is a lawmaker who used as proof that the Biblia allowed by the Lord to reinstate death penalty resurfaced because the Son he himself, who Jesus, was sentenced to reinstate death penalty resurfaced.
Is it right that this kind of thinking?
The truth is, even in the logic (logic), I do not see the rightfulness of this pangagnatwiran!
Compared to a boxing is a big weakness that his punches said that instead of the opponent is the referee were hit!
What should consider in reading the Biblia?
There is a "" Bible Christian "who loves to use the Bible to know what the Lord wants to him, especially in solving in his prolema.
Sometimes loss his business and like his habit, he is in a Biblia.
He took it and his eyes were closed opened the pages.
He was her shock of suddenly appears in the Matthew 5: 27 saying: "Go out, treacherous and hanged herself"!.
She is afraid and asked the Lord: "God, this is what you want to do I?
And he tried to find again.
While his eyes were closed, he opened the Bible and his index, Lukas were able to catch up to 10: 37 that the said: "Humayo't you, you have to do that she almost fainted." Of fear when he opened again the holy Aklat.
The suddenly appears in his talata: Juan 13: 27, "if what you need to do, do you immediately"!
And you know, maybe'yo... after he committed suicide!
The Bible is not like "book of the guess" that some of our fate.
This is also not like the "Best Seller" books in the National Books store.
This is not only contains history or standard of a good life.
The Bible is the word of God!
This is the book where statement of the Lord to His love and loyalty to the people in giving us of the safety.
In Ebanghelyo, we saw how nangaral, Jesus of the whole sigasig!
The Bible, the pangangaral of Christ for us in this current time.
There was a time I inalalaan in reading the Bible?
Maybe there "summer price" the Bible I bought or namumuti because of the amount of dust because I do not nagagalaw from its place it!
If there's a hard work I magsayang of many hours of reading Wattpad, why of a pages of the Bible, I do not long term read?
What they said: If you want to have a way... if you do not want, there is a reason!
We make it a habit every day that reading the Bible!
Let us remember that in prayer we are talking to God.
In reading the Bible...
He is talking to us.
When you let you talk to him?
But not just enough to read the Bible.
It is more important to reading the pagninilay, the Word of God and the pagsasabuhay.
There are Christian pabibilibin you because they can say from memory the kapitulo and bersikulo of Biblia.
The question... as they do this?
Even if you Saulo it from the first page until the end but you will not pinagninilayan and as is for you only "sirens" who are noisy that there is no good things in the safety of your soul!
Read, contemplate on and teach!
This is the way to be called the real "" Bible Christians.
Three ways to be the Word of God in our everyday life.



