TAGGUTOM ", there is something is not Ebola PA?

Many Filipinos are hungry at present because of poverty as a result of lack of the livelihood of the people, the theft of the officials of the government and the lack of care of the government in the situation of many people.
Natataranta the administration of President Benigno Aquino III in the possible attack of "" Ebola virus in the country, which is expected to be brought by the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) and foreigners who are going to cooperate in the coming feast.
Violation of the administration of President Aquino poverty because this is the pain experienced only of the poor people and not the like he is rich and do not care if the complaining stomachs of people tumitingala and who have them in position.
While the Ebola virus, which is possibly hit the rich like him and his followers is too much feared because it has not been medicine.
In other words, any wealth when hit by the Ebola virus is sure death the destination.
Only the poor, starving, although there is a panandaliang medicine for complaining stomachs when to earn a little money.
The Department of Health is calling for the people to cooperate to resist felonies at the Ebola.
But why is it that they were not able to fight for the pain that hunger and malnutrisyon?
Because they were not affected by the poverty, which is the cause of pagkagutom of many Filipinos.
That is why the government to stop the has pretended to be a concern from the people.
It is Taggutom "arguing because they cannot be sure that reason is the lack of funds, that's why they resist felonies at the Ebola yet.
If the people they ibinibili of others't other drugs (Ghost project) is ibinibili of food for the poor, then, many are not "gumagaling to hunger.
If the strong immunity of the people will not be hit by any illness.
President Noynoy, you have to put in work and have a right to the poor and you can see the employees and workers before you problemahin the Ebola virus that is surely the program in the fight against the illness, the great sources of income that you alipores.



