I know Better!: Paulo Avelino, there is no time for a child with LJ ", he is busy!" -- LJ By Jun Nardo, January 18, 2017 has not taken by Paolo Contis Paulo Avelino should be the daddy his duties in the son of the late with LJ Reyes, medicine.
From New York, LJ together with Paolo and medicine for a vacation war'ng holidays and visit his mother (of LJ) based in the Big Apple.
"Is not that" now.
There is no fight over happened!
Okay!
Okay!
Okay!
There is no fight over happening, "LJ says the grand presscon of her new series of GMA that Pinulot Ka Lang Sa Lupa.
There is a role is still Paulo to medicine?
"When he wants to.

"Or, isn't it?
Okay!
Okay!
Okay!
If he wants, the actress "again.
Can he continue the obligation to their children?
He is busy "!
Owww?
You think, huh!
I have money! "Response of LJ.
Is looking for the father of the child?
"Of course, he knows.
Yes, he knows.
He was looking for.
Of course, he can see the TV, "answer.
So, it is okay to have not seen by medicine Paulo?

Because it is also busy "medicine is!
Okay!
Okay!
Okay! "Joke of the actress.
Paolo is Kumusta?

The date of their wedding?
"Okay.
There are still a lot of fixing, "bulalas.
LJ, do not want to get naked when!
The size of medicine "!" LJ - it is only now again had a drama series, LJ.
But he is still needed magpaseksi in some scenes.

Maybe he insecure to Ryza Cenon nagpaseksi of the series that he Ika-6 Na Utos?
"Is not.
He first.
I am fine.
He is the first magpaseksi.
I am fine.
The size because of medicine, the argument of "LJ.
Julie Anne San Jose makakabangga of LJ in the tarayan and dramahan.
In the TV plug, lamon that he lamon in aktingan Julie Anne, huh!
"Not.
Too much.
Not so.

I really need to be brave.
That's why it seems like that, "answer.
When it comes to Ara Mina went out to his mother in the series, was not LJ in the country when the issue "now.
I am just asking "of the people.

I do not know.
I have no idea.
I was a bit surprised that there are issues that I pagkauwi.
I also want to be with "Ate (Ara).
, Cristine, her brother, I close "now.
Then, he always we see each other everyday of Ate Hazel (Ara).

I also want to push through the good we have started "working relationship.

Because there are many who have good captured the scene.
"Beautiful scene that we also have to be a waste," LJ explained.
On January 30, the Pilot of Pinulot Ka Lang Sa Lupa from the direction of Gina Alajar.



