
Drugs in AIDS at people against traffic and flooding

Tweets targeted

There are some people were wounded in the past typhoon Gorio.
In the province of Quezon magkabuhawi that happened in the town of Jomalig.
Of course, there are nawasakan the house but they are still thankful to God to lack of died in them.
We give thanks and there is no died while we tinitipa.
Severe traffic last Saturday that the typhoon Gorio got tangled in Metro Manila, the traffic.
It's a good thing Saturday and not the million elementary students and haiskul that are usually sineserbisan of was also the vehicle private and public.
But the point here is too much traffic that happened.
Good the study of the authorities as to how they will fight the heavy traffic, especially the flood where it.
How can also help the people to solve this problem?
Different faces'T kind of help May some pupuwedeng do the citizens to help against the flood and traffic.
First, report to the authorities are intentionally nagsasara of the hole of the drainage they just to earn money in a dipang bridge or so that the people will be forced to ride the traysikad or tricycle.
Second, it is acceptable is the arrest of the people who suwapang tricycle Boys in the traysikad, tricycle and bike to collect it was so expensive to fare in the time of the flood?
Third, how to fight the making of swimming pool for those with flood road so that if there is a hihintong vehicle, money from the pusher Boys?
Fourth, can push in the middle of the street, the police and traffic enforcers who magmando of traffic?
We have been saying this because if buhol-buhol that the traffic because of the flood disappears, the police and traffic enforcer.
And fifth is for motorists, as long as we can do is ikondisyon't we know our vehicles and make sure that we have enough diesel and gasoline for we are not just stop or masisiraan in the time of the traffic and flooding.
Pagtutunan ikaanim, we know the throwing of garbage in the should pagtapunan and not anywhere.
Remember that even small trash like upos of cigarette is nakababaha also.
Just a small thing, but the Bro, double or pupwedeng to do these of the people.
Is the only thing to do is "are pushing for the police and traffic enforcer to fix the traffic because they are indeed disappears.
The new leader but it would be a big responsibility or work of the officials of the town of flood and traffic problem.
This many nabagong management of our government, what is the expected our answers in the two problems mentioned?
They still would be like the pinagpapalitan they is against the traffic and flooding?
Hopefully, in their pledge of duty yesterday, along with the traffic and flooding in their immediately to take care of.
Change of the ALAGA along with the oath taking of the new leader of the others't another position in the government sibakan in position and change the people in it.
From the high-ranking up to the police, the sibakan and change.
But we want to maringgan the new leader as to how they will fire the traffic and flooding.
How fast the firing of the people of their opponents nangungunyapit in office, they will be solved this is also the traffic and flooding?
Hopefully!
Too much PERHUWISYO too perhuwisyo because the two problems to our mentioned.
For example, it was the workers in their work, they are tired of the travel.
Nakapapagod especially in the standing in the crowd in the bus.
How do you Maimadyin in the nakatayong without passengers, especially in the part of the women, the matrapik in 2, 3, 4 or 5 hours and evening or morning that if you want to go back to the house?
And maimadyin do you how the walk without a kilo-kilometers in the flood and the hole of the road, if not moving the traffic?
Or you senator, congressman, governor, mayor and other officials, to talk and when you act fast against the traffic and flooding.
"Is not medicine in AIDS Sabi of the World Health Organization, that they use the discovered drugs against HIV / AIDS.
WHO said, it is not yet certain if finally will recover those with HIV / AIDS but was really nakababawas virus HIV / AIDS has been discovered drugs.
So, not only the free medicine and you have to pay for someone to spend for the development of drugs and widening of the treatment of patients.
Here in the Philippines, a thousand with HIV / AIDS.
But in the whole world, there is a 34 million victims.
For now, in the 10M is the target to undergo treatment of WHO and it is not the only maisasali here.
Dead are fond of them, except the innocent and was infected with only.



