
Pagseguro for the health of the Bulakenyo, the center of the administration of Gob.

Willy

July 07, 2016 Shane F. Velasco

The city of Malolos, July 7 (Pia) -- became the first in the priority of the past six years of ruling by the governor Wilhelmino Sy-Alvarado in the capitol the investment in together health for all of the Bulakenyo.

A proof of this is the four billion peso nagugol of his administration from 2010 until June 2016 for the hospital to run by the Provincial Government, particularly the Bulacan Medical Center or BMC and the five pandistritong hospital.
There, including the San Miguel District Hospital, Baliwag District Hospital, Calumpit District Hospital, Emilio G. Perez Memorial District Hospital in Hagonoy, Gregorio Del Pilar District Hospital in Bulakan, and the Rogaciano Mercado Memorial Hospital in Sta.
Maria.
According to Alvarado, opened in BMC last August 2011 the Oncology Unit who medicated with 4,493, who has the disease cancer through the low chemotherapy.
Also had a Eye Center here where whom he has helped being operated on the 1,652 Bulakenyong need treat the illness in their eyes.
This was different from the 4,592 the poor napagkalooban free glass in the eyes.
Also fixed the Hemodialysis department who treated in more than, Bulakenyong have kidney disease.
Aside from this, also inanunsiyo of Alvarado, who is scheduled to arrive in the BMC karadagang 30 new units of the dialysis machine from the Department of Health.
Also entered the provincial government acted in a contract, under the Public-Private Partnership in MSR dialysis to a private company, to buy an additional 40 new dialysis machine for BMC.
It means, at the end of the 2016, will be 82 the total number of the dialysis machine in the said hospital.
Meanwhile, the renobasyon of the building of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of BMC.
The main isinaayos pagpapantay floor of the former there are baiting and centralized air-conditioned that all wards.
Also isinaayos with the Pediatric intensive care unit or the ICU in the third floor and the neo-Natal ICU.
In relation to this, along with the improvement of the facility, having enrol of the Provincial Government the 22,379 that the poorest Bulakenyo in the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation under the Point-of-care.
Up to 5,919 that the poorest the Bulakenyo the napagkalooban of various help and help like the wheelchair, cane, crutches, Walkers, and nebulizer.
(CLJD / SFV-Pia 3)



