
The province and danger of pagbibilad of rice

For those in the province, ordinaryo just to see the rice paddies and the animals in the farm.
But those in Metro Manila, Big deal with them.
It is our it was discovered when we'y in the ABS-CBN DZMM yet as chief of the reporter and outing the family members in Subic.
From ABS-CBN compound in Quezon City, we will be accompanied in the bus where together the reporter, writer, producer, Production assistant and others.
In the middle of the trip, somewhere in a pam-jaw, screamed a lady writer who grew up in Makati: "Carabao!" Carabao!
Napaigtad the family: "Why?
Why? "Consecutive question.
Answer of bruha: "That the appearance of buffalos, this is the first time I saw".
Ah, "gano'n," blurted out that we are just before.
This is the true: In like we grew up in the province, it is not notice the things that are not just found in kalun-suran.
Taken for granted, just ", as they say.
Many things in the province that should be ikasiya that you have not seen or experienced in Metro Manila.
But when he was still, we cannot say anything in the speed of development in the countryside, especially the places where there is mining that is hard to weigh in if progress or the destruction traversing the path.

It is also good in the eyes of the ginintuang grains of rice, especially't'y he is in this day.
But, it is scary and dangerous, if the ginintuang grains of rice, he is in hiway and there were stone and huge trees that using pangharang in the vehicle.
The child of the couple molds and bukbok, the road is for the vehicles, bilaran!
There are still many in Central Luzon is doing that.
We last natunghayan the hiway between the town of San Marcelino and San Narciso in Zambales.
Shortcut the call but the main road.
I don't know, and despite the widespread "solar dryer" project of the towns, there are still the farmers to lay on the road of rice.
The danger of the motorists, even the farmers, in many times.
What is really prohibited magbilad of rice on the road but the politicians, does not want to lessen the votes so that, not only being neglected, magkadisga accident-free to those.
This coming summer, the magbibilaran would.
The truth is this: What's important is the safety, both of motorists and farmers, so it should be when the authorities.



