The celebration of the month of women are going to be done in the capitol of Palawan

March 15, 2016 Orlan Jabagat.

Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Mar 15 (Pia) --- except for the execution of the parade last March 8, along with the celebration of the International Women's Day and National Women's Month, there are still more't other activities were inihanda of the Provincial Gender and Development (PGAD) Focal Point in the province.
The other activities that will be held in the capitol in relation to the celebration of the month for the women consisted of Look Good, Feel Good held on March 10 katatampukan of giving free service manicure and masahe in for aged women who employees.
They conducted the 'junk to cash' program that part of the fund-raising activity of PGAD last March 11 where tinipon of the employees are recyclable materials from their homes to sell it.
Last March 14 is the activities related to the health of katatampukan of blood letting activity, take a blood chemistry and fasting blood sugar and Health Expo.
There is also the training at the flower Arrangement and Palarong Filipinos earlier.
Meanwhile, in the opening of the celebration of the teacher of women last March 8, there had been a holy mass was held at the Victoria J. Rodriguez Multipurpose Hall in gusaling capitol and he was followed by a short program that kinatampukan of giving the message of Gob.

Jose Ch.
Alvarez, the Department of the Interior and Local Government Provincial Director Mario Daquer and Board Member Sharon Abiog-Onda as chairperson of the Committee on Women the Family in the Provincial Council.
Also Nagbahagi of his success story., Engineer.
Eva Valledor of Binuatan Creations which naanyayahang give inspirational Talk in said program.
Parts of the program the paggawad awards to Socorro S. Tan as were the only woman in Palawan and as a recognition in his big contribution and active participation in the activities of the women in the province of Palawan, particularly in the field of be absorbed and cooperative.
"Welfare of Juana, along with the agenda!," the theme of the 2016 National Women's Month to celebrate this month of March.
(OCJ / LBR / PIA4B-Palawan)



