AFP are against the request of the family of facing Pemberton was Laude,

Protested against the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) the request of the family of facing Laude, the suspect, US Marine PFC Joseph Scott Pemberton.
This'y did not show up again after the American soldiers in idalawang preliminary investigation of the case of murder case that was filed by the relatives of the transgender Jennifer Laude.
The AFP said, it is not possible for the hilinh of the family based on the provisions of the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) saying that in the US is still the custody of Pemberton.
It should write to the family of the embassy of the US and the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
Such "is a matter Beyond Our control," statement in midya Lt. Col. Harold Cabunoc, Public Affairs Chief of the AFP.
Failed in the second preliminary investigation, the lawyer of Pemberton appointed by the counter-affidavit.
Asked Rowena Flores, lawyer of Pemberton, the one who iimbestigang prosecutor to dismiss the complaint murder case because he is said to have no basis.
Progress even if the case, it should make it a homicide and not murder case.
But answered State Prosecutor Emilie Fe delos Santos should not get ahead of the camp of Pemberton the investigation.
We "will rule on probable cause after we complete the Process.
Don't teach the US what to do.
The bottom line is we will go on with the preliminary investigation, "harvest delos Santos.
The family is also dismayed Laude for not appearing Pemberton in the investigation.
Is not sure in Camp Aguinaldo, the suspect.
"What kind of government we have?
, Marc (Sueselbeck), they were charged with (pinadedeklara of the AFP to "undesirable alien") but I am here, the future of the case.
But why is it not? "Face Pemberton was asked by Marilou Laude, sister of Jennifer.
Kinastigo's family also the Aquino administration because of the lack of interest in the case of their relatives.
"Isn't't you said we small the boss you?
Where are you the straight path?
Until you are just words, "said Julita", mother of Jennifer Laude related to President Aquino.
Also said by Harry Roque, representing the lawyer of the family, that is not like in the rape case against "Nicole" in 2005 that nagsumite of against the statement and nagpakuha pictures of the accused, until the kasalukuya'y there is still no statement and the picture of the suspect, Pemberton.
"Like I said before, they do not ipapakita Pemberton was," Roque said.

Roque pinoproteksiyunan believes that the VFA the suspect, who is an American soldiers.
Because even if the motion of Roque said that the DNA sample makuhanan and fingerprints, Pemberton, protested against the lawyer.
For the group that pangkababaihan Gabriela who once again protested near the Justice Hall in Olongapo City, "cool points just" declaring that "undesirable alien" Pemberton was.
"No matter the declaration that this is under the VFA that a nagpapahintulot-classes in the country, the American soldiers even if there is no visa or any documentary on," said "Joms Salvador, general secretary of Gabriela.
Doubt of the group, there is no way to the office of the immigration of the Philippines to follow the American soldiers who lumalahok in the military exercises.



