The condition of the peace talks is the order in the OccMin, discussed in a meeting

June 23, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina

MAMBURAO, Occidental Mindoro, June 23 (Pia) - was recently the second meeting of the Provincial Peace the Order Council (PPOC) in the Provincial Convention Center, in the town of Mamburao.
Among those discussed, the paguulat of the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), the Department of Health (DOH) and the condition of the Peace the Order in the province, according to the report of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and Philippine Army (PA).
After officials to open the meeting of PPOC Chairman and Governor Mario Gene Mendiola, first gave the report, LCDR Laurence Tamayo, Station Commander of PCG.
According to him, there is no truth to the initially mining of the black sand of a Vietnamese vessel that was seen on the coast of Santa Cruz.
Allegedly visited them, so they were the captain and initiate an inspection.
Based on the information gathered by the PCG, only needed to the Vietnamese vessel that temporarily docked on the shore in the jurisdiction of the province because of the bad weather.
Tamayo added that according to the office of Environment and Natural Resources (ENRO), there is no black sand in the province.
Gave a updates, Doctor Michael Enarbia of the DOH Mimaropa about the spread of Venereal Syphilis in the indigenous Mangyan in the town of Calintaan.
According to him, nakapagsagawa that their office of the coordination of the municipal Health Office (MHO) of Calintaan to give appropriate drugs in the native affected by the illness.
The research conducted by two office - DOH and Municipal Health Office- in order to know how the other indigenous people and where was infected with the disease.
According to Enarbia, will conduct the visit a medical team from DOH Mimaropa in the said town.
Part of the report of the Philippine Army, some recommendation from LTC Rodolfo Gesim, Battalion Commander of the 41st Infantry Battalion.
According to him, to conduct a Youth Leadership seminar for the out-of-school Youth.
Is this the program is going to bring the direction and knowledge in the youth for them not to join the New People's Army (NPA).
Also requested by Gesim giving importance to farm in "market roads" to be easy to the indigenous people and those who are living in a secluded area, who quickly, thus their products.
The moment they arrived in civilization is a way to maiparating in them the programs and the law ipinaairal of the government.
According to the Battalion Commander, should avoid of civilians to help or give any support to the NPA and help, as well as the Local Government (LGU), the cleaning of the barangay to avoid the ambush sites.
According to the report of Police Superintendent Edwin Gutang of the Provincial Police Office (PPO), dropped by almost 50 porsyente the crime volume in the province compared to the first six months last year.
According to him, it was because of the programs implemented by the police like interpreted Lambat Sibat differently, Oplan Cupid, ECAS (Electronic Computerized alarm System), Oplan knocks and others.
According to Gutang, "generally peaceful" the entirety of the province will be good for prosperity that the economy of the West Mindoro.
(VND / Pia 4B / Occ Mindanao)



