
There is no resign, the happiness in DAP

Said by Senator Miriam Santiago, it may be technical malversation the cases he will face the gave and the recipient of the Disbursement Acceleration Program.
In the technical malversation, there is a use the money you town or other owned by the government in a goal to different public purpose that should be paggamitan it on the strength of a law or ordinance.
And the crime that this is a punishment of six months and a day up to two years.
Prison Coreccional minimum of the penalty.
Now who are the signatory on the release of the funds of the DAP that pulled out from anywhere and used it to others or anywhere?
And who are the recipient?
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE more firmly told by Miriam that impeachable offense the doing of PNoy in DAP.
So they can undergo PNoy in the impeachment process in Congress.
The problem is, numbers game or paramihan of kakosa in the Congress and Senate and not the nutrients of the case.
Right or wrong, as long as an ally or bosses, there is no sin.
And will remain in his position the reported impeach.
In this situation, he would remain in the custody of the children of grasshoppers that cheaters money to the country and the people will suffer the situation.
There will be a big problem is a big problem in the filing of the impeachment case.
First, who will file a case?
Second, if the record, does not want of Butch Abad the release of the document about the DAP.
How the evidence to be used in the case?
Is it enough the documents and testimony used by the SC in making a decision on the DAP?
In the filing of the case, you can't count on the senators are about 20 because they received a huge amount of DAP.
More than 30 million up to 50 P100M the accepted by them.
In the 290 that congressman, in the 13-15 is the only not accepted the DAP that around 10-15 each other.
The child of the tofu, we do not have heard from Justice Sec.
Leila de Lima, but also the pagdiriin in three still senators who are charged in the Priority Development Assistance Fund scam.
Also be charged by the about the DAP, the three idiots.
This is the three.
Tsk!
Tsk!
Tsk!
Election stocked Pakapalan to resign from the face of the government that there are passing through but Tuwid na Daan.
He added that the katrayduran for the impeachment.
Even if it is clear that 13-0-1, the votes of the Supreme Court against the DAP, he did not even a government official connected to the DAP iskam to resign from his position.
Ipinagpipilitan until now, they are doing the right thing in DAP, and that they prove this in filing the SC of motion for reconsideration.
The residents of Malacañang "that.
What they know is that we reverse the SC her own decision?
Because the history is really the SC the reverse several times in the case of dinedesisyunan.
Like what happened in the case of the city wants to be a lot of city hall in other't other places in the Philippines.
What we did not know that the remaining in two years of service in the minds of the DAP, it will be replaced easily, they are all of the judges in the SC and will be in favor of them the decision in the end?
He, he, he!
DAP mice are not UNCONSTITUTIONAL strong can the inside of the residents of Malacañang and their allies lawmakers who fought in their enemies in the SC because the SC released the decision is not unconstitutional the DAP.
Because it is not unconstitutional pupwede this, they still continue to use the DAP.
The avoided, they just the violation of the Constitution which was held in DAP.
Included here are pagrambol of the money of the agency and use it to other goals.
I would also this is just making the law about and spending money in a town without the blessing of the Congress.
They should also not allocate funds that pulled out from anywhere to answer to the project under the unprogrammed fund.
They need to make sure that there is too much in tax koleksyong before they are able to use unprogrammed fund.
You see, the Bro?
Continue the happiness for sure that was thought by the residents of Malacañang and the KKKK in Congress that they can definitely say they use the money you are town under the DAP.
However, will be more careful that they are only now they might masilipan enemies.
Napakagagaling magkalkal of turned out that their opponents even if they do not want to release of the documents.
And for sure, even if they ipangangalandakan this in the upcoming State of the Nation Address.
The drama: If there is no DAP, fact we still in Asia.
Now, it is considered that the other countries that we are not needed in agriculture but newly industrialized said.
And because of the name, it is far from the achievement of my love to the Philippines.
Started when the hungry, poor and more as a result of the DAP.
Where is the result of the DAP?
Ngek! OOo any complaint or comment can bring to the www.remate.ph or send a text message to 09214303333.



