Monday, July 23, 2012

SONA 2012

Third paghahayag Kalagayan of the country in 2012 of Benigno Simeon.

Aquino III, the president of the Philippines

In Bulwagang House of Congress in the Philippines

In the statement of the Lower House of Bulwagan representatives Batasan Pambansa Complex

The city of Quezon, Metro Manila Ika-23 July, 2012

Thank you very much.
I took all of us.

Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile; Speaker Feliciano Belmonte; Vice President Jejomar Binay; former President Fidel Valdez Ramos and Joseph Ejercito Estrada; our respected magistrates of the Supreme Court; respectable that members of the diplomatic federation; respectable members of the of the legislative chamber and the Senate; the leader of the local government; members of the Cabinet; the uniformed members of the military and police; I both serving the masses; and of course for me to the boss, good afternoon to all of you.

This is my third SONA, and it is only when we started to dream.
Just like when when together we decided to take the straight path.
Just like when we started when his sirens, not only on the road, but the system is.

Two years have passed since you said, "python that we corruption; python that we" in poverty.
Time that a government to restore the true ally of the people.

Like many of you, I became aware of the harassment of the powerful.

I am labindalawang-years old when they were declared martial law.

Overturned our world: Seven years old, and seven-month-old ipiniit my father; three years was forced to go to another country my family; I was a witness to the suffering of many because of the dictatorship from.
This napanday my principle: If there is a inaagrabyado't deprived of their rights, he is the kakampihan.
If there is an abusive mapang-mistreated, he was the one I will fight.
If I see something wrong in the system, I duty to fix it.

For a long time and then the Martial Law.
We asked "before, if we are not, who else?" And "if not now, when"?
The nagkakaisang response we: We and now.
The demokrasyang stolen using the escalating and violence, we recovered in a peaceful way; successful in our-heat the light from the pinakamadilim that chapter of our history.

But we don't forget the is the cause of the Martial Law: Was used by the dictator to the constitution to stay in power.
And until now, continues to be a collision between the system, both want to fight for those who want to continue the panlalamang.

From the first day of our service, there is no other met with us but the nightmare of lost decades.

There is the case of North Rail.

Pagkamahal-love to repeat it after this, the negotiation, have become even more.

In spite of this, the binawasan benefits.
The labingsiyam that arrives in the three sets, and in the station, from five, the two.
What was worse, pinapabayaran to us, the debt, now.

There is a nonstop bonus in some GOCC, in spite of the financial loss of their agency.
There is a billion peso pinasingaw of PAGCOR for coffee.
There is the system governance in the PNP that set the needs of the weapon of 45 percent of the police, just to earn money from the old helicopter that the price brand New.

There is no left for, multiple and together the debt that they need to pay.
The huge list duty our punuan: The 66,800 that backlog in classrooms, which costs an estimated 53.44 billion pesos; the 2,573,212 that backlog in the seat, which is worth of 2.31 billion pesos.

When we arrived, there is almost tatlumpu't six million Filipinos who have not yet members of PhilHealth.
What is needed to joining them: May up to 42 billion pesos.
We are also add to all of that is the 103 billion pesos that is needed for the modernization of Hukbong Sandatahan.
In the face of all this, the left in our funds that we can be free: 6.5 percent of the total budget for the remaining six months of 2010.
To us boxer joining tied up in the fight when the hands and feet, the eyes are blindfolded, and an ally of the opponent still the referee and the judge.

That's why in the first three months of our service, we are the arrival of Sunday to share the Lord facing the nightmare that to us.
We expected "will not less than two years before a significant change.
We will give enough understanding of the people?

But if there is one thing he has been in our race, and several times we proved that in the whole world: No one can do not the nagkakaisang Filipinos.
We dreamed of change; we claimed the change; and now, this is a common.

The road you pinondohan is straight, patag, and there is no lump on his breast; the only tongpats aspalto, or the cement.
It is common to it.

The situation if the storm: Waiting the relief, and not the people are waiting for the relief.
Waiting to rescue the umalalay Services to the people, and we are not the only one came to help us in one't one.
It is common to it.

Sirens in the streets, just came from the police, ambulance, or firemen - not from the officials of the government.
This is also a common.
The government's former when abused, now, real ally of the Filipinos.

Let us nagpatupad reforms: Removed the gastusing need, not chased the corrupt, and showed in this world open for business be under New Management to the Philippines.

The former sick of Asia, even now, that network is already full of energy.
When we had a positive credit rating action, others said, chance.
Eight now, they are still fluke?
In the Philippine Stock Exchange index, when we first nahigitan the 4,000 that index, there are doubt.
Now, because of the number of All-time High, even economic receiving, it seems that had a hard time in the counting, and I am also was surprised: Nakakaapatnapu't four out to us, and it is already set to step down from the index.

This is the First period of 2012, the GDP growth, 6.4 percent; miles-miles the distance from the predictions, and the tallest in the whole Southeast Asian region; second it in Asia, we are just in China.
If before, we are always was, now, we are not birong the nagpapautang.
Before, begging us more investments; now, they are to rush.
The company Japanese, in a meeting for us, he said, maybe we do'yo "wanted to take a look.
We are not them, but we are first "with technology.
Even the leader of a big bank in Inglatera, recently talked to us, the said maisali, they have in our kinukunsulta in the peace.

In every corner of the world, showing admire the komentarista.
According to Bloomberg Businessweek, I quote: "Again Keep" eye on the Philippines.
The Foreign Policy magazine, including one of the leader of the ASEAN 100, it can be said that we have, the quote, "Asia's Next" Tiger.
Ruchir Sharma said, the leader of the Emerging Market Equities the Global Macro of Morgan Stanley, I quote: "The Philippines is no longer a joke".
And face well, because he is not nambobola estimated a billion dollars were put his company in our country.
Hopefully, the left't right admiration of those from other countries, be followed by the local tagapagbalita.

What we ensure that reached the progress of a nakakarami.
Let us remember: When we started, there is a 760,357 that kabahayang beneficiary the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program.
We targeted [target] it paabutin in 3.1 million in the span of two years.

Just February of this year, the third million kabahayang naiparehistro beneficiary of the Pantawid Pamilya.
Next year, we still palalawakin the jurisdiction of 3.8 million house; five times in the size that we did not find anyone.

A long time is the huge impact of this project.

It is not yet complete the study, but even now, the attitude of the number.
Based on the list of the DSWD: A 1,672,977 that when the mother regularly invoke check-up.

We also add to the children, 1,672,814 napabakunahan against diarrhea, polio, measles, and others.
Four point fifty-seven million students who are not forced to take absence due to poverty.

In health is: When we arrived, animnapu't two percent of Filipinos and the enrol in PhilHealth.

What hurts, it will not ensure if all of them are included in those who are really in need of the care of the state, or just super near the politicians.

Now, 85 percent of all citizens, members of this.
What to say, 23.31 million Filipinos in the where the naidagdag of PhilHealth since we give a mandate.

The good here: The poorest kabahayang 5.2 million that the National Household Targeting System, and fully and there is no payment when the beneficiary of the benefits of PhilHealth.
Because of No Balance billing policy of the Department of Health, the cure for dengue,, pneumonia,, asthma, cataract, as well as the treatment of the catastrophic disease like breast cancer, prostate cancer, and Acute leukemia, will get that for free of the most our countrymen.

This is the process of treatment for them: And you in any hospital of the government.
Ipapakita your PhilHealth card.
You will be treated.
You will go back and comfortable without by a kusing.

As said in one of the briefing that we responded, four in every ten Filipinos, he did not even bother to see the health professional in their lifetime.
To others, even bigger: Saying six in every ten Filipinos when the pumapanaw far away from the care of the health professional.
Whatever our pagbatayan, will not be denied: Is disturbing the number of Filipinos are not about the absence of the government.
We responded to this.
From the ten thousand when we arrived, it reached 30,801 the nurses and midwife that our having deployed under the RNHeals Program.
I also add to them is more than eleven a thousand Community Health teams who is serving as the bridge to more mapatibay the relationship of the doctors and nurses in the community.

And if you will just before the nurses where makursunadahan of their chief, now, because of the right targeting, where they need, they sent: In places that have been left in the grassroots of the society.
I sent to our health professional 1,021 in places where it is the Pantawid Pamilya, and in 609 that the poorest city and municipality, according to a study by the National Anti-Poverty Commission.

Two problem is the addressed this: Aside from nagkakatrabaho and given Work experience the thousands of nurses and midwife that used to be no mapaglalaanan of their knowledge, it's becoming a best-hand is also the quality of care for the millions of our countrymen.

But we have not yet makukuntento here, because we hope for: Together health for all.
Starting this, not in the hospital, but the inside of our house.
Knowledge, a vaccine, and checkup is needed to put away the illness.
I also added that the hard work we avoid the pain that could avoid.

For example: I've mentioned the Mosquito traps against dengue last year.

You know, the syantipiko strict in the investigation.
It is still early to say that it will surely be-sure that we nakakaengganyo, but the initial results of this program.

We it challenged the strength of the Mosquito traps in the place where the highest recorded incidents of dengue.
The whole province of Bukidnon last 2010, there is a 1,216 cases.
When the Mosquito were put in 2011: It looks like because he helped in tatlumpu't seven; 97 percent it was the Reduction it.
In the town of Ballesteros and Claveria in Cagayan, there is a 228 cases of dengue in 2010.
The arrival of 2011, only eight people were recorded.
In Catarman, Northern Samar: 434 cases of dengue in 2010, the four only in 2011.

Welcoming address studies only it.
But now, it seems that we thank, Secretary Ike Ona of the DOH and Secretary Mario Montejo of DOST, there is too much, maybe we increase in times do'yo'y they ganahan more research and relationship.

Many of us still needs to solusyonan.
Alarming is still high maternal mortality ratio of the country.
That is why we are making the steps to address the needs of the health of women.
We also want to achieve the Universal Health care, and have enough equipment, facilities, and staff our the institution sanitation.

In response to this, there is a big maiaambag of Sin Tax Bill.
I hope that this will pass, as soon as possible.
Will reduce the vices, madadagdagan the funds for the health.

What would come in the youth going to school?
Still under the tree, that's why they first learns of the alphabet?
Nakasalampak, that's why they are still on the floor while the textbook in class?

The strong faith we to Secretary Luistro: Before the end of the next year, that's what we inherited 66,800 to the lack of classrooms.
I repeat, next Year yet "; 40,000 is still just This Year.
That is what we inherited 2,573,212 backlog together, we will be addressed before the 2012.
In the year, this is also the masisimot 61.7 million that backlog in textbook to reach that, in the end, the one is to one ratio of books in students.
Hopefully, this paubos that the backlog in education, should make sure that we do not have a backlog again because of the number of students.
I think it is responsible Parenthood the answer to this.

And for us to leave our State Colleges and Universities, we have proposed 43.61 percent that improvement in their budget for next year.
Just a reminder: All we are making, there is a direction; with the condition, the increase in the budget.
Needs to implement the napagkasunduang SUC Reform Roadmap Education and the appropriate State Colleges and Universities, to make sure that the quality of the pamantasang pinopondohan will be a product of the state.
If you have high grades to be reassigned to this, we also dodoblehin you expect the hard to meet the remaining needs you.

It is always addition is what is happening in our budget for education.
I think you: The budget of that was the last 2010, 177 billion pesos.

The proposal we in 2013: 292.7 billion pesos.
Last 2010, 21.03 billion pesos the budget for SUCs.

An annual thing is about to be added to the 37.13 billion pesos that proposal we in 2013.
But despite this, even now, when there is a nagpaplano magcut-classes to piket in Mendiola.
This is simple: The 292.7 is greater in 177, and the 37.13 is greater in 21.03.
So if there is still tell us binawasan the budget of education or tell still binawasan the budget of education, we just kukumbinsihin your schools that maghandog of remedial math Class for you.
And I hope, in the kind of "to, please, we hope that this kind of remedial school that it is you.

When we took office, and masimulan belittled the meaningful reforms, some of the pagpapakitang-off of the government.
But is super a flash in the pan, he also mauupos paglaon.
There are still some who also does not want to retire on the spread of negatibismo; they, the lips are sealed in Good news, and the industry that the criticism.

If you have a problem that before the end of the year, per child, when he had his own chair and books, look at it, they are in the eye, and tell you, "I We do not want to study" you.

If you feel bad that the 5.2 million poorest Filipinos kabahayang that is possible when he entered the hospital when not to worry about the expenses for the treatment, they look at it again, in the eye, and tell you, I will "" We do not want you.

If you get angry that there are three million Filipino families tumutungo when the fulfilment of their dreams because of the Pantawid Pamilya, look at it, they are in the eye, and tell you, I will pay back "you from the lack of hope".

Then that is the time when choice of powerful what is important.
For example, the former leaders of TESDA, nagpamudmod of the scholarship voucher; the problem is, it is not an allocated fund for this.
Naturally, tatalbog the voucher.
The napala: 2.4 billion pesos the from the more than isanlibong school from the government.
A person Nagpapapogi't a administration; Filipino people were pinagbabayad now.

Entered Secretary Joel Villanueva; he is not nagpasindak in it is impossible to change should be implemented in his agency.
In spite of the huge debt was inherited by TESDA, 434,676 individuals still their hinasa under the Training for Work scholarship Program.
The concrete success also brought about by TESDA Specialista Technopreneurship Program (is more difficult to bigkasin than the result).
Would you, each of 5,240 that sertipikadong Specialistas, earning now of 562 pesos per day or 11,240 pesos per month.
More than the minimum Wage.

From pagkasanggol, until the pagkabinata, is that the system for the people.
We will give birth to ensure that the work the surge of our economy.

Let us remember, to tumabla, just need to makalikha every year of a million new job for the New entrants.

The he caused us in the span of two years: Almost 3.1 million new job.

This is the reason why when down below the unemployment rate in the country.

When we arrived, the eight percent the unemployment rate.
Became 7.2 this last April of 2011, and even more to 6.9 this year, in the month of April.
"Isn't it reasonable to dream that one day, every Filipino ready to magbanat bones, there is a mapapasukang job?

Let us see the BPO sectors.

In the year 2000, the only naempleyo limanlibo people in this industry.
Fast forward we: 638,000 people are already paid job of BPO, and eleven a billion dollars were put in our economy in the year 2011.
The projection is, the arrival of 2016, where I am magpapaalam to you, 25 billion dollars that the supposedly this, and will be able to instantly hired by 1.3 million to the Filipinos.
That is not yet included here is an estimated 3.2 million to the taxi driver, barista, the sari-sari store, food stalls, and many other benefit in the indirect jobs that malilikha because of BPO industry.

It is also a big part of our Job-Generation strategy in the construction of the sufficient infrastructure.
In the nakapagbakasyon in Boracay, you can see that the new-baptism our terminal in Caticlan.
I also laid out the plan to widen the runway.

I still have "that the siblings.
Before the end of my term, in the New Bohol Airport in Panglao, New Legaspi Airport in Daraga, and Laguindingan Airport in Misamis Oriental.
IA-upgrade is also our International airports in Mactan, Puerto Princesa, and Tacloban.
I also added that the improvement of the airports in Butuan, Cotabato, Dipolog, Pagadian, Tawi-Tawi, Southern Leyte, and San Vicente in Palawan.
We in Tarlac, just wait.

Fourth President I am shoulder to the problems of the NAIA 3.
Not only the plane take off and Landing here: Even the problem't anomaly, also plane.
Resigned of words, Secretary Mar Roxas: Before we saw each other in the next SONA, fix the structural defects that we inherited in NAIA 3.

Last June, I started to move the process for the LRT line 1 Cavite Extension project, which magpapaluwag in traffic in Las Pinas, Parañaque, and Cavite.
In addition to more mapaluwag there, the traffic in Metro Manila and track the crossing from North Luzon until South Luzon Expressway, there will be a two elevated NLEX-SLEX connector.

I will be able to finish in 2015.
Will be one hour the 40 minutes the train to Clark to Calamba time to complete.
Before we have to step down from his position, standing the quality terminal in Taguig, Quezon City, and Parañaque that paparadahan of the bus traveling from the province, so that they are still makisiksik in EDSA.

Changed the course of the discussion about the agency before'y is considered as a nest of failure.
I remember before: During the rainy season and are overflowing with Tarlac River, drowning the MacArthur Highway.
The Tutunawin aspalto; magbabaku-bako the road until it is completely gone.

As a representative of my district, I reported it.
The response of DPWH: We know the problem, we know the solution, but we do not have money.

I needed to ask for my barangays, and I said to them is "if we do not this priority, not do this, and we also" mapeperhuwisyo.
Before, the "" hey, awake! "In the government, why did he is doing.
Now the complaint, "is too much traffic, the amount is" what you are doing.
Only a reminder: Fixing that we this road without raising taxes.

We bubuo of the roads, according to the kickback or kursonada, but according to a clear system.
Because it does not block to block the paglalagak we of the funds for the project, he did not come to fruition in the plan, it is true that the roads which are beneficial for the Filipinos.
When we are in the position, 7,239 kilometers in our national road network is still not fixing.
One thousand non-nine hundred sixty kilometers it to our naipaayos under the administration of Secretary Babes Singson; in 2012 - the maidadagdag 2,275 kilometers finish is also.
Even the road and a curved dangerous, referring to prepare and using the latest technology.

Every year, this is our bubunuin to before the end of my term, every inches of our national road network, proper.
Of course "don't just do'yo increase the national road network.

Not only the road, but also in the system, isinasaayos DPWH.
Because of the following the right process of bidding and procurement, 10.6 billion pesos to the natipid of their agency from 2011 until last June.
Even the kontratista, the positive as a result of reform in DPWH.
As said, "Ang Top 40 who kontratista, fully booked" said.

I hope that we do not maantala in the construction of the other infrastructure for is not a failure of the growth of other industry.

Along with the development of infrastructure the growth of tourism.
I think you: Last 2001, the tourist arrivals in our country, 1.8 million.
When we arrived in 2010, he was playing in the 3.1 million.
You see: In our long their administration, they naidagdag tourist arrivals, 1.3 million; there's only we still half a year there.
We are, June of 2012 - 2.1 million tourists that the napalapag.
More expected in the peak season before the end of the year, so I am not nagdududang we maaabot the quota to 4.6 million tourist to in 2012.
It means, that 1.5 million tourists our maidadagdag.
That's why, in two years, it will be the growth of our tourist arrivals, compared to the naidagdag we replaced inside the nine and a half years.

We are not raising the bank; we are just telling the truth.

But not satisfied here, Secretary Mon Jimenez.
He said, if in Malaysia have bumisitang 24.7 million tourist in 2011, and if in Thailand is approximately 17 million, despite the number of the beautiful scenery in our country, maybe this month if we come to dream of 2016, ten million tourists who are visiting the Philippines every year.
If you continue to officials will be united the Filipino people, like she showed our chosen the Puerto Princesa Underground River as one of the New Seven wonder of Nature, there is no doubt that we are going to achieve it.
The statement, we are in the world: "IT's MORE" fun in the Philippines.
Even if there is no one year in the position, Secretary Mon Jimenez, nagagapas that we are positive as a result of our the planted reforms.
What we can say when it comes to tourism, "IT's really to have fun - Secretary Mon Jimenez is going to be" Our Secretary.

If the growth agreement, at the top of the list are the agriculture.
I work very-carabao Secretary Alcala to makapaghatid good news.
She visited the all of the province, not for campaigning for himself but to campaign for the program of the Department of Agriculture.
Before, it seems like the pinapalago of the leaders of the DA, the debt of the NFA.
Twelve billion pesos the debt they inherited; the they do to us, 177 billion pesos.

Do not't then, we pinaniwala 1.3 million metric tons, the lack of rice, and to address this, "not less than two million metric tons their imported last 2010.
Like unlimited rice if they want to order of rice, but because it is too much rotten, this is just in the storage room.
The 1.3 million metric tons, the first year, we just napababa metric tons of 860,000.

This year, 500,000, still with the buffer it in case we of the storm.
Do not just us pagsungitan of time, harinawa, in the next year, we can take export of rice.

Said by Secretary Alcala: The key here, a realistic program in the irrigation, and active implementation of the program's certified seeds.
What hurts, it is not new knowledge it; not only be implemented.
Even if they work when sensible, where is why we now?

Let us also look at the industry of coconut and the cocowater just dumped before, now, fully utilized by a farmer.
Last 2009 - 483,862 liters of cocowater the iniluwas us.
This is will the 1,807,583 liters in 2010.

Don't you will be surprised, in 2011, 16,756,498 liters - can do is to repeat that? - 16,756,498 liters of cocowater the in-export of the Philippines.
The Coco coir, on the other hand, if there is no took notice, now that there is a shortage because of the exporter pinapakyaw.
We will no longer waste the opportunity to this.

We buy a new bewildered magpoproseso of bunot to get the hiblang doing from Coco coir.

Next year, especially our profit from the industry of coconut.

We are allocated by 1.75 billion pesos to mamuhunan and palaguin it.

I started my mother the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program.
It is just right that after the program in the time of my service.

Isinasaayos the system to track the implementation of reform agraryo.

The government is doing all the steps to maipamahagi in our farmers the lupaing diniligan and pinagyaman of their sweat.
But there are still does not want to stop the planting of the obstacle.
The response with them: Follow the law.
The atas of the law, the atas of the people, and what I atas: Before I step down from his post, naipamigay that should be all the lupaing in the jurisdiction of the CARP.

Liwanagin us is what is happening in the energy sector.
You see: Before, it was just the wires of electricity in the barangay hall, "" energized the entire barangay.
So that if they ipagmalaki 99.98 percent said that of the barangay in the country has the electricity.
Even in service, should have been fully utilized by the Filipinos, nagkakagulangan?
That is why, to try to the ability of the DOE and NEA, we of the 1.3 billion pesos to lighted the first target 1,300 sitios, the price one million pesos each other.
When they are after, the napailawan allocated to our funds: 1,520 sitios, and they are just spent 814 million pesos.
They did it in a span of just three months, and there are more known to do this after the 36,000 sitiong't as long as there is no electricity.
To Secretary Rene Almendras, I am really impressed by you; it seems like you are not running out of energy.

In the date-service, you do not only eveready, like a energizer bunny you - you keep on going, going, going.

Dominates is that the light in our country - the nagsiwalat light that is happening in the dark corners of the society.
The pinagsisikapang kitain of Filipinos, magagantso.
I continue to the decrease of the crime volume in the whole country.
The more than limandaan thousands of crime recorded in 2009, more than half the removed: 246,958 just that this 2011.

In addition to this, the former dalawanlibo't two hundred cases of carnapping in 2010, the other half was dropped; 966 that only that the arrival of 2011.

This is it would be brought by our headline.

We are not that nothing is happening, but I think, no one should be angry that nangalahati.
Raymond Dominguez, who has been in prison, isn't it't in a span of just more than a year, sentenced and already imprisoned?
Two of his siblings were charged with a case and we also now also suspected lover are imprisoned.
There are two suspects in the bus bombing in Makati last year, the one who passed away'y; "humihimas, one of the prison bars.
He kakosa more than ten thousand involved in illegal drugs who was arrested by PDEA in 2011.

What we know, not every day the fight of Pacman, and not be iasa here, the decrease of the crime.
That is why do we strengthens the forces of the police.
"Isn't it, when we arrived, apatnapu't five percent of our police are no gun and hope for anting-anting while chasing him the bad?

There has won in the bidding, we just made sure that the quality of their products.
After the process, and this year and what we expected this, maipagkakaloob the 74,600 gun that they can use to in defending and take care of the country, society, and to yourself.

We are going to the issue of the national tanggulan.
There are said to me that our Air Force, "air-All, and no force".
Instead of taking care of the state, it's as if intentionally put in danger the our soldiers.
We are not makakapayag to remain like this.

After only one year and seven months, we nakapaglaan of more than dalawampu't eight billion pesos for the AFP modernization program.
'm her tatlumpu't three billion peso fund that was given to the said program in the past fifteen years.
We are just Bumubuwelo on the condition that "that.
When we passed that the AFP modernization bill in Congress, we can allot pitumpu't five billion pesos for the next five years.

I also ready the thirty-million-dollar budget given by the United States for Defense Capability upgrade the Sustainment of equipment Program of the AFP.
Aside from the help they to pahusayin the pagmanman in our coast under a Coast Watch Center of the Philippines.

They canvass is also the Armed Forces of the equipment such as the kanyon, armored personnel are carrier, and frigates.
Sooner, the dadaong karelyebo of BRP Gregorio del Pilar to our shores.
In January, aangkla in the Philippines that the BRP Ramon Alcaraz, the second our Hamilton Class cutter.
I can't "fishing role our ipapalaot; now, the high-tech and quality ship the tatanod 36,000 kilometers in our coastline.

It is better to have maybe if maglilinis-area of the hangar our Armed Forces, because the coming the kagamitang more magpapatikas in our tanggulan.
Have a partner in the end, the only one of our C-130 that tatlumpu't six years in himpapawid rumoronda.
Two other C-130 would be operational again this year.
Before the end of the year, we expected to be delivered that we bought a refurbished dalawampu't UH-1H helicopter, four combat utility helicopters, the radio't other Communication equipment, rifles, mortars, mobile diagnostic laboratories, including the bullet station Assembly for the arsenal.
Upon reaching the 2013, Kylie will land on the ten attack helicopters, two Naval helicopters, two light lift aircraft, a frigate, and the force protection equipment.

And not only in our weapons make the care of our police and military.
Decreased the!! Burden of their lives due to more than dalawampu't two thousand houses have already been built under the AFP-PNP Housing program.

This is not about pakikipaggirian or pakikipagmatigasan.
This is not about pagsisiga are.
It was about to achieve peace.
This is about our ability to defend our own kaytagal - a thing that we think that it is impossible.
This is about the life of a soldier everyday undertake in danger; this is about his family was waiting for her to return to that he is safe, whatever his opponent.
What we let some benipisyaryo told the change of life is their:

[Video starts]

"Thankful to the Lord Almighty.
We were given the opportunity - given a blessing that this.
Second, the "having our of good president.
This project that this is not being neglected but we - the police and soldiers - sandatahan of our Philippines. "- SPO1 Domingo Medalla [PNP Housing Beneficiary]

", we, Ma'am.
I really something but the way that they can go to school] [.
That is really ", 'am, my mission in life that they mapaaral", give me the right to education, to not be gusgusin my child, not pitiful [again] of people, there is a parent who should be magtaguyod.
And, I napapasalamat Pantawid Pamilya [Program] 'am, I learned, because there is a big ditong. "- Eva Neri [CCT beneficiary]

"That one is a huge help us - what I know who benefited from the front and benefiting in Package that" to that Category Z Package of PhilHealth.

We are grateful for and not even when it was good that there was an illness my child, but there are PhilHealth to help and are ready to help in the expenses. "- Kristine Tatualla [PhilHealth beneficiary]

"On the day was part of a Oakwood mutiny -" is fighting for something that we, this is what we are waiting for the "for change and this is the chance for us to have our own house, Lao in the program of our president, Benigno Aquino III." - PFC Rolly Bernal [AFP Housing Beneficiary]

[Video ends]

And now that inaaruga that they are of the people, especially that the ginaganahan our army to achieve peace.
It can be considered a success the dalawandaan and three rebels who surrendered and back to society, and the bandit nawakasan 1,772 that the violence.
For example, the notorious terrorist, Doctor Abu, which was not makakapaghasik of his terror.

I am also the return of peace and order in the area which have been biningi of the shooting.
The result is the Unity: 365 barangays were reportedly in the hands of the enemy, 270 travelling building't naipaayos the school, and 74 health centers the naipagawa.

If peace that only the discussion, dumako we are in place for a long time that the faces of the dream of "right to achieve-kamtan.
Before I start the reforms in our ARMM, and I know you'yo, there are Ghost students there, to walk in a Ghost Road, towards a Ghost school, to advised in a Ghost teacher.
Since the aparisyon gumulantang to OIC Governor Mujiv Hataman: Four school found a Ghost students; investigated the teacher that it is not the name in the list of Professional Regulation Commission, as well as the members of the government is not suspicious that the plantilya.
Limampu't five Ghost Entry the removed from payroll.

The former repeatedly pagsasaboy of gravel on the road just to make a profit of money, illegal.
There is no cash just kept on to the agency, to avoid taking advantage.
The ghosts of voters list, mapapatahimik the soul.
That's why I am to OIC Governor.

Mujiv Hataman, we can say: It is the one you's certified Ghost buster.

The replace, and pinapalit that: Housing, bridge, and learning center for the Badjaos in Basilan.
The community-based hatchery, net, materials to maglinang of seaweeds, and punlang been utilized by 2,588 that fishermen.
's certified seeds, punla in the evening, cassava, Goma, and trees bear fruit for 145,121 farmers.
That is just the beginning; for the 183 million pesos for the municipal fishing port projects in ARMM; 310.4 million pesos for the station of the firefighters; 515 million pesos for clean water to drink; 551.9 million pesos for the kagamitang health; 691.9 million pesos for daycare centers; and 2.85 billion pesos for the road and bridge babagtas in the region.
Some just that, in the direction of the total 8.59 billion pesos that was given by the national government to implement the reforms in ARMM.
I will clarify, is also not included in the annual support they received, this 2012 reached 11.7 billion pesos.

Even the former wants to tumiwalag, it can be seen that the effect of the reforms.

We recognize as a sign of their trust the past seven months, when there was no encounter between the military and the MILF.

In the peace talks Process, it was known and are in the discussion.
Nagpapamalas from both sides of the trust in one't one.

Sometimes, might be complicated the process; signs are agreeing these are just near that we achieve alone our goal: Peace.

A peaceful conversation is also the principle pushed for us to complete our Executive Order about the mining.
The mind behind the combat consensus: Mapakinabangan our natural resources to improve the lives of the Filipinos, not just today but also in the next salinlahi.
We are not pipitasin the ginintuang as a result of this industry, if you will be the payment, the destruction of the environment.

But this is just the first step.
I think you, 2010, 145 billion pesos the total amount that we get from mining, but 13.4 billion pesos only or nine percent will end up in the nation's wealth.
The natural resources, owned you; we do not agree to cut the pension will go to the Filipinos.
We are hoping that the cooperation of Congress to makapagpasa of the law that we can assure napapangalagaan the environment and matitiyak justified that will be the benefits of the public and private sectors of the blessings that we will get from this industry.

Let us talk about the situation in the Disaster Risk Reduction and Management.
Before, the government should be helping, asking for help.
Now, the storm in the Pacific Ocean, don't know where the idedestino help, and when there is a clear plan to avoid danger.

Every discussing is the accident happened, I always remember what happened to us in Tarlac last once if it storms.
From the strong rain, gave a dike.
When he woke up the our barangay captain, was carried by the flood that his family and the kagamitang pangsaka.
It's a good thing it't survived the whole family.
It is only the carabao they left in full; nabigti tied to the strength of the raging current.

I also defenseless, many of the hit by typhoon Ondoy, Pepeng, and Sendong.
It is so many died in the onslaught of the deluge that this.
Under the newly-launched that Project NOAH, let us in the same boat the initiatives against disaster, and is also the chance the evacuation of the family.
Using the technology, are the right warning the Filipinos to prepare and to avoid accidents.

Real-time and directly to the benefits of walumpu't six automated Rain gauges and dalawampu't eight water level monitoring sensors in our other't other region.
Before the end of the 2013, the target we: Animnaraang automated Rain gauges and apatnaraan and dalawampu't two water level sensors.
We are Ipapakabit in labingwalong primary River basins in the whole country.

One more thing to change: Before, the agency'y own chase the number, his agenda, his pasikatan.
Now, the culture of the government: Unity for the sake of the people.
Convergence is the call here.

Before that, the programs in tree planting.
But after plant, will only.
When she sees the community who are looking for a livelihood, puputulin to make it again.

There is a solution to this.
There are already known 128,558 hectares of kagubatang naitanim in the whole country; part is that of a total of 1.5 million hectares of matatamnan that before we step down from his position.
Him in the community who is under the National Convergence initiative.
The process: Pagkatanim of the tree, will correspond with the DSWD in the community.
In exchange for the conditional cash transfer, take care of the trees; there are also the magpapalago of new punla in nursery.
Three hundred thirty thousand seventy-non-eight the Filipino people of the recovered from here.

In one program, it is also nakiambag the private sector, that give special binhi of coffee and cacao in the community, and take care of and make sure that they are taught the harvest.
Coffee planted under the trees, while standing, masisigurong hihigop of the flood and help us to avoid damage.
The company gave binhi, sure buyer of the harvest.
Win the community that there is an additional income, win the private sector, win the next salinlahing benefit in matatayog tree.

It has been a long time since the problem is the illegal logging.

From it when the plane EO 23, nakasabat, Mayor Jun Amante of more than six million pesos worth of logs.
We are grateful for him.
In Butuan even if it; how will this kind of political will all the LGU?

The trosong nakukumpiska of DENR, Kylie will land on in the community who taught by TESDA of pagkakarpintero.
The result: The chair for public schools that is in the hands of.
I think you, the former the source of the damage, now, the bridge for a good future.
Before, it is this; it is impossible if the government turned a blind eye to the illegal activities.

So you have no conscience; you repeatedly isinusugal the lives of fellow Filipinos: Prepare to you.
His happy days are over you.

We should Sinampolan tatlumpu't four members of the DENR, a PNP provincial director, and seven Chiefs of Police.
We are also asked for a Regional Director of the PNP nagbingi pretends not to my order and I acted as if I am blind to the giant trosong passed through their view.
If you are not compose themselves, you are our clean.
Whether Magkubli under your buddies, you are our'm.
We also included the buddies you.
That's why even before the both had an encounter our path, I am'y negotiate again, maybe it would be better if he really changed for you.

From the womb, to school and work, there will be a change when facing the Filipinos.
And if ever they choose his service in the government, they still continue to taking care of the state until his retirement.
Tatanawin of the government as his contribution service to the country, and not ipagdadamot pensiyong him, she is the one nagpuhunan.

I think you, and I was surprised'y here: There are pensioners we received a 500 pesos only every month.
How this so he pagkakasiyahin in water, electricity, and food every day?
The our response: When the New Year, not less than limanlibong pesos the received monthly pension of our Old-age the Disability pensioners.

We will be addressed their needs now, we are not isinusugal when the welfare of the pensioners tomorrow.

Others who really is the face of the government.
Joins that in the private sector is our pay for Entry level.

But if you together that promoted of classmates you chose to private, nagkakaiwanan.

We are also mahahabol that; but for now, the Good news in our workers in the government: Performance of-based Incentives.

Before, miski notice the failure of an agency, very satisfactory still pinakamababang rating of the employees.
Because, having a hard time with the supervisor to give the right rating the staff.
Nakakawawa continue the good work.
They are losing the reason for galingan because both are the only incentives of the lazy and persistent.

Here is the only one in the steps that we have to address it.
Starting this year, we will implement an system where the bonus is based in fulfilling the agency in their target for the year.

In the hands of the employees are key to his improvement.
The incentives, may reach tatlumpu't five thousand pesos, depending on the pagpapakitang-off you in your work.
In addition to this in the across-the-board that Christmas bonus to be received.

We are doing this, not just to raise the confidence and show the trust of our service to the country.
Most of all, these are for the Filipino depending on the front and good service from the service to the country, and they are hoping that they and they are the only is considered to be the boss of their government.

I know you, in the beginning there are kumuwestiyon "we saying, if there is no corrupt", no hard.
Until now, there is still a will pass by asking: Eaten the good governance?
The simple answer "", of course.

I think that our origin: Before, like "wild West" the investment in the Philippines.
There is again the business, sinagad the risko because of not sure and nakalihim policies.

You are really Kakamayan kokotongan using the right, you are using the left.

Now, because the fight is fair, and there is transparent and not pabagu-new rules, the rise of confidence in our economy.
The entry of the capital; the increase of work; the positive cycle of consumption, improvement of the business, and increase of citizens naeempleyo.

Because the spending of government, no one else in the system.
Because the pangkolekta proper taxes, lumalago the treasury of the country.
Every peso collected, for sure, the destination: Pesos it straight on the road, pesos for the vaccine, pesos to the classroom and chairs, pesos for our future.

Because the work of the bridge, roads, and buildings, this is where a housing project was needed.
The roads, faster the flow of product, service, and the people.

Because the good governance in agriculture, the production of food, and not pumapalo is its price.
The stable salary, and stronger the national economy.

It is true, the strong and strong ekonomiyang pinanday of good governance is the most effective shield against the challenges being faced by the world.

Two years what we binaklas the obstacle to progress, and now, we are just stop himself in our own improvement.

We are doing all of this while binubuno of each country in other't different corners of the world is their problem't challenges.

We are not alone in this world, that's why't while we responded to our own problems, is suitable to watch out for some might be affected by what happened to us.

The events in a resonating Bajo de Masinloc.
There are fishermen Tsinong came to our territory.
We were confiscated by the ship and to their ships the endangered species.
As a leader, I need to implement the law that exists in our country.
In the advancement of this, the nagbungguan Nine-Dash line Theory of the Chinese, who umaangkin in almost the entire West Philippine Sea, and our rights and of many other countries, including China, which strengthened the United Nations Convention on the laws of the Sea.

Further calm the showed us.
The ship of Hukbong gets, as a sign of our clean hope, we immediately replaced the ship civilians.
We are not nakipagsagutan in the allegation of their media to us.
Maybe kalabisan does not have to ask the other side to respect our rights, such as respect for their rights as both countries in the same this world needs to be shared.

We have bystanders who just let the Bajo de Masinloc; avoid that we are just.
But if you have entered the yard and said to him that the where he was standing is to him that, will you?
I did not seem right ipamigay we ask others to us who really.

That is why I wish it to the public the cooperation on this issue.
There is only one we should be the kumpas.
You will help me iparinig on the other side, the reason of our principle.

It is not simple, the situation, and it will not be a simple solution.
Trust, we kumokonsulta to the experts, and for all of the leader of our country, including the allies we - as well as the on the other side of this issue - in order to find a solution acceptable to all.

In every step on the straight path, we nagpunla of change.
But there are a few who still trying to bubunot.
While I am nagtatalumpati now, there are nagbubulung-whispering in a room and hinihimay my statements; he was looking for a hole that ipambabatikos tomorrow.
They say, this is just a word ", and not true" the straight path.
They are the ones who will be united, let's just forget; forgive makausad for us.

I did not receive it.
Forgive and forget the ten years that disappeared on us?
Forgive and forget that only for a farmer buried in debt because of kakaangkat of rice, when we can enrich it in our own land?

Forgive and forget that is just for the family of a police died when defenseless, because he is the only batuta while running after the armed bad?

Forgive and forget that only for those orphaned by fifty't seven victims of the massacre in Maguindanao?
They will be returned to the "" forgive and forget?
Forgive and forget all of the debt of the drowned us in the rotten state?
Forgive and forget to restore the old status quo?
I, the response "Ang forgive, possible; forget, not".
If the guilty, you will not be responsible, gagarantiyahan make again to the public.

The real unity and pagkakasunduan, just to come true and full justice.
Justice to the call of plunder case that was filed against the former president.
Justice to give him a chance to face the accusations and to defend himself.

Justice we witnessed last ikadalawampu't nine of May.
On that day, we proved: Possible prevail justice even if the opponent, you have a high in office.
During that day, there is a Delsa Flores in Panabo, Davao del Norte, who said that it is a law, "Posible only needs to follow the court interpreter like me, and the chief magistrate".
It is possible that the scales; might be fair isakdal and hold even the rich and powerful.

So in the next will be the magistrates, it is expected to you by the public.
What we can prove that it is possible that the is impossible; the work now, make sure that we will continue the change towards true justice, after the our term.
Many damage to the system you need to repair, and I know that it will not be easy.
I know how the tragedy!! Burden of a clear mandate; but this is the atas to us of the people; this is the duty to our sinumpaan; this is what we need to perform.

We hope for is simple: If you are innocent, the whole inside you face in court, because they are confident you mapapawalang-living room.
If you are the culprits, whatever the last name, or no matter how much the title of attached to your name, there is a guarantee that your responsibility what you did wrong.

I also thank you to the Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales, in accepting a challenge to be a real officer.
If you think about it, he can be rejected the responsibility and say that I am retired, ", can" others just "?
But nangibabaw her concern for the country.
Despite this, there are still gifted to him by the grenade in the house.
'am, there will be a challenge; I might still paglaon, magaya you to me that so-called, together, that other called lust that kapitalistang or communists to dictator also because of the zealous reforms implemented us.

I am amazed by your pagpapakitang-off and thank you for being an instrument for justice, especially during the height of the impeachment trial.

I also thank the two institutions members of the Congress: In the Senate and the House of the legislative chamber, tinimbang of the people and sufficient enough.

Of all the help in using the process pangkatarungan: Pass you in the challenge, criticism, and doubt; still with the fear that if we lose, we, you are the first target of the opponent.
But you didn't even ".

Depend on you the Filipinos, and it was proven that you are right hope to you.

Don't you were disappointed; explained the people you especially our future.

Just a reminder: Not end the fight in a corrupt officials who was detached from his position, in a anomalous company control will be implemented, or in an office naituwid the management.
That is why we are calling for the Congress to approve the proposal the amendment to the Anti-money Laundering Act, so we still mapaigting pagpapanagot in the corrupt.

We are having right now is this: Every nailawan and iilawan more sitios; every road, bridge, airport, train, and ports; each without a lump on his breast; the safety and peace from the city to the village; the return of the piring in the system pangkatarungan; every classroom, chair, and books to get a hold of the youth; every Filipino nahahandugan of the new future - all of these, we reached within two years.

Let us put beside the two years, and the previous nine and a half years that our pinagdusahan.
Isn't it "'t being pushed the agenda of change?
What we and the goals, it's likely, together with us in this agendang.
And if you are against us, maybe against you in what you are doing.
If they oppose the agenda of change, he would say that they'y in the side of you?

I was approaching the election.
You, our the boss, the only thing we will be followed.
My question to you, "Boss, where we tatahak?
We will continue to do the trip on the straight path, or magmamane-masterpieces we't paatras, back on the road that "twisted and there is no direction?

I still remember, when we started.
Aware that I am aware of the heaviness of!! Pasaning come to us.
I am included in the thought: That's why even ituwid kabaluktot this system?

Here in my learned dalawampu't five months of pagkapinuno: No it is impossible.
Nothing is impossible because if the people can see that they are the only boss of their government, they would you, you gagabayan they themselves, they are the ones to lead to significant change.
It is impossible that the Philippines will not be the first country in the southern-East Asia to give and give free vaccination against rotavirus.
It is impossible not to in the Philippines that tumindig and said that the Philippines, ", and we are ready to the Filipino -" in defending it.
It is impossible not to the Filipino kaytagal when she yumuyuko every time there is a foreigner - the Filipinos, now, tinitingala in the whole world.
It is a delight to be Filipinos in the this time.

It was last year, I asked the people, give thanks to the nakikiambag in positive change in society.
It is not a joke the challenges that we passed, so it is only appropriate to thank the people who nakibalikat, in the repair of the wrong caused by the bad governance.

Of all the members of my Cabinet: Many, thank you very much.
[Lucky the people and there are like you are ready to give up on the private and peaceful life to deliver public service, even if you know the price, it is a small salary, danger, and criticisms.
So thank you again.

Don't they would masamain because I personally they name: To Father Catalino Arevalo, and Sister Agnes Guillen, dumidilig and nagpapalago in my life spirituwal, especially at times when the challenge to us, there are many, I also thank you very much.

This is my third SONA, only three are also is left.
We are coming in the middle of our leaders.
Last year, my challenge to you: Discard the culture of negatibismo; for every opportunity, improve the fellow Filipinos.

We know that we are now: You will not fail.
To you from the change.
You said: Possible.

I am facing in you as the face of a government you are the boss and you are still strong.
I just Inuulat the change you did it.

That's why I am in all the nurse, midwife, or the doctor who chose to serve the barrios; in every new graduate who chose to work in government; in every athletes Filipino carrying the flag to whatever part of the world; in every department of the government to honest nagseserbisyo: You are to make a change.

Every time I face in a mother saying, "nabakunahan thank you and my child, the response" I: You can do it.

Every time I am going to face a child saying, "thanks to the paper and pencil, for the chance to study, the response" I: With you to do it.

Every time I face in an OFW saying, "thank you and I can that they have grown old pangaraping again in the Philippines, the response" I: You can do it.

Every time I face in a Filipino, "saying thank you, I thought magkakakuryente in our sitios.
I thought I did not aabuting life the light to this, the response "I: You can do it.

In every time that I am going to face of a farmer, a teacher, pilot, engineer, driver, agents in a call center, ordinary Filipinos; in every Juan and Juana dela Cruz saying "thanks to change, the response" I to you: You should do it.

I repeat, it is possible that the former is impossible.
I am facing to you now, and was said to be: I did not SONA.
You should do it.
This is after the Filipino people.
Many, thank you very much and good afternoon to everyone.



