
The report about the Mga violation of the troops of the AFP and CAFGU in CARHRHIL at the boundary of Mountain Province and Ifugao last April-May 2012

Leonardo Pacsi Command NPA-Mountain Province June 6, 2012

The robbery is widespread in the wild, goat, chicken, and other pet animals of the people in the surroundings of the detatsment of CAFGU in Brgy.
Ubao, Aguinaldo, Ifugao.
There is no other pointing at the back of this happening but the military nakakampong where they always't always get drunk, gamble, nagpapatugtog when they are strong and firing a gun.

Last April 2012, there is a 5-people pretended to be someone of the NPA nangikil of P1,500 from a civilians, Eusebio dela Cruz, a resident of Barangay.
Ubao.
Aside from this, they tried to other kuhanin his pet pigs.

Often also naaabala the education of the students of Ubao, National High School because of pagtuloy there by the military of 54th IB of the AFP from their operations military.

It looked like he was a quarrel between the carabao the troops of the 5th ID PA that sumira the crops that corn in the-and-burn activities in Sitio Dalanao, Brgy.
Guards, Paracelis, MP during the military operation on 31 May, 2012.
Because of this, the owner of the complainants-and-burn activities named, Kimpee.
However, instead of asked for an apology and pay the damaged crops, the insult of poor farmers from the troops of the AFP.

In other events, was stopped and is being investigated by the troops of the military is a civilian named Saturday and his colleagues, riding a motorcycle in Sitio Dagawe, Brgy.
Poblacion, Paracelis, Mountain Province.
They suspected members of BHB due to their long hair.
Pinagtawanan and ininsulto also said that the two when they are members of the sect came Baptist Church.
In the same place, kinasahan also of the gun, the passengers of a van when there is no clear reason in Sitio Tanufong, Brgy.
Poblacion, Paracelis, MP in their operation last May, 2012.
In Sitio Amulong, Brgy.
Poblacion, the anger of the people when they found out that the troops of the military pinagnanakaw their crops that vegetables before also May, 2012.

Labels: Cordillera, human rights violations

Newer Post

Older Post

Home



