Editorial: A big challenge the ISF!
Those yesterday by Vice President Leni Robredo, who is not just the construction of the structure still works for the house is the solution to the problem of the informal settler families or ISF.
Because he visited the others't other Housing projects of the past housing czar, and he was crushed at what he saw.
Vacancy and nangangasira that they are just.
Abandonado.
No one wants to live.
Too!
In summary, billion pesos to the expenses of the housing.
How it happened that there were many not have their own homes and nagtitiyagang to sleep on the street or under the bridge but does not want to live-in the vacant housing that this is the government?
New another mismatch?
Just to "that the vacant work and new graduate to the students.
Many applicants and there are also the vacant job but were not similar to resolve the problem is the two so it is not.
This is also the situation of the housing of the government and ISF that nagsusumiksik in Metro Manila and big city.
That's why the ipinupunto VP Leni, and they do not only of the house and the roof of their head.
Needed, where we will transfer to their community, there was electricity and water.
It is important to the economy.
It means, there are business that they can mapagtrabahuhan.
The primary ingredients to be kaengga encouraging a resettlement site or housing project, the young transportation and close public schools that will also "playground" of their children.
Even if it was the homeless and ISF, they also think of course will be the condition of their family in pupuntahang relocation.
You should be really, they are able to live in a new home.
You will come and they will be given their ambitions and dreams for the family.
Porke't did not have a roof, and it will automatically bite of the citizens is going to be postponed.
If this is the problem of a housing czar,, it's sad that instead of to increase the budget of the office of Vice President Leni is tinapyasan it.
In spite of this, the Vice President will happily accept the a budget OVP at the start of the year 2017.
But hopefully, pagkalooban a separate fund the "Housing program" even if not directly put it in the office of Vice President Leni.
Many needed to be done in this problem.
Did not even see the others, the "Decongestion" of Metro Manila or the transfer of the ISF towards the new community outside the city is makakaresolba in many problems like the heavy traffic, problems pangkalikasan (pollution, garbage, flood) and even the crime rate.



