
Right 'actor' of Kennedy (My Maguindanao Adventures also a part 4)

A few hours, after the harrassment by the MILF in Tuayan detachment that my house, the couple slowly nagsipagdatingan the reinforcements from 61st IB headquarters.

Two church armored vehicles of Light armored Brigade were included in the came to us, take sides.
One of this, there was a mark that Simunul and I did not forget it because the nagkandawindang pronounce our call sign in the middle of the battle that where it is nababansagan "" Sinupul.

We are not able to sleep in the entire night.
We are of Lt Ampong to reposition of our people and even 'cross loading' of ammunitions.
Of course, on the ratratero, almost nothing natirang bullets.
We need they give rasyon of bullets.
For us in the rangers, embarrassing that we'll run out of bullets because the rule in the firefight was allowed to automatic fire.
Puputok if we see the enemy.

When night the firefight, we should just follow the key Leaders and the Gunners through the view of Direction of their tracer bullets.
Because it is not a trend the tracer bullets for the M16 rifle, the usual dini-direct of Patrol Leader, the gunner because there is a tracer rounds the M59 linked ammo of 7.62mm M60 E3 LMG that issue to us.

I noticed outside of our hut is busy the 60mm mortar gunner of Lt Ampong that nangangapa on earth.
I had a conversation with what he is busy with something else.

"Sir, be careful in walking and five dud ammo that I itinabi here earlier.
I forget my sun and on the ground did not open, "makakadisgrasya when he explained to me.

The problem is that.
They had a shortcoming procedures in the storage of bullets.
When we are in the middle of the pitpitan, failed.

Kumusta, Kennedy?

When I was able to talk to all my personnel, it was discovered that it was all of their situation.
Only the Cpl Gaboy is the only has a problem.
Always "?" If the answer to talk to.
How, napasarap in the firing of Barrett and umi-call to M1919 Browning machinegun of 61st IB!

I was not the only one mapagtanto if he kumusta.
File does not want to talk to her kinalagyan.
He just remained silent after the natikmang gyera.
Who was?
Then, Kennedy!
Yes, Kennedy Jeep.
Partly, in the open its terrain was started when the firefight.
Naka- 'light the Discipline' because we all night, I need to antayin the rays of the sun so that I found out that her condition.
Nagaya was also file instead of John Fitzgerald Kennedy who snipe in Dallas, Texas?

When lumiwanag that around 6: 00am, mandated we command the search in the enemy positions in order to determine if there's a hit them.

I went to I saw the encounter site.
MORE or less 50 to rival the stuck in our camp.
Many of the empty shells left in their positions.

The cunning also really them because they stuck to the perimeter fence when we pinabomba they of artillery.
They know that we are 'ino-observe a danger close'.
Actually, it is not allowed to overthrow the 105mm high explosive rounds that they are because of the 81mm HE, otherwise, we also maghihilamos of the huge shrapnel.

There are many drop of blood we saw in their withdrawal route.
There was a chaos their retreat;.
You will with bullets and yanigin of kanyon?

Then, I had a conversation with the ipinang; in my position.
I wondered why penetrated through the barricade and cover the hut that my position.

"Sir, this saved from you," Msg Cantil said.
The branches of his being ignored where it that fin of RPG round that was left in my position.

Thank you "" grows!

I rub the same amount in my arm that branch that it is a letter Y. there that he caught the fin nagpapatuwid allegedly flying low in the RPG.
Because of Haring Bayabas, a small piece of the shrapnel the passed and up to my position that my wounded.

I really believe that if you do not time to die, you are not going to die but even if you are still a bullet.
If you want it to God, they are in, even if you are lying down on a bed, matigok that only to the nightmare or a heart attack!

So, one that was left that I should mausisa:, Kennedy!

Sir, "Kennedy," kamot was grazed in the head my cool driver, Sgt Nelmida.

I saw, in the roof, in the right side of the frame.

"Right actor", Kennedy!

I am happy and was not hit in the vital parts, Kennedy, ikakaparalisa.
A loved one is still magpaayos of the car in Central Mindanao.
It is not easy to already of funds.
If the destruction, Kennedy, for sure that I am Cadillac.
Wow, hanep Number?
"Hey, you're not dilakad and cool brand of the car!

Because it is Kennedy, he still napagsilbihan me when I and Cpl nagpagamot Gaboy, in a hospital in Tacurong, Sultan Kudarat.



