According to Danê

Of Amelyn rats months have passed by I saw in the newspapers, the news ito.Tungkol this in a student of UP who committed suicide.
Kamusta so that his parents?
Nakakarelate me because I am also parents and I feel what is the feeling of the parents of the children of the time that "".
Painful for a parent will be told that it seems like they are doing nothing to mapunan and pangtuition the needs of their child.
I am sure that if you hear of this child "that the accusations of his parents, it is very angry.
I am sure they have been able to - "they would just not fortunate to achieve what they want to give to their children.
If'y was also responsible for the government to be given the right budget for education is the youth, should not be reached in that situation.
Hopes that no children will think to commit suicide or stop the studies because of not to provide for his needs as a mother school.
I believe that there are no parents who do not all the way to the needs of their children.
I am one of the parents to "according to do everything for the future and dreams of her child.
I don't care even if I would be judged by other people or tried to stop me.
I am not perfect people.
I also have the weakness in life.
But the imporatante, clean the desire to me.
Not everyone can see is, and not all of it is suspected is true.
My child and I am ready igapang "that he was just to finish in the studies.
I did not "will no longer allow suffer was because he wla pangbayad of tuition or no fare to enter the school.
Too much dinamdam of young "that the incident, which is why he didn't't able can he and his own life.
I hope that we have learned from what happened.
We don't know if he didn't "up to where the instated or weakness of our children as long as they did not't experiencing severe problems in life.
And painful, too much pain, a feeling for a parent, if you do not have that they couldn't do anything more than in that they have done and maakusahan that they are irresponsible parents.
Four years he took the course and nine months from now it is gagraduate that my child of koleheyo.
I did not spend money for pinanghihinayangang do the responsibility to him as a parent, because he has a child and hardworking dedication in studies.
That's why I need to separate well and rumaket - even if the rumaket maglabada, sell load, a shop of the old clothes - all that I pinasukan and even if it is writing, I inekstrahan to just to earn money.
I was doing it because I am a mother who has a simple dreams for her children - what I saw when they will have a good life.
And least, remove whether I am in the world, they do not forget that their parents are not so irresponsible in giving them a proper education.
If the government will be like a responsible and good parents in the eskwelahang like UP, this is a big help to the likes of Kristel, people like my child, and there are still a lot of youth.



