"Health Living" for all

DOC WILLIE by Doctor Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated October 30, 2014 - 12: 00am

This is the last part of my advice to be healthy your body.
Let us know this: • avoid pollution in air (an additional 2 years in life).
According to the experts, the pollution in air like sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides, it can cause a heart attack.
In the study of Dr. Gerard Hoek of the Netherlands, the people who are living in the side of a big road (like the EDSA), there is a asthma, cough and heart disease.
To avoid pollution, plant a lot of trees like Bamboo trees.
Close the other window and put on screen by the door.
But the solution is to lessen the smoke belchers in our streets. • take care of the radiation (an additional 1 Year).
The ionizing radiation is proven to cause cancer and leukemia.
If you often the exposure to the radiation, can ruin your DNA in the cell divides.
But it is not wrong to sometimes, X-ray that is needed in our check-up. • always wash your hands (an additional 2 years).

You know'yo there 10 million bacteria in every palm us?
It's true.
So through a simple washing of hands, we will in many diseases like the flu, tuberculosis, diarrhea, typhoid and sore eyes.
Wash your hands in this time: (1) before cooking food and before eating, (2) pagkagamit of the bathroom, (3) after cough, suminga or bumahing, (4) if you are sick, the people around you, and (5) after throw the trash. • - active in the community (an additional 3 years).
In the community and having a lot of friends, nakahahaba in our lives.
According to the examination of 3,617 people of professor Peggy Thoits of Vanderbilt University, the people who are helpful is more happy in life, he has more confidence in yourself and keep the body healthy.
If we'y helping others, our body of endorphins, a chemical that makes us. • be cautious of travel (an additional 2 years).
In our journey, should be considered to be careful.
If it was already evening and still want your friends to drink, do you?
If there is a distant place you and you are not confident that he was going to go here, you still worry?
Especially in the elderly, there are a lot of danger can happen while travelling.
You can get sick of traveller's diarrhea because of the food.
Just drink bottled water.
Make sure that you are carrying drugs and money to travel because you might not be able to get back immediately.
Remember the this advice to be safe always.



