Just a little the contribution so they've

Posted by: Sabrina Pascua on August 16, 2016 in Sports

Four wins in sindaming game.
In spite of this, the imported changed the TNT Katropa and deported back Mario Little!
Where do you like that?
Isn't it nakagigimbal?
The other teams is napagtatalo and finds it hard to makaangat standings but still not changing the import.
But it is a different kind of the Tropang Texters!
They really decided flourish in Governor's Cup.
Because in the eyes of coach Joseph Uichico will not be taken by little until the finals the TNT Katropa.
He might just be the start until the import and tumukod at the end when dikdikan really!
Because, as Little who has the pinakamababang scoring average wage of ten imports playing in the championship.
He was also not overpowering as rebounder.
But the TNT Katropa won in the first four games, isn't it?
The success that this is due to the locals.
Then, four times naparangalan as player of the Game, Jayson Castro.
Oh "ý almost triple double the number.
That is small, Castro compared to Little but he nadodomina the game.
And if there is a titignan the situation, it is the right of a presumption of Uichico and the coaching staff of the TNT Katropa.
That's why he took the Tropang Texters, Mychal Ammons that debut in the game against Blackwater Elite last Saado.
Well, at the beginning of a game for that, the Elite nalayuan of Tropang Texters.
Only the Blackwater in halftime.
But this is the result of the incident are still aadjust, Ammons and not yet pinaglaro Castro is sick.
But the Second half was put, Catsro and became the game of Ammons, can finally crushed by the TNT Katropa the Blackwater, 109-89 to maintain the record is clean that 5-0.
Alone now at the top of the standings Tropang Texters after losing the Mahindra in Phoenix last Friday.
And it is not regret Uichico was made to change.
Because he can see a good future, Ammons that made a 16 points and humugot of 18 rebounds against the Elite.
I hope that is really not regret the TNT Katropa because they've Little.



