Is allergic to perfumes By George Nava-TRUE II November 22, 2016 there, I will consult with you about my sinus said.
I am often invoke check up.
These X-ray even me and the result is normal.
Why "did not remove the pain I?
When I have something that very brave perfumes successive my pagbahin.
I hope you can say what the medicine here. - name withheld.
I think your problem is non-is allergic rhinitis.
In this illness, often the pagbahin and always barado dripping and the nose.
May also have the phlegm in the throat or postnasal drip.
The symptoms of non-is allergic rhinitis, both in is allergic rhinitis or fever, but no one is allergic reaction here.
This often happens at the age of 20-year-old.
In the non-allerginic rhinitis, it is not nangangati eyes, the nose and throat.
This is not dangerous but it is annoying and it is irita.
The symptoms of non-is allergic rhinitis, he repeatedly and it can be for a few hours or days.
Many things can cause.
Here with some of the smell or irritants in the air like smoke, perfumes, chemical and yosi, the change of season, viral infections like colds or flu, stress, hormonal be caused by pagbuntis, menstruation or the use of oral contraceptives, medicine, hot and spicy food, beer and alcohol.
There are also medicines that causes non-is allergic rhinitis, for example, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin and Ibuprofen and medicine for high blood like beta blockers.
It can also get the use of sedatives, antidepressants, or medicine for erectile dysfunction.
Not seen on the X-rays the non-is allergic rhinitis.
You need an allergy skin or blood test to know if you have it.
To avoid this, you should avoid the things that caused it.
The problem is, if it can use the following: Saline nasal sprays - it can even if there is no follow or can make a saltwater solution to remove the irritants in the nose, to remove the block and mapanipis the mucus.
Corticosteroid nasal sprays - the prescription spray that fluticasone or mometasone can help.
But there are side effects it like indigestion, nausea, headache and abuse of the body.
Antihistamine nasal sprays - will have no effect on the oral antihistamines non-is allergic rhinitis but helps the prescription antihistamine spray, azelastine and olopatadine hydrochloride.
The side effects of this bitter taste in the mouth, headache and fatigue.
Anti-drip anticholinergic nasal sprays - the prescription drug ipratropium is often used in the asthma inhalers.
But the nasal spray it may be used for non-is allergic rhinitis if you are said to be the main runny nose.
Side effects include is bitter taste in the mouth and dry nose.

Oral decongestants - what is pseudoephedrine-containing drugs and phenylephrine even if there is no follow.
It will reduce the nasal congestion, or pagbara of the nose.
But the price of other people, high blood pressure, insomnia, there is no appetite, palpitations do, anxiety and restlessness.
Decongestant nasal sprays - the Active ingredients, oxymetazoline but do not use this for a long time because the nose babara again.

The side effects, headache, insomnia and nervousness.



