Peace Uste: The use of the name of the university in politics in circa 1920

To take care of the status of this as institusiyon, it is prohibited by administrasiyon last 1923 the use of the name of the university in the political issue and work in the country.
Padre Serapio Tamayo, led by former rektor of the university, the steps regarding this before the formal enforced last August of the said year.
It is the purpose of the said policy that we are the individual perspective to the university that opinion that it has something to do with the political issues.
It is said that this may affect the image of the university.
According to Tamayo, it cannot be favored the institusiyon in any part or a group of local cliff issue because the foreigner, and not the Filipino, the managers here.
It is important to take care of the image of the university as the Dominikanong Espanyol and who established and nagpanatili of its order, he said.
However, the clarification of Tamayo, free the students and members of the fakultad that state of their personal view as citizens, but they cannot use the name of the university to defend their respective arguments about them.
Enforced the said steps to strengthen the honor and the identity of the university that pinagsisikapan still keep up to the present.

He Tomasino the payment of J Carlitos G. Cruz, one's certified public accountant, his kalinangan in the chosen field inside and outside of the country.
Year 1981 when he ends in business in the university.
In the long run, he became auditor in some local and internasiyonal that the oil companies and oil.
Cruz was one of those who are honored in The Outstanding Thomasian alumni Awards in 2016.
Aside from this, the very front, he was awarded the UST-AMV College of accountancy Professional Achievement Award in Public accounting in 2009.
He also were included in the College of Commerce's Top 75 alumni in 2008, along with the celebration of the 75 years.
Even before he took the Advanced Management Program of the Harvard Business School in the United States in 2007, attend Cruz in Advanced International Program in Oil and Gas Management at the University of Texas and Dallas.
He also claimed the title of Outstanding alumni in Public practice each in 1991.
At present, Cruz was part of some of the organization like the Philippine Institute of's certified Public Accountants, Philippines-Thailand Business Council, German-Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Board of Trustees of the Petroleum Association of the Philippines.
He is serving as a board member of the Association of's certified Public Accountants in Public practice each.
Sadia Winona S.

Tomasalitaan: Sabang (png) - Kpm; krosing or interseksiyon.
Hal.: In Sabang where a lot of the road to choose from, I still choose the way back to you.



