Frankly: There is no immunity to Duterte in the International Criminal Court By Ellen Tordesillas August 17, 2016 always what President Rody Duterte threatening that if he would be her, what's on his mind is the plague of the society, which is why he is brave because he is not makakasuhan while he is the president.
He said it when he visited the wounded soldiers in V. Luna AFP Medical Center and seeing him in the businessman "right to follow his orders to stop the" ENDO, "are taking advantage of the workers through the five months that only the contract and does not become permanent in work.
I just "warning: Stop contractualization or kill you," Duterte said.
"You know why I can speak something'n the president?
While I am here, there is a [] "legal immunity to me.
It is true that "while he was president, he is not makakasuhan.
"Stated that the Constitution.
"That because it is right to worry if the president of the case that can be filed for him while he nagdedesisyon in the important thing for the country, maybe she did not make a decision on.
But it does not mean that you can be president if you do what you want, even if it is against the law.
Many worried about many patayang connected to Duterte's campaign against illegal drugs.
Up to 646 were killed since Duterte took office in Malacañang last June 30.
If we since he won last May 19, more than the 800.
This is according to the number of the Philippine Daily Inquirer's released news (PDI).
Most of those who were killed, no case and there is no warrant of arrest.
There are some cases police was the one who killed - allegedly fought back and snatched the gun handcuffed even if the victim.
Most of them are not known to kill.
Duterte dinidepensahan but the murder.
He said to the soldiers when he visited in Capiz: "It if I order the killing of a person, I am not might be arrest because there is an immunity me.
I am also has the power to pardon and if you do what I ordered, it "I pardon you.
Many are worried about the statements of Duterte.
Because it is not true that he is not in the jurisdiction of the law.

Even if there is an immunity to the Philippines, he is not exempted in the International Criminal Court (ICC) and can file a case against him there.
If he is being sentenced "crime against humanity", he can catch them even if he is president.

There is the president of the country of Africa was convicted and now in jail for "" crime against humanity.
This is the reminding people to him by Kabayan Rep.

Harry Roque said that his allies in Congress as a member of the super majority.

Human rights lawyer, Roque before he became a congressman.
It was said by Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aquirre II, is not "crime against humanity" the murder of the criminals.
But the one can tell if Roque said "crime against humanity" the killings, the ICC.
And when they saw the extensive pagpapatay, they can litisin a president if there is a kaso. INDI makasauhan helpful in the country that the international court is the president of the Philippines.
It's a good thing that nagpaalaala to President Duterte is an ally.



