Start BASAGAN San Miguel Beer versus Brgy.
Ginebra in the semis now By Ramil Cruz SSeptember 26, 2016 Game 1: (Smart Araneta Coliseum) 7: 00 p.m. - Ginebra vs.

San Miguel would be the start of the number 2 and defending champion San Miguel Beer and Number 3 Barangay Ginebra the basagan in the opening of the action of the Game 1 of the PBA Governor's "Cup semifinals showdown this o'clock in the evening at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
In a tagayan just took of San Miguel Corporation franchises owned by Ramon S. the rival to magkatapat in that there is no utul editions to be was in didn't win-to-four win finals duel, who will win will face the overall winner in losing weight a Final four playoffs of the siblings also No.
1 TNT and No.
4 Meralco to those under of Manuel V. Pangilinan.
Going to Cubao venue the Ginebra from 109-104 win war'ng Friday in number.
6 Alaska in the quarters while the San Mig is in the three-game winning run from the eliminations until the Last 8 with the 114-110 against No.
7 NLEX only three days ago.
We know how "Good SMB is how they will be tough'll," start of Tim Cone, the camp'y end more won the opponent in 2007 Philippine Cup best-of-7 Finals.
We "just have to See if we make them uncomfortable Can the drive them out of their comfort zones.
They have a lot of weapons to account for.. so we have'll Our hands, "full of the Gin Kings coach.
"Still, we have a couple of games to figure out" them.
In discussion of the two-time Grand Slam coach the weapons of the Beermen were imported scoring Elijah Millsap, 2013 Best two-time MVP June Mar Fajardo, 2012-13 MVP Arwind Santos, 2016 All-Star Game MVP Alex Cabagnot,, Marcio Lassiter and 2015-16 Philippine Cup finals MVP Chris Ross.
That's why he pipigain the pantapat Justin Brownlee, Japeth Aguilar that nagkakaasim while injured, Greg he tSlaughter, La Tenorio that from playoff career-high and the third-best overall 32 points in the steps of the team in Alaska, rookie Scottie Thompson to Top rebounder of alcohol despite the fact that there is no sixfooter and second the return of Sol Mercado.



