EDITORYAL - be cautious of fireworks (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | Updated December 31, 2014 - 12: 00am

In the latest report by the Department of Health (DOH), around 130 individuals (most of whom are children, the naputukan in the hands, face and other parts of the body.
According to the DOH might get more the firecracker-related injuries in when the New Year later.
That is why the DOH appealed to be careful all of fireworks.
Said the DOH the short moment of happiness to fireworks could be a lifelong items to bring,.
When the finger was cut off or hands, that it would be returned.
So, be careful all the fireworks or the better, not to shoot.
Are the parents, especially the mother who do not let shoot the children.
There are kids picking the thrown firecrackers but nagmintis and when taken, then exploded.
With the advice or first aid, Dr. Willie Ong, columnist of the Pilipino Star Ngayon and PangMasa (PM) when there is a naputukan and had a large wound because of firecrackers. • tap water to wash the wound in the span of 10 minutes. • clean the wound using the soap and water.
Use of alkaline like soap Perla or Dove. • can tapalan of the kitchen wrap or cling wrap the burned part so that it will not be infection.
Do not tapalan of madikit that fabric or tape. • if there is a hemorrhage, press around the wound (apply pressure) of 10 minutes up to stop the blood on.

• bring the patient in the hospital.
There is something else can give to the hospital like a vaccine against tetanus, antibiotics and tahi of the wound. • if there is a cut finger, get the finger was cut off and put it in a plastic bag with ice.
Bring him immediately to the hospital and maybe maidugtong it.
According also to Dr. Ong, when eaten by fireworks, this is what you should do: • fed the patient in the bastard egg white.
For the children, to feed the 6 egg white.
In the elderly, give 10 egg white.
Will be able to help the egg white in the curtailment of the damage caused by fireworks. • if it is not like the taste of the egg white, increase of an orange juice or softdrinks. • don't pasukahin the patient.
Maybe only masugat the throat. • was brought to the hospital for the right prescription.
Don't give oxygen and it might explode the fireworks.



