
How can use the 'Indirect Fire Support' of going to war?
(Also a part 2)

1, was also a part of my story, I have stated the so-called Indirect Fire System like artillery and mortar.
I hope that you became clear that I after he-simplify.

I understand that the majority of the civilian was not knows how to use the indirect fire support from the Artillery or on the Mortars.

To make everything clear yet MORE, it is best for you to watch a video of the recently concluded Balikatan exercises showing knowledge and kagalingan of our soldiers if that is called the 'artilyero'.

If your examined, it is very hard work of people firing a 105mm artillery.
Required coordinated all the actions of the personnel are.
Remember the magic word ha: Coordinated!

What is the appearance of the place pinapapatakan of artillery rounds?
Watch the video of the top where you can see the Mark of the target using the White Phosphorus (WP) before this mother and asked to adjust the high-explosive rounds.
I experienced in the position as tiga firecrackers in the position of the pipe and tigatawag of indirect fire support as Forward Observer.
It is prohibited to the failure to think of this or else wagaaaam!

The question, it is being felt if you are in the surroundings of the huge impact area?
It is obvious is the answer?
Of course, hindeeee!
I experienced that in Shariff Aguak, Maguindanao when we pinapatakan of 105mm high explosive (HE) rounds the MILF attacked in the detachment that my kinalagyan last mid 1990s.
I was still the dialogues that I can hear from the soldiers every humahaging the bullet and plane the 150 meters from our position.
This is the sampol:

Said the Ilokano: "Apung" ku!

Said the Ilonggo: "Hijo de puta"!

Said the Bisaya: "Gikolira jud of, that we" mangamatay!

It is funny what we face because of the fear that mapatakan of his own name to fire support.
Painful ata that no?

By the Way, to those who are saying that it is just magpapatak of White Phosphorus-round even if there is no Forward Observer, you will be cured pre!

Says that says we komentong warning of the Dota that is said to be experts patakan a patrol of artillery even if there is no person who Forward Observer.
My god!

By the Way, this is what we should remember: The White Phosphorus (WP) round, the speed and fire of clothes and other highly-combustible materials around.
There are also component that nakakalapnos through human skin because instead that the shrapnel flying, it seems that the nakakapaso tunaw fist to heat the her dadapo to you!
You want to try it?

By the Way, you look at the appearance of hit by the White Phosphorus rounds in the video below.

If you so the magpapatak of White Phosphorus and malapnos like the victim?
What is now the Tsong, you guess-hulaan agrees that the system of pagpapatak of artillery?
Even the chance yet MORE?
We should learn from the experience of others!
MORE pointing of finger begins yet?

Call for fire

How can the simple procedures in order to his of artillery fire in a heavily engaged unit?

Listening to you.
Don't patulog sleeping!

First, there is a need to the Fire Direction Center (FDC) the grid coordinates of requesting element where andon the Forward Observer.
Who will give a grid?
Listen carefully, okay.
Then on Forward Observer exactly!

It that way?
Yes.
This is really.
Can't send a text message grid coordinate, okay?
Call using the tactical radio.
Read it back by FDC ikumpirma for the right thing that gave the information like grid location, azimuth and distance of the opponent that you want to mabatukan of artillery rounds.
Of course the FDC Naninigurado because maybe disbanded the patrol or to transfer to the position while they were fighting.
Oisst.
When will patrol, should have tactical radio who can be called!

Why is it needs to be fo talking to the FDC?
Of course, you should directly talking the fo and the FDC because nakakamatay talking about their artillery fire!
Remember the magic word: Direct talking!
Because, if there is a fail and the wrong napatakan, the two of them is the first one at fault!

What if no one to talk to that Forward Observer or Patrol Leader that the call for Fire procedures?
Eh, I am sorry, you can't give artillery support!

Bakeet can't give artillery support when there is no fo?
You also Kulit what?
Of course, there is no 'eyes' the FDC.
There is a blind accurate magpatama is the target?
Maybe your magician, even if there is a pro-bullseye catarata!

I repeat, okay.
Painful mabatukan of 105mm projectile, even white phosphorus (WP) or high-explosive (HE) even though it!
So you feel the scenario, you replay it in the video and you imagine that you are your nalapnos the skin.

In the still doesn't want to believe, according to pilosopo mortero and artilyero us, they are open to try-out of the people who want to tested magpapatak in their kinalagyang position when they felt the experts all the effect of this.
Any volunteer?

The puzzle

Many of the things that we think about the issue all indirect fire support.

Even in the saying is: "Great Power, comes with Great" responsibility.

The training of the people who are using artillery and mortar assets for going to war.
Always Hinahasa the knowledge that this through sustainment training to avoid accidents and ensure that the asintado army in what they're doing.
Responsibility of the person sing this aspiration is not to hurt others soldiers and even the innocent civilians.
Magic word ha: Responsibility.

In a military operation, pinaplanong of the unit commanders are using the indirect fires and they are preparing the Fire Support Plan as part of Operations Order (OPORD).
If you do not have a plan, you planned to failed!
Why do?
The 105mm artillery, it is not like in your M1911A1 caliber 45 pistol that can be holster on his side and bunutin, pointed and fired a gun pointed to speed like a duwelo!
Draw!

So, in the experts that nagmumungkahing at the engaged artillery unit that there is no one to talk to that Forward Observer, mind still MORE!



