PSC aayudahan in PSI By Ramil Cruz January 5, 2017 Aayuda some lawmakers in the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) by pagsasabatas in the Philippine Sports Institute of for the modern mapakalat't siyentipikong sports in the country.
This is in a press briefing yesterday Siniwalat of PSC Executive Director Carlo Abarquez National Training and PSI Director Marc Edward Velasco in relation to the formal launch of PSI on January 16 of President Rodrigo Duterte at the PhilSports Arena in Pasig City.
"IT was former Lanao del Norte Governor Khalid Dimaporo the Lanao del Norte 2nd Dist.
Representative Aliyah Dimaporo WHO proposed the submitted that the PSI be turn into a law so that IT will stay on even if there will be will be in the administration of the appointed Leaders in the PSC, "esplika of Abarquez.
"It because it almost of Our lawmakers in the Congress, the League of Governor's, Mayors is going to be going well in the Senate will then also in DILG the with the Education the PSI DepEd wanted to stay.
IT will be Good to be a law to ensure that even if he is not here, we have changed when the new administration, or the president, is still continue to the gift identification, the sports Science and the process for pagdidiskubre in talents of our youth and teaching of the new knowledge about the coaches and sports administrators, "recitation of Velasco.
According to the two officials, the Philippines is the only countries in Asia that there is no like in a school for the sports that will be given to the construction of the sports Institute.
President Duterte himself magpapasimula in the inauguration of the PSI, together with PSC chairman William "Butch" Ramirez while also invited the other sports officials from the Senate, House, Local Government units and other agencies to witness the keynote speech of the chief executive.
First pinaliwanag Ramirez the PSI, based on the mission of the Duterte administration to them and to raise the condition of sports in the country from the grassroots up to the Elite level.
"The athletes, the coaches will have a Better idea what PSI is going to offer to them in the inauguration, what the PSI will bring to the table.
Is going to be for the other stakeholders, IT will show how the PSI will be the the main driving force of PSC in the grassroots Elite athletes.
Allocated by the PSC the 25-million monthly operational budget to be used in the buying of the modern equipment for examination of the athletes, including the strength and conditioning and even to be absorbed and training.
Stated in the project the Grassroots Sports Development Program that focused on the part of the athletes gift identification of (1) training of pool of researchers, (2) testing Phase, (3) gift selection and the arrival of mapipiling athletes in SMART KIDS program.



