
Following Gen Pershing's footsteps: My adventures in Bud drop (Leadership Experience also a part 23)

We are in the Assembly area in Barangay Tiptipon in the jurisdiction of the Panglima Estino when I received Warning Order about the combat operations in the forest in the jurisdiction of the Patikul.

From the house of my new friend Gasman, I can see in the south the high mountain natatabunan of the forest.

That is what we called "Bud land.
The enemy of our families are the people who are living in the practice, "Gasman said that he also Barangay Captain in his area.

Familiar to my hearing the so-called Bud drop (Mt drop).
I enjoy maghalukay of the written in history, especially if it is related to the military and in the Philippines.

Last June 1913, this is the place where were fighting until the last breath the mandirigmang Tausug led by magiting, Datu Amil in the American soldiers and the Moro Scouts (Maguindanao and Maranao) led by General John Pershing.

That more or less 500 children and women were included in the casualties from the fight of this before nagapi of the troops of the Americans are Tausug in more or less for four days to fight.

I feel chill when it came to my mind was so that the victims of violence in the fight.
It is also one of the reasons why bukam-mouth of the mandirigmang Tausug the Bud land.
There are a few of the family of this is the one who bring their baby on top of it to offer their prayers as tradition.
That is the pagrespeto for the historical this place.
For me, it is also my respect for the mandirigmang fell off here like Datu Amil that was killed when he was defeated in the fight against his group.

It is not in the of-fear me but I felt before the strange in my area of operations (ao).
I am not afraid to like Radulan Sahiron but I cannot take away the pagrespeto in his kagalingan.
Just imagine, with many of the affected file fight, he still survive!
He Lintik dulas and it seems to have Agimat.
Homegrown fighter he is like this.
Even if they pikitan, they know where sumuot if there is a soldier attack in the area.

A severe challenge entered the territory he.
Should we also believes that the.
What should we think his strategy.
I did not know what her appearance because this is taking her pictures that showed to us in the Brigade headquarters in Busbus.

"Just, only one hand nyan.
That is old and always riding a horse.
More or less 50 colleagues he there in the area, "said one INTEL Guy that his brief to us.

Actually, is still in the dark tar the information given to me.
There is no clear in the so-called Commander's Information Requirements (CIR).
If it is unlikely that the available data, we implement the strategy, according to the education of going to war.
Bottomline: The rangers, and not the hunter he nata-target of the enemy.
It is a joke of the patawa but courageous Old rangers, "Mga hijo, of going to war, brains, do not use ut:" Do!.

In what I see, the two points of the troops of Radulan Sahiron if they have compared to my tauhang mostly 'Baby Musangs' (Non-rangers / SROC graduate).
First, is the battle experience.
As they say, there is a tahid that they are in the fight.
The like Radulan, since his time as the MNLF fighter, who was fighting.
Right, his fight to experience.
Like the game to shoot him.
Second, they will only mastery of the its terrain.
Even if there is no map, that's why they navigate in the area.
They knew each ambush site, water points and observation posts.
If a kaang-kaang the soldiers, like target paper they just being shot at.

Meanwhile, meanwhile, my units.
My Team Leaders are also batikan in a firefight in Surigao and in Basilan.
I invest in combat leadership of my NCO-Leaders and of course in my own ability to motivate them ilaban.
Then, I maipagyayabang that we are well-off in Basic soldiery skills.
Inaral and rehearse we repeatedly the knowledge of the movement techniques / formations, tracking operations, survival techniques, patrol base operations and immediate action drills (IAD) similar to the scenario of the counter-ambush techniques.
We also know how to observed fire procedures and close air-support (CAS) operations if this is needed in the time of pitpitan.

We will also be there, just in marksmanship skills.
The common shooting skill level of my soldiers are the ability to makapagpatama in that 250m away.
I have a Pili soldiers who could magpatama of the head shot at a distance of 500 meters.
Also, that's why my troops who fought back the came to our inaral that quick reaction fire.
Most of all, we have a salary, free hospitalization and other't-other benefits that there is nothing in the ranks of the bandits.

Wait, we also have another advantage.
We are Good guys who didn't take sides of a single God.
Yes, we both of the enemy to pray and asking for guidance from the Lord.
Pangkikidnap, rape and pamumugot because of the head of the innocent victim what they are doing, it's likely it's Satan yayakap to them.
There, for sure, we only.

"You not to be afraid of them.
We are in the part of the Lord Almighty, "I remind my NCO when we are gathered together for our mission Planning.

I noticed that, because the all every itataya that our lives in a mission.
Andon also to the dismay of others, he didn't fulfill his warning '2-week mission' we just in Jolo!

We are always nakakarimarim heard the fate of the other soldiers in the adjacent units that were not lucky in the fight because of the samut different reason.

I know that the reason of pagkalagas of the life of another soldier is a forgetfulness disorder or pagpapabaya in combat SOPs.

Included in the Principle violations of Security in Patrolling missions that our inaaaral.

"Every time there is a danger area (place to a possible opponent), should be manmanang the surroundings and lay the overwatching" are always elements.

I also have a great reminders for them not to neither of feels tired.

"Even if you are tired and hungry, we do not abandon our security.
It is better that we're already tired because it means that, we "life!

"To you who does not want to get tired"?

The other wearing a smile and a increased its hands.
Of course.
Not only the dead on tired.

Because there, every time we sumusuong in danger like the low ground or creekline needs to be someone watching him at the back.
We exchange in monitoring and pagtatyagaan dumapa in that position even if it is hot or so there are niknik or whatever insektong naninipsip of blood there.

My traversing the Bud drop

Morning before when we left the Assembly area in Tiptipon for tracking operations in the forest of Bud land.

The surrounding was still dark when we began to walk and need to use night vision goggles in the leading elements to maaninag the surroundings.

Too much when it's dark, especially if the isolated area, holding the arm of it and there is a signal that if we need a short halt.

Not once did not naiiwasan won't understand each other when using the local dialect of others in the passing of the message.

In a chance, said troops that I ungas Bisaya that "Pas beautiful word, naay" high!
(Pass the word, there is a hole!)

Of course, he didn't understand the Ilokano and constant "whispered to him?
What?
"Bahag?

Later on, the movement successively disappeared again because there are already 3 points in the hole.
Classes that is one of the troops and nakadamay of a hold he also in uniform.

"" Kinam!

"" Grandchild!

"Is buang, fell into a hole, batching"!

I dislike is now circulating as to what happened.
I need to control the situation that's why I approached her they even on the usyosero who approached.

The boloy ", for!
Up to waist that is just "it!

Were on alert our tactical movement.

There's a nabagsak in Bud land!



