The sweet drinks

Doctor WILLIE - Dr. Willie T. Ong (Pilipino Star Ngayon) - August 5, 2015 - 10: 00am

If you are in too much weight, with diabetes, high blood pressure or wanted to be healthy, follow the advice I: Avoid iced tea, soft drinks and other sweet drinks.
It will significantly reduce your weight.
Do you know that a cup of soft drinks, there is a 7 teaspoons of sugar.
If you drink of soft drinks, so you can also eat 7 teaspoons of sugar!
It is the same with the iced tea.
All sugar that is also a sweetness!
According to siyentipikong analysis, the drinking of soft drinks, it can be caused by diabetes.
It also quickly makataba and magpalaki of the stomach.
Even "No-sugar" or "Lite still" your drinks, there is still the dangers.
Because the diet soft drinks, with phosphorous that nagtatanggal calcium in our body.
You can have osteoporosis.
My advice, magtubig.
Warms the pineapple are fattening juice and others if you'y there is a time, my advice is also avoid the fruit juices.
Orange juice, pineapple are fattening juice and other kinds of juices.
These are high in calories and sugar even if we say that "unsweetened".
If you drink a lot of juices, maybe you, even the Fat "" not fit.
I do not know where it came from the belief that good for high blood pressure drinking pineapple are fattening juice.
This is not true.
Drugs, diets and exercise only magpapababa of blood pressure.
What kind of fruits the possible in the nagpapapayat?
Apples, pears and a little banana is the only possible.
Is seriously prohibited the mango and grapes because it is too much sweetness.
If you want to be a slice of mango, can eat.
10 pieces of grapes, the only pinakamarami.
Avoid coffee and energy drinks there will not be a good will get to the coffee drinks.
Especially if there is a halo more whipped cream, chocolate, and full cream milk.
N'yo knows that the equivalent of a cappuccino with whipped cream, three platong rice!
It is also bad for the health of the energy drinks because these are high in caffeine.
It is the caffeine nakabibilis addict and the beat of your heart.
If the'y have high blood pressure, it is prohibited to the energy drinks.
Can the blood pressure.
So friends, only water should be drunk.
You will push the soft drinks and iced tea in your life.
Can you and you will surely get thin with the many diseases!



