
In the raid of Rice HOARDERS at illegal gambling in Batangas

Of-raid of CIDG the warehouse, as long as the rice... Amen - because in the end, the administration of PNoy in this is happening.
And the raid, headline in all of the news because the administration is none other than DILG Sec.
Mar Roxas and Sec.
Francis "" Kiko Pangilinan.
There was discovered by two secretary - aside from the rice hoarding, there is a hukos-pukos of rice of rice stored in the storage room.
One of the things, the so-called "palit-sack" scheme.
This is rampant NFA rice that are being transferred to another sack to make it look like a good kind of rice.
He Pinapalabas sinandomeng or other good quality of rice if it can be'y in the commercial Retail outlet, like the market.
We are the buyers, we bought in sinandomeng but the truth, the food that we are NFA rice.
But the pinakamasamang done by the warehouse owner or rice is the hoarder pagpapakain to us by the dirty and broken when rice.
We saw in the TV report the iniipis and dinadagang the rice after to undergo cleaning, items being sold to us by the rice hoarder.
If you think about it, the price of rice, but because of the rice hoarding, there is a shortage sumobra rice, which is why the height of the price of rice.
We bets, it is on the SONA of PNoy.
I hope that not only do is make yourselves look good "the raid.
'y should be true the Aquino administration.
Madam ANGIE at Ate VI a Madam Angie, who themselves "bestfriend" of Gov. Vilma Santos, have now of lotteng and jueteng operation in Batangas.
The center of the operation of Madam Angie is the Tanauan City, a Kap partner.
Mike.
Paging, Colonel Christopher Olazo.
Had or-operate the STL bookies in Poblacion, Tanauan City, Lito and the old Biscocho and in Brgy.
Equal that old man and that the child was Kap.
Lucido the operator of the STL Bookies.
In San Juan that the chief was Maj Pablo Aguda, the widespread STL bookies of Kap.
Nelson and Fress; in San Jose, were Kap.
Noel, Kap Ineo and Kap Indo and Ibaan is Acebo.
In Rosario, not the baklayan "matinag of alias Marcing Legarte inside the Tombol Cockpit in Brgy.
Quilib.



