
4-A cleared by Gen.
Estipona; TMA group an example

In relation to the continuous attack of illegal gambling in the widespread in our pergalan Calabarzon, it was discovered that RD General Benito Estipona ordered in the Provincial directors that the walisin pergalan.
Because d'yan, it was proven by the PD that only temporary if they even mapalulusutan RD Estipona.
He showed dedication to duty and being sensitive to the report about her AOR, we believe that even the tatahakin of officials in the field of public service.
If we do not attitude pumuri pabalat-fruit, but also in what you have done, General Estipona, sir, let me in the mangangarap hope that one day, you ookupa in one of the seat of the PNP Top brass!
I salute you, sir! -o0o- KUNG to others is a big inconvenience in the community of some groups in the social networking sites because it becomes a reason of the bullying, the exit of resentment and the source of the rumbles.
In Masbate, there is a group in Facebook deserves to pay attention to the national or international level.
Because, in my limited knowledge, this is the very front of the entire country (might be in the whole world) that the magkababayang't living in some other parts of the world, they had a relationship for a goal: The one who helped both!
The group from Milagros Ako (TMA on Facebook), from the start, became a way to those from Milagros, Masbate that any place maghuntahan hours, even if they are still there.
We feel at first that this nakatitighaw in the loneliness of the members of the TMA in faraway place because they are updated to the events in Milagros, in Masbate and even in the whole country.
But in the end, there was an idea that the TMA immediately supported by absolutely (some money others'y tired) of the members of the successful until the project was only recently pamimigay of swollen-beauty and kumpletong school supplies in the "anakpawis" of Milagros the "Pilot area" is Nagurang Island, Pob.
West, Milagros.
He immediately followed the giving of "wheelchair" to Ilo Medina, of Brgy.
Bacolod, earlier himself went to the doctor in their house with and perseverance of TMA members.
This is not enough to espasyong thanks to TMA, but I feel that more than in pagpasasalamat accepted that the feelings of every member of the TMA: The further "pro-god happiness" in their doing genuine service to others!
Through even the espasyong makaambag this, I am hoping to TMA to mapaalab their pro-god and pro-year goal that I know that there are more next to work in the coming days.
In the TMA members, now it was proven that you do not need to be a politician and sumawsaw from the country's budget to execute the so-called pablik serbis!
And the followers of our column Burdado Masbatenyo or not, who want to participate in napakarangal that this is just a goal, to go to the group on Facebook...
From Milagros Ako...
I salute to all of you!!!



