Aquino should be blamed for the lack of classrooms, low wages, and general crisis in education

Information Bureau communist Party of the Philippines June 4, 2014

Translation: Aquino to blame for classroom shortage, low salaries the overall crisis in education

Criticized the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) the regime Aquino in his pagkabigong continues to face the serious crisis in the system for the education of the Philippines pinatampok of widespread shortage of the classroom in public schools and severe pagsisiksikan because of insisting to lessen the part of the education of the national budget and giving priority to the project focused on the interest of his kroni and the oligarko.

Tinuligsa of PKP pagbibingi Aquino in the regime pretends not to the request of teachers in public schools for the increase in their monthly salary in the middle of the increasing prices of goods and papalalang ekonomiko walk.
The kabubukas "Kinatangian just to enter the 2014-15 the widespread pagsisiksikan, paghahati in the classroom, the use of the tolda and other made gawang structure still works, pagpapaikli of time to study in school and pagpapahaba of time in the work of the teachers so he served the students in the Kindergarten, Elementary and high school," insisted that the PKP.

It is estimated that there is a total lack of 66,000 classrooms and 33,000 teacher.

"The serious situation of the system in a public school is the result of not paglalaan regime Aquino enough rekurso for the construction of the new gusaling-school and the pagkumpuni and widening of the old facility as" PKP education, according to the condition. "Area hit by the superbagyong Yolanda last November 2013, it's more severe because it is still not kinukumpuni the schools destroyed by the malawakas" wind and flooding.

"Pagpopondo Aquino in his eyes were fixed on the regime of some project gusaling-school under the program Public-Private Partnership that provided the contract of the oligarkiyang, like Henry Sy to build the school for the pipe, according to the PKP".
The PKP stressed that under the PPP uupahan of the government, the gusaling-school to the one who has pinagkasunduang "pipe.

Aquino's brags "some or gusaling-school under the PPP imbing pagtakpan in the attempt to the worsening the condition of the public system of education," PKP added.

"Nagpamalas of the total sham the regime Aquino on the teacher in a public school to dismiss the request for the increase in salary and pinaghintay the teacher next year, according to the PKP".
Majority of the teacher in a public school is only earns P18,549 per month, far lower than the standard of living.
It is estimated that needed a six-people family of P31,620 a month to spend on food, transportation and other a basic needs.

"Paglalaan in not enough rekurso in the public system of education, further enlarges the regime Aquino!! Burden for every day that's being a huge masses of the workers and farmers, said the PKP".

The PKP appealed to the Filipino people to protest against the response of the regime Aquino in their request for free education to level college.
As parents and students, they should be tumindig to protest against the serious lack of rekursong inilalaan in education, even in other public service.



