Deworming the students, being conducted in the province of Romblon

July 21, 2016 Dinnes Manzo M.

ODIONGAN, Romblon, July 21 -- being conducted in the whole province is the giving of deworming of students in public schools in relation to the celebration of the National School Deworming Month this month of July.

Companion of the Department of Health (DOH) in said program the Department of Education (DepEd) and the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) where the trained health workers will give immunization for the children.
The target of the campaign Oplan: Goodbye worms to be given free vaccination the grade 1 and grade 7 in the entire country against the illness that can fight measles, Rubella, tetanus and diphtheria.
In relation to the program, urged the Department of Health (DOH) -Romblon Provincial Office, the parents who does their children be given free taking deworming medicine from to control and avoid having "intestinal parasitic worm infections.
According to Dra.
Ruth Cervo, chief of the DOH-Romblon, they are calling the attention of the parents of the child to be held in 2nd round of the expanded National School and Community-based Deworming Month.

Cervo. added that should not be afraid to the parents ipapurga their children because the free anti-worms that ipinamamahagi of the DOH is safe.
Before, he said, the pagpurga, there is a seminar in the teachers, students and even the parents to know the good benefits in the body, the reason for having worms in the stomach and the way to maintain cleanliness in the body and the surroundings.
They are also ensure that the children should use medicine that is why it has a free food given before they drink the sweet branded chewable tablets that taking deworming medicine from.
He said they are also not allowed to makasamang give the children with allergies and just came from the illness.
Also Ihinayag Cervo that the negative effect of worms in the study of the youth like the weakness and unable to concentrate in school because there are nutrients that we can get kahati in the children in their food.
At present, up to 90 percent of the primary and secondary Public Schools from kinder to Senior High School were given a medicine that is taking deworming medicine from the health workers.
The DOH-Romblon to get the 100 percent Compliance of conducting a program in the whole province.
Also Cervo are urging the parents who have children aged one to four-year-old and even those who are out-of-school Youth to bring the rural health center or barangay health station to be given the drug taking deworming medicine from under the community deworming program of the DOH.
He said should not worry about the parents to pay for the medicine taking deworming medicine from because this is ipamamahagi without payment.
(DM / Pia-IVB / Romblon)



