
The most important are still't other kinds of ability

Just recently, it was reported that there was a big part of it gets Hukbong in a rescue the Assistance and sea for the ship panturista, the MV Azamara Quest.
According to the report, the said ship, there was a fire in his engine gets room in Sulu.
And with the help of pinagsanib force of the Navy and Coast Guard was immediately given help the ship.
Particularly here is the turnover of security Assistance will escort the ship from the three ships of the Navy while kinukumpuni of the crew members of the ship his damaged machine that he gave way to finally and proper travel this to Malaysia.
After two days, once again gave the Navy in another vehicle sea in this instance, a yacht that was destroyed and there were foreign tourists in Negros Oriental.
No one was reported hurt in this incident and successful saved by Navy the victims.
It can be recalled that in the past month, the Navy instrumental in Disaster Response operations after the earthquake in Negros and Cebu and before he was in the storm in Iligan and Cagayan de Oro.
It is obvious that I, the katoto, in all of these incidents and in the response of the Navy, it means to hire a different't responding to a different kind of disaster in the ocean and coastal range sea.
However, in front of all of this is still not napababayaan of Navy the guard in our wide ocean against the criminals who want to sumira in nature, peace and integrity of our territory in the ocean.
In front of others't other are in need of the presence and response to the ocean, you can see that we are part of the Navy, together with the other agencies of the government in the care of our ocean.
Here in the role that it can be seen on the importance of a Hukbong gets perform the role that his important role in the time of peace and in the calamity.
It's just that, do not properly and thoroughly all of these if you do not have the support of our countrymen.
So't with the help of you, all the Navy all this!



