The help of government asked By Elech Dawa June 10, 2016 tinapik Senator Alan Peter Cayetano as honorary chairman of organisa of Philippine Superliga (PSL) of the FIVB World Women's Club championship on October 18 to 23.
In the meeting of PSL chairman Philip Ella Juico and PSL President Ramon "Tats" Suzara last Wednesday, All-out Cayetano support after to accept the position that was given to him.
According to Cayetano, he will ask for incoming President Rodrigo Duterte to the issue of the executive order to pakilusin the vital government agencies like the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC), the Department of Tourism, the Department of Health, the Philippine National Police, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority and the Bureau of Immigration, while the week dinadaos President volleyball festival.
Cayetano, added that he will request for the President-elect Duterte to be the guest of honor and personally I-Welcome the players, coaches and officials of the club teams to Brazil, Thailand and Italy.
This "is such a prestigious event.
The world will be watching is going to be we Our doors open to the eight of the world's best club teams, "statement of Cayetano.
"Rest assured that the government will throw its full support behind This exciting" endeavor.
The pagkakalagay sakto Cayetano on board because this is a big boost in the local organizing body according to Juico.
"And least we're now assured of government guarantee," Juico said, former PSC chairman and president of the Philippine amateur Track and Field Association.

"With the honorable Senator on board, we Can now run smoothly This World-Class tournament knowing that the government is behind the US.
This is Major boost in raising the profile of volleyball "in the Country.
Suzara confirmed the arrival of International volleyball Federation (FIVB) President Ary Graca along with other key officials of the World-governing volleyball body.
He "has told that he wants to meet Our newly-elected President," harvest Suzara, who is also a member of the Asian volleyball Confederation and the FIVB.
We "had a meeting in Japan two weeks August and he was very eager to go here to than the ordinary ones is going to meet the guest of honor" Our President.
Eight of the best club teams in the entire world will participate in the said tournament.



