Third regret

Hopefully, I became brave ipahayag my feelings.

Most of the patients regret why they have lost his strength that maiparating their feelings.
Many of them, do not have just to get angry, he is trying to hide their pangagalaiti, nagkakasya to hide it and keep it.
They even more than in a mistake than tumindig and fighting for their principle.
The reason, they follow "that we just go with the flow, so we should not be implicated".
"What tune, then, the sayaw" yaon!
But all of these, binabalisa by their conscience nagpatianod why they go with the flow and became an accomplice in the evil of others.

Always dumaraing, naninisi, complained and used to avoid.
Why is blaming the ipinagbili when the votes?
Why is it that when piled up complaining about the reckless throw garbage anywhere?
Someone who wants to do anything but does not want to interfere?
Wants change but not masimulan himself himself?
Like what is expected, accepted that they will just wait for the usual kaaba condition instead of the real maipahayag their feelings.

As a result, they had a malulubhang illness, who had a relationship with the worry, the kapaitan, and panggagalaiti that they do not makayang maibulalas.

Paala-hour: Even at work, in a relationship, or even kapartner in business, often quickly judge that we encourage our tongue than direct ipahayag what is bothering in our minds.
Immediately hurry as if escaping from something the situation in order not to be implicated.
We need to tindigan our true personality than are those who we do not want to.
Than remain suffering, waiting for a good opportunity, we should not let the moment that is not naipapahayag our love, care, and help because this is needed in good treated.
We should not magkubli and scared that we will be.
We need to learn how to be awake in our emotions and maipahayag when it is appropriate for greater help for a happy marriage.

What is the right, kimkimin and hide the feelings, or ipahayag this ease any lumiligalig in mind?



