BINYAGANG LAYKO... tagasunod by Christ: Reflection for the Feast of the Lord's Baptism year A - January 13, 2014

The year 2014, Year of Mga Layko or year of the Laity.
The "LAITY" is not the coming in the mass of the late!
The "laity" is not included in the appointed or inordenahan as minister like diakono, priests and bishops.
In other words, they are usually "baptism" that nakikibahagi in the mission of Christ!
Who should be binibinyagan?
A catholic old rich woman approached the priest and asked if it could baptism his pet dog.
The priest shouted that the said: "Woman, the baptism is given to the people and not just the animals!
It is not possible baptism the pet dog "you!
Answer of the old man: ", that is a waste magdodonate Father, I still have a million pesos for the church.
It is not that I'yan d, he will just go to church of Aglipay pabibinyagan! "Talikod together.
Panghabol and said the priest: "Woman, you may go back... is't you said that the dog Catholic" you!!!
What is the meaning of the baptism for our christians?
Although there is a big difference between the baptism that we received in his christening given to Jesus of Juan Bautista, we makakakitaan this of the same school.
The feast of the Pagbibinyag to Jesus, the so-called second Epipanya again because this is the story of Jesus introduced himself.
If he is stated in the first Epipanya, Him the tagapagligtas of the world in the second Epipanya, he introduced his "identity" as "that kinalulugdan Son of God" who joined in our humble condition.
This is the message of the feast now: First, Jesus that Son of God, that there is no sin, is united in our makasalan by accepting the baptism of Juan a baptism of remorse!
Second, in pagbibinyag of Jesus, he started the kanyang. mission outright pangangaral of domination of God.
And the third, he stated that he was the one who bugtong that is kinalulugdan Son of God.
What are pointing to us?
First, hopefully appreciate our baptism that we promised, he will turn its back from where the crime and are as the true Son of God the Father.
Second, was "isigaw" we we are Christians through a life that honor and there are aya.Ikatlo, we should make sure that all of the moment, we are always be kalugod-pleasure in front of God.
It is easy to become the people but it is hard to magpakatao.
We can say that it is easy to be Christians but it is hard to magpaka-Christians.
It is easy to because she just water in the head is needed.
It is hard because this means of paglimot himself and living like Jesus full of sacrifice and service to others.
Hopefully, not only until "baptismal ceritficate" our being Christians...
I hope that we will be true, the son of God, sister of Christ, that kinalulugdan of Father!



