Farewell in the Master August 19, 2016 This photo is the last time I saw coach Baby and his home in Manila.
My last words to him were the real simple: "Thank you for everything you DID for shoulder.
Love you always, coach Baby.
Take Good care and God bless. "-- Ricky Brown Bumuhos immediately the tributes, recognition and grief when the news that passed legendary coach Virgilio" Baby "Dalupan, 92, yesterday, Wednesday.
He is the Master and clay in the Philippine basketball.
Giniyahan of Dalupan the UE Red Warriors in the construction of the dynasty in UAAP - pricked the seven consecutive wins since 1965-1971.
There is no nakakapantay UAAP, the closest the non-peat of Ateneo last 2000 "s.
Included in the UE dynasty coach Baby then Sonny Jaworski.
After the UE, also minandunahan coach Baby the Blue Eagles in the back-to-back titles last "75-" 76.
He Giniyahan Crispa Redmanizers in some championship in MICAA and National Open, before entering the Danny Floro squad in the PBA.
Here, as the skills of Dalupan when the Crispa-Toyota rivalry.
Dalupan was the first Grand Slam coach of the PBA, were taken to the title the great Taste and Purefoods.
In total, 15 PBA titles, Dalupan that became the record for a long time and standards of coaches until now the basagin of Ginebra coach Tim Cone.
Tweets targeted by Cone (bahalasitulfo manilacone): "Heard cannot be just now about coach Baby's passing.
It so'm heartbroke.
We lost a truly Good even if the the greatest coach.
I will miss him terribly ".
Cone's put the tweets targeted the hashtag that number GOAT - Greatest of All time.
I will remember "What about coach Baby is how Far ahead of his time he was, what a wonderful Father he was to his daughters.

Number GOAT ", he said.
In 2003, who was Dalupan in Crispa-Toyota reunion game in Araneta that inorganisa of the PBA.
She did not naglalalabas lumabo because the eyes.
In his 92nd rather, birthday last year, hundreds of players, coaches, friends and fans attended when he launch his book.
Called by the PBA Commissioner Chito Narvasa, Dalupan as "Philippine basketball Hero" that his coach and mentor, and "Father of All" basketball coaches.
Imaginative "mentor, again artist with delicate teeth strokes molding obscure fellows into methodical, conspiring cage killers" the deskripsiyon to coach Baby.
All "throughout his career, he conducted himself with integrity, dignity, Class, decency and respect for others," part of the statement of Narvasa.
Yet "inspite of All his achievements the recognitions, the more remained incredibly humble.
He raised the prestige of a basketball coach so high that he inspired many others to follow in his footsteps ".
One of the players of coach Baby in Great Taste, the hot-shooting, Fil-Am Ricky Brown, one of the first posted on Facebook of pagsaludo in the former mentor.
"A TRUE iconic, Philippine basketball legend like no other US left it last evening.
Can you rest in peace talks now, Coach, "said the one called" The Quick "Brown Fox.
The remains of coach Baby is ilalagak at Ateneo College chapel located at the beginning this 4: 00 p.m.



