Jaclyn, real national actress Jackie Lou, it is annoying the kahusayan By Alwin Ignacio, October 9, 2016 was the last of my favorite "minor" actresses, a tie between the Vicky Gonzales Suzanne Suba.
Where are the reason why the two of them?
In imprint to me the cameo of Miss Suba in working Girls where She deli-vered kilometric lines in the Spanish and "the ngalngalan with Vilma Santos in Pahiram ng one morning.
, Miss Suzanne, in his appearances in Danny Zialcita classics.
, Miss Chanda Romero, there are emotional Connect and huge impact to me the role in working Girls and the success of Her character definition that "You have to be A Good person" First.
She was the best Mother of Eric in My Husband's Nut.
, Jackie Lou Blanco in My Only Love only, unintentionally kabugin Ate Shawie in the scene.
I will wait for her, especially in pinahanga Kita in Langit.
The Tumodo irritated with him, because I, the skill-skills in Destiny Rose.
Gladys, are from Si Gladys Reyes, short, sweet impactful but the roles in Magkakabaung and Barber's Tales.
And not because She made This Republic of ours proud because of Her Cannes Best Actress win care of Ma "Rosa, IT that it is imperative you, Ms. Jaclyn Jose in Macho Dancer, takaw temptation, ask Mo at the teacher, Sarungbanggi, even if the ghost In The City.
Icing on the cake that his Victory in Cannes.
Jaclyn Jose is really national actress of the Philippines.
Even if they are not belong and accepted as the last agreed Queens like of Nora Aunor, Sharon Cuneta, Judy Ann Santos, Vilma Santos and Maricel Soriano, we cannot ikaila that my will be paid tribute and awards is all actresses of note.
The de caliber woman who is really good.
All of them have beem bruised, intrigued, maligned, pounded, scarred, taunted but they remain beautiful inside and out.
Topping these A-list actresses, Ms. Hilda Colonel seemed closed.
Unforgettable him as Insiang where he is not nagpakabog in acting national treasure, Mona Lisa.
He could not believe the French peeps in Cannes that he singganda squatters living in the area.
He Nakakabighani as Anna in the coming of age of a love romantic classic of film masters Mike de Leon, the if to dream Ka't wake up.
Another artistic collaboration with the triumph Her mentor (Lino Brocka) the abuse of her and revenge in the bayagan in the original Angela Al.
He paglalambing with Director Danny Zialcita English, make a few speaking lines in how Kadalas Minsan.
Because, Her character owns a Hospital and fencing the recreational sport.
He fed the dust Bea Alonzo in The Mistress with This sweeping line, "you from my husband.
Tagalog "" to understand you.
Hilda Colonel seemed closed is indeed, Hilda Colonel seemed closed.
"Will not even to Rio Locsin, nothing else for me..." that is part of the awit of Hotdogs that Langit Na, a tribute to the unusual beauty of Miss Rio Locsin.
TRUE, She was once a bold starlet but in time, Locsin proved to everyone that he did not only the perennial sex kitten.
She Can Act.
She is again acting force you feel.
Because, it's always there is truth to the performance.
To millennials, you can watch the two throwback essential Movies of Miss Rio.
First, as a blind were in Manila By night aka City after Dark where, Ishmael Bernal his director.
In his story, "Oh no!", Director Ishma, before the many take, the number of instructions, the number of advice, there are many motivation ibibibigay so that you, me, as an actress, I absorb everything.
"Embarrassing because here, given that he gives to the suggestions and then you, you will be given" "that he wants.
That's why I tinatandaan "me, everything.
Then, I give my IT interpretation that according to the vision of Director Ishma.
It turns out that, take one is my scene with the "" him.
And one more, Haplos.
As Auring, Locsin was both child-like the womanly, innocent yet provocative, powerful yet Help needing the rescue.
Cherie, Diva of the local showbiz In All Her villain roles opposite the Megastar Sharon Cuneta, Cherie Gil showed it of the US on how to be glamorosang villain.
I have to give Her credit for being the reason why there is a Lavinia Arguelles Honor Rolls we every holiday season.
Cherie is the only ones with the gravitas to say the longer lines She IT meant that you know the enjoyed spewing with such vitriol.
Then, suddenly appeared at the cinemas in the movies he Sonata, like homage of Gil and of the director Peque Gallaga and Lore Reyes in the Maria Callas of This World.
Regina is going to be Cadena, again aging operation star WHO lost Her voice that resulted to the collapse of Her career, the demise of Her relationship with Her version of Aristotle Onnassis is the heartwarming She friendship has shared with a precocious provincial Boy, Cherie became the realization of a Diva on the verge of a nervous breakdown is how sweet, innocent, pure of a love redeemed Her and the Nick ot time.
She was the bewildred confused, damaged the destitute, All fire the ice, Thunder the lightning, hale the brimstone the Cherie DID give Her All, Her very essence to become the be Regina.
, Cherie Gil the "Diva" of Philippine showbusiness.



