Health Frontiers: Food in the high blood By George Nava-TRUE II SSeptember May 9, 2016 high blood pressure my mother.
Up to 230 / 110 when a checkup to the doctor.
What she can eat?
I hope you can give me a tips. - Honelen Enseñado Uvero.
When there is a high blood pressure, there is a need to the maintenance medicines for this and avoid complications.
Follow the follow the doctor to avoid the problem.
Aside from this, also needs to be a lifestyle to be their life is normal.
Here is the right thing to do: Eat a nutritious food.
Put the food of vegetables, fruits, Whole grains, chicken, fish and low-fat dairy foods.
Good for high blood imitate the potassium, which is why the monkey and eat a banana always.
Read the Food labels in delata to lessen the eating of saturated fat the trans fat.
Lessen the use of salt in food.
Limit the salt in 1,500 milligrams (of) every day if there is a high blood, there is the age of 51 and above or if there is a diabetes or chronic kidney disease.
Look at the delata and chocolate if there is a high salt.
The people who have no hypertension, it is of the 2,300 of salt per day.
To reduce when healthy.
Even 5 pounds (2.3 kilograms) is the only to lose, it is a big deal to health.
Do not always lying down.
Exercise and to remove the stress, the blood pressure and other sickness.
According to the US Department of Health and Human Services, good for the body, the 150 minutes per week of moderate aerobic activity, 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity, or the kombinasyon.
Know the doctor is the right exercise at the age of your health and for sure that it is in the body.
Lessen the alcohol.

Even if you are healthy, that the blood pressure of alcohol so take it slow in drinking.
In healthy people, is the only one drink, said that the woman and a man with age 65 and above.
Two drinks are allowed to 65-year-old man down.
The equivalent of one drink, 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of alcohol or 1.5 ounces of 80-proof liquor.
Do not manigarilyo.
The tabako destroying the veins and pinabibilis the pagtigas.
To stop yosi if you want to reach the life.

Lessen the stress.
Learn to take relax.
Sleep well and at the right time.
Buy blood pressure monitoring to know the blood pressure in the house and if it was working the medicine.
Don't change or gilan this without permission to the doctor.



