
Drinking alcohol in the Army: My personal experiences

In our soldiers, is very normal drinking of alcohol.
If you are not drinking, well, you!
I am one of the unusual doesn't like to drink.
Bakeeet?

I don't know really, I did not really like the drinking of a love of my father and his siblings to came from drinking.
It's a good thing that there is no maoy to them, or else, I really kamuhian the drinking bars.

Actually, I taste-sampled all sorts of nakakalasing drinks since last high-school.
I have already tasted the taste of others't different drinks of my neighbors like 'kuter', bahalina, lambanog, Datu, San Mig, Sioktong and many others.

I don't know why they are nasasarapan tomador in those then I really type the taste.
Oops, you might think that I just want to the expensive alcohol?
I also have already tasted like the Chivas Regal, Black Label and other't different champagne but really walastik Tsong.
Dehins type.
Grrr.
There's a Excuse!

Through the years of military service, the number of the reason why I didn't want to get drunk like the following:

The bad taste, it will be paid you!
Then, when you are drunk, sasakit the head of your future.
In short, paid to hurt your head!
Is that Fair?

I don't see anything, it seems that many 'sinasaniban' of the devil when drunk.
They will not makabasag on the plate when the mind is normal but become balasubas, it turns out the 'disease of the dog' and nanghihipo of the woman, maiingay, violent, and palaaway if he gets drunk.
I know a officials it became a macho dancer when the peg masipa of Red Horse!
It's embarrassing what?

Also andyan type of urinating on the pants, sinusukahan his own face and dinuduraan even the boss, and they're like sleeping beside the dogs beside-side.
Yuck noh?

Of course, don't forget that we're maoy nangangambisyong be Sylvester Stallone when drunk.
This type of nagkakasa-is and firing a gun to show that the pinakamatapang Rambo believes that the town.
I know in that kind of attitude, they are also on the 'talawan' and 'tagerger' in the real battle.
When you just chur jud!

Drinking alcohol Advantages the disadvantages:

Why are fond of or nakahiligan of many soldiers to drink alcohol?
Read on.

It is the tradition of being a soldier was drinking, especially in the occasion like rather, birthday, anniversary celebration, graduation, promotion and reception.
Actually, not running out of the reason for the soldiers to drink.

To allow the soldiers to be drinking, he is allocated pinakamadaling High morale of them, especially if they are good for a long time in the combat operations.

If they are given the chance to magkasayahan, forget their problems and the sadness of life far away from the family.
It also makasalamuha that they are not ashamed to you to lying though their leader because namula-from the cheek effect of Tanduay.
Then, multiplying the aspiring Michael Jackson or Frank Sinatra in the troops when they were drunk.

It, be careful unit Leaders in this aspect.
In the end, they are Commanders shall be liable if something bad happened because of getting drunk of other troops.

The problem with drinking, if not control of the good to drink.
Because there are people who nilalagay in the head the spirit of alcohol instead to do it in tyan palaman.

So, that instead of high morale is given, pain in the head the it if you have a case for you because of the horrible event that caused by drinking.
In short, sometimes, more the cause of this evil to the good.

For example, the shooting of a lasenggerong soldiers in Mindoro in the year 2000, the reason why this is pulled out the Army there and pyesta happy in the NPA, because of the vacant places.

This is that of a abusive soldiers to erase the puhunang sweat, sacrifices and the blood of a majority of the rational soldiers.
IT only takes a violent incident involving a soldier drunk, everything goes down the drain.

Knowing your Men

I can see that one of the positive due to the went to the drinking of the troops is to your personnel.

In the formal is the occasion where to worry about the soldiers are military protocols and military the Discipline, you do not simply maungkat their true behavior, especially if the always formal agreement.

Meanwhile, if you mapalagok of some glasses of alcohol the troops, it will appear that the katago-hide their talents, kagawian or behavior.

This is strong and was boat in kwentuhan.
Others are graduate of AIM (We do not want to flag down the Mike).
There is also different as if he spends his time solely on just pamumulutan.

I rarely see the troops that Silent type still get drunk it or not.
Most of them are like torong was able to get away from his cage.
We have become instant singer and the others were even more gustuhing emcee.
Will not be contribute becomes back-up dancer in the aspiring Elvis Presley!

Sometimes, what I want to when they shot the troops, they are open to express the concern and personal problems.
There is a nangungumpisal that are of a love of Life and I, it became brother Eddie.
The others, I do in other parties by aalburotong wife.
There are also others that you're resentful towards your colleagues or having a hard time in bringing other colleagues.

What we want most right in all this, it turns out the good idea how to improve our units.
They're hides the brilliant ideas but not to express if not heat the cheek.

Company policies

I do not want any drink, I can see the importance to go with the troops of the said drinking because I reason.
They know that I am not drinking and I just pinagbibigyan for them, they makasalamuha.
Of course, I pinagbibigyan they lumagok of one or two shot that he nagpapahilo to me a little.

We talk the policies to drink to prevent the problems that always-always happens.

Let there's a share some parts of the policies of drink (drinking alcohol) that we are fulfilling the 10th Scout Ranger Company on my leadership:

1\.
It is prohibited to drink when she was on duty and especially if with the alerted troops for the impending combat mission.
This is a big taboo for us.

2\.
If you will drink, you should have a valid reason.
Rather, birthday you?
Sometimes, even rather, birthday of my wife and said that the graduation of the youngest are the reason.
I just Pinagbibigyan not violate the rule number 1.

3\.
There is a designated NCO that he the leader in drinking.
Prohibited this secret tagayan to everywhere.
The "drinking NCO" supervise that he is the lasingan of his group.
He first would be liable if magkakagulo.
In short, Sarge the latest drunk.

4\.
It is prohibited to handle a gun in the drinking.
They should turn in supply in the gun when to drink.
The NCO would be liable and hard-headed to nagsusukbit or learned of the gun in the drinking.

5\.
It is prohibited to leave, the drinking session.
Fix the things like videoke and the plate and spoon used in pamumulutan.
Your pick up the clutter and used properly after the things and enjoy.
Alangan is more ipaglinis in the spread of the tomador.

Or-ha, it is just simple, our unit policies.
In my 2 Years A Commander, is going to be a incidents of mischievousness and captured violate the said policy here.

I am very proud that my responsible and they are respecting the NCOs (and feared) of their direct subordinates.

They know that discharge or be demote them if they are the crooks in drinking, especially on fire (regardless if fired in person or in the air).

In the end, it can be, we enjoy the drinking, especially to the soldiers in the frontlines.
Just put it in the right place.



