Criticized the secrecy of the Senate in the role of the US in Mamasapano -- PKP

In the information bureau Partido insist the Philippines February 25, 2015

Urged the Partido insist of the Philippines (PKP) the Filipino people who criticized the rules of the secrecy done by the Senate in relation to the pagkasangkot of the US in the operation in Mamasapano.

On the last day of the public hearing yesterday in the Senate, be exposed then in the testimony of PNP Director.
Getulio Napeñas confirmed the film is a big part of the military of the US in leadership, training, giving the equipment and execution of the police operation to kill Zulkifli Bin Hir (Marwan) in Mamasapano.
The military of the US was the one who gave the "packages of paniktik" about Marwan, said by Napenas.
Although the general insisted that it is not included in the aktwal police operation that the soldiers of the US, he is not opposed the statement of Senator Ralph Recto admitted that he is with the upisyal military of the US in their tactical command post in Shariff Aguak and he gave him during the actual match that caught on video from the drone that pinalipad in the area.

However, the deep's even in the issue is sinansala of the committee of the Senate, allegedly due to the implikasyong "federation and panseguridad".

The PKP tinutuligsa the rules of the secrecy of the Senate in the issue involving the military in the US.
They said that the "konsiderasyong in the implikasyong federation and panseguridad simpantay is not the issue of the national soberanya, especially in a situation that seems to be using the influence of the operation and pagmamando a foreign pwersang military in the local police and military or some of the units".

"The information revealed yesterday that deep the involvement of the military of the US in the operation in Mamasapano, who opposed to the initial statement of the upisyal of Foreign Affairs of Aquino 'syento porsyentong Filipinos' the operation, according to the PKP".
"When lying, Aquino has the and his upisyal to hide the involvement of the US".

"Mean the pagakakasangkot of the US in the operation in Mamasapano of serious violation of soberanya of the Philippines to others't other level, including the execution of operations paniktik and pagtugaygay, the flying a drone for paniniktik, the giving of training and equipment, meddling in the conduct and kumand in the operation and others," PKP added.
Also Binangit PKP the testimony of the local witness included in the kaswalti policemen are a soldier Caucasian.

Other letter of PKP urged the Filipino people to magprotesta against the planned ehersisyong recently concluded Balikatan in April 5-17 to serve as the military continues to interbensyong in the US in the Philippines and it will lead to more cases of meddling military and the violation of the Philippines soberanya like the involvement of the US in the operation in Mamasapano.

The annual ehersisyong "recently concluded Balikatan was none other than a the military for interbensyunismong of the US, according to the PKP".
The so-called will "in the operation was none other than pambabaluktot to imobilisa of the military of the US the AFP and PNP for the operation, just like the military operation in Mamasapano" last January 25.



