
Be careful with cancer TREATMENT scam

Tweets targeted

I received a tip from a trustworthy we source on a racket is a new syndicate operating here in the country.
This syndicate consists of a few corrupt individuals from China to those introducing themselves as an expert in treatment and treatment of people who are sick cancer.
And because of this in the Philippines that there is an accomplice awtomatik moving, of course, they also Filipinos others even get lisensiyadong the doctor.
The racket of the syndicate was tumambay in big hospital where there are rich patient sick cancer.
When they found the target victim, they are going to talk to him and with the help of the contacts they Filipinos who often travel in China, they are magpapakilala ekspertong oncologist or cancer treatment specialist from the said country.
And because of the coming from the sales Talk of fools that this is using the testimonial of some of the former, who will surely do you convince a so-called, they went to the country they are desperate patient there for the treatment of their illness.
The bitter gagastos here is that of the millions of the patients but when they, they did not have recovered.
Instead of the situation is becoming more severe than they, and if bad luck-unlucky, maybe body that they bring Reziell here.
In other words, it is clear that the racket is one of this syndicate that I heard, built a clinic a so-called those in Makati to be more like seem that their work.
Until now, there is still no cure for many types of cancer and this is the are taking advantage of this syndicate to make a profit and give false hope the suffering that the patient.
That is why I am calling on Health Secretary Enrique Ona and in the leadership of the Philippine Medical Association (PMA) and even in the National Bureau of Investigation and the Philippine National Police to investigate the kabulastugang of said syndicate of cancer treatment scam.
The people are waiting for your fast action!
Wait for it!



