Mercedes, superstar levels in Kuwait!
By Ruel Mendoza June 11, 2016 a famous TV star if they will be treated the indie Actress, Mercedes Cabral in the Middle East because of its pagbida in a Kuwaiti soap operation with the title of Saq Al-bambu (The Bamboo Stalk).
Nabighani to Mercedes the audience of the said soap operation in Kuwait because of his exotic beauty and the skills of her acting.
Many of the Kuwaiti the tweets targeted to praise they Cabral said soap in operation.
"Others will put the screenshots from a scene of the actress who made to them.
There is one who tweets targeted to hawig Cabral said the supermodel, Gigi Hadid.
Here are a few tweets: "The actress in playing in the maid Saq Al-bambu is Pretty.
I'm "crying.
"Absolutely loved" Her performance of today.
Yeah "looks just like the She" Gigi Hadid.
"With much respect to Kuwaiti actresses, have never been've full blown fight in My Life.
This woman is MARVELOUS "actor.
The "Saq Al-bambu (The Bamboo Stalk)," is a modern, Cinderella story. about Josephine, a Filipino maid working in Kuwait, WHO steals the heart of Rashid, the Son of Her employer.
According to the manager of Cabral, Shandii Bacolod, produced the "Saq Al Bamboo" of Sabbah Pictures and umeera in Al-Rai TV the MBC drama in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Dubai in the United Arab Emirates and other parts of the Middle East.

Aside from Mercedes Cabral, some of the Filipino actors who is part of the cast of the soap operation were Maria Isabel Lopez, Ana Abad Santos, Lou Veloso, Sue Prado, Lilia Cuntapay, the Rhen Escaño.
Others are the Kuwaiti actors.
She got, Mercedes for the soap operation due to the recommendation of the Filipino producer Sarah Pagcaliwagan-Brakensiek.
She was surprised the executives of the said soap operation because of the good feedback in the performance of this.
Posted on his Facebook assistant manager of Sabbah Pictures, Suzy Karajian because of the overwhelming Response netizens Mercedes.
"Everyone is talking about how amazing She... is a marvelous gift.
"Mercedes was so overwhelmed with how She appreciated was in another Country, She cried.
"When She DID the film" Rosita "in Denmark, the Danish people She thought was a Filipino WHO trained in acting in Denmark.
In some articles, She was even thought of going to a Danish-Filipino actor.
Now, many think She's A Kuwaiti actor in This "soap.



