The filipino NILILITO by PNoy

What is the reason of President Benigno Aquino III and he wants to in other places to commemorate the celebration of the People Power Revolution instead of the original place in EDSA?
Just going to do it in the area to be hit by typhoon Yolanda wherein thousand thousands have lost their lives and livelihood?
Stop by Pres.
Noynoy is saying that the reason is that he wants to be with the victims of the cruel nature because it is not true.
If they want to of Pres.
Aquino to spend time with them to show his sympathy, even in the past, I hope this almost nakababangon and not the most of them with the help of the foreigners and private people.
What are the help given by the government through the itinalagang trust of PNoy?
Oh'y most of them are really pinagkaperahan.
How so that the President and the asungot that they helped in the recovery of victims when there are still many until now the protesters because instead of help them, they became a victim.
There is nothing to be proud of the Aquino administration that have done in the Philippines.
Is wrong, they have been able to - the more suffering from his sickness of money to the poor and the rich, especially the members of the KKKK responsible for relatives, Kaibigan, Kabarilan Kaklase and.
Instead of progressing slowly, it would be buried into poverty in the country.
And to not finds, nililito PNoy to the Filipinos.
Just wait a moment.
PNoy is just not afraid to see each other in the "salubungan" personalities who starred of the important task in the People Power Revolution?
If it would be united to do the People Power and oust Noynoy.
Nothing is impossible in the time now.
That's why you should think of the president or even the nagngangatngat the ear to fix the management of the country.

Turns the new deputy chief of Manila Action the Special Assignment of Mayor Joseph Estrada, Senior Inspector Ness Vargas, a member of the Philippine National Police Academy 2005.
A big relief to Chief Inspector Bernabe Irinco the pagkakatalaga of Vargas to be a partner in the operation of the masses operation, Chief Inspector Manuel Laderas.
Last week, attacked by the masses the Rizal Avenue, Santa Cruz and Gonzalo Puyat in Quiapo where arrested the 16 sellers of sex toys.
What is worse, one of the arrested is the brother of the barangay chairman and want to aregluhin.
However, tablado was due to be given a lesson all to stop their things.



