Umbrella sibling

By Kevin Mark R. Gomez Ito my favorite quote last freshie me, that I was picked up in a GE subject in the first sem in UP.
You are not gano'n well-phrased, he did not even Witty, but it is easy to see and a recall for me.
In fact, this is the served as a battle I cry in my first month in the university.
So even if it seems that weak salaming pinakaiingatan treats of the Upper classmen in the freshie like me, I am not afraid tried many things.
A hardworking readings, too much obedient to the scheduled, act every recitation - in short, freshieng freshie.
But I got up to in this stereotype in the freshman; the more I don't want to also called "freshie" even if it is true.
The first sem't so I, I applied at a three org - a I do not love tinuluyan because the expenses for the application Process, a rare when I visit now even in the foothills of the Vinzons the hang, and one almost aparisyon that treats me as a result of being busy in my Kulê.
BS Org, I said I was a joke of the blockmates before.
At the same time that I first became a member of the Kulê enticed, because I am in style this far from the embedded pahayagang pangmag students who often press already of the school is the content.
I also want to the work is challenging and will eat long I Break between GE classes.

Three years have passed, this is the quote that tumatak in "counterfeiting money that I have read in the midst of the student council elections last February.
Like anything in the world, all will change.
Why not't is impossible to find your own angas and pagpapakahulugan in being a scholar of Bayan.
Not far from the time you will be included in the people who swore the Kulê itinatakwil because the pinakaiingatang "objectivity" and "" neutrality of the media.
In any way your tatahakin inside the university, is the only one of my advice, sibling: To open and widen your mind of all happening more than "kinagisnang on the surroundings.
Learn to magmasid, be sensitive and be critical - the identify the huwad in not, the sharp in acting sharp and the real in the pretending.
He had a broad UP, and maybe you are still nalulula in the entirety of this now, but let the world outside, where there is no space is the new knowledge and dangerous hoping for a real change.

Perhaps to the point that you'll be able to read this, you are ready to start and eager to enter your life UP.
I will also not be blamed if you nakabili of UP merchandise that ipinagsisigawan in this world from UP you.
Being freshie, it is time to make a mistake and learn, an opportunity to magpuna and magwasto.
You will also not forever will be freshman't sulitin, that's why the next month as one of the new child of Oblê.
And the arrival of the days of your choosing and decision, to be used in the same group.



