Bela, Camp wagi the heart By Jun Lalin insists August 11, 2016 a long time when there is nothing in the cast of the Probinsyano Bela Padilla, but what about the action-packed television series of ABS-CBN starring Coco Martin the had a conversation with him in the other one interview with him in a press conference of the movie Camp Sawi.
Feeling because of others, there is another reason the disappearance of Bela in the said series.
There is a tsika insecure to him because then that one of his companions in the Probinsyano.
"Actually, I'm so thankful that I am also a part of the Probinsyano.
"Tumatak is really" became the role that I got there, but I still have reached 29 weeks that the original really, 8 weeks there, I should just "Bela explained.
Should not talk about the disappearance of the Probinsyano "because for a long time now and he is now busy in the promo by Camp Sawi.
About heartaches even if the Camp Sawi, it can be said that it is not sawi Bela when it comes to lovelife.
Going stronger their relationship with the businessman / producer Neil Arce.
Camp wagi, ikanga!
One Neil in Producers of Camp Sawi and very supportive of this career of girlfriend.
It is good to Neil, even if he is also part of the showbiz world, he has never nagpaka-Stage boyfriend to Bela.
In presscon of Camp Sawi, when they are not entering the young man in the girlfriend.
Irene Villamor the director of Camp Sawi.
Not agreed that is new in the industry for a long time, Director Irene because he became assistant director of Miss.
Joyce Bernal.
Co-director of Antoinette Jadaone in flop agreed that relaks, IT's Just Pag-love.
If not really felt the relaks, IT's Just Pag-love, there is the Camp Sawi.
Aside from Bela, stars here, Arci Munoz, Andi Eigenmann, Yassi Pressman and Sam Milby.
Even before we know, Director Irene, who is also assistant director of Miss.
Joyce in Richard Gutierrez-KC Concepcion agreed that For The First time of yet which is filmed the scene in Santorini, Greece in 2008.
Happy, together with Director Irene.
We with him when we got the Schengen visa in the Greek Embassy.
That time, wore white President sleeve blouse and black pants that other knee, Director Irene.
The former, she was very similar to the other rising in the bus suddenly feasting-preach, that is why he is a matter of teasing that time that he was riding.
When he just laugh at a joke, and after that we apply a visa, he dederetso in EDSA and will increase in buses to preach.
When we saw each other in a press conference of Camp Sawi, embraced and we kinongratulate, Director Irene in Big Break given to him by the Viva Films.



