
Will hold the berdugong 80th IB in the crime in the Mindoreno!

HIGOM MARAGANG Lucio De Guzman Command- NPA-Mindoro January 15, 2012

The hand of the bloody regime Aquino and the people in the 80th IB, Phil Army of was they Guillermo Castillo, 46, in Sityo Tuguian, Barangay Tayamaan.
Mamburao, Occidental Mindoro last December 13, 2011.
Lapastangang done the crime of wearing bonnets, which the suspect in the inside of the house of the victim in front of his wife.
The murder was another case of ekstrahudisyal murders [extra Judicial killing or EJK] under the regime Aquino.
There is no other pointed out as the suspect but the operatives of the 80th IB, PA that some day when they noticed the presence of the paniniktik in their area before the crime happened.

This is a are desperate steps of the regime and his berdugong tentacles in the military to silence the citizens to be defending and fighting for their rights.
Guillermo, was active are lobbying for the kagalingan while the political prisoners who also active in a group of farmers who are fighting for their rights to the land.
Her sibling of Eulogio "Eli" Castillo, one of the Morong 43 imprisoned currently in Mamburao Provincial Jail in spite of the release of the other colleagues.
The Morong 43, health workers illegally arrested and dinetine last February 2010.
From the locked, Eli Castillo was his relatives in Mamburao became a target of the masinsing of surveillance of the military operatives.
The killing while launched a Peace Pilgrimage last December 13-15, 2011 in two provinces of Mindoro who attended by the others't other sectors in the entire island as part of the commemoration of international Sunday of human rights.
Strongly condemned the killing of LDGC- NPA Mindoro.
Guillermo, is the picture of a simple people that the only aim is to live with honor from his own efforts to work in order to pursue his family while are implementing his duty as a farmer.
The victims, like Guillermo should be ihanap of justice, similar to inihahanap of justice to the other victims of the violence of the state against his people.

The whole instated magpupursige hangggat we were not charged the suspect in the crime and in many cases of violation of human rights that until now has not been solved but rather nadaragdagan.
There is no other way so that justice but the actions of the victim and the relatives and the vast makipagkaisa citizens who are pushing the komprehensibong changes in our society.
It was proven by a long experience of people who only in rebolusyonaryong justice system only being gained through words of the Filipino masses, the true justice.
The hustisyang society will gain of the people at the bottom of the flag of demokratikong government Bayan who continue to pinupundar in the combined efforts of the wide citizens and the National Democratic Front [NDF], in the leadership of the Partido insist the Philippines-MLM and the armed forces that the New People's Army or NPA.

Long live the CPP-MLM in the 43 anniversary of this!

Long live the CPP-NPA-NDF!

Long live the rebolusyong Filipinos!



