Two weeks of politicians is

In the hot seat now, Land Transportation Franchising the Regulatory Board Chairman, Atty.
Winstons Ginez himself, because of the severe traffic in the past few days which in Metro Manila.
Various the criticism received by the LTFRB.
Even the should be together with this agency is also napakikinggan against the LTFRB.
There is no tired of answering Chairman Ginez himself in various blaming him.
It is difficult to really be forced to listen to the explanation for the critics, especially in situations where the LTFRB, heavy traffic and many are directly affected.
But force that we have to listen to the plan of the LTFRB and the answer of Chairman Ginez himself in the criticisms of him.
To fix the problem of traffic, not just one side is you should listen.
In the case of the and-apply of Permits for the cargo truck, we need to grant the request of all the stakeholders that the provisionary permit for the truck while they are waiting for their permits from the LTFRB.
It is not allowed to immediately stop the trip of the truck that was learned of all of it in the country.
The economy will be affected if we insist on the immediate implementation is asking for a time, Ginez himself.
The deadline of the application, in the Aug.
29 and afterwards, when there is no extension.
Strict when will implement the law - and will be penalized when the illegal vehicles and heavy out of line.
Consideration for of Chairman for the deadline until August 29 to not stop the movement of it and not be the cause of the downfall of the economy of the country.
It is not easy to the position of Ginez himself.
It is not a joke more than dalawampu't nine thousand as of the truck that was needed to apply for the permit legal makabiyahe.
A few years to manage the problem of the truck in our roads, what is the additional two week.
The said the few komentarista, will hurry.
The answer of Chairman - "we look for the right solution because isinasa for the sake of the LTFRB will take interest of all.
Sibol / Atty.
Ariel Enrile-Inton



