
The armed group in Sulu: Enemies or allies?
(Leadership Experience also a part 21)

If you do not naaral the true history of Sulu, you need to stay here for you to know the things that are not written in the books.

Sometimes complicated the fight here.
If you are a newbie, surely, you will be confused, especially if you are not given sufficient knowledge about the elements that should be content in the first paragraph of OPORD (military plan), the Situation.

What is now?
The letter S (Situation) in SMESC that acronym in 5 paragraphs plan of the military operations should be contains in two sub-paragraphs: A.
Enemy situation, and, B.
Friendly situation.

Not blaming but not detailed in the information that we get about this.
Going to combat Leaders, IT is now Our initiative to find out.
The problem is, if you are lacking in the initiative or the nalapitan, the wrong people.

The truth is, like the others't different places in the Muslim Mindanao, it can be seen when the armed group.

In the mixed communities, it's only natural that the Christians who aarmas traditional gotten himself towards enemies when the indigenous Muslim like in Basilan, Zamboanga, Sultan Kudarat and North Cotabato.

Why it's like that the situation, I iniimbita you read the history where the disagreement started.
Clue as!
Clue as!
Hmmm.
Isn't it the Christianized that the Bisaya were included in Mindanao when he was brought to the Espanyol kinalaban the Muslims there?

Armed groups

Not without my knowledge that many of the armed groups in the province of Sulu.
Both just this situation in my first field assignments in Sirawal in 1995, Central Mindanao last 1997 and in Basilan in 1998.

The difference in Sulu, the majority of the armed, the native Tausug.
Actually, they are also nagbabarilan, if there is a fight in the soil, in the gap in the family and especially in the field of politics.

The first one I nakasalamuhang armed men in Sulu, the ranks of the MNLF in Talipao that part of her welcoming to us when we entered the Bgy.
Mabahay and the Buhangin Puti since last SSeptember 16, 2000.

Interestingly, a number of identified and I can see the Armed groups have already redeploy the Light Reaction Battalion in Eastern Sulu.

After that he already the members of Jesus miracle Crusade in Talipao, we were in the town of Panglima Estino there to conduct a military operations.

Because of Labo-Labo to us who is an ally and who is the enemy of the armed seen in the community that our nadaraanan nirerequest, we always say that we have escorts armored vehicles similar to the church of Light armor Brigade.

For me, I am not confident that there are armed pasuot-wearing uniforms and kahalo of the nakatsinelas and Rain boots that we cannot.

Even pakaway-wave and smile, we do not he hopes to them because they can be to wasiwas niraratrat gun at the same time, of course.

Because there, I made an SOP standing the troops and being in the side of the truck so that they are ready to kumalabit and engaging if needed, according to our training to counter vehicular ambush.

I Minamarkahan map of the places that there is a presence of the armed groups like Kabuntakas, Danag, Libug-Kabaw, Tiptipon and Punay (Panglima Estino proper).
At first, I still be distinguish who 'Red Forces' (surely enemies), 'White Forces' (neutral or it is unlikely to the loyalty) and the 'Blue Forces' (loyal to the military).
It was difficult once to our situation and then you know that the opponent is surrounded by the time.

When we arrived in our staging area of Crossing Bgy Tiptipon, I talked to the people from 'INTEL community' with us about the armed group that our they pass by and in the peripheries of the new ao (Area of Operations).

I reported reflect on the map and I topped legend:

1\.
Mayor Tulawie Danag- 's Armed followers (friendly to military)

2\.
Kuhao- Councilor Midian (friendly but enemy of Tiptipon residents)

3\.
Libug Kabaw--CVO (Civilian Volunteers that friendly but questionable)

4\.
CVO Tiptipon- LED by Barangay Captain Gasman (friendly the loyal to military but archenemy of Midian's Group)

5\.
Punay (Panglima Estino proper) - Armed followers of Mayor 'Maas garlic' Estino, and a group of the MNLF led the cousin is also file Estino.

In those times, the 'natatakan' or known as Abu Sayyaf like Robot, Susukan, Dr Abu, Patta, Nadzmie Sabtullah and Radullan Sahiron a.k.a.
Commander cut, is highly-mobile in magugubat and mountainous area.

I did not maarok nauso that is why the culture of violence there.
Check if you are really in history, you found out that it is the mandirigmang Tausug.
In fact, they were successful in reinforce the relatives of Sulu Sultan from Borneo to call to help was in the Armed violence there.
That's why I gave him the Sabah to Sultan, isn't it?

During the time of Marcos, 'divide the conquer' done by the government here.
The government Inarmasan the so-called 'Magic 8' (MNLF Commanders) to fight the former colleagues.
Actually, they did Town mayors and there is still ranks as an official in the Special Protection Force (in short, Armed Group) that the M1 inarmasan garand rifles.
Mayor Maas Estino garlic is one of the original 'Magic 8' last 1970s.
Former Luuk Vice Mayor Marcial Navata Lahad herself to me by the information.

Because of the circumstances that yaon, accepted that almost all of the house, there are weapons.
Bakeeeet?
First, sign of masculinity now.
If the off groomed and a kris paastigan, now it is the caliber gun.
I see there a gun and ornaments.
The Higher the caliber gun and the MORE unique your gun, the MORE 'cool' you Are.
Second, it is not for the AFP is all of the Firearms that issue of SPF last 1970s.

So, people who used to be in the ranks of the SPF, pinamana in their children the issued Firearms in them.
The beauty, they have a sense of loyalty to the Army and they are still full.
It is also not that they Abu Sayyaf.
In fact, the household to me by the residents Punay is this:

"Sel, you have an ally.
We asset of Ramos (FVR) when he was still andito "assigned in Sulu.

On the other hand, the like Galib Andang a.k.a.
Robots and Commander cut the MNLF who kinalaban of the group of SPF.

By the Way, you know, they desire to my caliber.
556mm AUG Steyr that carbine length, and there is a secondary weapon that I have too much Old 100yr Barong in my hips and is that 'pispis' (anting-anting) in my head.
They saw a direct cool with things.

So, you saw?
It is not really the fight in Sulu.
You cannot she fought all.
You don't want to add the opponent.

If you are the Commander, solve your strategy, we can handle the armed group because you did not simply change the situation.

Maybe, if you can find a way how impluwensahan the armed group hug the peaceful way, excellent isn't it?



