
"Oplan WOLVERINE is Mission IMPOSSIBLE"

The people should be proud of the dedication of the deceased 44 Elite commando of the PNP-SAF.
In spite of the dangers, they did not go through inalintana'y that they are going to die because the prevail, their sworn duty.
"Oplan (Operation-Plan) Wolverine is a mission impossible," "of a retired PNP officials loyal to nakakwentuhan of Chokepoint.
And even if the well- equipped United states Seal forces are still were conducting an operation, it is sure that there will be a lot of casualty of them.
Because the Bgy.
Tukanalipao, Mamasapano, Maguindanao where hiding Zulkifli Bin Hir, alias Marwan, napakadelikadong place.
The "taguang" napalilibutan place of Marwan, the camp of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters.
"Extremely Dangerous" if he called the area Bgy.
Tukanalipao in Mamasapano, were scared after learning of the PNP-SAF forces.
This is the nagkakanlong terrorist wanted to know of the military, but they don't "malusob-lusob because the place is napakadelikado.
It is also aware of the PNP-SAF who Dangerous their the mission "but they don't think will happen, just to get Marwan.
Prevail, like, in the attack SAF commando, according to our spoke to a police official called the get dead or Alive Marwan.
Even if they'y nalagasan of the 44 members, the operation is considered by the SAF who "terror" "Victory, not only in the Philippines, but also in the whole world.
In any way, in the name of peace of the people, there is a need to lose Marwan in the world, strongly point of Police official.
International bomb be experts terrorist with a $5-million reward, Marwan is behind the word bombing, which caused the death of more than 200 people.
Risked their lives the SAF 44 ", but it is a hero because they'y of society in the whole world because they killed Marwan.
In the disappearance of Marwan, safe from the many lives in danger of her being internal terrorist, according to a police official.
In the middle of extreme sadness felt today by the public, hopefully serve as inspiration'y the "Fallen 44" at all.
We'y all Filipino, give peace talks a Chance.
Bong PADUA CHOKEPOINT /



