
The member of parliament for Kyela District has been suspended from leadership.
Godfrey Ngupala, The Citizen of Walid Jichunge.'
Kyela District member of parliament for Mbeya Town, Abdulla Saadala together with 19 members of the executive committee of that district, who was appointed to the leadership after he was accused of changing the party.
That step was taken a day before yesterday evening by the member of parliament of the Southern Highlands Region, under its chairperson, Doctor Stephen Munga and the coordinator of the region of Mbeya Region within 30 days while continuing with investigation.
The parliamentary coordinator of the region, Frank Nyabudenge told this newspaper yesterday that after being given the 17 allegations presented to them by the party members of the district, they discovered that seven allegations of them have the truth against those leaders therefore they completed the decision to greet them and urged them to return all assets of that party within 30 days.
"It is true yesterday (the day before yesterday) done in Kyela district and in our session with the executive committee of the district, they clarified that seven allegations are true and some of the suspects were not involved in the general elections of last year until when they were losing the region, especially the day to counting the total of votes.
"The day before yesterday's election, there are our youths who were arrested in breaking the office in Kyela District and was sentenced, but there is no leader at the council of Kyela and was sentenced, but there is no leader at the District Council who contested for him in prison until they go down in prison until they learn themselves.
He said that as a result of their meeting the day before yesterday, the delegates were not allowed to achieve the legal decision to take action against the regional leadership that decided to join the party to be under the province, while there is happening at the general meeting which will discuss details and see if they will be expelled from one or not.
Mwambungu when he was asked about being evicted, he admitted while insisting that the accusations made have no any truth about the constitution, and instead they have been made by "Nisubiri" by few people who are greedy for power, but he has not been impressed by the leadership because it is not constitutional.
He said, "first is the honor because this issue is constitutional but in the day before yesterday, some of the delegates did not be released since the parliament for Kyela District has 349 members of the general meeting, but the other day the delegates who attended to 120 shillings.
"That is why the leadership of the northern region is expected to take a general meeting that involved all the 49 members and that's when it was was known as a dismissal of the leadership or continuing with the leadership."
He said.
Mwambungu said among the 19 members of the district's performance committee, seven delegates decided to resign from the leadership and later they met with others who formed those allegations with the aim of bringing down the leadership as preparations for the election in 2020.
