
Mwinyi is a country not have faith that he left Mwalimu Nyerere.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.
While Tanzania today celebrating 17 years since the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi has said that he is worried about the current nation because it has no integrity, which will lead the Mwalimu Nyerere.

Mwinyi was handed over the presidential award from Mwalimu Nyerere in 1985, he said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was opening the Mwalimu Nyerere memorial debate and launched the Mwalimu Nyerere Day 'book' pacemaker 'to the Teacher Nyerere' book.
That debate has been made by the Institute of leadership in collaboration with the embassy of China and the institution for Friendship between Tanzania and China. Mwalimu Nyerere who died in Tanzania for approximately 24 years, died on October 14, 1999, at St Thomas Hospital in London City, where he was being treated for breast cancer.
He led Tanzania with great integrity, considering the basis of justice, unity, solidarity and fighting corruption, insisted to be independent and patriotism in the country.
"Normal work will be taken and they are continuing, but I don't have a lot even little like integrity, then I don't know who because the things are going on, it is a clear one that the country does not have integrity again.
"We were going as a vehicle that is taking over," explained Mwinyi and added that there is every reason to reflect on the situation is now compared to the one that was left by the father of the nation, 17 years since he was left.
He said that the position of talks in the debate will be able to sit on how to return the country on the railway which was left by Mwalimu Nyerere who is the founder of this nation in the foundation of leadership.
"We have the eyes of the eyes, but the one that he intends to make sure we can be the rich of the things or the rich of the heart?
In addition, Mwinyi said Mwalimu Nyerere started building the country on top foundations and that he did not want a lot to help other countries in Africa and especially the South African countries are annoyed so that all Africa can be free.
"These days there are transporting the road, they come from these children but we the elderly did not meet,?
Or we the elders that make the environment, why is the first they were not present where they come from where he asked again.
Mwinyi said that if the training of the police have been changed and when it comes from the police was a person who had citizens were waiting to be transferred to a different from now where citizens do not mention the police.
He added that it is also the right time to think about why the country together with its people have reached they are now because there is also a problem of racial discrimination on access to various jobs together with religious discrimination.
In addition, he said that if it is revealed that there are those things, they should not make sure that instead of getting a solution to the end of all the good time that was left by Mwalimu Nyerere in his activities of serving the country, its leadership and also Usia Nkhoma Ledama.
"The father of my nation was more than a leader, she was a brother, friend and someone who will sell my life and love me," said Mwinyi, one of the retired leaders feared, "said Mwinyi, one of the retired leaders feared," said Mwinyi.
"Mwalimu Nyerere (not pictured), ideas with his philosophy of living with us, therefore it is good for us to take them in the coming generations," said Professor Semboja.
Chief executive officer of Mwalimu Nyerere Institution, Joseph Butiku said Mwalimu Nyerere admitted the foundation of building a nation at the foundation of people with their behavior and not things like buildings, bridges and others.
He said that the debate was not ready to view Mwalimu Nyerere death but to view the primary issues to help the nation to move forward.
The secretary general of the institution for Friendship China and Tanzania, Joseph Kahama said various African countries have been implementing the constitution of their countries and leaders to increase the term of administration, but the country's constitutional process has dropped completely.
And Lucy Ngowi has said that the commission of human rights and good administration has said the construction of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere by considering the rule of law in the country.
The Deputy Chairperson of that commission, Iddi Matindealisema, he told the journalists in Dar es Salaam city yesterday that the commission is holding the thoughts of the father of the nation which was the basis of the establishment of the permanent commission of research, "we insisted on all the authorities depends on according to the country's law and by doing so we will also go the rights," said Matemu.
On the other side, Maphologela stated that the commission in collaboration with Mwalimu Nyerere Institute will celebrate 50 years on October 21, this year since the establishment of the permanent commission of investigation of complaints by citizens about the misuse of power.
He said that commemoration will take place in Karimjee in Dar es Salaam city where the minister of constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe will be the guest of honor.
His slogan is "administration and law is the main foundation of good administration."
"These commemorations will target to look for the experience that we got to learn from the success, shortage of challenges that arose in that period with the aim of looking at the situation is currently," said Matindealisema.
