Ukawa will fall down.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

Our Democratic Republic of our country is of what we did not believe in being given a chance to the thoughts of many of the party, this is its kind where a few do not be patient when it comes from a democratic elections and therefore the right to pass it?

One of the important foundation of democracy is to accept many thoughts and lack of evil deeds, it is not an important thing than any important thing of democracy is the administration of the law.

It is my understanding of democracy when you want to agree on the logic of the stand of the group known as the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) which decided to boycott the constitutional parliament last week.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has said that many members of the constitutional parliament and the foundation of their numbers are the victory that they got in the legal and democratic elections of Ukawa, he knew that and can't read the legality of the parliament now, after getting into parliament and started to participate because the water is successful.

Likewise, it is clear that UKAWA does not live in parliament, a constitution has the ability to change the sections of the draft if those changes are supported by many members of parliament.

However, it is an important thing that UKAWA did not want CCM to change those articles.

It is clear that CCM members have a legal action to change the sections of that draft that you know this, Zitto Kabwe wrote on his Facebook account of Facebook, "the discussion of one side can be legal (TPL Board) but they have no legal requirements (political parties)."

In that interview, Zitto Kabwe says there may be legal justification, on the other side is proud of doubt the legality of the political party even so, the legality of the political tensions if there is no heavy argument that is affecting them?

Basically, according to Ismail Jussa said three reasons for the decision by UKAWA which she released a decision of wisdom and wisdom is together with what he called CCM to overturn the draft of the citizens' constitution and to make that draft with an aim of protecting the authorities and corruption.

That the proposed constitution known by CCM is a draft to protect corruption, it's the opinion of UKAWA but if the law is supposed to change the sections of the draft if they saw it as a large number of delegates?

The second reason for UKAWA which is from parliament is Minister William Lukuvi to use the church to give birth to hatred and stop violence by going back to the decision by President Jakaya Kikwete, that they were prepared for the structure of the union of the third government, the army will take a power and that Zanzibar will make an American dollars against Christians.

Lukuvi said if he did so without doubt, he saw the system but Lukuvi is one of the many delegates of the constitutional parliament and not the chairperson or leader of that parliament and the authority that appointed the prime minister, otherwise, if every speech of incitement would be used to protect themselves, there is no activities that can continue ahead.

But Professor Ibrahim Lipumba who is suspected to say that he is not behind in political politics after completing the parliament, the video was put up on Facebook, the other side saw Professor Lipumba addressing Muslims.

The third reason for Ukawa to boycott the constitutional parliament is what they claim is to be debate of the constitutional parliament that has been sold at the platform of tribalism, hatred, discrimination, color, color, discrimination, color, color, discrimination.

As UKAWA which deals with discrimination, we believe that and when they get the platform, you should talk about Ukawa and not outside the meeting that they will do with CCM members in the constitutional parliament and not outside the meetings that they will do when they return their colleagues as well.

As a result of this environment, the debate on one side that will continue to parliament are legal, even if UKAWA continuing to boycott my opinion, the decision of UKAWA to boycott the parliament is not safe.

In the competitive politics, you can win or fail as UKAWA which they believe in three governments, there are some who believe in the two government or one and we are ready for all the three systems to be used because it's impossible for you to decide the position.
