Doctor Omar Ali Juma is true, he is honest and.
Jah 03 / 2014.

Today (July 2, this year) has gone up to 13 years since our country was approved by the Vice President, Doctor Omar Ali Juma, who died on suddenly in Dar es Salaam city after finishing his official responsibilities, that is normal in any community to be buried and satisfied with her fellow leader as he was satisfied by a big leader as he is not true.

Although he will not be very happy in the news of our politics of today, Doctor Omar Ali Juma was the leader to be responsible for example in a period that there has been a deficit of the leadership which she shown. According to the bereaved, she was a leader with showing the way, she was a human being infected.

In the speech he made during the funeral of the late Omar Ali Juma, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa, told him that the leader as a good friend, Doctor Omar Juma, had told him that the whole country speaking to citizens in their language, while on them and told them with transparency and government strategies in addressing the problem of poverty and destruction of the environment.

Explaining more about the biography of Doctor Omar Juma on the funeral, President Mkapa said, Doctor Omar Ali Juma was my best assistant in the area of poverty, environment, and education as well as all of us, therefore we should be successful for all of us to continue the war. "

In other things, Doctor Omar Juma who performed well as a human being and as a leader was together with being the real example of the nation of Tanzania that was founded by the founders of the nation, the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Mzee Abeid Aman Karume where he believed in the course and to respect each other person in our country.

And in this issue, President Mkapa has told him to be careful, the late Vice President of Zanzibar, Doctor Omar Juma was a resident of people, all the religious leaders, tribe, all the gender, all the gender, and even when there is a lot of politics to leave each other.

In the environment of our political politics that are being carried out by hatred, disputes, discrimination, skin disability, and even being affected by the grave of the late Omar Ali Juma, will be shivered by great disappointment in Pemba.

Doctor Omar said he hurts so much about the embezzlement of any kind, it was a good scholar but he did not run its own life as well as his citizens even in his home environment, he urged her family members to use public property, "said one member of parliament.

Doctor Omar Juma also believed in the union and he was ready to serve him without stealing the words, he believed that in the importance of leaders to respect the constitution and law of the country, he claimed that the importance of the leaders in Africa wants to change the constitution so that they can continue to rule.

There was a time there was a process of changing the constitution of Zanzibar in order to President Doctor Bashiru Rajab when he continued to rule. But Doctor Omar Juma was quoted saying about that issue by saying, "leaders must respect the constitution for your time, when you get better than waiting for him to witness.

He was a big person in the country but Doctor Juma did not depend on him and did not want to use his great opportunity in the government of small-scale farmers.

In the year 1999 and a period of election newspaper in the evening (in the picture), written the article that had criticized Doctor Juma and killing it where Doctor Juma had not supposed to vie for the presidency of Zanzibar for several reasons for several reasons.
