

By Victor Mkumbo, Geita Province.
We have been saying that we know what we are safe and there are no any killing that arise from citizens.
That can be true, but there are many sad events, for example the killings of the elderly, the disabled of skin disability (albino), can be eaten by evil deeds for subsistence, fishing, drawing water along the lake region for the use of home and disappear like so, the government has been unable to show any efforts to save the lives of those people.
In this article, we will not speak about events of the fishermen were eaten by a cry in the islands under the Lake Victoria in the provinces of Geita, Mwanza and Kagera.
In Isanzu village, Sengerema island in Mwanza province there is a lot of challenges that are facing the fishermen.
Up to now approximately 40 people have lost life by being eaten by a result of evil deeds, due to poor fishing tools, but also a dangerous environment that is along the Lake Region.
Also being satisfied by the Rubondo National Park after they were arrested in reserve areas especially the reserve areas where more than 30 fishermen are alleged to be removed by those officers.
Apart from that, more than 10 people have been left without their organs due to the bad state.
Magesa Moshi, a physically challenged person (he does not lie), he knows the challenges that she gets in his fishing function of using a canoe that is located in Kasese district, Geita County.
I don't have a donation from anyone, the man, a love, and I have decided to be a patient though I don't see you, "says Moshi.
He is saying he was born in 35 years ago in Kabuta village, in Nyansalwa Primary School in Geita district.
While being the first child in the family of Mzee Moshi Ignance Mchunga and that he has started that work with 28 years after his father died and therefore lack the direction on life.
"I used to be born with the whole time, I have found themselves I don't see when I was 13 years after suffering from the farm," says and added.
"When I start suffering from this disease, the Quran, my parents received and instead of taking them to the hospital they used the drug abuse, I believe I would like to see you, I believe that they could make me." He says.
He says that four out of her girls are also depending on him, therefore, it reaches a step even to desire to have died.
"I was very difficult, I would like to go back, because the father died, my son was born.
"I have never thought that one day I will be with a difficult life if I wrote them now because we were waiting for a father in everything," he says.
He is saying his father was affected by the best farmer, his death was a big blow since he was playing at the lake.
Speaking about events of preventing people and the way you have reduced, Moshi says it depends on directed by people that he has been accompanied by them because the situation is bad, every day they eat people.
He says he has been faced with different events of words, but he has not returned up to continue looking for money.
Moshi is saying that the events he heard of being on April 2013 on Sunday, with her younger wife and his uncle Arnold Pistorius after being attacked by the ferry that was not stable.
We were with a canoe that we were in the morning and three, if it is not ferry to see and stop what I would have died on that day with my colleagues that would like to go and sell it on water, "he says.
He mentions the second incident that it happened at the same time when he was scored, two months ago on the net.
"I was happy and you know that (now it is the late), together with my small, Magesa," it was on Friday at 8 o'clock at night in 2003, if we continue to arrest my joy by bad luck and a good way to take fish, "says Moshi.
He says in that age of that age, he has never seen to see your love before and after falling, and understand the behavior of those animals through a story of his fellow fishermen, therefore, requesting God to happen even one day when he found it in the field of tribalism.
