
Eating that is not fit for health problems - 1.
Food that someone can eat with certain results in the body that or can be positive or bad luck, the health even so, many diseases that are in line with the problem of vegetables is diabetes.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has said diabetes is one of the diseases that are leading in causing deaths in the world.
In its first report on the diabetes disease which was launched on April 7, 2016, WHO has said that the number of people living with diabetes has increased close to four times within the past 35 years since 2012, the disease has caused 15 times in the same year 2012, that disease has caused 15 times in the same year 2012, that disease has caused 15 times in the same year 2012, that disease has caused approximately 5 million shillings.
According to the reports of WHO, weight and taxed are similar to the big factors that increase the speed of the disease in the world.
On the other side, weight and sexually transmitted diseases have been caused by a large extent, "it is not supposed to do exercises or work from what is not easy and reduce the possibility of getting diabetes or drinking alcohol.
Eat with an amount of food food, sugar, and oil is causing someone to have weight and safe weight to an extent that situation is a loss of getting diabetes.
More than that, eating bad luck is together with someone receiving time to food that have been buried in the industries which many times do not affect the poor.
Those foods usually have sugar, salt and lot of food and eat with poison that are called "Fast food" is in mind that is not fit, you can destroy the diabetes disease with many foods that have a lot of water and many oil.
Drinking alcohol is not fit, together with lack of vegetables and fruits that are enough, fruits are a very good source of minerals, they believe, non-communicable diseases known as' Stephano Cosmas and chemicals known as' Stephano Kaombwe not known. "
All those things are available from fruits that help strengthen the body and reduce the possibility of someone to get diabetes.
Drinking alcohol is not fit, together with lack of vegetables and fruits that are enough, fruits are a very good source of minerals, they believe, lack of chemicals as known as' Stephano Cosmas and chemicals known as' what is not known. "
All these things are available from fruits we help in improving the body and reduce the possibility of someone to get diabetes disease.
Not getting enough water every day is among the behavior of eating or not fit, you are derailing the diabetes disease.
Drinking water every day, one hundred and a half or more than preventing diseases from the bladder due to a fact that it is divided into diseases.
More information on this page.
