A three ship arrived at the port of Dar es Salaam with the aim of giving training to the army officers of the citizens that complete their studies in the country, Japan.
These symptoms of the country for a period of the day, the commission came out tomorrow in the south of the training through Indian Ocean, as they share with the chest.
This is at the port of Dar es Salaam where three planes of war from the water force know.
Having one hundred thousand sailors in one hundred and six hundred and were received by the army officers of the water squad (UDOM).
While speaking at that event, the police commander of the squad have put an entrepreneur to forgive him.
He has said that during the five months, they have been doing training in ten and four countries which are available in the Indian Ocean when they start the south of living.
How was it?
To leave Japan live and David, we do not have for five months in the responsibility of today's responsibility which are available on Sunday and let us start using why it will be careful, even if it is far from the PR and Central Africa, who is the United Republic of Tanzania.
Almighty God have agreed with abusive language is one but the family.
Speaking on behalf of the Israeli soldiers, Colonel Othman, Mujuni, has said that at a large extent, they will be able to exchange experiences on whether they were seen to have the most progress in the fields of the army.
There is no one who is missing is to exchange ideas and exchange experiences and exchange.
That is something that to learn a must that you to learn on your side and the side of other people will start visiting the state house in Dar es Salaam.
And later, they will heading to the Dar es Salaam Provincial Commissioner to Didas Masaburi with the aim of exchange experiences together with the lower level of the port.
Well.
When I was told the third time is being arrogant.
With the aim of giving training to the officers that attracted a shot.
And our training is recognized as the confiscation of Dar es Salaam or look for a period of four days.
From the class seven port earlier today in his office, I know her.
Surprise for him.
