Do not learn business, thank you to attend a customer for discipline.

It has been written by I heard.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

The businessman of any level is forced to know that all the customer is the king, even if the purchase is only one hour.

Business network, Agricultural Development Company has said that without a customer there is no business, it has said that and explaining that the business person when he decided to use the products that he is producing himself, then he told the act that a business becomes a problem, because of taking their products and use, it does not allow them to pay.
According to the network, because the business is presented in the market it is unacceptable, the importance of the customer starts from there where to buy and pay for their products or services, it gives a customer to change their products or money services and products in the market.
"The customer has the right to refuse to buy products or your services and moving to another, also the customer has the ability to buy all products that are located in you and to pay cash money or even if you can be treated with discipline," the customer should be treated with discipline.
That discipline, according to the network, include you to listen to the customer when he arrived at the shop or from your products (market), to help him by giving advice about the products that he has bought how to use that product, if he will see that there is nothing to use that customer about the use when he bought it.
Another one is to help a client to interpret the instructions about the use of products that he bought, especially if you believe that they are supposed to give his client, an act of asking for him a good day, it is enough to confirm that the customer is the king.
Again, the network is insisted that, it is not only to prove that the customer is the king, but to show what should be done to make it a product or services from the market or a shop, "the player is supposed to do a product or services that he wants," he insisted.
Without being followed by one of the shop, a shop or the owner like to sell himself, because of being shown the products that are there, there are some business people who understand the issues that is supposed to clear his client, when it arrives at his business area.
In that meaning, Business Manager of Tanzania says that business people who receive their customers do not use or understand the real meaning of the saying "the customer is the king," they have lack discipline thus for a difficult time to withstand the business competition.
"The customers of various different products appears to be a few to one shop and another one, that is why they are crafty businessmen who want to know that the customer is King of looking for various ways of taking them and held it," he says.
In short, it was said that a person doesn't know the truth that the customer is the king, they do things that are not in business like to abiding to its customer, by getting married, to send their products instead of sending him and to get it well.
Other things, as the region would be mentioned by business experts in the lake region, tomorrow, tomorrow, the day after being unable to give him a device that he bought before.
Those are receiving a lot in our markets where you can be found a business person, that is selling them with an extent of protecting and even the price of products that she is self-now, here is a must we look at the price of wheat flour, then you are asked if you are asked?
And the business person who is looking for oil in the fuel station of dairy products, says that every time she has no 100 or 200 shillings to register themselves with the customer, he will sack him from a network that she will sack him from a business person who does not despise the customer who does not meet their lives in business.
To communication with our writer of this column, we have a short message of words through mobile phone of 752, 790, 90 by email support @ gmail.
