

And whoever doesn't be George, Dar es Salaam.
Menstrual blood is the circulation of every month which brings you with blood cells due to pregnancy not being supported.
Menstrual happens when there is an issue of the wall of the pregnancy that were destroyed due to blood cells.
Every month that is proud of the woman to be aired live on the attempt to sit for a period up to 36 hours inside Miraji's stomach, while the wall did not be addressed, a wall of maternal and blood poured.
Menstrual blood comes from being counted at the first day, when he started getting his days.
Now, when a woman knows in the circulation, should be careful so as to improve its health.
Because, the network of civil society institutions from Tanzania Water and Cultural Organization (TET) has decided to give education to school to teachers and female students on how to be forced to leave during pregnancy.
The goal is to make sure that the time you get in a service to be forced to come into a short period especially to girls that are in school is being viewed very closely.
The coordinator of cross-T, Emmanuel Jackson says she knows in the African continent for a very important thing that it did not hesitate to speak with people or even in public, the community has reduced to an extent that it cannot continue to address challenges that concern them.
Jackson says that the difficulty of being unable to address various challenges does not affect more than girls who are in school, this is because those challenges are committed in one way or another system to learn the environment is contributed by the environment together with infrastructure for school and systems in homes.
In order for female students to have better health, the schools are supposed to have friendly toilets for girls, part of considering it and clean water, a good procedure for cleaning and clean water, a good procedure of cleaning together with teachers.
"Without the availability of these equipment, including surgery for girls, the success of girls is not to be in doubt," says Jackson.
