
Mafikizolo have not qualified to inform Bongo, the fear of her dancers as he is willing to ask Diamond and lived for him.

The issue of witchcraft in pregnant women is the biggest issue that comes in the feelings of some people, especially pregnant when it is young, the fear now seems to have raised Bongo for a period so that pregnancy should not get married if it was for women, Wema Sepetu and Penzila Kaisi. "

'Jichunge.'
According to the great source which is a close person to Diamond's family, I have left Bongo just after going back to Zanzibar where they were able to eat acute in this season.
That source claimed that when the star whose residence is in South Africa and Uganda being Bongo, many words was stated by others who refused to vote for the people of the family urging them to abandon the habit of removing his pregnant because they do not know well.

Home for mother.
It was claimed that one of the people that were told that the issue had been told the issue so as to bring back one to anyone who was trying and downloading home to the mother Diamond "D '" Sanura Kassim "Masau boasted.
News claimed that, Zari got that those words decided to leave while Diamond broke the decision by his lover with a hundred percent.

There is growing fear.
"When he told Diamond that he is retiring from him from the fear of witchcraft, the relatives have supported and asked him to destroy the problem if those in Bongo are normal and they did not expect the pregnancy and it was not stolen without knowing the primary reasons.

"Truth I have written Bongo, after seeing people present, follow up every day, it is not know that Tanzanians don't accompany Diamond and they did not want it.
"People have been saying anything about his relationship with Diamond, especially during the period of Zanzibar, therefore, after going back to South Africa (South Africa), so he wants her to get her home to get married.
I think himself you know how self-known as Bongo since he will be Diamond, therefore every day he is doing, will see you receive the eyes and many of them did not live.

It depends on how Wema and then?
"Meaning, they are saying that he can't give birth to Diamond, to avoid the words that he decided to send him to make sure you get married and they should not be true and our brothers like the ones that came to Wema and Peng." Said our source.

'Jichunge.'
After being found, it is true "that our reporter told Diamond to prove that it's true that has contributed to anyone who has contributed to me, an issue that Diamond made him and said Mdudu '.
"You know that Tanzanians have a lot of words and sometimes we are forced to talk about the things that you have already done.
I don't have a child and I wish you very much one day to be with him so when I'm with a person she knows Yanga and an aim of giving me a child, I don't have to respect his decision.
"Truth I have left a few days after going back to Zanzibar, not you know that many things shall be done even if you want to leave it's difficult because they want someone to do faith and that is why they are unable to listen to them.
"I know what I believe is to God only in God, all that you said there is a day that will get answers because our Swahili does not know well, therefore we avoid using a lot of people that concern the ones that are not correct," said Diamond.
