
Claudio Ranieri's win the game of their championship in England.
Yesterday's game had done Leicester City as the new champions of English Premier League like Tottenham got scored by Chelsea at the Stamford Bridge field.
Leicester City club's goalkeeper, Kasibu, (right) carrying out the ball that was hit by the Manchester United mid-fielder, Mwate Maday (center) during the England Premier League game that took place at Old Trafford stadium in Manchester City the day before yesterday, those teams played with 1-1 goals.
London, England, Leicester's coach, Claudio Ranieri, did not look at yesterday's game with Tottenham, instead he was on the way from his home in Italy.
Leicester's famous as "Mboma," would send him yesterday to be the champions of English Premier League this season like Tottenham, they won the winners in the last game at the Stamford Bridge field.
"I would like to look at Tottenham, but I will be inside the plane on I am attending to Italy," said Claudio Ranieri, and added that my mother has 96 years now and I would like to eat with him a day when I will be the last person in England to know the results of the game. "
That coach of Italy has never played a big crown in his soccer life, but Leicester needs two points to win the championship after going into a draw of 1-1 against Manchester United on Sunday. However, Claudio Ranieri will win yesterday for the first time at Stamford Bridge since February 1990, they would win yesterday for the first time at Stamford Bridge since February 1990s.
"In my mind, Tottenham will win all the three matches the ones they are facing," said Rank you earlier yesterday. "Now my mind has gone into the game against Everton and we are supposed to continue fighting."
The defender Danny Simpson said the Leicester players will be keen to check if Spurs will lose their game starting yesterday.
"We will try to be together tomorrow (yesterday) and check the game to Spurs against Chelsea," he said and added, "we are supposed to see what will happen."
Benitez said he was forced to get points in the Sunday game against Man United at the Old Trafford stadium.
"We did not return to Old Trafford to take the championship, we went to show our level because we know the game will be difficult," said the coach.
This will be the first championship of the premier league in Leicester City, but also the first crown of Coach Claudio Ranieri's new life since he started that work.
