Deputy President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal has advised the African Community Community to check how Tanzania will help to ensure the students that complete the universities in those countries are getting employment through the strength and from information about the news.
Stakeholders of higher education stakeholders are meeting in Dar es Salaam to discuss how other youths in the country can get employment where the Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal was opening the first meeting of those stakeholders from African countries together with the country.
Just after opening the meeting, the Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal visited the various exhibition that was organized by various institutions of universities where he also got an opportunity to speak to journalists, our youth that complete the universities.
They can be able to be employed more.
Therefore, the youths that complete the universities are complete.
To have a place to go and meaning?
If you go in the industries and business, they know what can be found from human body and it will also gave a challenge to universities and they can look at the needs of the tomorrow it was not seen and you cannot know what is the needs.
It has also been said.
Business is not there.
That.
The second holiday is of Light between all other things, we will give you insights from cashews?
That job and issues of your brother to promote our economy.
We believe by doing so and to prevent it, we include the commission of our commission, I will take a chance to come.
In good relationship, we do not get into a good network for people to know.
But the difference of business people but the ones that do?
So, colleges can partner.
If he knows the products, Joachim said it is God to help as to be used in different countries following the challenges they have also wanted the union of business people and universities in the East African Community is making a step in some of the students of the university that makes these two universities.
There was a person who are in the East African Community is improving education in universities, are needed for efforts together for the new studios that are used by East African citizens, the Almighty God bless Tanzania to take a very high position in fulfilling our goals that we have held in Johannesburg and a bad thing.
