
Why should we expect to prevent a close eye for me.
The international company of transport that use modern technology, DPO is already in the city of Dar es Salaam.
Today we won last week and some of the residents of Dar es Salaam have already started using the use of transport especially in four the first four days of traveling free.
Different from other countries that the company has started providing services, the company has been received without restrictions in Tanzania.
Despite I am outside Dar es Salaam, I have not heard of seeing the complaints from one from the taxi drivers to fear of losing their employment as some of themselves in other cities like Nairobi, Kenya, and Johannesburg, South Africa.
For the benefits of my brothers from Mufindi and Ngara District, Ger is a company that use communication and communication technology (ICT) to ease the provision of transport services to the residents of big cities in the world. The company whose residence is cooperating with some of the business owners who are cooperating with some of the owners of low-related services.
Different from the taxi, that is used to be used is that the company has a special program of modern phones (IMEI) and the happiness that is loaded with the system of protecting the geographic division of showing the area (GS).
That can show a customer where he is to enable customers who will serve that program or through the android phone system and it will have an opportunity to convene the taxi service while they are continuing with their activities by using that program.
Drivers in partnership with that company, have been joined by their company's system of Dongo and Gogo, therefore it is easy to get a customer and many times the prices of services are usually set aside until now the company has more than nine years to give that service to more than 70 countries.
The previous price that was announced is that they will be collecting 466 shillings for different kilometers and the cost that can't be avoided, our fellows.
The arrival of the er er in the country is a good thing to show that we go with the speed of technology, the step that we shall reach from ICT is not to be taken to improve especially in availability of reliable internet services.
Many provinces in the country have a third generation network (3G) and some that started getting the speed of the fourth generation (4G).
Although the number of using the internet does not exceed 20 million shillings, but we reached it is the symptoms of open that if we will have creativity and good use of ICT by using our technology, no doubt that we will start of self-communicable diseases.
The coming of DPO is open in Tanzania on the map because it has been done closely with world due to the challenges of running the internet thus the drivers could be able to know the performance of that business so that they can be able to know the performance of the internet so that they can be able to know and benefit from customers and a big part of getting customers for the first time.
Few who contribute to business by providing phone communication is usually given customers who will send to them immediately.
Another thing that drivers have been facing him to deal with the trust of the customers, there have been information at different times of passengers being killed or stolen after one of his fellow drivers has reduced, but it is heading to how it's a new competition which will have the speed and efficiency in the moment.
This is bad and opportunity for my fellow brothers and those who are in the network may make sure that the business is because the business is currently facing a huge number of passengers at the port and the city center where a person has been banned.
This means that those outside the system will be able to have a stable system to announce their businesses and protect their customers' and to protect their customers' Siri ya Mtungi 'and it will give you a new system of better business to the drivers who have not allowed me.
According to my point of pain, but the companies that conduct partnership with the company to prepare themselves because history shows it has been faced with conflicts of their drivers due to payments of payments as it happened in France at the end of last year.
Changes are expensive and the increase in great use of technology in the provision of services is cost.
