
The citizens are inspiring.

It has been written by special writer, Nyasa.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.
Citizens living in Mozambique and Tanzania have requested the government to stop the sex business for children under the age of 18 at the Magogoni ferry.

They gave that request at a public meeting that took place in the border of Mozambique and Tanzania in Dononda village, Kitogo county that was attended by the leaders of Mozambique and Tanzania.
In that meeting, the head of Ruvuma province, Doctor Binilith Mahenge was the guest of honor to the parents that they will enable the government of both sides to control up to the boundary and to prevent people who sell their children under the sex of sex.
One man who introduced himself by one name Mohamed said they were like the parents see me for the children under 18 years doing sex work so that they can create life.
"These children were quoted where it was alleged that they are going to work in homes, so they are confirmed to do work in their homes, so they are confirmed to work in the bar and payment of food digestion," said the parent and added that the bar is paid between 20,000 and 50,000 shillings depending on the beauty of the girl.
Dar es Salaam, the city is believed due to the existence of a gold medal is praised to sex with Toto as part of entertainment after a heavy work.
Moreover, that business is done on the second side of the boundary where the small girls usually swell in the instructions that they are going to visit their brothers and it will end at least fifty years from 10 to 20.
For now gold is available in large numbers on the second side and involved the presence of four accidents used to look for gold while his miners live or TTS or Dar es Salaam.
Head of Ruvuma Region, Doctor Binilith Mahenge answering the issues he said business for transporting human being is against the law and that someone who will be arrested will be taken in court.
Moreover, he had banned the business for transporting the children who are self-employed in their entertainment centers so as to make sure that attraction to small businesses to achieve their businesses.
The leaders of Mozambique led by the Canadian ambassador in the country, Mrorgoro has promised citizens of Ruvuma province that they finish the business and return to children under 18 years who are being used in that business.
They said they will do every way to ensure those children want to be in school, it will be returned to Tanzania so that they can be able to participate in education, an issue that was supported by the head of armed forces.
