Drivers who were to be seen in DRC do not depend on.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

13 drivers of motorbike riders of Tanzania and Kenya that were kidnapped by the Sunni rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), before being carried out by the army of the government, have arrived in Kwelukilwa.

The Minister of Internal Affairs who is in charge of defense in the Manerumango village in Congo, Saleh Boncour, confirmed the drivers to arrive in that town being safe the day before yesterday.
He said just after arriving in that town, those drivers started to undergo a health investigation so as to see if they were affected by any problem due to the incident that was facing them by the rebels.
He said in that investigation, the drivers are not supposed to get any effects and explained that the following step is to also seek Immigration officers so as to help the farmers to return to Kenya.
Raging water was held in the NHO area, Kivu South, on Wednesday evening and the action of removing them due to the efforts of the army of the DRC government, which he said they were able to rise and give any cost.
Those drivers who were given out in the vehicle are being held hostage with other 15 citizens of DRC who have been redeemed by the return to their homes.
The minister confirmed that the rebel group of Islam are the one that involved in shambles were using the loopholes of existence of violence in those areas of Kvitova.
He said the army will help those rebels in a story that they sell while in the news agencies to continue with their businesses as usual and that what happened is same as an accident.
In another step, the head of government communication unit and the spokesperson of the ministry of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation, Mindi Kasiga as he was interviewed so that the drivers will arrive in the country, he said it is not yet known.
In addition to total of those drivers, the rebels are also that they were involved with 10 witch doctors, which is owned by the businessman of Tanzania Azim Dewji, and two are the business person from Kenya.
Those words of the Sunni rebels who wanted to be paid 50,000 American dollars (8 million shillings) for everyone to leave the event is the second in the past years where last year the Hehe from DRC but for the cooperation of those two governments were left free and return home at home.
