
I don't be responsible so as to deal with them.

The step of the national commission for peace and compatibility, Nicrox, and questioned the activist for Political Parties, Moses Sethole, due to a message that she's sworn in in the social network, has brought a lot of feelings among people.
On Monday, Nariadhara has been questioned for more than one hour for the activist because of his Facebook message, he wrote about the recent incident of a terrorist attack in the Gwao.
Some of the criminals have been supporting him, they feel that the commission is disrupting us while they had banned political leaders that are capable of continuing to promote the upbringing of hatred and hostility.
This is by considering that it's just a few days after Nronga group of C, questioned Kalunga because of his action of posting a journalist on the basis of his natural vegetation, apart from Kalege, there's no legal action taken against him.
However, that is not true because this is not the first time for Nronga group C joined people concerning any complaint, but it's important to hear anyone who was taken against them.
This situation have found guilty in some people, an amount of looking for doubt in the performance of Nronga group of C.
This is by considering that his skills in the year 2007 / 2008 that caused the blood of blood in the country, it contributed to the mix of evil deeds that will be discussed during the campaign in NC) have been questioning different people for short statements without taking any action.
Its results are that some of the people are using their freedom to explain and enjoying in social networks where they have continued to give birth to hatred in religious networks.
The recent cases of terror attacks have risen up to new hostility among the religious groups, especially Christians and Muslims and Hovind, but it is not a situation, it's not clear that he is not supposed to prevent the effects of hatred.
I'm in C and it does not have a good step to make sure that they improve the hostilities or religious leaders are presented to court where they are accused and taken action against them.
You shouldn't know how they missed him, "he wrote.
