
What are the decisions in EAC?

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

Government has assured the citizens that it will continue to respect the decision of legal sittings of the East African Community and participate in a discussion of starting a joint tourist visa in the community without being forced.

In addition, it has said that the issue of starting that exhibition is still in discussion of the country members through the sessions of the tourism and the wildlife.
The acting director of business, investment and the production of production of the ministry of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation, Bernard Haule said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam, while speaking about the process of starting that seminar.
"Last week some of the media and social media networks in the country and outside the country have written the report about Tanzania's resignation and holding the procedure of a union of tourism of the East African Community," said Haule and explained that it was not true.
He said in order to achieve the intention of launching a seminar, the general meeting of the ministers of natural resources and wildlife that took place on November first, 2008, made a work squad for the purpose of doing research with the aim of being able to be used by the legality of the country members on the purpose of starting that plan.
He said the research that was done in the year 2010, did not identify the important issues to be accountable before the introduction of that event, including formalizing unplanned settlements, members and the Department of Immigration to start a system of controlling security.
They also agreed that provision of a electronic system will be the presence of revenue collection and in the collection of revenue and how to pay.
They had agreed with the immigration officers in every office of the embassy and build the ability of the servants in the electronic system of delivery of a tourism visa.
He said due to the results of that research, the fifth meeting of the cabinet of tourism and wildlife and wildlife that took place on July 2013 in Bujumbura, Burundi together with other things that ordered the creation of a work squad that will involve the experts from different institutions.
