
Members of parliament did not lie in the legal law of the child.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The members of parliament have decided just after getting the bill of law of the laboratory authority of the chief chemist of the government of the year 2016, among other things, they will enable the laboratory to make sure that they involve the use of genes; including the legality of the child and the government to ensure it reaches enough budget so that the law to start working immediately.

When contributing to the bill the day before yesterday evening, the parliamentarians at different times said the bill has come at time and that will enable the chief chemist to work hard.
The member of parliament for Nzega, Hussein Bashe (CCM), contributing to the bill, he advised the chief chemist to be given time for five years to 10 so as to do his work hard.
"I request that the government's law will be used immediately after it started work, we have been used to here and we contribute to the law and the documents are going on and put up on the mockery," said Mayalla.
He also wanted the government to set aside budget because of the laboratory of the chief chemist and to pay science students who will be arriving at the purpose of training before they succeeded and added that the laboratory is an important area in the sector in the country.
Bunda Town member of parliament, Boniface Getenergy (CCM) wanted the laboratory of the chief chemist to be responsible for people who do not have the ability to pay for free tests for free.
The member of parliament from the council of representatives, JAyoub Nyenzi (CCM), said the chief chemist has a lot of responsibilities and a good thing that is supposed to be enough budget for the purpose of running its activities and buying work tools.
"The whole country this country has a machine to test human genes (which is only one of the machine is near seven million, I see now according to this law, the chief chemist will have the ability to work with freedom and success," he said.
He said that the number of 192 of the chief chemist is small, therefore they should be employed quickly so that at least they can also be 400 so as to enable the office of the chief chemist to work hard and easily.
In the opinion and advice of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Services and Social Development, about the bill of law of the laboratory authority of the chief chemist of government of the year 2016 that was presented by Faustine Ndugulile saying it just after being approved by the authority to be independent, so as to increase the machines and other activities to deal with the responsibility.
That committee also advised the government to ensure that it protects the regulations early so that the law can start working early, but it also wanted the government to ensure it gives a lot of employment for 100 servants so that the authority can have enough servants and those who are required to implement their responsibilities.
