
This Auditor General, Yanga is misery.
In Dar es Salaam, results of the match between Azam and Simba today they have a great opportunity to give Yanga the championship which yesterday it defeated Toto Africans of Mwanza 2-1 and needed only 9 points to win all matches, compared to Azam if it will win that match will win it up to 70 points.
After yesterday's victory, Yanga has a probability of attaining four points, having nine matches it played with this season, but it will have nine points only to take the championship early in the third season, if Simba will lead Azam today.
The auditor general will start to be played at that game that will take place at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, a match that needs a great keenness with the two teams, although on their part, the Wekundu wa Msimbazi attackers were able to get the attackers of Azam, John Bocco and Mudathir Yahya.
Statistical data, that team of Msimbazi Center is well against Azam since it has won a lot of matches when they met the two teams and their matches have participated in meeting for the first time in the year 2008 / 2009, where John Bocco will play against Simba 3 goals in the matches of different competitions.
And Kipre who is the Ivory Coast citizen, has already opened Simba four times in the match played for Azam against Simba and statistics between those teams show that since the year 2010 / 2011, 11 matches of Azam and Simba played 18 goals, while Azam was 15 goals.
The match between Simba and Azam has thrown out the luxurious hotel of the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam since in 11 matches where those teams have met since 2010 / 2011, while 10 matches played in the year 2011 / 2012, with 10 matches out of those teams played in the 11 matches, Simba emerged victorious with four times against Azam FC.
Today's game which is the 26th of those teams, Simba will fail to get his veteran mid-fielder Mwinyi Kazimoto who plays for a red card as Simba striker, Jackson Mayanja, said it's a blow after beating Azam FC's striker, Jackson Mayanja, who won the punishment for a red card and the defender Pascal Shelutete who is the injured.
Mwanza Yanga has scored Toto Africans of that town with a win of 2-1 at the CCM Stadium, Kirumba.
Toto was found to write a goal scored on the 39 minutes and William Maasais' before Amissi Tambwe has scored 19 goals same as Hamis Kiiza who scored his team, Yanga won the second goal and winning in the 77th minute.
The Manungu Stadium, Turiani Mtibwa Sugar defeated Mbeya City 2-0 at the Mkwakwani Stadium, Tanga, African Sports has defeated Coastal Union 1-0 against JKT Ruvu at the Mwadui stadium, Shinyanga, Mwadui against Stand United 2-1.
