
Sumaye, a man at the White House, when he arrived at the race, Lowassa promised to fight against him in the days of 100 days.

Yesterday was on the 26th of September where UKAWA continued with their campaign meetings to ask for consent to be elected by the citizens, yesterday was a turn for the residents of Hai District, where the former prime minister, Jacksom Mayanja continued with the work of dancing against CCM.

Sumaye was using yesterday's day to answer Doctor Magufuli who said that the research that was done by Twaweza in that show is leading by 65 percent, it has broken the victory.

Sumaye said Doctor Magufuli cannot get more than 40 percent of votes and that is why he has been meeting with his chairman President Jakaya Kikwete.

Speaking at the campaign meeting that took place in Rouge, Hai County, Sumaye said that Doctor Magufuli has been doing not to do not even his party and urged citizens to inspect Tanzania John Magufuli, while asking for citizens to choose him in the whole world with instead of selling them in the whole area.

"It's impossible for his bed sheets that is not the yes," said Sumaye and sees it with the citizens, "he said.

"We have forgotten that he told CCM, he says if he thank Tanzania of Magufuli," said Sumaye and added that Tanzania cannot be of Magufuli, but it is the meaning of all.

Sumaye said that the state of CCM is bad and that is the reason the citizens have gotten tired with the condition is bad.

"The citizens want to change, there is no war that will comes if they are the same dialect," said Sumaye.

Sumaye told the citizens of Rassemblement have said that many countries in the world are getting change by changing the system that is there, therefore citizens should not be afraid because CCM is not a mother, but it is a political party.

Lowassa has promised to sit down in state of 100 days.
While Sumaye saying that, the presidential candidate on the CCM ticket, Edward Lowassa promised to ensure he is fighting with the problem of bribery that has become a source of poverty in the country.

"100 days of parliament will enable you to build every district that will be" one, "you will go to the city for the non-governmental activities that will be one place, this will remove bureaucracy and bribery," said Lowassa.

While he seems to have seen him to win in the general elections, Lowasa said he will ensure he is leading the country on the basis of rights and equality while promising to use the Ukawa ticket to ensure he is fighting corruption.

He said for the first time in Tanzania the opposition will take over the country and he insisted that CCM must be with him in this year.

"CCM must leave each other this year, but I will leave me for your votes, therefore I urge you to be careful.

"Those who don't know my colleagues who tried to leave CCM, now they have started to accept my decision because CCM has not managed to lead the country, not to lead the country, it does not hesitate to lead the country, it is not very bad."

Lowassa continued to return his promise of free education starting from primary up to university, and also improve the life of contraception?

In that meeting, Lowassa asked the chairperson of parliament, Freeman Mbowe to continue according to him in the campaign so as to put effort in his team.

Lowassa said Mbowe can do his campaigns in Hai County and put a team that it will help him when he will be outside the constituency for campaigning for the presidential candidate.

Speaking at that meeting, Mbowe praised CCM saying that for now it has not seen because they are sick.

He said in this election they will not accept the votes while he requested the police to sit down in politics and to protect peace so that politicians to play their music themselves.

"Our police arrived in peace, we want CCM to play with them not to continue with any side," said Mbowe.
