
Europe clean more than to live.
Petit 30, 2016.

I see there have been a lot of words about contraception?
For now I do I will go just after time because of business then I'll go back home.
To say the truth of God, for the poor children like me in Europe is the best than Tanzania and here I will say I am talking to Europe if I was born with me, my old man I was born and on my right is my brother Le Pen.
Miigo, God asked me in mind the brain of class but due to poverty of the elders that were unable to continue with the university.
It happens when I went back and I went to there with two goals, I went to study and look for capital on the meaning of self-employed more, I have six houses and one of my house and one is in the elderly we have found themselves.
I have a grounds and a bullet in all times have had been having them today if they would have gone outside.
Also God bless us to help, I collect the money that I wanted to be self-employed.
I have been employed at the company to produce vehicles, there I was and African countries only.
It's not true that, the only entertainment from people who live outside they have at a birth day celebrations, that take place in the same level.
In Europe, there are different stadiums that are there and in the area, Tanzania is waiting for you so that what do we get in those small celebrations I think it is a situation to enjoy a meeting with others.
Also, it is not every person he likes to be on that gatherings of contraception?
The issue of that "Tanzanians' that are in abroad, do not agree with the very difficult life, we do not meet the best number of stem cells that are in Tanzania with the ability to get the internet that will enable them to say Tanzanians especially from Tanzania that do not even know the internet.
I, for now I have living in Tanzania and you are happy about the life of here because the abroad has helped me today and I did not need to go to each other.
Today when I get a disease that doesn't know what is understood here at home and I am happy that I have also taken to citizenship of there.
There is no human being to be of age, a white or a human being even if he is tired of the HIV virus, with hunger, the reason has no money to be cursed by Tanzania every sun will be used for millions of children and people in the sun are sleeping on hunger.
In Tanzania, our mother are forced to give birth while at the same time, integrity and nurses and our sister are in a hotel and even those who opened the mourners, are waiting so much compared to and who are presented to the government hospitals in the country.
Since I have lived in abroad, I have never witnessed electricity going off from water and they are usually happy for several hours or in a certain time, and that you are being given information that one hour until a period of water or electricity will be given.
I have never seen children who are walking together with mobile phone, that can be written on. I have never seen the child is unable to study or anyone has no money.
Lack of water depends on money but is growing very fast and if you want to cold drinks or fire every time there are there.
If you live in, I don't have a private car, though vehicles is a good price, everyone can have a very important thing to have the permits for enable you get a private car because the public transport is for entertainment.
Tanzanians who are in abroad are directed to work that will be done, same as me there in vehicles, I was not in work together, but the truth is that I was paid well.
Even if they sell the elders there is no one when getting out of four hundred thousand shillings for a long time, he has mentioned the least being beaten.
Something that for me was to pay the thoughts is that I have never been able to hear I'm in home, this situation is doing to care for money and work hard until I give my goals to return.
It is true that many immigrants (not only) are doing the work of the elderly, clean up and another like those, but it is true that there are many people who have their own work.
If you are a permanent secretary or a worker at the phone company here in Tanzania and another like those who follow me you are getting how many shillings for a month until you get the elderly and get four million dollars for a month?
These are the opinions of one of the contributes from the social network of Forums if it was defeated.
