
Monday, December 29, 2014.

Relationship between the mother and child care of children - 1.

In this period we are expecting to discuss various needs involved in the age of 20 years for several sections, therefore we do not affect the behavior of parents and how they are born until when we are marrying our children.

These are not several things, do not see a reader of the reader who loves you, "he said in reading this matter, you can't see you found guilty, even so, it's possible to be a loss of looking for relations with children.

Children are seen by the parents.

Research of parents's relationship and behavior of children have started to take place during the second time of the world, experts of upbringing and development of the child was looking for several years during the period of these children, because they were parents who even so they were not close to some time.

His results indicate that these children who had been killed by parents, the process of war started being seen to have several issues of several factors that were affected and so on, these problems are affected by the parents and the development of the child.

Later research were continuing to expand and investigate for other children who are being used by their parents because more than any other reasons like that and finally it started being open that small children used by their parents because any reason you have found themselves through big love of parents.

It was known that these children after he is tired of the behavior which didn't be able to bring back the mother they want, they started dealing with her biological mother and therefore he refused to deal with her biological mother and he refused to break her biological mother for the fear of being left.

There is a problem or one?

Therefore, it is clear that the first need and the foundation of the child since when she was born is the presence of my parents and all other people from here it started being open that so that the child can have good relations with its parents, because it needs a very close relationship with the parents since he is born.

In addition, it started coming out questions, but there is a must for a parent to make the child be safe and this is not true that the presence of a child is enough to know and to answer the needs of the child at a time when the child doesn't know the requirements of the child.

It should be remembered that this presence is still needed in the first half of the life of a child which is the one that is competing in conjunction with the shape of life of the child in future.

A parent as a foundation of the behavior of a child.

These researchers have reduced the results and effects of a conducive environment that contributed to the growth of the child is the ones that made them to build a great shape and the movements of the child as a result of his relationship with a parent and guardian.

In short, we can say two things by using the results of those research, the relationship between parents and the child is the one that decided to do a relationship with other people and the child is the ones that decided to know how this child has gone up to other people including her biological mother as he knows.

The second issue is a distance of a distance and the same time to get, that comes from the previous period of the child's life that would be able to build a strong problem if the child is doing so as to deal with a distance of an issue that was made by a parent.

By recognizing the results of many research that show the great opportunity of the mother and child in building a understanding of a child and the child's health, these articles will focus on how that relationship is affected by the first minute since he was born, up to three years.

It is continuing.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
