The Mayor Jerry Silaa and accountability.
December 17, 2014.

Let me start by giving my condolences to the floods which continues to cause huge effects in different areas at home.
Although the reports that are heard more about those floods is the situation as it is in Dar es Salaam city, reports show that the disaster continues to cause effects on various parts of our country.
Because the nation is still in a period of sadness, following several colleagues who have lost their lives arising from those floods, as well as thousands of their property, it can be no right time to start the end of last week it does not have a need to be present at the end of last week.

Last Saturday, there was a report that was accompanied by a group that shows his excellency mayor of Ilala Municipality, Jerry Silaa, when he arrived in Mwanza town on the party's activities that it should be remembered that the day was bad in Dar es Salaam due to the floods that was caused by the heavy rains that is continuing to show different places at home.

So as to create a correct series of events, I request I commend the concerned statement concerning that incident. Earlier, due to be surprised by the presence of Mayor Jerry Silaa in Mwanza city while his citizens were arrested by floods, I wrote pictures by instructions.
"The mayor of Ilala, Jerry Silaa in the party's activities in Mwanza town," and ask "Honorable I have a report of the floods in Dar es Salaam, then I wrote again," we are your leaders of Ilala Municipality, which is in the floods, the mayor of Ilala Jerry Silaa, is in Mwanza town. "

After a short time, Mayor Jerry Silaa answered, I saw him.
"I urge you to apologize if you will be able to be in Dar es Salaam to be affected by people living in the valleys" but I believe that, "I know that many leaders do not wait for people even when I know how many leaders do not want to inherit the audience.
I urge you to read it openly because I don't have a problem with Mayor Jerry Silaa, but for sure his statements that were filled with bad luck and not me alone, but we expect several issues in various social networks and also identified himself the statement of that leader of the Ilala Municipality.

However, together with the advice of many that even if he did not have bad intentions in those statements, maybe he has apologized to the Honorable that she didn't want that advice.
Normally, normal activities, the party activities that will serve the Mayor Jerry Silaa in Mwanza town were not with great weight in the floods in Dar es Salaam city where the Honorable Mayor was among the areas that were affected.
But wisdom which could be used after Honorable recognizing that the issue has caused an eruption of bad luck among the citizens, and they could not return to Dar es Salaam quickly to cooperate with my fellow citizens in this disaster "instead of switching off the rains in Dar es Salaam to capture heavy rains in Dar es Salaam.
