
Employees that believe that they have forgotten the responsibilities of their parties.
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania is one of the countries that are participating in the world's workers day with a group of youths who have not joined the workers' parties despite being at work.
During those commemorations, they are being held every year, it has been common to hear the workers of industries, institutions or different companies especially the private companies including claiming their rights.
Many do not end up or being stopped from work when they are going against the requirements of the industries, including refusing to move without following human rights.
Together with many challenges, still a large number of youths have not joined the workers' parties by not supposed to understand or not knowing his importance.
Some of the youths believe that the presence of a lot of law that involves itself from being independent lawyers, is enough to join us to get their rights including their employers.
While speaking to this newspaper, some of them are saying that there is no importance of joining those parties for any reason that have changed.
Employee of SB institution, Dar es Salaam city, says that he has never spread or wanted to know the importance of joining the workers' parties for not knowing its importance.
"I don't know what's meaning and even if I saw it, I don't know what I will do you assisted with what happens, I don't see the reason of losing my time on an issue that does not help them," he says.
Another youth, Eliuther Mwachibuzi, says that since he started working in the year 2011, I have never thought or see the ones that would be able to convince him to join any party.
I am very happy to rest at home during this important day for us, but it's not wearing a draw and go to the field, when I don't have any party that is affecting us, "he says.
In reality, the idea of having political parties during his promise to say that they should cooperate with the union of defending their interests, it started in America and later spread in the world.
The adviser and sports analyst in Mbeya Region, Rashid Chilumba says the awareness of youths to join those parties has been directed by many laws that concern them.
"These days the law is doing very big work, for example employment and public relations is giving rights of rights and responsibilities of employees and even the ability to open if the employee would leave everything against the law," said Chilumba.
He says many youths do not know the importance and history of political parties, something that made many people from him or think to join.
"It is possible, but the importance of her importance did not make sure, also improvements in law systems about the rights and responsibility of employers and employees have changed the position of political parties in fighting for the rights of employees," he says.
He says that what is happening at now many youths have been admitted to court and get their rights according to the law, an issue that completed the concept of having togetherness and by joining those parties.
The lecturer of Iringa University (UWAWa) who is an expert in matters of policy analysis, Jimy Sanga says that despite many not knowing his importance, employers have been blocking the existence of parties for employees in their work areas.
While on a tour to visit the industries in Dar es Salaam city, the minister of the office of the Prime Minister who deals with policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and disabled, Jenista Mhagama says it is important for employees to join parties so that they can defend their interests.
While at the Simba factory, Mhagama wants the employees of industries to give information to their employers who do not want to be made.
"Patron of your party will be able to discuss issues concerning them, a lot and does not have the authority to prevent the creation of a party that gives the interests of the workers," he says.
However, the secretary of the Association of Industry and Trade (SELF), branch of the modern music industry, Maneno has said despite many not knowing the importance of those parties, there are some who were blocked by some employers.
He says there are some areas that the branches of those parties are still not given a chance to meet and discuss their issues, due to the employers to prevent them.
Chairman of Fransico Kimotho, Mlimani City branch in Dar es Salaam, Juma Nasima says there is need for leaders to continue providing education to the youth so that they know the importance of joining the workers of workers.
He says that it does not understand that, many youths have found themselves in a difficult time when they were sacked from work and lack of money to pay lawyers when they open the case.
"Join the party it is a great loss when it involves violence to work, I think there is need to continue educating the youth to join these parties after losing time," he says.
The chief executive officer of the Ministry of Health and Social Security Fund (Wash your right), Kayumba has said they have been doing a tour to work areas, and wanted employers to ensure their employees are given a chance to form parties.
The process of starting the party's policy analysis, Sanga is successful in accordance with the employment and public relations officer of the year 2004, the party's workers can be launched by not less than 20 workers.
"If you see it is the importance of having a party in their area, the first thing is supposed to convene the session of starting the party, they will make sure to sign their contract to the register of attendance," he says.
They are required to have organized a briefing of the session by appointing the secretary who will be required to make that work and are supposed to ensure that party is not wise.
The association of workers is supposed to be signed within six months (6).
Starting from the date of its beginning, the request for the registration will be held for filling special forms which will be stopped and signed by the secretary of the session that started that party.
That form of request is supposed to be according to cut off confirmed to be given out of attendance and visas in the constitution and regulations, and to give them to the registrar of parties for workers and employers.
