We know that you have joined us because it is looking at the period of renovation, I woke up here on Friday from nine and a half hours until ten o'clock and at ten o'clock and very few hours until now, when I was born with excitement.
There was there inside the police force.
Right now.
And we want to continue to finish his life after retiring from especially on entrepreneurship it does not see but I remember that she is my friend for good team that we did a lot of things to the police force.
The late Adam and remember the commission put a lot of lot, we don't know your internet, the deceased, then it is very few days when that time you are still inside.
You can't see himself.
The history of our performance in the communication area in the police force.
Welcome to 10 o'clock.
Yes, what he said and as is it is.
Since the start of my work in the police force, I have been in a technical work.
The radio station.
In the department in the police force called at the time of Thereza it was known as pneumonia.
The case of the case.
But when I prepare to do and have changed now is called?
Because of the new technology that are information and communication and communication while we start we have said ICT but I think it has been saying this because I have done the technical work in the province of Dar es Salaam, is the headquarters under the department of Public Service unit.
That is in Kurasini where we were known as don't have been.
River State.
And there was a two years old, later I arrived at the military training and after completing the military training, he was forced to go to Shinyanga, I took one year when I was returned to Shinyanga province, while that is the beginning of the region.
I have done a good work when we saw in Dar es Salaam when I took the same day I worked as a normal officer until I heard of being the prime minister.
But as what he said that Superdoll has managed to come out due to the machines that had been placed in the special region that is known as you remember so much the two of the things that Superdoll has written.
He gets to put it because I was like an expert.
Later after that machines set up in Dar es Salaam when it was seen that there is no person who could go to work with me because I was lucky to get this education on technology.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, we should be among many my colleagues, I was one of the few who we are lucky so that I'll get in different countries.
One I went to read the areas of Japan.
And later I went to this president to read it.
Therefore, and the education was seen in the body.
Outside the African continent, but for some time now we know the Q Chief of the police force.
In a special region for the purpose of managing this new machine that had already been brought and covered by Jew.
After that, I thank you what is the two thousand year and eight is the headquarters to the headquarters.
Where now it is very close to coach Man because she gets the headquarters to be the head of the department.
It is normal.
Information officer from the police force.
We know that you have the message of us because it is looking at the period of Sunday starting from ten and a half hours until ten o'clock and half hours until ten o'clock and half hours to encourage the challenges in life.
