Four leaders have been sacked for corruption in Mwanza town.
Sei 22, 2016.

The symptoms of the council of Mwanza City have started being seen after the new director, Kiroboto has said that they started to deal with workers alleged to lack integrity by serving four work due to the allegations of bribery and lack of public funds.

The servants of that town who were faced with that punishment is officer of supply, Peter Manirabona, the coordinator of AIDS, Erena Stephen, the engineer of Majengo, Victor Ketance and the executive officer of the ward of the park, Barqat Mvungi.

In an interview with ZANU PF in the city the day before yesterday, Kibamba said that the step of moving the work of those workers is his first beginning to stop the council against corruption, he is alleged that there is no major servant in that council.

"Among those servants, there are some of those servants, there that I was suspended the work until their case run by the institution for preventing and fighting corruption in the court to begin and be questioned and given an opportunity to defending himself," he said.

The allegations are there.

The ward executive officer, Awadhi Haji is faced with allegations of embezzlement of 15 million shillings that were set aside for the construction of a total of four pit latrines in Nyansalwa Primary School, where it is alleged that the camp is only at a cost of 300,000 shillings.

On his part, the engineer of the Majengo Ward Freeman Mbowe is accused of asking for bribery of money from the owners of the several houses that aimed at having 60 points on the other side, and given a report and answers of those complaints to the head of Mwanza province, John Mongella.

The AIDS coordinator, Erena and Communications Officer, Manufacturing Company, are accused of embezzlement of seven million shillings out of 15 million shillings that were set aside for the purchase of mattresses for victims of the disease in Mwanza town.

"We are still continuing to take legal action against them against other servants who are involved with embezzlement of public funds in Mwanza City Council," insisted Kibamba.

The step of blocking the suspects have been added by encouraging the development of Mwanza town saying it has given a lesson to sending greetings to other servants who don't change the council of that city to be able to produce their personal interests.

However, the political leaders among them the mayor of the council of that town, James DeBarge, has congratulated the step by wanting the steering committee to continue supporting other servants who use power and misuse public property.

They have appealed to the land department and urban planning officers in Mwanza town of was opened for weight to them so as to identify themselves and make sure that the leaders of directing corruption, because they are the main cause of illegal land conflicts.

Acts of bribery and embezzlement of public property being done by servants who do not have problems from the district council committee (RCC) recently that they have been contributing to the council of Mwanza City to get documents due to inspection of being done by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).

They do not tire.

In another step, Kibamba, has pointed a finger to the workers and the business people concerning the government's income in the city saying those drugs are completely eradicated.

He has emphasized that acts of sabotaging the council's revenue from Mwanza City will be a chance in its leadership because he has organized himself to stop the act of the benefit of the nation in general.

Its follow up with the collection of revenue will be together to ensure that special electronic machines (EFDs) are used to universities for revenue from that council as it was directed by the government.

"These efforts will go hand in hand with the work of through and protecting the contracts of universities for the city's income, I have visited some of the sources and identify the presence of loopholes used in our income which we have to visit them completely," he said.

Areas that were set aside for that step is together with the hotel projects, affordable houses, clean water fees, different industries, different industries, entertainment centers, entertainment centers and public toilets in the city.

That challenge has been set aside after it was revealed that some of the city workers have been cooperating with big business people who are not supposed to destroy the government's revenue including giving excuses that I written by support instead of collecting rubbish.
