
Yanga have for four reasons against TP Mazembe.
The representatives of Tanzania in the African Confederation Cup, Yanga will have another examinations to face the representatives of DR Congo, TP Mazembe.
Yanga comes into that game of the group stage in a different position that plays for a different position that plays for a team, Yanga was defeated by 1-0 by MO Bejaia, Yanga was scored 1-0 by MO Bejaia while TP Mazembe scored 3-1 goals.
The Yanga game is taking place at the National Stadium tomorrow and followed by another game against the visitors of the African soccer competition, Medeama from Ghana.
TP Mazembe is not a team to assume and be from because football is wrong, but together with that there are four things that can help Yanga emerging victorious in that game.
The anger of Yanga will get in his game with TP Mazembe having the anger of Yanga's game against MO Bejaia, after losing the game it is clear that Yanga is in a difficult position since he would be able to give Yanga, TP Mazembe can be good.
In addition to being beaten in there, I believe that Yanga players will play with the anger of the goal, that it will not want to be like 'Tulo Sendo.
That each one if you see when you were seen, they did not eat the injury to show, to show that it was bad and it is the important thing and more is a victory.
Players will enter the National Stadium without fear, it is the stadium they used to be used, to know where he is explaining, where to get out, the goal to be in hunger.
Many times, the teams especially human beings will use the home ground fully and can destroy the home or get married or it will be must, if you go to them, it is up for every situation at home in all days not to be cleaned.
When we say when we see your important minutes for Yanga to win all the agriculture match, and in the 90th minute, it is supposed to be soon after the rains in the game, as it was in home ground, away to win as Majaliwa.
Weather condition as it was seen that it is not normal for the team to play at six o'clock at night, but it was in the match between Yanga and MO Bejaia and that is due to run away the weather state in this afternoon although we were told the night even though they were told the night he is also cold.
Basically, the weather in Dar es Salaam allows the players of Yanga to win because it's the ones that they used to. Yanga is supposed to participate in the end of the game.
There are other areas, weather condition is very disturbing as it is for many nations of the Arab Emirates at the moment or cold drinks, so many players are unable to run away because they are unable to run quickly.
Another big fans is to play in front of his fans' fans, they will give them support of fans who will fall in the field it is obvious that their strength continue cheering, it will give them an opportunity to continue with the opposition, but Yanga themselves are required to prepare themselves in the end of their players.
