
The fight for a political party in every corner, the business people have been found.
Whoever will speak to the citizens about the shortage of sugar that I had seen in the nation.
Dar es Salaam city, the fight between the sugar business people and the government has continued to avoid fire after the start of the whole country to identify those who depend on them and is expecting to prevent two business people for those allegations.
That step has come at a period of sugar if it seems that they are measurable.
The day before yesterday, President John Magufuli announced that he has directed to look for all business people who were renovated and they will not do business again in Tanzania, "explained that there are two business people in Dar es Salaam city, one that has bought Kilombero and leaving the factory.
Yesterday, in collaboration with the police force, they arrested the executive director of Al Shabab company, Colonel David Zacharia for allegations of maintaining more than 300,000 tons of sugar in Tabata and Mbagala, Draw, Dar es Salaam.
In Arusha City, the police force announced to arrest 45 tons of sugar in the business person known as Fem Dumu.
In Dar es Salaam, it said that the sugar of that businessman is claimed to have bought Kilombero Sugar Factory.
The report was released yesterday to the press and it has been explained that investigation on allegations of preventing the sugar imports in the country so as to cause a shortage in the market, is going on.
TAKUKURU has been explained that May 5, a team of investigation visited Tabata Kimanga area and noted that there is a lot of conspiracy for lack of sugar that is done by the businessman because even part of the sugar industry, already there are some signs of killing them there.
"The team reached Kitanzini ward where they found the presence of many citizens who had a lot of products, it's a few to be swept up again by a very little level more than their needs," says that report.
TAKUKURU explains that investigation has revealed that there is a great strategies that is being done by the businessman, by buying all the sugar of internal industries and then run away and they sell it at the average of 250 tons in a day.
Kongwa director, Valentino Mlowola said they are continuing with the investigation.
Arusha province, the police commander of the province, Charles Mkumbo, said that the operation that started yesterday due to the directive by President Magufuli made a arrest of the sugar of that businessman who stopped him on that he had an entrepreneur to go through the executives of the ward.
He said before the arrest, Ditopile, said that he reached an agreement with the Arusha District Commissioner, Fadhili Matina Nkurlu said that he reached an agreement with the Arusha District Commissioner, Fadhili Dononda.
The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Felix Ntibenda has warned all the business people that are selling more of 1,800 villages to be arrested.
The law is supposed to be known as a businessman who doesn't have a license to sell a certain products, who will be found used to produce a value of 1 million shillings which is needed by the public and causing a shortage that doesn't increase the shortage.
While doing the summary of his speech by the budget, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa confessed the existence of a shortage of sugar in the country, said that it is caused by local industries to stop the production for waiting for the season of natural resources and promised that the government will help 100,000 tons for the purpose of creating a shortage.
He said the availability of sugar in the country is 5000 tons which is 300,000 tons which had been directed by the government will eliminate the problem, while urging business people not to face those products.
JPM intervene in the scholars and analysis who spoke to our journalists said in a certain amount of sugar, it has been contributed by the statement of President Magufuli of preventing the importation of that product from outside the country, others saying it is due to non-compliance of the law.
It should be remembered that before February 18, President JPM agree with the purchase of sugar from outside the country without a special permit, "there was no enough problem and it was sold at a normal price," he is writing a system in social issues, Godlisen Maramia Officer in his document was sent on social media networks.
"But after the announcement of president, the problem was started there by sugar it started the lack and it started paying the price in which the statement by the president is the source of today buying sugar of 4000 shillings per liter.
Although, who says the intention of the president was good instead of its implementation, the government did not need to prevent the importation of sugar from outside because any changes in suddenly usually have the effects to the citizens.
"He then he didn't be able to prevent all the sugar of outside the country and he was supposed to allow a certain amount of cover them (to prevent a deficit), and remember it (needs) of sugar in the country is 420,000 tons but the production of local industries is 300,000 tons.
Furthermore, he said the second issue is the big business people to use a statement of preventing sugar from outside wanting the president because they have bought all involved in within and growing the reserve and said the third problem is the government to use their differences in that issue.
The lawyer from the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC), Harold Sakali in the picture, said that the nation is in the size of the law.
"In the previous ruling, we saw the laws that are used to protect the corruption, it reaches a place where the citizens did not have faith in our laws concerning the problems," he said.
"Now it has come from this President Magufuli when he is fighting with those involved, but he doesn't put up his laws but the ordinary citizens feel that he is doing a good work."
He said the procedure of President Magufuli has a great effects because the decision made you come from court.
"There is a lot of decisions that are taking place depending with the court and there are already been dismissed from example," the age of Magufuli, "said Sakali.
He advised the president to form the system of law so that his decision can be legal.
"He told them that the best charges should have the lawyers and good law as if we continue with the current system, we will not have a need to have parliament or court, we will continue to pay for compensation that has been forced to pay our money," he said.
The economist of the Institute of Research and Community (ESRF), Doctor Oswald Urassa said the issue of importation of sugar from outside the country is not the only solution to end the shortage.
"The sugar problem is big because every Tanzanian deserves, but the issue of importation and downloading to the citizens, is not a lasting solution.
"What is required is to put a permanent procedure for production of sugar, we will put our needs, then we are looking at the way to resolve the gap in sugar.
