

By our correspondent, Dar es Salaam.
Statistics show that stem cells are not supposed to borrow the bank despite the existence of that opportunity.
All of us know that bank is business people like the other they were selling and buying that money and those of their products that they are depending on.
Therefore, if it is a business people that they kill them is to get benefits as it is for others to give them the services that they get between the many other services present and therefore it must get benefits.
The biggest reason that is mentioned by people who don't like borrowing, the bank is that claims that their conditions are difficult, lack of property, great interests and a long distances to follow the procedures that will enable someone to meet the criteria for getting loans.
Others are saying that their businesses are not entrepreneurial, therefore, it is a big possibility of leaving, eventually fail to pay the debt.
He also said that the others have been unable to borrow without planning plans for the way to return - people they pay for, so as to solve the problems that are facing and not to promote their businesses.
By recognizing the importance of loans through Skype services, various mobile companies in the country have changed the way to lend their customers money through their mobile phones.
Tigo is among those companies, where it gives loans to its customers there and without restrictions, so that the project can be the user of Tigo Pesa.
The Head of Pesa service through Tigo Mobile Phone Company, Rwengenyeza, says that for the first time the service given by Tigo Pesa use the history of borrowing and which becomes open to any customer and leave other types in plenty.
There is no bail and was taken or taken because this service has been started so that it can be open and enable them as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well.
While explaining about the quality of services itself, Guninita said that Tigo does not make different meanings in food including the different cost of administration according to the length of living with a loan.
He gives an example the loan on the average of 10,000 shillings usually be dealt with within a short time and the money is put into the accounts of the party in a few minutes.
"Customers who haven't put the history of borrowing, can borrow the great amount of money and fees paid is small," loans are given directly using the phones, thus the customers can immediately use those funds to pay their money from thousands of agents who are in the country.
"Tigo does not have been involved in a way that gives the ability to be responsible, previously the system of phone that was used to test for a good end of loans and customers were able to have one loan on time.
