Media stations in the process of the new constitution.
May 08, 2014.

Here is a lot of continuing the debate that I started about the importance of the media in democracy, due to being evicted, I have come back again to continue such that I have promised there.
I am saying that in order to build a motion on the importance of the media in our democracy, it is a must to explain, though in short, the meaning of democracy when different experts understand and I have done this because the main aim of the process of the new constitution, which will continue with challenges of time, is to strengthen and grow the democracy of our country.
In the end of last week, I heard up by mentioning the reputation of democracy in general that it is the right of human rights to make sure that the rights of having parties and believe in their faith, including political rights and accountability in accordance with the rules and thoughts among the community.
I said, democracy, its laws, its laws, its institutions, its culture, and its policy, are not things that can fall down from another country like America being given many things about the importance of culture in democracy.
And that is why in our countries that were forced to follow democracy of many parties in the years of 1980, 90 percent have been run for many parties but there is there that there is a lot of conspiracy and there is a lot of conspiracy.
Instead of democracy will help to maintain the union and improve the lives of all citizens, its implementation will be hostile among the community and causing the increase of poverty, instead of politicians, and others have discovered the freedom to give birth to the issue and passersby visiting him.
A big reason - or then the explanations with the logic or why the situation has been right now that democracy, we had not been forced to do it, and I started making sure that what he wrote in the year 2011 with the scholars of the sun, Francis FGM?
Science experts of political parties have shown the truth that democracy is not an incident and it is not a incident and it is not the process that democracy has been growing at a long time because democracy has been growing at a difficult time because democracy have been growing up and then covered by the country when they finish up.
Experts of Political Science, including Halifa (in his release of the year 2001), Rwekaza Mukundala welcomed his album in the year 2001 (2001) and others know that which occurred in the process of reaching democracy when it is known as usual.
The first one is taking place (transition).
