What's the votes of no?
October 16, 2014.

Another offense that is going to be done by their opponents and other people who accepted the process of the new constitution to take place until the end is that they want to prepare a campaign to vote 'no. "
A few days will be announced on the date of opinion polls together with the question that will be required to relocate for that vote.
The task of those who want to vote 'no' it is difficult because people can think it is difficult because the first time is like the one that happened in the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the on the left wing, they had already killed and finally lead the whole debate of the new constitution.
We saw how CCM using the union of the union that gives the law on constitutional changes which made the environment of their constitution as the senior stakeholders of the debate of the new constitution.
We saw how the law wants CCM members to have a large number of more than 80 percent in the constitutional parliament, large numbers that made them to be the referees of who becomes the vice chairperson, who becomes the deputy chairperson, the chairpersons of various committees in the country.
The results of the repetition showed immediately and others warned about this issue and how the parliament is dominated by CCM against the opposition.
This is something that will be able to happen again before the opinion polls showed that already we know the position of the government and the CCM is what makes up the government and it is the importance of political guidelines in the country.
If CCM will decide - and I believe that I will be so - to put all your eggs in the referendum for yes, I don't know which it will be in which way with the vote 'no' they will be able to win.
President Jakaya Kikwete has been awarded the proposed constitution and used that opportunity to market that constitution without other people being given a chance even in a few minutes to oppose and therefore it would have been a match then other players are coming out and scored a first goal - and being counted!
It is clear that someone who has the interests (him) has been very big in this process is not CCM as a party but it is Kikwete like the president.
He has the desire to see that history will help me in releasing Tanzania a new constitution and therefore I don't see it is why he can live and recognize that his efforts have gone against no.
This is the biggest reason for us to make sure that he is used well to give the opponents the process when the process was completely eradicated.
We have witnessed some of the opponents who got into that agreement - that is not in accordance to implementing the opinion polls of the opinion, we saw them around them in the whole debate where he started his position as the president of managing that process.
This fact that you make him know that he is the chief stakeholder in the process and therefore as a result of his position leading the council of ministers where all his ministers were members of the constitutional parliament to see that the votes of 'yes' can be long again.
The second issue that will make the vote 'no' it's difficult to be the bad law that they did and which will be a trap in the opinion polls is the requirements that in order for the new constitution to have more than 50 percent of the voters of Zanzibar.
Currently the others want early as a good way to pass a new constitution because it should be remembered that the current constitution of the United Republic and the representatives council are needed two-thirds of the voters, it is equivalent to 66 percent and agree.
All of us know how it is hard to get 66 percent in Zanzibar because in history of 50 years ago, there is no party in Zanzibar which has ever won by a close percentage with those!
On the side of Tanzania Mainland, we know that the election of the year 2010, a big leader who succeeded to come with a new song, speed and new strength and who where they pass people, lots of noise since she lost her popularity.
When he entered the first time President Kikwete won by more than 80 percent of voters but the five years later, while his government was caused by different scandal, he found himself using a little of 60 percent (6266).
Now as a famous person like Kikwete with all the government, and from being carried out by different media, he could not reach 66 percent - this is together with those accusations of revealing it, then the new constitution will be able to at least 66 percent (two-thirds) of the voters of Zanzibar and the Mainland.
