
Magufuli has been informed with his good intention of eating cassavas is the head of Maseru.

Some of the scholars and politicians have warned President John Magufuli about his decision to oppose the donations with sharp teeth.

While putting the foundation stone on the construction of the first high road (flyover) which was built at the junction of Mandela and Nyerere roads, in the scene of the day before yesterday, President Magufuli called for the donations of "Masau boasted.

That is the first time for President Magufuli to talk about the donations and conditions since the non-governmental organization (MCC) in America, to stop a donation of 212,283 trillion shillings, that were used to increase the speed of electricity distribution.

MCC answered that donation, about the repeat election of Zanzibar, that took place on March 20, done by the Citizens Party (CUF).

Speaking about that statement, the Member of Parliament for Iringa town, Pastor Peter Msigwa said it is good for allowing Tanzania to be independent, but for now it has not been possible directly.

"I say it has said that, a good thing is good, we are supposed to learn to be independent, but for now we have no ability, we are supposed to prepare well," said Msigwa and added.

"Even the last budget we shall reduce dependence on several percent and even a child when she was born, there were a lot of carelessness that took place in the government, it should be dealt with."

He said despite supporting the concept of being independent, Msigwa warned the behavior of President Magufuli to sponsor public servants and people who are not guilty.

And the lecturer of science subjects of the University of Dar es Salaam, Richard Miles, said it is important for President Magufuli to be careful in the implementation of his statement.

"We have to be careful on how she knows his plans and how he does work with sponsors, it is clear that there are projects still continues and even if the minister was being funded by sponsors," said Msama.

He said apart from the road, there are many projects being funded by various countries including the electricity, thus it is needed to cater for the economy to promote the relationship.

On his part, the Professor of politics of the Iringa University, Gaudence Milanzi entertaining the concept of being independent, but he has agreed with the reason of America to cut the donation due to the controversy of the repeat election of Zanzibar.

He said the donations do not have problems because it can stimulate development, but the incident of Zanzibar has spoilt the picture of Tanzania.
