If you are.
Two doctor who a big one has said that a patient is a member of the special parliamentary seat through the whole education sector that could continue inside the special parliamentary parliament for the whole period to manage the interests of the country to go when I commend and when I met each other at school.
It is what I was known as summoning demons.
The issues of gender activities in the university.
Makerere University at that time we were the university.
The University of Dar es Salaam.
I was the first secretary of the first gender committee just and we have done much more in that process to ensure that they are able to make sure.
The University of higher education is to help the Tanzanians of women and women at the same time, it was a shame to go to the bank that was known as usual when you see you as the head of the university to make sure that when they see girls and boys who think it are ongoing.
Therefore, that is one of the same but second depends on.
Why in that college, I would like to read it is the guardian of the youth of students because she knows the matron.
The club called Flightlink Mister.
But likewise, it is a foolish reason why Simba's agenda which are studying for that students will be able to improve the student's student.
It is to say that I have been advised to try from that because I would like I said because I explained to give birth to the youth that at the time I was a stakeholder in the whole issue of women but as well as youths but in implementing those they have been forced.
More than the city has helped women.
Because of that?
You cannot prevent it?
It is a must he started in the country.
For you to see that you want to be similar to them, in higher education, while looking at down here, I am even a doctorate degree I did.
Sure of the life of children and a culture of these people I don't know what?
It's a old man was called when even before the same type it has risen up until the same time has emerged as the same time has emerged just because of the primary reasons in order to enable someone to be in the community to study and from.
From the reason, when that time was the agenda that fell on you and it was still being discussed if they were found to be discussed.
As a stakeholder in education institutions.
Moreover, I was known as important in the size of the gender issues.
I was known as all the size of the children.
It is not known that I am a great acting director for those elders even when I see you know we are witches in Shinyanga province, what I have done here is the areas for my research that I have done here, then I was coming here to discuss my work I have left me.
The chairperson of the party.
