
It is not bad in the education of the child.
"In the same time we met with drinking alcohol to school, our parents were looking for maize and sugar for now, man is not supposed to contribute to them, the president he has said for free education, the government can't know."
Today my topic is focused on this quote of a student that I worked with him recently in Dodoma province.
If we need development to stop educating our people and the process of educating people has the cost, from the parents to the government.
However, the great cost of upbringing and education of a child was carrying a parent of bringing up food, her health care and other services.
The mother can't affect the cost of preventing and educating your child, because the cost of ignorance is more than encouraging.
We thank President John Magufuli by reducing the burden on parents, by removing the fees of the school.
Remember that education is a important gift to forward our country and be understand that in order for the country's economy to continue we need to have lot of skills, knowledge, creativity, expertise, expertise, expertise, expertise, expertise and ability to work hard.
By bad luck, some of the parents have decided to eliminate the cost of getting their children on the excuse of free education.
The food program, cleanliness, the training tour and games to students have died and are continuing to go to school since free education will not be said, the parents believe that the government will do everything to their children.
We don't know themselves because if you want your child to be reached in life, do hard work in life and sell and educating them.
The decision by the president brings relief to parents not to pay fees and small contributions without productivity, not to eliminate the responsibility and responsibility of the parents to strengthen their child.
I have written there behind that it is important to know where we live in that era, it is not every time is compatible with free of free and we must know the system of life we have in order to help them to help them to prepare themselves in the system.
Most of them are saying that for free education it possible for Nyerere, it is true that the Teacher Julius Nyerere's system of running the country and the economy was socialism.
The government placed a high level of production of wealth, and the economy of the country also involved the government and the foundations of socialism is equity, and the rights for all.
That is the meaning of socialism and all the ways of industries, the bank, school, and all institutions that were government's property, even the best schools that were given to the government.
We did not know that we are fighting to educate our children the private schools as it is now, though private schools were there like religious schools and other organizations, but people did not see the need to prevent each other at the public schools.
On the foundation of equality and the right, we saw the child of the prime minister admitted at one of the child as well as Msukuma, a resident of the Central Bank that was not allowed in school with the defender of the deputy minister and the one of the minister and the head of the minister.
Socialism has urged them to work and all people did work, again with great efforts, everyone had a farm or office.
There was no youths of Diplomacy, who are complaining of marijuana or playing pool and complaining of working together with teachers who were suspended with sharp teeth.
It is clear that the current system of running the country is not intelligent.
High risks of the economy is the main way to be owned by private individuals, the economy of the country becomes the building, competition and the local market to take advantage of the opportunity and the ability to suck farmers.
Today there are few people who have found the country's economy to look for every sector from industries to the bank, all phone companies, all of them are private.
However, the best education has been given to private schools and the leaders feared to get free education, their children are in private schools, while paying the millions of fees and various donations.
Narok said the competition is not for free and that is why even the education policy of 2014 doesn't state free "but it says education will be provided" without fees, "you're getting free or anything.
The system of running the country to allow competition and freedom to choose where to get the services you want, that is why our leaders have left schools that they do and take their children outside the country or private schools.
Whoever doesn't know the system that allow you to look for quality anywhere in accordance with your ability, it is looking for better education not a cost of cost.
I agree with President Magufuli to eliminate the fees so as to give their parents not but I don't agree with the parents who make sure that the president have violated the responsibility of educating their children.
The cost are continuing to do the ones that do not avoid the ignorance of the ignorance of a person.
Why should it be that, parents contribute to the education of their children, what is the benefits of parents to contribute to their wedding, in eternal peace and contributing to the wealth of the child that wins with hunger?
It is easy to contribute to the torch races and various concerts that are in churches, in danger of contributing to the books' books!
Our colleagues in Europe and elsewhere did not visit the night they were able to look for a new way to ease life.
They are going to every corner of the world, they will reach each person and he sees himself and he has the opportunity.
They are going to the areas that do not have people, they want to get economic and knowledge opportunities so as to buy the world.
Now, there is the discovery of every kind of technology which eases life, they think that they think so much and to work hard, why we see it is difficult for the education to improve education so that we can get the ignorance about.
There's no better way in development, we need to work together and we are in the education of our children, otherwise we will face where we are and being the ones for the development of others.
