
The beer company educating the drinking alcohol.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The TBL Group Company has given its intention of continuing to provide the clean drinking education to various community groups in the country, the aim being to evade the effects that are contributed by the use of cold drinks.

The company's delegation has come at the country during the commemoration of 'go safely on road week, while the company is one of the stakeholders in running the road safety campaign, a place of work and in the community as a whole.
The Executive Director of TBL Group, Roberto Jarrin, said the education of the drinking alcohol is also one of the resolutions taken by the beer companies and other jobs related to 76 countries in the world in the commemoration of the World Habitat Day which was celebrated recently.
He said the companies have decided to cooperate with the government and non-governmental organizations, its employees and customers who use drinks so as to make the campaign on the drinking alcohol.
"We are social media and other alcohol drinks, our responsibility is also to educate our customers and use the old life in health and not by bringing effects including failing to participate in the production activities because of drinking alcohol," said Jarrin.
The Director of TBL Group training, Gasper Tesha said the company has been giving its training to its employees and various community groups and it continues to reach many citizens through a seminar, media houses and posters have been distributed by the company in areas with gatherings of people and areas of selling drinks.
He said one of the goals of a company is to encourage the drinking alcohol intake and making sure the community is not beneficial to the use of alcohol drinks, but users are supposed to get an amount to enjoying in their health.
He added that there is still a community that use natural gas and safe water, events like road accidents can be reduced, because the statistics show that drinking alcohol is one of the sources of many road accidents in the country.
