Even a place is called and when you're close to it is recently.
Thank you?
Why should soon start?
Or at a short time you like the desire to ask I will not mention you even blood cells and do not be for two hundred and ten thousand shillings called youths being forced to pay after finishing.
It has a prey in the mouth.
All the preparations have.
I don't read the grave of your nation, I don't know if you are just that is why I have started with his certificate.
It is talking.
That we must take this step in our community, this will be a non-governmental position resulted to each other campaign including the current, which it has carrying a one that has, it has shown that in running, I am young people with the best youth.
Therefore, the institution has focused itself in the education sector and health especially in the youth.
Therefore, when you are saying that education together with the health, the preparations will bring health education and health or education is possible to be released, but together with health.
When you come up to now, I have continued to improve health education on her health and also on the other side, we are related to helping those children who are in schools that are going to Christianity between them.
To recognize that I went on yesterday where he wants to open him, that is when he was given, he urged them as he was born with a big person.
Therefore, your right is your one with him and they have said that you are going to look at that case.
In religion and other students who have never been major people economically or female students, but where at the end of the day you come out, they believe that inside the primary, you can say that inside the foundation it is very important because others know what we are with.
It was found.
For the whole issue of health.
I was to want female children and male children to know but in a device for female children.
How would you know even during the menstrual periods and that we have organized so much to want you to know how they can be owned by that period in which things can take action against them.
It is similar to you as the youth.
I would very much desire to know that the great youth in fighting is between one years until some years because you know.
I was supposed to be in Dar es Salaam, there is no place or at ten years, Daniel there are all people with expertise and expertise in maybe or our security to work.
For now, we have not received the professions of many opportunities, who are there and what takes the groups of the community.
For doing the community well and in this course, you are in a very high level, it is coming into a case to eat with buoys.
Using you, I give you a good thing in which way to use or lead you with a message that you know how we are able to reach out, you don't reach out of youth because there's no previous experts who are only equal to both sides.
When you met with the and also for that night, I urge doctors to arrest this hour and the male people, the commission did, we have decided to get a lawyer because they do not have a chance to go to those professionals so that we can be ready for Page nurses and doctors.
They are different.
More to give me that, I would like to talk about such acts, I would like to focus on the whole issue of learning if you give you a problem with the problem.
For all the people now, that does not come to the website or true what has already done?
Has identified himself it shows.
Still AIDS has already started in their menstrual period and not?
It becomes a long time some people who think of schools everything is the late?
There is in Hebdo magazine that is unable to go to school, he said there are two things.
Moreover, he has at Sinza because of preventing themselves from his condition that they would look for things to help him remember.
But I love.
Our students are annoyed so that you shouldn't know a lot of pain, it's a problem of someone to get into that, it is a big thing, I want to know anything done by some of the big students when he was involved with some of the big students when they were facing him.
That doesn't do one time with the students that it should be a problem and it doesn't affect so, they could not be involved in the residence, therefore we had already taken two times on stage that they see you.
We did not go with the doctor from the country that we have, but we want all to be careful, the doctor or person and those children do not love it there is pain so that action can be used in order to reduce their mother to deal with it.
Girls and shoes before night close to know people when they come to do when they get each other.
But why it has been at the end of the day it is a must that the preparations have already been said.
We know for a big part which need.
When it comes out of Dar es Salaam, you know there is a place for safeguarding it?
Where to say Mbezi.
To visit, they were very expensive, there are private schools but also time in Dar es Salaam.
It makes them to get punctures due to many youths and those from here there are companies and other organizations that give them my money and also a problem is what we had to go to the areas where other organizations have not yet met here is a problem.
