Our members of parliament know the meaning of democracy and people's participation?
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

Every I was followed up in the discussion inside the parliament, I have a lot of questions in my heart and a big question is, let us know the meaning of democracy and people's participation?
You are in parliament to give their personal opinions and give opinions of their political parties and defend the government that is in power we are in parliament to get a huge contribution and farewell to him or to lead their country?
In the whole issue, democracy will need to rule with the foundation of getting "the consent of the people." To democracy, the thoughts of people have the right to participate and make sure that the country is led by citizens who are participating in the government's leadership by through the leaders being involved.
In democracy, private leaders to citizens have confirmed the faith to their leaders just after time through elections and also people are involved or one by one or otherwise in making decisions that affect their lives.
CHADEMA is the administration system that people need to build their government officials themselves and identify the way it is supposed to do the development of all people because every citizen has the right to participate in operations of public activities and in all issues that affect their lives.
A good example is to put participation in the representation and involvement in the decisions, the citizens want their representatives to follow the rules of democracy and citizens who are expected to ensure their responsibilities in the system even so, accessing information is important to the success of citizenship.
In addition to that, there is the restrictions that came out for the democratic elections for big restrictions in the democratic elections of poverty, lack of equality, lack of bribery, lack of ethics, political culture that were forced, discrimination, can be forced, discrimination, and political leadership.
For other words, democracy are way to rule where the thoughts of all people should be touched in making public decisions, it has its foundation in faith of "human beings will, therefore, democracy will supervise the development of all people, for the benefit of all people.
CHADEMA also involves itself with all citizens and citizens have a great responsibility to the community that builds democracy. That is why democracy can work just where citizens are involved in political activities and public issues, by considering that, democracy is what they used.
Therefore, democracy will increase freedom, equity and right to all, and also it is supporting in developing the participation of one of all the people, women and men, youths and so on to participate in the elections, it is also used to participate in the government's participation in the level of local government and invasion.
In democracy, citizens are the government's authority is a servant for citizens and public relations between the citizens and the government is for a contract, that is, there is a contract between the citizens and their leaders in this issue, leaders and other representatives to make decisions on behalf of the citizen who is a citizen.
The government is forced to follow the requirements of the contract between citizens and leaders and other representatives of this contract to be shaken the period of time, by using the elections and also participants in public activities and agreed or refusing to fulfill the government works.
When we say that citizens are the ones who have the authority, it means that citizens do not have leaders of representing us, they do not understand those authorities and representatives who were chosen to help the citizens, that concern them to their votes.
