What I believe in the process of the constitution.
October 11, 2014.

Today we are expecting the chairman of the special constitutional parliament, Samuel Sitta will receive the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Kikwete and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Mohammed Shein the proposed constitution so that other preparations for the opinion polls are not there.
It is a constitution that is available on the past, and maybe without the real knowledge, he also would like to look for two-thirds efforts to find those who are outside different reasons including preventing and even patients who are found.
In the casting of votes, the Secretary General of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA), Othman Masoud Othman, gave an entrepreneur, to decide the open vote of no the proposed constitution as a result of his position, he wants the heart to make it successful.
And the chairperson, Samuel Sitta, congratulated bishops by giving out a document that after he was not happy, I did not see a new that he has never happened.
Several times the religious leaders have been giving statements to advise God to give you the stand about political issues, some of those statements have been issued to the activities that official visitors are national leaders.
I understood that in my evaluation of a total of chairperson, Sitta is that it's an issue of the constitution that caused the death of work and the private sector was to listen to him and if you follow her decisions, what should not fail to be patient, and not the whole parliament.
At the time of breaking the parliament, Sitta showed openly getting displeased with the media, but he refused to be together with thanks after the delegates asked me that not all media is badly (to them) that he had seen TBC and ZBC is the one that has done good work.
I am talking to Sitta, on the side, I believe that there are news media with different types, is a good thing to democracy and that is one of the representation of various events that are in the community at the national debate, although when some of the debate on one side in our television, the ones that are among them are not proud of.
Several times I have seen parliamentary debates about CCM members of parliament or UKAWA alone. This situation comes from the media that is owned by the concerned parties is understood, but it occurred in media houses so that I am forced to help them to educate themselves so that I am able to get different issues.
All of all that, the constitutional parliament has been able to recognize a habit, wisdom and understanding of politicians who came out to speak a lot at the debate including Sitta to the extent that if they will decide to come out in the presidential race to make sure they will decide to come out and understand.
Apart from the issues that took place in parliament, the process of fighting for a new constitution was going on in the streets where UKAWA had set up the war two days through the provision of statements, operations and demonstrations.
