

A woman has been burnt in reproductive health.
By Tom Maganga, who was in Morogoro.
Family planning is a voluntary decision done by a private person, the couples or the ones that are outside the marriage which are required and when they get children, the number they want and after getting children.
How long time you are for what many ways would like to use.
Experts of reproductive issues are saying the use of modern reproductive rights for women.
Those who have been married who have reached 5 years have increased, but the increase is for procedures.
Those use were cost from seven percent.
The year 2012-92 to reach 13 percent in the year 1996 to 17 percent.
1999 and 20 percent of the year 2004 to 2005.
Those experts say that this level is high.
Compared to other countries of East Africa and South Africa.
African continent.
Moreover, research on health and family planning (TCS) show that six percent of women are the ones that use the natural resources of the program.
The research has said that sometimes the time they are getting in the way the time they are required to sell the users.
On the side of users, you are worried about getting effects, opposition from those ways and stop giving birth to many children are some of the reasons that are mentioned to use human rights.
The research of Wema Sepetu in the year 2004-2005, also revealed that the different levels of the use of modern ways of family planning.
There was revealed that the level of use is 30 percent in the northern region which include the provinces of Kilimanjaro, Tanga, Arusha.
Manyara with 11 percent in the Western Region which include the provinces of Tabora, Shinyanga and Kigoma.
The way of reproductive health.
There are many ways of planning health to women and the others are for men.
In general there are two types of types, which are the ones that are not involved (VAT) and to be amy (drugs).
Different from what is the way you are working on the audience or to meet completely or prevent pregnant, it's not supposed to use any medicine. Here the party can use abusive language as usual.
These ways are good because there are no chemicals that comes in the body or when they are not allowed to prevent pregnancy.
Ways of medicine or a lot of drugs, are those that follow up of a woman or a man with an aim of preventing the pregnancy and therefore using a certain kind of medicine.
Many times you are doing work by touching in the body about what is happening or preventing the eggs and preventing the environment of pregnant who is treated.
Experts advise that if a person has a plan to start family planning, it's good to see them because of getting advice.
Speaking at a seminar for journalists about the issues of the number of people, health and family planning, it's determined to have a non-governmental organization of the Community Development, Doctor Dismas Mosha, he removed those ways and benefits.
