
Jide.

The life of Mister! There is claims that, star of Bongo Fleva music, Judith Wambura 'Jide' who is known as' reporter 'Hello', is not known as the old man said he is not true "the same way is the action of their marriages.
According to our source, Jide has said that he does not have its own kind to be seen in town to expand and a luxurious car in different areas of controlling it because its many projects have been closed on iTunes.

A restaurant is a band.
"I am told it is very true,! Jide the right now is the one to see my words, Jide.

"If you leave a restaurant, you don't ask you, for the last time you want to take the band of Jide nets but on stage is when I am a band!

What is the teaser?
That source has continued to put openly that, some of the former friends of Jide and Madner have claimed that, the action of those two separation with a huge number of energy being helped in business.
"You know that despite being her husband, but he was also his manager, she was the one who was looking for forgiveness, but he was waiting for that project in that restaurant.
"Now I return to them, she will not be known as the manager of Jide again, the results of Jide. Who failed to manage his own projects, is this one that you see now," said the source.

The effects of masturbation.
On his part, Mgner has been reported to continue with his life well because up to now, he is the presenter of the radio station of Clouds FM in Dar es Salaam city saying not to be touched by the effects of separation.

Jichunge.'
Shot on Wednesday, he told Jide with all his efforts in order to give him a chance to listen to those allegations but on his mobile phone he didn't have in the air.

Shot on Wednesday, it scored a journey up to the residence, a situation that is claimed to live currently in Masaki, Dar es Salaam but the house had been silent.
Some people said they have not seen all the several days now while others saying they have benefited from the country.

"Honorable I's birthday is not true then I don't know if he is here in the country, it is possible that he is possible but it is also possible that I didn't have a lot of days," said one neighbor without removing his name.

To save the internet.
On his part, Moses ner, when he was called on the phone and asked him about those claims he had asked to be free of several minutes saying he will make him even so.
Hearts are saying that, all the times that I have been called I was called a phone with our journalists and requested him to speak about several allegations, he has been responding to him again or said he does not need to contribute!

Listen to the word.
However, in one of his star's education, you missed the popular country in the country who is also the child of the former Mnishi popularly known in East Africa, late General Yahya Hussein, when he was asked about the development of Jide.

"The one was about the reason he was visiting the star's star who was the husband's star, because they received it, it must be careful because the same star was great than him," said Maalim Hassan in an special interview at his home in Dar es Salaam city.
