

By Glory Mlay.
Among the people who represent Tanzania well-model, Tausi Kida giving a cap who through her creativity in the effects he has succeeded to work with the renowned specialist in the world including Rwamcyo, Christian Diaries of girls through a non-governmental organization of non-governmental organizations (MARI), it is involved in improving education and health to children, while he is the founder and president of that organization.
Tausi Kida also the writer of arts and health through the ruling party, he has written many things in his books for "Ambassador Seif Prayzah '," Beatles, Angel di, "the model he spoke to Mtanzania and his talks were as usual.

The specialist, as a author of the books you know why Tanzanians should not like to read the books.

Tausi Kida, most of us have not received enough education about reading the books, if you read the books you get more knowledge and also you will get to learn from our daily lives.
"In all my journey, you cannot go hand in place and you don't think about books that he is looking for," you can move from because we could have reading the books they would have getting new knowledge.

How do I prepare to make you read books?
Tausi Kida, when I am happy when I am happy, I have a dream of writing more than I see the experience started there because we are seeing them just after time I have written in prayers, I believe that I can write.
How Tanzanian Onesmo Ngowi has written the books worth more than now?
Tausi Mbaga, up to now I have succeeded to write four groups of beauty and entrepreneurship, "Ambassador of Art of Beauty and Health," Ambassador Seif Sharif Hamad, "Beatles," Beauts' featuring "Ambassador Seif Shari '."
Tanzanian is a difference of the books market here in Tanzania and other countries like America?
Tausi Kida said in my country the market there is no result of people they don't like to read the books when they get a lot of their time in reading the newspapers and to look for them, therefore there is different from our colleagues in the market is big due to many young people who like to study books there are ready to sleep at the day after reading a book.
When Tanzanian thank many books, but the readers are a few, what will he do until people do not want to study books?
Tausi Kida said that most of the people here in Tanzania are ready to follow up on the lives of someone more than looking for books, reading a book that does not be careful not to know the journey of various people they get to their lives.
When a Tanzanian, apart from the writing, we use the girls of Tanzania who want to be like you?
Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete has started my project of Tausi Kida a member of gospel music who is crush using a search for beauties in the provinces, we are teaching everything on how to provide care for beauty, exercises and many other things.
When Mtanzania comes with those who are registered in the ward and that they did not recognize what?
Tausi Kida, they are required to give your cooperation because every person has been attractive to him because everyone has his position and having its goals but when you're doing everything it is okay.
In Tanzanian, there are some of them say that you don't have a beauty baby is over if you do you talk about?
Tausi Kida made it is a very big thing in the issue of a human being, because when you follow your beauty you will remain like, where you are doing exercises and do you get because they are contributing to a bad appearance, because they add a lot of oil in the body.
