The Easter festival to take place on September 24.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The Deputy Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Anastazia Wambura will be the guest of honor at the commemoration of the arts festival that will take place on September 24th, in Kijitonyama Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city.

In that commemoration of the peak, different artists will be given an award in recognizing, urging them to value the great contribution who are studying here in the country.
The Artist's coordinator, Godfrey Simbeye, said that the day there will be great entertainment from different artists, some of them being Juma Nature, Peter Msechu and Misukosuko.
On the side of dance music, there will be an Chamabab group that will be made by famous famous artists who will join with entertainment together.
He said another group of the dance music that will make him are in Ifakara Band and John Kitime.
There will also be a lot of music that is loved by many youths of recent music, which will be led by the Eucharist group together with other groups.
The traditional songs that will be there including Mandela's group, Safari Group and Acrobatic group while on the Taarab group will be the group of Soundton Sound Band and the Super Mega period of a short tour in Magomeni in Dar es Salaam city.
He said that the comedian accompanied by different factors that will be present while Remy Ma, DJ Haak Malim Seif who will be there together with his former lover Athuman Nyamlani.
There will also be a great entertainment of gospel songs from a vibrant singer, which apart from giving entertainment, will be forced to pray for Tanzania. The artist is a project that was loaded by the National Arts Council (BASATA) with the aim of recognizing, appreciating and educating the work and contribution of artists in the country.
The slogan of this year is a lot of arts, where the launch was done since May 26 this year by the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye was represented by his secretary Professor Elisante Ole Daniel.
