Let us again to marry off their success in different newspapers that can be able to help us.
Do you know this today and I am happy with the visitors from the education sector of education in Morogoro Province who have been focusing more in helping form four students who don't have the ability to get form four students from form one to what they believe in one way or the other that would like to hear and said.
Give your pictures from his pocket and also the late God rest his things but the money together with these efforts that I have been able to plan for the school is out of the school but there are those who are trusted.
But because we have been having various challenges of that female child.
In this, you have organized himself to see if I call him and after meeting with the parents or their daughters, which has decided to help them.
.
Whoever doesn't thank you more than that which we are prepared to make sure that we are not knowing that we are not aware that we are not aware of them, more than 6 children or we are looking for we for you.
Whoever doesn't know what they are causing our children.
Use it.
To prevent you?
And walking with Thehabari.
The biggest income is the poor income of the family that don't have.
A hard environment.
There are some.
School.
Do that care about the child.
The location of the ward is a distance of approximately your website.
.
That was since its home.
That we should start one child whose name is name?
His answers was that when he was at home in the morning when a girl does not lie!
Question is a question.
However, they have not paid donations not to be paid many books because I am Africa, this is Africa.
Most importantly so that he can get rid of three days that meets with drivers' Follow suit 'if you do you need to give birth to your children here, I will end up to ten children here, I will end up with a very big number and seven people will face.
We had a child to study in a broad way to get a swimming world just to fail and therefore we can be like the institution to cooperate with the parents we are able to move and that is why we have a very big conference for what we will involve the youth.
The secondary schools that do not have primary schools is the purpose of their fellow youths who have got education.
Opposing different regions, it should have been successful there will be very big artists, Makonda are there?
Ahenkora has said other youths who have received education and some of the support is to give them these children's education.
To use it is.
The education that he got from.
Also, Tanzanians who have been contributing and they have already contributed to education so that they can get education and at the end, the girl child is supposed to listen to me if my fellow child is supposed to listen to me what I want to do, how do I do how to get to the girl child who is to listen.
In fact, I was having my own goals and this is a situation I made I want this union to be used.
Something that depends on a woman who does not lie without these people believe that they are.
I was and I will answer in education I thank God for?
I heard this, I remember them and are those who had children who had a motorcycle riders to help them in these hours I told me that when you reach me.
Believe that it's only education that will help unity in the time you have given them very much and to the Almighty God to get money together with the Almighty God to build the construction of education institutions in Morogoro Province, gas is expected to complete.
