
Forgive him me who doesn't look for a lot of joy!
I have talked to me, I believe that with the edges of their own pen when I believe there is a fact that you will place free!
I believe in the statement of the general leader of the country, President John Magufuli "the child of Junction" who all the days has been saying since the time he was asking for votes of getting into power, he says that she does not exceed two weeks.
He has been mentioning another word that, you do not know the truth is the lover of God,! Is my faith that all the days you love.
Private, when I'm looking at a bad way, when I'm and also known for a good time, I am pleased with what I wrote on last week about the mistakes that comes out of criminal activities, in the State House.
It is something that by bad luck, we saw the others, including my fellow professionals, who instead give me the strength of the motion, they discovered a private attacks to me.
I think it should be understood, I was not happy with the intention to kill someone and that is why I wrote them on how many sections of the media and pictures are due to the shortage that has resulted from understanding or conflict of interests or not English, a result of the interests.
This is the conflict of conflict involving themselves regarding some of the aides to President Magufuli, who wrote a long article, they put it on social media, except that it is difficult to vote until it will be understood.
I did not want to visit, but because they have written many things, including those who can't understand themselves, including being satisfied, let me say that I have hurt me for my heart, I don't give birth to them.
I believe that maybe they have been found, they found themselves not to know what they wrote, put it on social networks like to be seen, reaching many, including friends, brothers, brothers, my friends who have been questioning.
I don't want to follow up of their words, I don't give birth, but I believe in what I was surprised and I explained that if there is any person who lost their position for personal interests, is against the brain of the employer or the employer?
It is enough today to say, encourage us especially from today's new generation to prove that if he went to him many times Mwalimu Julius Nyerere on her writing, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, explaining the need for people to register the mockery.
It's not good to believe that there are people, including me if those who wrote these articles wanted to believe many to be called on time.
Heading to know the boundaries for the use of the internet, they are claiming that I have remained in the old generation.
The translation of this issue is not another, it's no wonder, and show that they are in the media profession, they have been blessed with understanding and others do not like to be with them.
That is not the same, even a little, I advise that the cup's cup is stable, but we should know our mistakes, we should also be criticized.
