
Monday, January 5, 2015.

The effects of expectations and friends of a child of 0-0.

You have ever asked yourself why other children are not cowards and there's a shame when they love people while others have the courage to stop and talk in a environment which sometimes they are born in one family but sometimes they are being born in one family but sometimes they are born in one family?

In this short period of upbringing and development of the children, we are trying to show the habit of child as a result of the growth of our child and therefore, affecting our behavior.

In you, the expectations, expectations and don't know the eyes of the parents that produce four main groups of children according to how they see them and see others.
1), children with the courage and appreciate others who like to be loved more easily and as they get relationship that have no personal agenda and others.

2) the children who understand themselves but they did not want other people who are normal and as usual they can destroy the people and as they feel it appears to be shame / her silence / 09 / life.

3) children should not be self-employed but those who want to believe others get to an extent and make sure they want to appeal to others because their joy did not start inside but being 'people' people.

4), children should not be self-employed / do not understand or see other people to an extent that normally you have a habit of preventing others in a fight or not, amen.

Things are not there and as they are there, these teachings are done according to the age if we will see these groups in two consecutive times, we will look at one first group and how many other groups will look at together in the following article.

Children who do not know and protect others.

These are reliable children that they are affected by their parents, they are not worried about their parents and they know that their thing is their parents, although there are some children living in this group because their parents do even know more than the children of three other groups.

In general, they are children who are eager to sit with them because it is not easy to cooperate with others since they do not know their parents because they need them to communicate with the parents.

The child of this group can be found since he was only six months ago when he was left with her mother who is going back to work in the morning, for example, many times he can leave this situation so that this condition is very different because other children like each other, although he believes that she will not see it.

When the age of two and three years which already have the ability to use the language, the child of this group is true and is not worried about what is happening in the village without caring about the results of the fact, if we will be allowed, it will not be allowed because it is not acceptable.

Likewise, the child of this group has a condition of believing that it is evident in his games. Since when he is in a small way he didn't affect the problems facing him but when they start without depending on the donations they have lost, except there is need to prevent it is equal to his colleagues in the second group.

When he is at two years and continuing with a habit of getting married, we will give credit of here and there as a habit of love others, at a long time you are trusted so much by her fellow children and they are also having a habit of dealing with albinism.
I do not have the ease of giving what they have especially when he gives three different years to the children of another groups.

In general, everyone with the enthusiasm to learn from his brain to be free and is not worried about the people who have lost their environment and therefore we have found itself with a lot of strength to learn more than the children of other groups that are using a very long time.

Position is not seen and the understanding of a parent.

Maybe it is same as we say every mother would like to have a child of this kind, although it is true that if the parents do not want to have a child, "humble when we will see in the following article.
However, research that took place in different parts show that the percentage of 55 and 65 children of the age of 0 - 3 are the ones in this group though the age of the child is increasing.

In general, this child of this group has copied one of the mother that took her family and upbringing that is very important and a very important responsibility to serve the child, 2) to understand the expectations of child and not to understand themselves and 3) to partner with him.

The parent of this way, together with the give weight, research shows that usually is a person who doesn't have a big problem of the soul that can make them identify other people (together with her child) such as a person who is ready to see others associated with his expectations.

This is a mother who put the environment of allow the child to show a lot of expectations and make the child care, for example, when she gets a good thing or a bad thing.

That is saying, as the child of the group if the mother helps him to put up a environment of having fear to prove his feelings when she got into the age of age and three, this child does not have a good ability to recognize his thoughts and stop using him, different from the child.

Many research show that children have learned not to understand their feelings by being assisted to recognize feelings of sadness, joy and fear among others.

In order to ensure that they are detected, research shows that, the ability to endure is to see the child while in a view and different feelings without making him feel that it's not guilty, he didn't think about it and to find him.
Its meaning is that a parent can be able to see her child has gone to see her child without asking this child to help the child to read his feelings even if those are not aware, it helps her child to be true and to believe others.

To appreciate the expectations of the child not?

In general we can say, so as a parent can be able to build a child that you believe and protect the child the way they do not see the child and to know what he is doing, the child is supposed to know the child by congratulating them by getting married and to show his mistakes.

Likewise, we will not give the ability to marry off their child without hiding her child, what is not a habit, to tell him that what is expected to remove the child to separate the child or his relationship with the child.

Now in a fast, all these can be seen as, "believe that the child gets a good habit," this child is not true "because this child is not aware because this child is not true and this is not a habit that can build a child of this group.

In ending, we can say that, who is self-0 in the age of 0-3 is the results of their lives and not otherwise, there are many parents without caring about their own problems, a situation that is the basis of getting married to the child and removing others.

In the following article, we look at three other groups by checking the mistakes that are being done by parents who are due to their problems of the soul or not to understand the expectations of child and causing the children to move in those three groups.

This article depends on what other children do not affect people and we usually have a shame to say the front of people although they have a good ability to learn.

It is continuing.
