The patients showed up to Sekou Toure's services.
October 13, 2016 by Christopher Gwao.

Some of the nurses and doctors at the Mwanza Provincial Referral Hospital, Sekou Toure Hospital has succeeded in order to make sure that they need from suffering from injuries arising from bad services, dirty and violence to patients.

As a result of that situation, the patients have requested President John Magufuli to intervene by sending the investigation commission for a solution of solutions to the problems that were recommended in the hospital in bribery and lack of discipline.

While speaking in an interview with Good Citizen at different times in the hospital last week, many patients have complained to the nurses, midwives and many doctors who have built human rights and even refusing to sell their treatment services.

They have complained that some of the carelessness that are not involved in nurses, midwives and doctors, including surgery services, they have been causing deaths that are not aware to some of the patients in that hospital.

Here (Sekou Toure) every corner is a bad behavior, but the situation is so bad to the pregnant women and parents, that you are oppressed, so they are marrying their lives due to lack of nurses and midwives, "he complained that the patient was asked to be the name because she still has been admitted to the hospital.

Another patient who was admitted in that hospital, who speaking with condition of not being mentioned, "Masau boasted, said that," Boznia was removed here, "we request President Magufuli to change this hospital and to help people who care for the patients."

Some of the nurses who are complaining about preventing diseases and bias against patients who are admitted in the ward contrary to the ethics of their profession and instructions of the government.

One of the patients who were faced with discrimination has complained saying, "I met I met again at the parents' ward after giving birth to the operation, although the child has opened up in the fourth day later.

When I arrived in a ward, I was given a bed sheets that did not have bed sheets, when I stopped his bed sheets, I refused to give my bed sheets, I refused to let me look for me, I've heard, I saw it alone at night.

If no wonder when it reached at two o'clock at night, the man was sent to him to be released in bed saying "since the time he had a lot of bed sheets, the hospital we had to kill him, put me a patient who had come with him.

He has said that, that act did not tell me in his heart and followed when he had to go to the ministry to sit and go out for a long time before going back to starting with the patient in the ward. "

On the other side, the patients have requested the national authority to reduce themselves so as to identify the reasons for many patients that is being done to the hospital in that hospital to buy two days after being allowed to return home.

Very close to all patients that is being done here to Sekou Toure Hospital, especially women who give birth to the ongoing operation was taken back again as a result of a lot of money given to them, "he said one of the patients in the hospital, who contributed to the name.

The patients who are going to look for treatment have also complained to the problems of winning the whole day at each other while waiting to be treated without success in that hospital.

Here Sekou Toure is a problem, doctors and nurses do not care for the patients, that they will be known as we see the patients seated on the bench without serving them, you can go back to see the doctor in the whole bench.

"But excluding the money (bribery) the doctor will be wanted and they come to serve quickly, that is the real situation that is going on in this hospital," claimed another patient who did not want to be told the name because he still continues to follow up on treatment in that hospital.

However, the senior health officer of Mwanza province, Doctor Leonard Mao, when he was asked by Good Citizen about those complaints, while promising to follow up and take stern legal action against nurses and midwives have caused those acts facing the ethics of the health profession and manage that hospital.

At the end.
