That is explaining the real situation of the life of her sister who live in a small.
He is saying that without the people doing this business?
But the bad life of home game contributes to a large extent.
This is at the attempt.
For sure there is a very big challenge because of all the two terms?
You ask you to look like you come as war, you know the vice president and also the department.
I advise that I know all, today they did not know her, and I heard the old man today I will follow up with that is that I believe that I will be like.
Perhaps, he told them to give their bills even if you are doing, then we want to love it, even those who were when I wanted to leave each other, they were when he saw them.
Still you go to the country that you have talked to the others they want but they want to live but a big picture of living in the world, is wrong for children to know what they are affected by the father and the mother to see them.
That people can remain in my son and a very big one to the father about one of the one that sell is the old man to stop.
He is a carcass is that I would like to see if there is a burden to the first election, there isn't a big burden to the same election, there is still a great burden to the woman's wall and they will not see if he went to hand with the wall and the one they don't have even one thing.
If you remember it was confirmed that you will be able to ask you and more than war?
When he arrived in those areas but the day-day-to-day and without any time you put it into a week until the morning, it gets to you again and they don't know you, even if you can get married because I don't know what you want to you.
And when you are saying that I was at home because it has.
He finished by his weight to the government, for truly my child to the ministry.
I was also request that you need electricity loss.
What are men?
It is living.
We will lead these youths and to give them the education to know this, we will also be done?
Because we are doing work together.
If he would like he likes to be that which is because of some activities, it is because of being involved with 66 candies to accept to be able to reduce environmental degradation there.
Religious government report that apart from that burial, I know it is very easy and also that maybe I have not seen, what they will be registered and it is known as Prime Minister.
Absolom has to say that he is also leading and we are leading and because our people are in line with great problems.
It is a words in Nairobi.
