
Don't know what is important for the diseases.
It has more than 45 years you order to make a few steps without getting tired.
A sign of this one is not supposed to ignore, even a little, especially for people with 45 years to continue, sexually transmitted infections will go to them, diabetes, a big level that is not bad (TCU) and blood pressure diseases.
Most of the biggest reason is the possibility of those indicators in heart diseases, although many times its symptoms do not depend on suddenly, he has gone to and lost consciousness without any symptoms.
Heart diseases have already been fast for now, it is number one in causing the deaths of suddenly so it's good to see him in least getting the knowledge of its symptoms.
One of the important words of any person to know is getting tired quickly after making a few steps, this situation is accompanied with a result of being held or a result of a swim.
A good example is when a person bought the level he can get tired, while she gets tired and shivered.
The presence of pain and chest is a sign that does not be shaken or ignored, so that pain can be able to do or decide whether you can't know if there is a certain weight in the chest.
The pain of chest can increase when the body comes to you or do a exercise and at the same time you need to have a lot of feelings of human beings (black spectacles).
The pain are usually more on the left side of chest and you can spread in hand and the coming down of the left.
The pain can fall into several minutes when you stop doing work or a exercise.
For some people, especially women they can get severe pain in mind, cigarettes, back and hand.
Changes in the heart rate like smoke cinemas well as usual or impatient, is a sign that can be able to come out when they never have problems in the heart system.
Pain of her head that are in order to see network or darkness, and lost consciousness.
To get a dummy check, she can be filled with stomach and to get to check up without the presence of food digestion system and removing them as usual during defecation.
Not using the sun and coldness, without special reasons and getting tired is impossible so that they are able to swell parts of the legs.
It is good for anyone who will have cases of these symptoms to reach health services earlier on the purpose of investigation, treatment or advice.
Jenga a culture of making a total of health inspection at least once for six months.
