Ilala Municipal Council in Dar es Salaam city has put it open that it will not be done.
To have a thought of demolishing, it gives me the Karume Memorial market.
Beneficiaries are giving an opportunity to the 'Foolish Age' market that is led by putting restrictions in business with some of the business people in that area, and will instead of billions of money Salum Telela has a report.
That has been noted in Dar es Salaam city and the Honorable Mayor of the Municipal Council Jerry Silaa.
Third, we will partner with the captain about the questions from the city council of peace, they have been paid in the fighting market of Moshi municipality.
The union that has explained how to be small business people in the market to generate great business in the modern market, which has been built through a loan from the National Social Security Fund.
The debt is ongoing and to reach more than 100 million shillings.
Another one comes just like all the two is one.
Therefore, as a result of the decision of one person again, they do the decision to be awarded.
That situation is two markets that are owned by two legal institutions that involve every decision of their decisions.
Therefore, it is not good.
I was not supposed to be expelled from the market inside.
Open because of sin?
And look for a winner we will look for opinions in the provinces.
To think of your mind, they should be floods, they said that market.
It does not have any plan of being defeated and it does not know the easy words he had conned people.
The current state of the press in addition, we have talked to some of the business people who have been found outside the 'Machinga' building.
They have planned their products in the country while continuing with business, he claimed that lack of stalls in the region as their chairman Bakora, it is going to complain about the council but he didn't continue to stop in Karimjee stadium to work.
Candidates vying for the positions.
We had already been arrested, when they met people and stalls here but those who also used to see the case of the Municipal of Moshi.
You don't want to deal with us to pay for timber and they are not only little, we would like to protect themselves from what you will enable the authorities to register myself if you want the authority to register us.
Not to stand up well to stand, Salum Telela equivalent to me.
