Why are the ones that wouldn't know CCM is painful?
December 11, 2014.

Two things include the delegates of the special assembly of the constitution in Dodoma where all two are together with the legal requirements of the union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
The first goal is about the second certificate of the second phase which involves itself from that of Zanzibar has authorized union.
About the certificate of the union, there are those who want to see that certificate, again they want to see natural vegetation.
The certificate is the international agreement between two countries that were free, that is the United Republic of Zanzibar and those of the United Republic of Zanzibar were one of the party members of the United Nations.
There are those who say that the union certificate is in Zanzibar and others are saying that in Dar es Salaam. Others are saying that the United Nations despite the United Nations despite the United Nations.
Others are saying that Salim Rashid, who was the first secretary of the Revolutionary Council of Zanzibar, had failed because they don't like looking at the union. He has told that that is not the whole.
Regarding the issue of honor to the people of Zanzibar, that is if a union that was sponsored by the Revolutionary Council, the instrument they have never been approved by that council, it has no legal action and that now the Revolutionary Party (CCM) could not affect the law.
In how things are going on in Dodoma, it shows that there is a plot to warned the Parliament of the constitution freedom and integrity, but I say this because CCM has a great number of delegates in parliament can be able to compete in the position of their party.
We believe you should not understand that the process of the proposed constitution we were told that the exercise is accused of the two countries that form the United Republic of Tanzania, that is Tanganyika and Zanzibar and that is why in the constitutional commission that was led by Judge Joseph Warioba, the two countries had a solution to 15 members from every side.
Also two presidents of Tanzania and Zanzibar in Zanzibar have been responsible for the law and agreed on several steps of the exercise of the constitution.
The constitution of the constitution is not relating to political parties to conduct a union of "give and take.
That parliament is being faced with several issues, but that is important in involving themselves with its delegates is that of a union of union members of Zanzibar want the union of people that will give them more than 60 percent of the people of Zanzibar claiming that many of the people of Zanzibar claim more than that the structure of the union of three governments as required by the commission of Warioba.
The issue of the structure of the union, as I said, has caused many members of parliament, especially those who love CCM, especially those who love CCM, they do not think about anything that they made were not lack of discipline but also a lesson.
In these marriages, we have already announced that the delegates of CCM have been trying to hear the words, "transparency" and accountability "is abolished by them and they have also been depending on their interests with their fellow delegates.
I don't have a habit of switching off and when I think then I would like to tell ourselves that if I get rid of constitutional parliament, it should be able to get democracy of the constitution.
Symptoms are we seen since there is no reason that is available until now since that parliament started its sessions to go through the second draft of the constitution because all of us are not involved with politics in the process or maybe that we can talk with parties with political parties, especially, and CCM.
