And when you see that, this is the first that made him be the church and be able to see her birthday during this period and this day I was with you.
They agree with you that if we look for a lot of people, there have been several factors to make changes in this nation's position to bring changes in this nation to bring change in this country and today's first I would like to teachers George.
Fred is looking at here to listen to the quick evaluation when we have seen, they have been planned to be a threat to eight and eight hours.
In various sessions, but also the process of CHADEMA together with Ukawa has been going on to look at who is happy and held that position because of being able to break the opposition by the revolutionary party.
An evaluation.
By percent that have been issued on the priorities where we have been affected.
Women.
These think these are the ones that Tanzanians are playing themselves as right now or there is no Bible.
Priorities.
In the election period depends on each other.
He has said.
View by money.
For example friends.
The seats is going on with the whole process.
By writing the manifesto of parliament and after seeing that, we got the candidates to launch their manifesto so that we will see the plans they have, but one of them have managed and we saw the person Edward Ngoyai Lowassa who was saying his priority to check.
But the?
The truth is that for us to have a nation that will have positive results even I see the issue of education an issue.
But if we look at there are other people who have conflicts here to be health.
For you to be able to get so that you are able to attend in the period of eating the class, it does not like it's better because their child was born in the hospital environment and to make sure that his health is because of what they were put in front of these two things.
You cannot be Ukawa and also without having education.
That is even the health experts have received.
Secondly, you enter education is the one that will decide and request for you to have the professionals of my players so much and.
Primary is a must that I will give you the front line because it will decide.
If you have a lot of doctors that we have to have technology of drugs, we should have the ability to produce drugs that do not have cold drinks, which are a high level that will be given.
Yet we have forgotten the digital education, social welfare.
And because of your education, we have been told that if we are told the plan for great results now and they will have been successful because education continues to grow up to a big level, many people know and read.
It is enough.
Or still education is under a cup that is education because of the teachers, it is still saying that many people are saying that, the results are still ongoing with these people who do not know or read.
Basically Tanzanians are supposed to understand.
To be told that it is not only that education has been education has increased and we agreed to agree with a environment, then we have reached where I started to end there.
You know the education it is said that it has been reported that it has increased.
How can it be able to be used to make things that are seen.
You can't know that we are increasing when we are increasing when the HIV virus will come to come only or two kilometers is a must.
Contractors from China from China from other countries and we have universities for example, we are encouraging our institutions for example, we have decided to expand our education has been if the experts involved in here in the country can give a service which is alternative for experts from foreign countries.
There is still a challenge of education it is a challenge in our nation, and they should come out the results seem to be big because it has reduced us to see the Big.
God is not supposed to do peace and a woman has been found?
If you see baptism but up to now, what should you know that the sun is reached by Dar es Salaam early.
In which way I would like this continent to be as a challenge in achieving the shoes that will not be able to help a human being.
Almighty God bless you well and be able to give the entertainment that go with which they are told that it is given, we have change.
In education.
To write and.
Recently, we pray to form one when he showed that Atleti a certain amount of our education has been increasing because it has talked about the whole issue of the contractors who can make corrections, but if we look at these two levels, we have also set up those two hours to know how to read, write and to answer.
How do I think what is enough you told we will do you do here in education.
Previously I started trying to explain that we will entertain according to the policies.
I said Azam FC is paid according to their policies because of it?
Again there are now seen some signs that have been seen and lead the nation.
You cannot lead the nation that he knows in writing and counting.
We see the world of email.
Is out in reading to write and counting.
It is a must for the students of our nation to compete according to the needs of the current technology I will give you so much.
You can move forward in all neighborhoods and stop looking for things you know and to write and then give them the industry it starts from, to write a phone.
The education of counting, write and it can help this person to make sure that it is true, he is dug well but it was not important to see the presidential position among them to know and alternative answers that I will take care from to counting.
Let me start.
For each other to read if the holiday is very expensive, we give us the education that I will help the nation to be the first in one house to have discovered that you will not have technology, while we have arrived here, we will arrive that you will not meet it.
Technology that we will also have a nation that will be used in which it will be enough which will be ready to sell its technology by the nation where it is ready to sell experts from outside, but it will be economic, political and social culture in where we Tanzanians are.
For my part and to look at where it was one of the countries that are leading in stopping.
But as it is possible for a union of many youths who are good in providing them because of making adjustments, where we had already done creativity and other nations from the country.
When the Almighty God rest the same way you will meet teaching but not that it is the producer.
There is the end, but we were looking at there, but we are also looking at where there were many youths who are confirmed to do what I don't know what?
Today's television is very happy and it's coming up to ensure the Tanzanian is why to do it?
For a day we have.
Tanzania?
And start making us use when we have seen yesterday, you can start competing in their vehicles but also we also witnessed so, Uganda can benefit from the problem we need.
They believe or take the problem is.
When you look at the whole nation?
And technology was there since the past.
One hundred and five hundred thousand.
The area that is called me is now.
They were.
The area that is called Chumbe Area, Mwanza Province were not only given, and another technology was already in Dubai.
When we come to see that you and you were able to see when we agree in the colonial era, there were only a lot of technology that if they have been used, we have been used for Tanzanians to inform the contractors.
We were the only way we were with the referee Dollaso together with a factory for the purpose of making our vehicles, we had the army's factory after receiving bribes, where we saw the radio and accountability of things from outside the whole of our government must have any place wherever they are in good people.
Starting from this year we're getting a service though the cries in what I'm in here, we have never met here and we are not people not to pay people, I believe there are people with great payments.
The husband to make sure that they are continuing to bring together them capital and the education expertise that we were in the country can let us know from the nation of people who like the things that have been made outside the country which has the ability to make changes in it.
Again about the own kind that can be avoided.
They will they be able to help our nation money.
The opposition parties can bring changes to the opposition parties which have the ability to bring change.
You can research on opposition parties like that can bring change to go to Kilimanjaro Marathon in the province.
In the regions.
In addition, the opposition were forced to have a normal state of losing many constituencies in the opposition parties, members of parliament and councilors is that people who do work according to those opposition parties continue to show that for what they were given to their opponents now, I believe I believe at all.
They can fall down.
And if you see you or it is continuing to check up to this young man, I have decided to speak with him concerning the priorities in the youth who have been able to talk with him concerning the priorities in youths and here in order to continue being heard because he was a analyst of various political issues together with development.
