
How do you expect to show the state of.
Examples include the mental health of a human being.
For Majani ya Chai, Citizen.
Normally, you can give a lot of important information about the party and to look at the hair, someone else can sign a situation and different reports of the concerned party be able to get health information, a person's information and information of genes; using tests conducted.
Hair too can get a lot of information about the beauty situation of someone.
When it comes to the hair, many people do not want to know the effects of weaving, the truth, to get or put drugs that follow the appearance of the disease.
It's a very few people who know the hair, be approved by Nyusi which have a very close relationship with the health status of the whole body.
Scientists are clear that the appearance of a person can show a real situation about the body of the body.
A reduction, increase in amount or lack of pregnancy in the body, can be some signs of a good health thing that is ongoing in the body.
Most of the people also don't have information that care of their skins can affect their health to good or bad things.
"For a long time, we have but if we think that the hair is impossible so that they can affect the health of our bodies," says Doctor Victoria Barbosa from albinism at the health center, Millennium Park, in America.
Problems of hair such as pain, causing problems from time to time and change his natural fertility can cause diseases, HIV, HIV, HIV and bad health care, can show that someone has a problem of diseases that come from mistakes in eternal peace system.
Reproductive health also affected due to bad effects of medicine like cancer diseases, mental diseases and drugs, another thing that affects the hair or bad health, it can show that someone has a problem of diseases that come from mistakes in the body's immunity in the body.
Another thing that affects the reproductive health is the congestion of dairy products in the body and the use of medicine with chemicals because of caring for the pregnancy, also among things that are mentioned are among the things that are mentioned to have the effects of health from the hair.
Some of the researchers have noted that relaxers have been used by women, can affect the problem of getting rid of pregnancy in pregnancy.
This is according to the research that was done by the scientists, (A.
Hair too can show a situation of lack of catalysts in the body and for example, the situation of lack of catalysts in the body of a woman can cause a woman to have a lot of pregnancy as a woman can cause a woman to have many legs.
This situation happens when a modem is shocked when a modem is operated on and an amount of Testosterone, where it increased to an amount of great increase in the body of a woman and that it can show that she has a male gland cancer.
Researchers say that eight percent of women are faced with this problem.
Those who use men who use drugs are using drugs or raise muscles, and also they can get a problem of lack of suppression of banks in the body.
That situation can affect the poor problems such as they do or get rid of these drugs that can cause the same effects as the ones that come from women with albinism in the USA.
A wig?
Hair cuts, and inexhaustible proverb in the extent, shows that the party has a shortage of iron sheets, color, A, C and E Networks this situation can come out especially for people who are unable to eat meat, abuse or women that are not less than menstrual blood every month.
Food experts also reduced that the shortage of goods in the body can affect the mental health of the body that is important for the purpose of growth and improving the reproductive health.
The experts have added saying that if a person is eating food with a huge shortage in the farm, it takes a period of two to three months to start seeing the pregnancy being found or not getting off.
If they get married, it's also a thing that the party does not use enough amount of drinking water every day, not getting enough water because the kidneys fail to remove many poison that affects the hair.
The presence of a lot of diseases have also look at color and being white, can show a great age or inheritance of the genes; therefore, a person can have early marriages by being expected according to its age.
Some of the people also can have a red scarf or with color, this situation shows that the involved has a lot of color which are known as normal, which is known as FGM?
Pregnancy of someone can be able to show his mental health status, some people with mental disabilities are professionally known as a habit of preventing themselves from time to time, many times it starts before 17 years and affect women four times more than men.
For children, the poor problems can indicate that the condition of the infection of anyone who attacked them and causing a lot of pain "is one of the problems that affect the health of many children in the world.
Medical experts advise that people with the poor problems are important to meet the doctor quickly especially when they see that there are black patches that are not normal.
Medical experts advise that people with the poor problems are important to meet the doctor quickly when they see that there are big changes that do not have many problems that are affected, early which can be affected before great effects have not been done earlier.
Opinion or questions do not get health, Kalist Yachile and 77114889 percent.
