

What's a child who will pray to his father, let me give the foundation?
The most of God and a day do not qualify for the new generation.
Recently, we know the meaning of a quills, we know the results of having a great head to each household like this one who has a little position can be a constitution and there should not be a person to make her husband.
The head of this household which we said is so bad that he knows how to make this new decision, he does not make any decision and that he does not know more and claiming that what he did is humiliation but others believe that they are dealing in many areas.
Women are opened down, that is not embarrassing for teachers to be paid their copyrights, but there are people living with ghost students, that is not embarrassing for teachers and violence is very fast but I am not aware of lack of our rights because of embezzlement of public property and violence?
Public servant knows the money that sell million shillings per day and then we have said that he is seen, a person who is doing is a job of collecting revenue from one hundred and six hundred thousand, then I want to be made, why do we have to vote?
I am not just like I had started a campaign to urge the person not to be stopped, because it is also said that he does not have a letter so as to tell them, why do we have forgotten that the saying that she is enough for me or the one she does not forget where she is enough for him?
When a person is given work to follow on ghost workers, there are no ghost workers and it happens that there is our citizens who usually do so, we see the investigation is going on and sometimes the other cases are usually very clear.
When I'm in a school I had to be told that when there is a time you need to use all types of leadership, you should be afraid that if you see you, there is a decision that you want to do well and this is what we want to do because we were unable to do a lot of things more than the one who don't know because she was unable to do a productive decision.
I think that if the citizens are required to do is to check if the decision takes a productive meaning if you have no benefit, we need to listen to our voice in heavy issues that will be taking-to show that here there is mistakes and not to wait for each other.
