
Mbeya City is happening in Mbeya City.

Rashid Mkonga.

Mbeya City team in this city has reduced from the last position after scoring new teams in the Vodacom Premier League by 1-0.

Mbeya City which last season was a threat to a big team after holding the third position behind Azam and Yanga of Dar es Salaam, started selling his fans by losing many games of this league.

Until it happened in today's game, Mbeya City was leading from the end while being a fine of 5 points, after the victory has been scored a total of 8 points.

The game started very fast while every team is supposed to get a goal where it was in the fourth minute of the game, Mbeya City got a goal scored through the head through the player Deus Kaseke.

Kaseke scored that goal after a pass from Marketing Felix, who has received the ball from Paul Nonga.

The Ndanda soccer club was given it without the success and the ball was scored.

Until a half time Mbeya City that was being beaten by few fans different from it was in the previous matches of that league was fighting by 1-0 goals.

The second half started with every team to make changes where Mbeya City brought together with Mwaura instead of Stephano Cosmas and Ndanda won't leave Said Issa instead of Nassoro Kapama and Idd didn't leave instead of Masoud Kipanya.

However, those changes will not be able to produce fruits or change the results of the game, although the Ndanda soccer club wants to have life on the crime of attacks.

Ndanda played with fast in the second half and banned the ball for a long time while Mbeya City were seen a long time after falling down immediately.

Until the final match of the female referee Mary Kapinga from Ruvuma province is asked Mbeya City who is involved in fighting with a 1-0 victory against Ndanda FC.

However, the coach of the Ndanda FC team Major General Abdul Omar said that the goal scored was legal because the players of Mbeya City were lost.

He said that his players played with tired, although the stadium was a problem due to the enough rains that was caused by heavy rains that poured in that town before the game.

And coach Juma Mwambusi said that the victory of that team was expected due to the way they had planned in that match and that the mistakes that took place in the previous games will be stopped.
