
Illegal fishing tools that were arrested in Dar es Salaam.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries has seized illegal weapons of the type of livestock which are used to destroy the fish from the Madnat Hotel, which is owned by a citizen of China origin.

It was not recognized that was done in Dar es Salaam yesterday in a group that was done in Ilala, a sentence, in Ilala Municipality, which carried those teams.
The police force commander, Mboje, has said that the reports of the presence of those phones arose from not involved in the army and also through the citizens.
En said that those teams have been banned by the government because they do not have the quality that is required and when they recover the water, fish together and are usually paid for a long time in water without stopping.
"These phones are in China, we want investors from outside the country to be careful, by following the procedures of the country and to know that they are requested the products to ensure they meet the requirements of the concerned country," said Geology.
He said after completing those goals, they will continue with the investigation and at the end, it is to take action against all who participated in that issue.
The expert of fishing tools in the sea, Mustafa Panju said that those phones are not legal and they are doing illegal work because they have a length of light weight and even the natural resources used to have enough quality.
He said the owner of the company raised the value of 40 bags with the goal while being under the way that were not involved in the country.
Alawi said the effects of those teams in fishing are big and they are usually filled with water for a period of 15 to 20 years while it was not posing instead of poverty due to being unable to buy water for two years to three and getting off.
"Those goals have been put in the fish, he cannot see him, and when getting in those teams he cannot defend his team instead he can stay in that country," said Alawi and added that the inspection of the inspection of those phones is sustainable.
