It is nothing.
It is no longer.
It is a late?
Your language is good when I am good, even you are not good.
While we have no information about home, it is very difficult, the late God is most of George Lwandamina from the news of the parents.
You are safe.
Even if it is not good, you're very safe like the sun, except that the late God bless us with the most importantly, while you are not knowing no longer.
If you see what I know what is the news of the bodies of parents.
You are safe and what should you do?
He knows what you have gone to Nairobi.
How do you come in December I cannot be?
December he is far forced him to welcome him about the late father or not the month even those are very few days.
Itself when you walk on the Quran, the late God bless you, is not the church to see the late God bless us that we are telling him and the other, he has completed the exams.
People are doing that exams have not finished no 'he says.
I am saying what I don't know what others are good, you can't know that it is hard to welcome me when she went to me and insisted that she didn't know what we saw.
The late God is the first words, he has said that my decision to prepare himself as the Almighty God bless me when I commend the Almighty God to make me do every three thousand person in the past, but I have never got that amount of money.
The late God has said you love their soul in Nairobi, then you know it is not true then you don't know if you see me if you see me if you don't know if you feel like, I don't know what I feel like, I would like you to know if you feel as, I will see you like this month.
Then I was to give them children.
You know that my child at the end of this one few hours, the late God is happy and they are unable to go down before it is not late and you are supposed to go ahead, the police do not lie!
Instead, he is thinking to get into this home in the month before you started.
This is not something that you have organized you to come up and for if you are doing?
It's not bad and it's only a trap while you meet directly at the end of the month there is no worries at the end of the month.
However, you know the deceased, but you know that you are good, it depends on the end of the month.
Others shouldn't know what you know but you know that it is difficult for you to lack even if you get the five thousand, the others do you know but you can't know but we cannot go.
