The listener is in our discussions today to make sure he has not know where we are talking to the youth until we are in Dodoma province, we are talking to this topic.
It is a sin for a female child when they got in Africa to explain his feelings to the young man, we will get to listen to the youth, they will get to him themselves because it is the girl child has freedom to say I know what he is understood to.
The son of the name is called in the past, is the student I don't know what's a topic that says it is a sin for a female child to explain his condolences to each other because we are going to and let me feel that they are going to.
In the past it was developing a female child when I wrote a man and told him that you love her, I would like to follow my son and told me that he loves you and when I think it would like to follow up with the right time I would like, because we see the night.
I tell me that I make me feel good, I urge them to carry out the fees that we also told them to talk to the citizens on the event is the best when I heard me, I want me to see me, I want me to take him about the death is not a Christian and stand of stand.
They have given you a solution.
As a result of the questions you have asked that the girl we got when the woman got told.
Not to be right.
How will I know well because your human beings are also bullied.
To register it is that?
It is good.
In a life or else.
He is one of that when he is told I love you.
It's not your not to end the time when you have been there and they have been operated without a man, we believe one thing that any person you know.
Her behavior are found.
It will be a place of life by the name is called Musa if the way is there and Pinda is little.
Quickly, when a woman sees anything that she told me, I told me the questions.
If today he has called me, tomorrow I will see him?
If you go back again, the eyes just came for example, there are some of the provinces that spread yourself and we want to meet.
Jolie told us that he is not supposed to do this day because she is not loved I don't know what I was told what I was told my friend because it's a act but inside three days he sent my close friend.
The man does not know where we are looking for you, but he has no freedom to recite since we are not a girl and I don't lead a girl and you don't know the truth, but not by all fifty hundred percent.
How is another?
That is not a sin can say your feelings for God to the male youth that you love her because it has paid the heart from his heart and is supposed to have many sister.
All the other hours.
That stakeholders is possible that I have been just like I have been one of the teams that are one of the ones who have started being no concept by a person.
From my heart and when he was given the Future program but there are some people when we want to do, I don't want jokes, but I don't want jokes, but I don't want you to solve.
Therefore, if a man is the women to follow that a musician is followed.
By putting a teaser?
This is why maybe it is in front of or he has not arrived, but you know that you are not knowing or to follow that you are not an issue to do.
I did not love you that for a long time to ask you and to follow me and to follow it, he does not love me, but he likes to live, and do not know that she has no right to tell you a girl and his intention to you.
And is called Anna Sanga, when you go to Dar es Salaam, we should be a must.
For sure that a woman is like a woman to say that when a man gets a difficult time, but if I think you love you, I am happy that I love you, I think that I don't know what I had when I saw him, that is what I got it.
If Hayatou, I would like to you like I have love among you know what you came here, here there is a whole issue of getting married!
I have talked about who plays for female child, let me tell me I love you and work.
Why is it?
Now there is now.
During this time therefore, I told me, he told me, the decision has told now someone who comes back to me, she told me, she told me.
How can he mean to me, I cannot get me.
You will love you.
Loved.
Love is also there in the past.
Little by a pose when you get my colleague, because there is no person that would you cannot believe that I would like to have a female child to have the money is clean.
If you are there.
When you were asked, I am happy that I am very happy, I am happy that I am very happy and I don't know her, I would love me, I don't know that she does not love me, but I don't know what she does not love me, but he knows me.
But the?
Mkuzo as' Imebaki Story.'
Hayatou, you cannot know as, when I'm in the first time I've ever been lost because it doesn't know my car, if you know her, I believe that I don't know her, but you don't know what I love me, I believe that she is not a person, I know if he was not a person who doesn't know if he was not a person.
The baby is just the first time.
It does not mean?
To go.
After the same time.
The time of that time.
That a woman is in the language of IT that you love is same to get once the very few times now be buried and.
I would like to do?
And the truth in plenty, who come have been money like what he said, and many are happy and he was forced to do.
But in a short time, a woman gets a lot of family, I love you very much for names, is called bison in Africa, I would like to contribute to this topic saying that a woman is pregnant for a woman to direct the man it is not a sin for a world.
At the moment, a woman gets a woman to get if he loves you, I love you, I love you, love you.
That I had been explained to say that the short woman of the holy Rosary and I'm in a long time where there is a long time where there is a lot where there is a lot that we will lead this one and how I think about logs.
Do I met?
That action will be specially used for friends and that you love you, it is that Tanzanians see you heard in a situation.
Or we do not like to talk for this kind, it's just a pipeline to follow me?
If a woman is in a small world of more than these hours, it is the same village where you like us to get if it is with the ones who will follow up to them, according to them, he has no love to love it.
When you get a man on the best of betrayed him, the truth, who is a woman to love you, I am forced to love you for another time like that, there are men and other women to be a must.
When this is now, you have been forced you a habit not to follow up and I cannot get that offense.
It is a must.
It seems that you can't have one.
Last week.
One is.
