
One of the issues that President John Pombe Magufuli that he insisted during the time of announcing his ministers' council was urging the celebrations for the appointment and that if they were doing so, they should also care about their appointment.
As the content of that statement, the president is that the appointment was to work according to the slogan of "Here, We Only Work," by serving Muslims and not that you feel.
Moreover, other content can be intended to ensure that their appointment intended to make sure that the servants of people and not people of serve but to be people to serve people in their areas by managing well the public resources that are there.
For other words is that those selected ones were required to carry the color that is affecting the toilers, so as to bring life relief together and to fill the gap in between the ones and the poor.
Mwangwi Kundya, what he said at the moment has started to be transparent after depending on the funeral of Shinyanga Regional Commissioner, Anne Kilango Malecela, in what he was seen to be false about the absence of ghost workers in that province.
However, it was noted that the investigation on the existence of more than 40 ghost workers, a situation that has cost you, for his appointment together with the administrative secretary of the province depending on.
Basically it is that some of the executives in various positions shows that, they come from the regulations of Mwana Tanu and later CCM which says "I will not say the truth I had gone for me.
The cause of cheating among the executives are saying that President Magufuli said it is a good performance.
The existence of a large number of ghost workers are saying how some of the executives have been using the authority that they had given to get the toilers without seeing a shame.
Events like that is what has brought in great effects to the community and controlling the concept of good administration as well as the ability of the government to recognize human rights and give them the development for the ratio and that, that it is successful.
On the fact that the concept of good administration is married through transparency, accountability, and our cooperation together with the ones that are under the needs of the toilers, that are in the periphery, and the small representative has been done by the poor.
In those environments the way that can be available about the relationship between the government's quality and great success in development that everyone has to make it more better that it is impossible.
That situation has a meaning that instead, the development have been seen by the poor, who have been stealing from the toilers without a sexually transmitted diseases.
In all the environment, it is clear that investigation has been pleased by using the umbrella of good governance if those are being done in mind.
In a country that is claimed to have a lot of resources and the value of the value of the human resources, it has been required to have a low-income income and that situation is due to the reduction of embezzlement, theft, abuse of power which all of them have been finalized in corruption.
All these things have been different from the concept that is built through a country that has low-income economy, is required to fight so as to have the government with success and good supervision of the law and a huge control of bribery.
