
Benefits of poultry farming.
By Peter Jiang.

A question that may some people that are blocking us to start the poultry farming, they ask you, about the means that it is difficult to be used in this activity.
There are two ways that are used to listen, aerial balls and allow them to walk and use methods where livestock will be allowed to do when they get married.
So that the farmer can succeed in this farming, it is something to know what is better.
According to Wama, James Chege, the Department of Livestock and Livestock in the University of Egidius Mwei, the decision depends on the purpose of the farmer.
"While Kenya, most of you had a lot of milk without depending on its quality, even so, this issue will continue to change because it is worried about the importance of food that we will continue being expensive, it deserves to increase in accordance with the needs of hunger.
"A modem is supposed to live in a good environment, and in an enough opportunity," he added, while insisting that they are not supposed to have a mental checkup. "They want to be careful in good environments and they were introduced to water so that they can have health and strength," he added that lecturer.
Listen to me, they are able to get married against injuries, diseases, pain and fear.
While farmers were admitted to the throat cancer and the shortage of farms in promoting peace, because of the number of people that are going to go for many years ago, lack of medicine for self-scale farmers, without opening himself, but usually comes to that area.
And according to the research that was done in the year 2013 about the interests of the milk cows that are in the house or working without stopping, in areas that are present close to Nairobi city, a cow contributes to the cost of 70 houses that are not sold.
The research conducted, that was done by Geology, DJ Alais Morindat, and Mbijima has said that those farmers have a lot of cows to ten thousand, most of them have a lot of weapons to buy a huge farm in order to improve the farming.
In addition, this means of increasing cases where land is affected by a erosion of soil, because they are not from the animals which other times give them or bake.
If you do not have any plants in eternal peace, it is easy to be dealt with by water, just after the heavy rainfall has shown.
This means of poultry farming, likewise, it will enable those animals to use the strength they have received from food as required, compared to the ones where livestock were allowed by checking the dummy check of eating.
Provided if a cow does not use a lot of power we will look for food, without doubt, this is why I wish you a lot for us because they have a lot of milk.
Likewise, through this rearing of rearing, it is easy to know that the farmer know the amount of food that he will use it.
Also, it is easy for controlling the health as well as the security of livestock, contrary to another way, where livestock were affected and even sometimes to get diseases or being set aside.
Listen to me, it is easy to avoid livestock against some of the livestock disease, for example that is caused by a problem and the one that gets another one among livestock.
In addition, a lot of time has been placed on time when this disease is used as a result of another way, livestock enters and a lot of time they are required, in order to inform the livestock in food and water.
However, this means usually have a heavy job of looking for a cow as to buy water, compared to another one.
Also, the farmer is supposed to have a huge capital to an extent of construction of houses or the ones that came in, and the cash money is because of buying those livestock.
Therefore, it is the responsibility of the farmer to remove it about how he doesn't know.
