Samatta to contest for the award of CAF.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 16th October, 2016.

The captain of the national soccer team, Taifa Stars, Mbwana Samatta is among the 30 players who had been announced by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to contest for the awards of the best player of the year of Africa.

Samatta, who is the best player of the African year for players in the last season, has been appointed to compete for the best player of the year, of Africa due to the best level that he has showed with the KRC Genk club of Belgium.
The former Simba and TP Mazembe striker, has had a great contribution in his team, KRC Genk where he defeated the team scoring important goals that made it to get into the group stages of the Europa League and then enable it to qualify for the group stages of the tournament.
According to CAF network yesterday, Samatta is collaborating with other two players from East Africa to contest for the awards, those players are Victor Wanyama from Kenya who plays for Tottenham Hotspurs club and England's international striker, Dennis Kadama, Mamelodi Sundowns won in South Africa.
The animals has been a good season for Southampton's club and giving him a chance to be signed by the Tottenham Hotspurs club this season, Dennis Oreo 'and Uganda to qualify for the African Champions League this season.
Other than Samatta who were chosen to vie for that award is in the best player of the last season of Africa, Pierre Emerick Aubameyang, who plays for Borrusia Dortmund of Germany, Riyama d (Algeria), Leicester City).
The full list of the who is competing for that award is Riyama Tanzania (Algeria), Leicester City, El Elysee Palace (Cameroon, Leicester City), Samuel Eto'o (Cameroon), Benjamin MONDE (Cameroon), Benjamin Mertesacker played.
Serge Aurier (Ivory Coast, PSG, Eric Bertrand Bailly (Ivory Coast, Manchester City) Kagyabukama Kiliba, (Ivory Coast), Mohamed Salah (Egypt, and Arsenal), Pierre Emerick Aubameyang.
Andre Ayew (Ghana, West Ham), Victor Wanyama (Kenya), Victor Wanyama (Morocco), Jean Marie Stopes Club (Morocco), John Deere Company Limited (Nigeria), Ahmed Musa (Nigeria), Leicester City (Nigeria).
Cellphone Company (DR Congo) Kagyabukama Kiliba, and Yannick Bolasie of DR Congo (Everton), Sanatan Dharma Sabha (Senegal, Liverpool), Kalambarauni Darajani, South Africa and Mamelodi Sundowns won.
Mbwana Samatta (Tanzania, Genk), Aqsa in Tunisia, Valencia, and Miss Kifu (Tunisia and Sunderland), Dennis Kadama (Uganda, Mamelodi Sundowns won.
