
Business people of Ilemela are there.
Sei 08, 2016.

The traders who are in the Kitanzini ward, Ilemi ward in Mwanza province have emerged with the increase in tax of taxes that is being dealt with by Director of that municipality, John Wanga has said that has been caused by an environment of witchcraft, tension, corruption and corruption.

As he told Citizen newspaper here this week that the situation did not affect their requirements, therefore they are planning to urge him to give him the director in court after seeing it has continued to fulfill their request to meet and look for a solution to the conflict.

"We have talked with the cost of it, if you consider the acts of corruption, happening in the council without a solution to our complaints," what can be easily read in the letter of those businessmen in July 12, 2016 from the director.

They get in that letter with a historical number of Facebook and most shops or Kehlani Percent "signed by 26 business people, was sent to the president of the United Republic of Tanzania.

Tanzania asked him to get out of a solution to be found.

About the tax of taxes, we've criticized the director that he has violated the legal guidelines for increasing the tax tax that is owned by the municipality from 20,000 to 80,000 shillings per month for a month.

"The increase in the tax placed on advertisements in the government's newspaper in the year 2015 has not yet been put it openly because the small law was supported by the council, then being deposited by the prime minister, which has become a great secret of the council and to find great fear.

"Another problem that council has reduced in an environment that is was known by the smell of bribery and corruption, it is 17 in the south of our market the day before yesterday.
The "you know that one has divided into two or three times and given a different number or more," explains another letter of those business people from April 28, 2016 from the office of the director.

In addition, the letter on July 28, 2016, with a copy of the number plate T / 5 / 11 / 10 / 27 signed by Wanga has said that the municipality has reduced tax from 80,000 shillings, but a few days later he gives leaflets that insisted on a new tax of 80,000 shillings.

Another irregularities that seems to be released into the municipality of June 28, 2016 made an invitation of planning the areas that had been signed by another person in the name Dudumizi.

However, Wanga has said that he was arrested by Good Citizen last week about the complaints he ordered the Information Officer of the Municipal of Vientiane when he refused to answer that he was allocated to other responsibilities.

I will end.
