
The issue of helping equipment for the disabled has a great importance.
The Deputy Minister, Office of the Prime Minister (people with disabilities), Doctor Abdallah Possi, has talked about the importance of various equipment to people with disabilities that have a great importance to enable them to participate in economic activities, community and development in those areas.
Doctor Possi said this while contributing to a discussion about the topic on poverty and lack of equality to the disabled people in the world.
Doctor Possi who participated in the ninth meeting of the people with disability in the world that is taking place at the United Nations headquarters (UN), New York in America.
The issue of Doctor Possi has come at a time already the leader has been quoted about the promise of the government to enable people with disabilities in the country by giving them education and improving the environment of universities and special schools for those people and increase employment opportunities.
For a long time the government and two weeks have not been touched on the issue of lack of disabled, all the days is a friendly environment for people living with disabilities, but these people are in a lot of way and many of them need shivered because of the weaknesses they have.
When you read the law number nine of the year 2010, people with disabilities are inside, there are issues of education, employment, improving infrastructure and leadership positions, there is no part about the importance of the medical equipment to those people.
For example, the eyes of the eyes need, special needs and equipment for conducting a short message, the disabled of them don't need devices to enable them to do well, the disabled of their bodies are supposed to go hand in line with the issues he made in the country of the importance of helping equipment for disabled people.
We agree with the importance of an increase in professionals in the language of points, electricity equipment, electricity and water services and to ensure the issues of people with disabilities are set aside, but we advise the issue of these equipment's supposed to be given priority because many disabled people do not have medical equipment.
If the government will increase the availability of those equipment at an affordable cost and even sometimes free will help reduce poverty of income to the disabled because they will be able to stop themselves in economic, social and development activities.
We will not expect the issue of people with disabilities to be productive to politicians especially during the campaign by increasing the speed of providing equipment to some people, instead of fighting for the issue of the equipment it should be important in the budget of the budget that is ongoing and to advise the government to give assistance from those equipment.
Statistics show that the increase of people with disabilities is high and in that logic, the people with low ability of doing work will increase, but if the government will increase energy to the issue of equipment for people with disabilities on the issue of development that will be seen.
It is important for the government to know that apart from the human rights issues, to help the disabled equipment, it will help the nation, because they will have the ability to contribute to development activities like other citizens.
