
The experts of the laboratory had been directed to register.

It has been written by us.

It has been published by 19th September 2016.

The government had urged all laboratory experts who have not been registered to do so in accordance with the requirements of the law and urged employers to give birth to experts who are not registered by the council of experts of health services.

That was said today by the deputy minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla at the launch of the council of experts of health services in the country.
Moreover, Doctor Kingoba has wanted that council to ensure that they are collaborating with other concerned authorities to supervise the quality of experts who have graduated from universities and also urged those experts to work because we lack traditions and ethics that have been directed to various laboratory guidelines.
"All experts who have not yet been done by this council have not yet been done by this council, they do that early as well as the law that follows the profession and on the year 1997 to register afresh according to the law number 22 of the year 1997 to register afresh and to get new certificates," said Doctor Kingoba.
All the laboratory experts who were registered have been urged to ensure that they pay for registration fees every year so as to ensure sustainable provision of laboratory services, and get a permit for continuing to provide laboratory services for another year.
The laboratory profession of health is among the good profession in the health sector and the health sector in general because it is a high level of correct treatment to patients who need treatment.
Doctor Kingoba said the government has made improvements in the health sector, which aims to strengthen and maintain good health services all over the country.
Among the important issues is to put primary and procedures of ensuring health service providers continue on the law, regulations, customs and ethics so that they can be able to provide better services and quality quality and eventually having a nation with better health.
