
The education of quality standards to farmers will continue.

It has been written by Arnold Pistorius.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

Recently, the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), gave a clean water and flowers training on the use of quality standards in improving the sustainable production of crops, the aim being to make sure they get productivity and care for the environment at all when they are running their farming.

The training that was organized for the cooperation of the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (LHRC), were made in Moshi town and gave them an appeal to the farmers of those crops to run better agriculture that has been beneficial, instead of using a lot of energy to produce their crops.
During the training that was opened by the Acting Director General of TBS, Doctor Egid Mubofu, the farmers got an opportunity to know how can rule the internal and international market by running a coffee production and flowers that affect the quality standards as required.
In addition, they were given education on how to use the quality standards of products that are trusted so as to give them more benefits that they used to get, including being sold about the positions they have had is doing business at this time when the country continues to build factories of industries.
Doctor Egid Mubofu has been able to sell oil and flowers that the sustainable production of those crops is possible and can benefit, if they will decide to abandon their quality standards.
He explained that it's not available in the world production with productivity to start on the farm, by using non-communicable diseases, before moving to the market. According to its business, farming, flowers and other businesses that were done by considering the standards they are used to evade the farmer.
He wanted the same way to the economy of industries, when they go down in the country and even when you go fast, because it is good that will be able to make it a threat in the market.
Doctor Mukangara has also explained to the farmers of those crops being the role of the fifth term government under President John Magufuli that is making the government institutions, including TBS to add more effort in the market and industries, to ensure that they can maintain quality standards or poor products in the market.
He said the aim is to ensure the user of the local market is free and its health by buying and using a good thing, while the environment continues to be taken.
On his explanation, the government's strategies is implemented by all stakeholders including farmers, that is why they like the standards organization in the country have shown importance of making sure they are giving training on production of production that involve quality standards.
He reminded me that the benefits the students are getting in good farming and to make better products that are derived from their produce as their nation, because they will be able to pay the required tax for selling.
However, farmers who talked with this newspaper at different times agreed to make more quality education not only in the training of one season, but all the opportunity is available, so as to have memories of important things that are required to make sure they do not have a quality standards.
They showed the enthusiasm to want to do well in agriculture and eventually getting productivity, but they explained the fear about the availability of new standards, when they explained that many times the news about it reaches the villages or in areas where communication is good and not within the villages where agriculture is being run by great importance.
He quoted Doctor Egid Mubofu has said the logic of farmers because of our journey as a country is heading to the economy of industries which is a big percentage, it depends on good natural resources.
The foundation of farmers is supposed to do, to make sure that they are not involved in the haphazard use but considering the requirements of the markets, which is together with the quality that will give the buyer to reach the farmers in all villages even if it is for looking for them and talk to them on the face.
