
The minister clarified that bill.

It has been written by our correspondent, Dodoma.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has clarified that the bill of law of the managing director of the year 2016, that was read for the second time in parliament, did not go directly in the media industry.

He has added that the bill for the purpose of the media services is there and will be presented in parliament.
He said that yesterday in parliament in Dodoma town, while conducting a motion to the bill of law of the directors of information.
He said he is impressed by the bill that was done for ten years, greeting the stakeholders for serving the rights, because despite being late and take a long time, it has the quality and said that it will have great benefits to the society.
However, he said that different from some members of parliament were using great strength to unite with the problems facing the media industry, Minister Nape said they are two different things and that the members of parliament are complaining, maybe because they did not read it well, but the special bill for media services are there.
"Members of parliament are self-employed in this platform, the bill of the availability of information that was given to one of the media industry, but my brothers I would say that there is a bill of news services of this news," he said.
He explained that, although the media stakeholders were involved but not it does not get one way to the media industry, while insisting that the bill will be accepted by the law that will increase accountability in public institutions because the citizens will have rights to get news.
"It is not true that we are supposed to disrupt the media and the sector in general, no ones who are saying that they are great deceivers. Who are capable of opposing the bill of the availability of information, these are apparent and if there is no accountability," he said.
"In addition, he told Nape today, he is, tomorrow he is not present, tomorrow it is not my law," said Nape.
