
Hundreds of the NHC to give them the office of Mbowe.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in September 2016.

The coordinators of the National Housing Corporation (NHC), Foster Auctioneers and the office of the Free Media company, the newspaper analysis of Tanzania always, and the disco hall of Gervinho.

That step was as a result of the claims that, the owner of the building that is in Mkwepu LSanya, Dar es Salaam city, Freeman Mbowe, is alleged to be 1 billion shillings from the National Housing Corporation.
An event of giving the equipment was started early yesterday morning at the scene of the scene, some of the NHC were seen to give house furniture on the offices that are in that building, including the newspaper and other equipment in the area of the disco hall of Billnas.
Speaking when responding to various things, the manager of the communication unit from the NHC, Japhet Mwangobola said one of the building is alleged to have a amount of money and he has not paid from 90 years.
He said that as a result of not paying those funds, despite being given a notice, that is why the organization has decided to enter and give out things outside the country to pay them, he said that he was given a notice to 30 days as well as an agent, but he didn't pay a debt inside that time.
"Now there is no other way you do not pay the debt to be given to the building, it's a lot for many years starting from the age of 90," said Mwanachoma, said after seeing him, they will continue to do a procedure to mocking him.
Regarding the equipment, he said that they went to the agent, who will request for NHC to sell those equipment after 14 days if the debt cannot be paid taxes on partnership at the building, Mwanachoma, said there is no issue like that and NHC is looking for a matter like that and NHC is making a chance as a common man.
On his part, the Director of the auctioning company, Joshua Nasari, said that they will produce those equipment in a story located in Buguruni, the city and within 14 days getting instructions from the NHC to sell them.
For all the time, the work of transferring of it is going on to 8 o'clock in the afternoon, some of the building did not arrived at the scene to discuss the issue, while the work of moving is going on.
At the end of August, NHC, through the Executive Director, Nehemia Mchechu announced that all big debtors living in the house of that organization Mister Mchechu said together with the building, that is owned by Mbowe, the organization wants public institutions, private and private individuals with a total of 15 billion shillings.
