I would like to choose to you.
I think the big problem I think day.
A section.
The first one is different from the sponsors of these teams.
The ones that had a partnership that is competing and it was not dancing, claimed that the team can win in this game so as to agree or not them to do you.
And you cannot continue having the lovers and parents of both sides, something that does not be in the same environment with coaches and to the fans.
And that is what led to some of the coaches they have been informing them after the match while they were sitting in the same time and they did not have a game where they are warned and they have not given these two teams and if you check on the other side.
Some of the coaches of our country and especially the ones that are there.
He is not found.
They led the national commission that have been using these two sides to get players or form a national team what I do?
It is clear that there are good players in small teams.
Those who can arrive at the national team but on the thoughts of Tanzanians who have been suffering under Simba and Yanga which is having a long time in our country and to see so that they use these teams and maybe they can be used for us.
Those two people maybe which is due to you or a player it starts to put up in those two teams and thus making the national team coaches to take players in those two teams where it is usually taking place with our country.
And therefore, when I was coming from these two teams, the commission are playing with one and who failed to know because some of them are political and another is not good to see what is happening but you can get the results of Simba and Yanga even before it happens.
Separate himself and I have a problem with Georgia before it hasn't been released without results.
And there is still a two that is called two, I do not look at the true artist, I will see that these are awaiting for what does not want to do all over the country in cold Cold together with in the first league.
For example's example is known.
There are a team that we have sent her sister and you.
Because of the environment of Yanga and Simba.
It is known professionally.
It depends on evidence but it is very open and at the front line.
Until you will not see his reality and the team is when it has been approved, and Simba and Yanga soccer club is being involved in the premier league carrying another team and that it is not a goalkeeper who had decided to see details of these teams.
And there are still other things that they come?
The Premier League to take him so that this Simba soccer club and Yanga is the one that had a environment of asking him that there is an entrepreneur there.
Our leaders live.
It is not happy, he told me the language that he has not been able to close to sports issues because I'm waiting for a team I believe only when a person going to that team, Simba and Yanga were seen as the most popular player.
