
A small fish from Coast who doesn't have a swim.
When he got a lot of food at home, I will fly him, up to one of the voice that made up to now in the country there is no doubt that XAli Mohamed Al-popularly known as BISON.
His group of cosmetics for now is growing up in the air, most of them were congratulating them to compete for the football fanaticism here in the country.
A man in the area of Kisauni, Mombasa, Msalika as he was forced to leave school in form one due to lack of fees.
It is an issue that made him to work together with the work of the building and selling second-hand in order to get money to promote its music.
His music has been accompanied by the star of Tanzania AlAli Kiba, a veteran player from America Wiz Khalifa and the Nigerian actor, 2 o'clock.
"I was attracted a lot by musician Ali Kiba due to his efforts he worked with because I used to call him even before starting with singing," he said.
Wiz Khalifa have arrested the result of his good relationship with people in this profession.
"His 2-old talent depends on its own kind and especially his song, African Queen, it really impressed me and sometimes I would do my voice in singing that song," he explained.
If you are the ones that could be able to evade a lot of life, many would like to know the use of voices what is it?
MM, I am an artist from Mombasa but for now my headquarters are here in Nairobi, I started doing well in the year 2007 and then I started doing well in the year 2014 and then I started doing well out of the year 2014 and then I started doing well between the year 2014 and then I started doing my work and to write my own videos.
Now, you have been signed by the WBC Label that is owned by the Muzdalifa Institute, Arjen Robben.
MM: We met through social network.
My friend, who has written my heart on the internet, made it clear that the song was not seen and I believe that my work will continue to communicate with if I believe that my work will continue to be clean and with a high quality, an issue that doesn't follow it in media stations.
Your music stars have continued to receive him, we should tell you about the broader interests of this song.
The first first, I am very happy that I have written this song and if I'll leave this song, I believe that people have separated themselves because this song is played even in Tanzania, but I believe that people have gone themselves so that this song is played even in Tanzania.
The love you have written your songs.
MM, I cannot say that there are other things that concern it, especially considering that I have 21 years only, and therefore I don't have a lot of skills of these issues but I remember time I got a message on the internet, relatives, and neighbors.
