
In the moment, the bus will be paid (TPC) wants them to pay taxes more than 100 percent.
And love will happen.
Tanzania is among the developing countries in Africa through various economic sectors including industries.
Despite the importance of industries, therefore there has been no effective policies that aim at improving and develop.
Local industries.
That sector is still being faced with a lot of challenges, an amount of knowing the goals intended to improve the economy and better life for its citizens.
These policies are supposed to be sold to different products that are produced outside the country and even those that are produced in the country, but there have been a problem in the products that are produced in inside.
Products that are seen to sell our markets in the country, despite that there are many products that are produced by the local industries but it depends on the market.
Reports that was given by the Ministry of Industry Trade and Marketing, shows that the industries sector in the country has been growing at nine percent only in the year, a level that is still little.
Investors of various industries in the country have been being affected in the production because of the absence of reliable policies for transporting its domestic industries.
And this is as a result of some of the policies to allow all products that are produced here in the country and which many times it is sold at the low price more that are produced in the country and therefore, affecting the local industries.
One of the industries that were approved by that situation is a factory for producing sugar of TPC in Larger area, of Moshi, Kilimanjaro Province.
This factory has been when it will be complete and a big challenge of being unable to withstand the liberation of the internal market due to the sugar industry from the sugar industry that has been directed from outside it is sold at a low price compared to the ones which are studying here in the country.
Administration officer of the factory, Jaffary Ally, says that factory was thrown out by the government in the year 2000 and handed to investors from Tanzania Telecommunications Company, (Mauritius).
He says that since the handed over to private investors, the factory of TPC has caused great success.
Production but it has been suffering from the challenges of the benefit and sugar that had been ordered from outside that country.
"We have complained so much in different levels of leadership here in the country concerning the effects we call.
Business arising from the sugar that had been directed from outside the country and this situation is continuing to take them, "says Jaffary.
He says the sugar produced in the country has been partnering to do well in the internal market because of the government.
It has launched these business people to bring in sugar from outside which it will not be taxed.
He says that the sugar has been being sold at a low price compared to the sugar produced by the industries in the country and that the situation has been destroyed by industries in the country and that of the nation as a whole.
