Kikwete is the chairperson of honor, CCM?
May 27, 2015.

Finally, the introduction of the race to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete has been asked officially, on the side of Revolutionary Party (CCM), where that ruling party announced the schedule of getting its candidates in the next general elections.
Before that step, there are two major events related to the presidential race which happened recently.
Maybe that step by the State House that seen many can have an opportunity for the members of parliament of that party, who were admitted to address that scandal being held up with their private activities of wanting him to return to parliament after the next general elections it is obvious that a member of parliament who depends on a difficult time to protect the party's government, because it can take place in the country.
But on the second side, the involved have been issued about the scandal, they have organized a good environment to bring their names in "said a source of having intentions to vie for the presidency, then if they don't want to vie for presidency, then it does not want to contest for the parliamentary seat.
Although I believe some of the executives who will be accountable because of the scandal were only injured, especially the former Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Khamis Gumbo (when you follow keenly, you will discover that there are many people with faith like my, you can't see that he can leave the same. "
The second event was a step by CCM to open its cadres not to be locked because of violating the procedures of vying for the presidential position through that party and it is not only that the ruling party has its procedures of getting candidates in different positions, denying them its members freedom to announce their intention of vying for leadership is same as possible.
When you follow keenly, you will discover that the step of some of the party members to announce his intention to inherit the president Kikwete that in October them have shown an important importance for those who want to lead the country immediately so as voters can be able to maintain their positions.
When you put aside the two events, at the end of last week, the executive council of CCM met in Dodoma city and as it was expected, the general election meeting left that party's directive left that the party's chairperson of CCM, President Kikwete made a call to the party to elect the candidate that is going on inside and outside the party.
Meanwhile, President Kikwete warned members of CCM and his colleagues that the era of thinking that any candidate that ever happened in that party will be the president who has been called by time.
Let you inform you about those two statements, about CCM to get a candidate who is well inside and outside the party, I think the problem is very easy to stop, but if you get enough money, there should be enough money and have a confirmation that is there in approximately four elections in that party to the upcoming leadership.
And maybe the great evidence is that of "accepted," according to the party members of that party, despite being forced to resign as a result of a big scandal in the past, its main ability have caused various community groups to support him while he is not well inside and outside CCM because of his ability, leadership or its ability.
But the biggest challenge to President Kikwete is his energy in that party and some of us follow keenly the performance of our country we think that the chairmanship of Kikwete has ever been of more honor more than the strength of doing his requirements but also to be followed.
