
Fake phones have helped to reduce by TCRA.
Suzan Mwillo, Citizen Director, annamatinde @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, as the day of switching off fake phones is near the whole country, it has been noted that those using them are continuing to reduce in the country.
The Communications Manager of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Innocent Mungy has said that last year it will switch off fake phones by the end of June, the number has reduced from 30 percent to 13.
He said during the verification of fake phones in December last year, the authority revealed that the 30 percent of fake phones are used in the country.
TCRA has made another verification of February which made the use of fake phones to reduce by 18 percent.
"The verification of the month of March revealed that the use of the use have been reduced up to 13 percent," said Mungy and noted that TCRA will make another evaluation before the end of the week.
We are worried about the use of fake phones will continue to rise up until June at the end of having a person who use the fake phones, "said Mungy, the manager said the results of those evaluation is against their expectations.
"People have shown a good thing, most of them have decided to use them before we take off," said the citizens have had the response because the authority has been giving education all over the country about the use of those phones.
Until now, TCRA has given education about the citizens to stop using fake phones in the northern region, the southern highlands and the Central Region and next week that authority will be in the lake region.
He said that education will also be provided to the citizens of Coast Province, Morogoro, Lindi and Mtwara.
He said the province of Dar es Salaam which has many users of fake phones will be the last to be given that education, June before switching off those phones.
Regarding the people who put fake IMEI number (IMEI) in the electronic equipment, he said they are doing free work because those phones will be disabled.
"Our machines have the ability to recognize a number of fake IMEI number and fake phones," said Mungy.
He said that even a person has changed the real phone number of fake phones, the day of switching off fake phones will fall down.
Also, he said it is difficult to ensure people who are doing that skill because they are doing their phones have been restored.
