That is in Gaza is' terrorism 'of Israel.
Jide 31, 2014.

In the world is witnessed how the Israel nation explains the great violence by continuing with severe attacks to destroy their homes and even lives of Palestinians and learn to thousands in Gaza.

This is as a terrorist attack that is because, dollars can do a terrorist attack against its people and even other people, there are every reason for the world to condemning these attacks of Israel.

Recently, Kinana has already made a terrorist attack that it should be remembered, that at the beginning of 1949 years, the prime minister of Kiyoja, started the construction of a residential houses to return to the former Coastal Union and Palestine that had been under the Democratic Republic.

After the first premier league, Palestine had under sponsorship of British.

After a campaign meeting of Jehovah's campaign, the government of England announced the existence of a Jehovah's nation but the England government was also required to continue the project of construction of Jews.

That situation led to the introduction of several terrorist groups that were kidnapped by the British. During the second round of World Cup, many groups participated in their terror activities.

After the second round of the world, those groups started again the terrorist attack to defend a nation of Jews at the British attack known as King David Hotel in the city of Jerusalem.

After the second round of world immigrants, more than Kicheere continued to enter in Palestine who had been involved in the British sponsorship for the establishment of the Jews at the introduction of a terrorist group with a terrorist group.

Two out of those groups are Shiza Kichuya and Stibel in the groups that used the terror attacks to run their activities. Among those drugs is the bombs of the letter.

Since the month of September 1932 to be announced to the Israel nation, the month of May 1948, the famous groups were known as popularly known as summoning demons.

Before and even after the announcement of the Israel nation, Ugandan groups were approved by Staford, and later the Israel nation have been running the military attacks against Palestinians and say.

These actions be handled as a terrorist attack against Palestine, where the main aim is to appreciate all those who don't have the Jews.

In order to achieve this goals, Israel have placed a lot of terror attacks in villages and the wild areas where approximately seven thousand people were arrested their homes in the previous war between physically challenged and they will not have known.
These people were not allowed to go back to their homes.
