
Speculations of Mwigulu Nchemba running the presidency.

Break the news from Dodoma the same time.

In a surprising situation, Mwigulu Nchemba has emerged as the leading one of announcing his presidential intention.

His quality has been involved with its integrity in the party and the government, whereby on the environment that is happening, Mwigulu Nchemba on embezzlement of good performance in the level he did in hold.
Mwigulu Nchemba has been good and a dummy check to build a good argument with building a nation and the party in general, it is a person with control, brave, in charge of his decisions, is true and calm, and wisdom and wisdom in the country.

He has tried to be separated by other candidates in different levels.
Work hard.
The presidential experience in the party and the government in the country, has been seen in the net due to a big position that he will serve the life of a party again for a short time when he found himself entertaining all the candidates.

The integrity of the vehicle are not aware they could cause him and the judge Ramadhan Nassib and Mama Asha-Rose Migiro.

Another one of the political capacity in the country, Mwigulu Nchemba being unable to run his colleagues due to his history of participation of all the political kind in the country.

More than all the agenda which has touched me the hopes of CCM members heading to the citizens where it is written in Mwigulu Nchemba, has been understood by many Tanzanians for his agenda, therefore it is easy to cut off without doubt without doubt.

Mwigulu Nchemba is interpreted as a person who doesn't have groups inside CCM to an extent where he has the ability to connect all CCM members from different groups.

Furthermore, he has won all 13 criteria again with a landslide win.

The sure of this matter was inspired by the surprise of Honorable President yesterday made his speech in parliament where he thanked all the leaders that he held with them including Edward Lowasa.
Just after mentioning the name of Lowasa, he opened up by saying that a lot of many people and others are veteran players who live in the country, and those during those who be identified.

Here in Dodoma, people did not believe that the amount started to be heard yesterday some of the candidates have started paying up and wanted them to leave.
