
Researchers are read, they are read.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published (03 / 2016.

Two researchers and a driver of the Research Institute of Agriculture, Selina (MARI) in Arusha town have been killed and then their bodies were burnt down in Iringa Town, Chamwino district in Dodoma province when they were doing a cleanup of soil.

Those killed have been mentioned that include Nicaragua, who was a driver of a car model of Toyota Rahabu Lubago, who was the registration number SJ 9570's property, Selahura together with two researchers who are Teddy Mapunda and Jaffari Matemu.
The police in Dodoma province is holding 30 villagers of Iringa village following the killing, while Dodoma Provincial Commissioner Jordan Rugimbana, giving an order to vie for the service officer of the district and the acting director general so as to pave way for the investigation of the incident.
Those killings took place the day before yesterday in Iringa village in Chamwino district, after those people who did not want to remain in the vehicle being attacked by the villagers of Iringa where he got shocked and said that he has seen many people are mutilated in blood.
After those reports go to the village where the pastor of the Catholic church of Christian Family, Patrick Mgaka (46), where he will end the village through the grave of the church that had been attacked by preventing the blood that is when the villagers woke up a car, killed and shivered.
After that incident, the operation was done by joining the ordinary police and the armed police (FFU) and other police officers.
Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, the Deputy Executive Officer of Makanya, George Simbachawene, said the researchers and the driver came to the village to do their activities, but even so they did not vie through the office.
"We know you arrived to the village because of their activities, but I did not give a report to the government of the village who were looking for ways to arrive at a place where they found women who are self-employed in a natural way," he claimed a good.
He said that they decided to call him one of the women in order to ask you the way, but the woman was happy to think that they were kidnapped in the blood.
"The same time he started making noise, close to there, when they were in the church which had already been used to convince people to get married," he said and after those citizens, they started attacking those people and then killed.
He said the efforts to serve the people were found due to number of people.
Speaking at the scene area, Rugimbana, all those involved in those killings will be taken against them when the police commander of Dodoma Province, Lazaro Mambosasa said that until now 30 people are being held by police including 21 men and nine women.
In Arusha town, the coordinator of Research of Selcom Company, Charles Lyombe said, "include us with us, the employees of Selcom Company, Arusha soon after listening to the deaths of our colleagues who have been burnt down yesterday (the day before yesterday) while they are continuing to work on soil in Dodoma province.
"The truth this news have been wrecking your news because our colleagues were doing research on different villages in order to know the types of soil that are needed for agriculture."
According to the voluntary donation, those reports have been the surprising truth in the center because their colleagues were at work to implement their work responsibilities.
He said two weeks ago their colleagues were continuing with the work of collecting nets in various areas, but when they arrived at the village of Iringa while they arrived at the village of Iringa while they met with unknown people and started falling down and later started putting off the government's car together with the three servants.
He mentioned the deceased that include Nicaragua, whom she was a driver of a car model of Toyota Rahabu Lubago who was a driver of a car number of type Techno Yvonne Cole, together with two researchers, Teddy Mapunda and Jaffari Matemu.
"We have involved with this incident, but that is why we have already received and some of our colleagues have already started going to Dodoma province so as to know where we start and plan for the burial, but we have been shocked by this incident, but we have been shocked by this incident, but we have been shocked by this incident.
He added that the work they are doing is difficult, they don't know before he was found with his death, their colleagues tried to face what has been written by Soundton Sound Band, Dodoma and Mhungula ward.
