Rungwe West made an election and "will be sold as a holy martyr.
28th of 13, 2015.

In politics of the Rungwe West region in Mbeya Province, the names of Professor David Cameron, Sakuwaha who died in order to get a holy Rosary, but this year people are waiting for a lot from them.
The wonders that is being waited for by the spread of information that those family members will enter the contest for the parliamentary seat through the Rungwe West region.
Professor Mwakyusa is the member of parliament of the Rungwe West region finishing his three-term program as the member of parliament of that constituency, where in all programs that he was supported by his two brothers.
That region is one of the two counties that are in the Rungwe District, Mbeya province, and in the general elections this year, the expectations of many politicians from that province is to hear their member of parliament when he announced that they will not vie for them.
Politicians have said to show.
Until now, outside the nominated member of parliament, Professor Mwakyusa has said five names are mentioned to show the intention of vying for that constituency for them, being only one from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
From the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is together with the member of parliament of his term, Professor Mwakyusa and his opponent in the last elections, Richard Kasesela.
However, he was mentioned to be the names of the nominated member of parliament, Cynthia Gordon speaking with the popular businessman in the country, Amon Mkenyi and that the person has gotten the talk more in various areas of the Rungwe District.
In politics of Mbeya Region, these two people are believed to be among the close people of Professor Mwakyusa, as explained to help him in all three programs to vie for that constituency.
As a result of their relationship, that's why they were mentioned to be among those who showed intentions of vying for that province that is not a talk, while some of the intentions of vying for advice and faith that there is a game they want to play.
Some of the political stakeholders in that province, together with the possibility of sincere will to build a political competition by fighting in one constituency and it's because of their faith, if there is a game they want to play.
Among those showed up about those reports of mother wait, together with Sakuwaha who is vying for that region, is Richard Kasesela who has confessed to go back again to vie for that constituency.
"Sakuwaha who was a great ambassador of Professor Kamuzora in the previous elections, these are people who are unable to get in competition," said Kasesela.
But there are some who believe that this issue is possible in politics and that explains the growth of democracy.
However, talk about those reports saying he has never spoken to anyone and that they will be left to continue.
I am not seen, I don't see someone, they want them to see maybe, we cannot do something in that way, we will tell him to vie for a phone when he arrived in Dodoma, and when he was asked if citizens will not tolerate its stand saying.
"
Until when we go down, Professor Mwakyusa has not openly stated that he will not vie for again in the next general elections, and even when he was asked, he answered that his stand of vying for him will not support him in front of his employers, because of his voters.
"I have been asked so much, if I went for you or not, it is possible for wanting to know only or the others to be able to get into the race after knowing what I will decide," says Professor Mwakyusa in an interview with Raia Mwema, "says Professor Mwakyusa in an interview with Raia Mwema.
The member of parliament says that it is not a sin for more people to show the intention of vying for that region, he believes that they are democracy, that the Rungwe District have a broader field to choose more than what he was only one candidate.
Professor Mwakyusa confirms that Sawazisha 'is a very close person, but he does not have a problem if he has shown his interest, saying that that was a confirmation of the growth of democracy, Rungwe West region.
Here, I've heard about Sahaging, it's my close person, I have faith, like it is true, he says that this journey comes in the race for all his efforts, that he is expecting to loose the constituency.
"I call him, I will fight with him, I will fight with me, I will follow up on God," said Richard Kasesela in his interview with Raia Mwema, about his stand to vie for that constituency.
