
What are required to achieve the economy of industries.
The company of cement is outside the city of Dar es Salaam and industries like that is the aim of the government to increase employment and revenue.
Planning of the economy of Tanzania in the fifth term government is to have economy of industries, this is a good economic issue because of the benefits of having the economy of industries.
These benefits include employment, high-income revenue and non-governmental organizations, grow other private sector because the market for these sectors and by getting natural resources and other products.
There are several factors to fulfill the purpose of fulfilling the kind of economy of the industries being implemented among these conditions is to have a national budget that is capable of having an industrialized economy.
This article is special for this season's budget to discuss what is needed to take place in the main budget so as to succeed in the aim of having a economy of industries in Tanzania.
The aim of the economy of industries to the way of the speech by President Magufuli that he made in parliament on November 20, 2016, there are three major types of industries that are caused by the fifth phase government.
This is the industries that can employ many people, that can produce products from many customers of the country and other things that will improve industries in the country together with other things, the government is aiming to strengthen the industries that are in the country to increase the contribution of the industrial sector in crude oil from 9 percent of the year 2013 to 15 percent in the year 2020.
Also, it aims at 40 percent of employment in the country to be released, in the industries sector by the year 2020 and plans to convince the private sector to invest in small industries, and big and big resources including the big natural resources in large numbers.
The government is also aimed at stopping the internal industries against competition from outside the country and another plan is for the modern technology of industries as well as industries which use modern technology and machines which use many people.
In order to get a lot of employment from industries that will be able to give quick opportunities to attract investors in this kind of industries and the amount of products that will be sold outside factories and also to consider the quality of employment opportunities including tax exemptions.
The budget for other sectors to ensure industries that uses modern machines and machines for many employment opportunities, is to strengthen and continue improving the industry sector but also the development of the industry get enough budget, it will be a problem of employment that is expected to come from this sector.
The budget for the local consumers of the government aims to have industries that will produce goods for the purpose of many local consumers.
Among things that can take place so as to make sure the industries to produce products to meet the economic growth will be among them.
The legal action that can be taken is together with putting tax tax on products from outside the country and other organs for the steps that can be taken is to provide assistance to the local industries so as to compete with the outside universities.
However, it is important to know that the issue should not be used to protect the industries only.
Also, it is important to see the international and regional agreements about the internal business in the East African Community for example, there are tax tax for products from outside the community.
The legal action as such as tax to protect the local industries in Tanzania must be able to consider the standards that are not international and the regional.
The budget for selling outside the BMW car which is caused by the government is such that will produce products so as to sell products outside the country after to meet the internal market so that this aim will make sure that this market can be used in this markets.
There are many factors before being able to sell in the foreign market.
Among the important steps that can be taken so that the industries can be taken so that the industries can sell outside is together with the cost of industries and business environment, therefore it is a must to make sure that the collection of industries and business in general is to make sure that the growth of industries and business in general are required to make sure that the growth of industries in the context of this article ongoing.
These investment environment and business are the ones that will attract and leave the investors from within and outside, small and big investors in the industry sector and those in the sector.
These issues include infrastructure in its-inch width along with huge infrastructure such as big and small roads as well as phone and railway infrastructure, the number of energy and small-quality standards, skills and skills in the country.
Conclusion so as an aim of economic growth being implemented, together with other things, it is a must that the main budget as it is for the ones in the industry and sectors that involve yourself what were mentioned in this article.
It should be remembered that the budget is implementing development plan for the year 2016 / 2017 is the first in implementing this year's development plan that starts in July 2016, the main topic in implementing this program is the economy of industries and therefore if the budget is not expected to have economy and industries, we will have begun badly.
