
Misuse of clothes to fight.

It has been written by Pickup, Kalen.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

Residents of Muembe Makundi Ward, Msuha has said that Rukwa Province have received one week of pastoralists that are alleged to attack the farmers of farmers to leave the village, being accused of conducting the brutal killings of women and children in that village.

It is alleged that the brutal killings include selling clothes at public and scorned Tanzanian children, women and female children from the community of farmers when they get water to River Maganga, in that village which the community of breeders claim is their property.
While speaking at different times, the residents of that village who many of them are farmers, claimed to be men from the community of breeders not to stop their areas and preventing women following the city of River Maganga in the village where they receive them and he claimed that the source of water is their property.
Some of the residents of that village which many of them are farmers have requested the government to intervene in order to avoid fights that can be avoided.
The chairman of Matopeni Ward in that village, Charles January has claimed the farmers have been a threat in the areas of farmers in the village and "signifies" with the water source (River Maganga) and leaving the residents of that village when they come to look for another source of water.
"We know the residents of Matopeni Ward in the village shall be forced to use abusive water, while there are faith that are not safe for our health as it is very dirty," he said.
A resident of that village, Samuel Eto'o has claimed that the community of farmers have already lost their agricultural areas while they were collecting their livestock by strength in their farms.
The chairman of that village, Patrick I am saying that despite confessing of being there, he claimed that the community of breeders has been a great obstacle to them after defeating and arrest the police in their areas with the strength of their objection.
Julieth Bana, has admitted the existence of that incident while promising that he will follow up the conflict closely so that all of them were found looking for that brutal act of women in that village will be followed and taken to state agencies.
