
The youth have cautioned people to ask for presidency on December 31st, 2014.

The presidential activities inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have continued to bring back taxes within and now the Youth Union of the party (UVCCM) has provided a statement to condemn the suspects of corruption that will help people to give words while they buy.

Already the top leadership of CCM including the chairman, President Jakaya Kikwete, Deputy Chairperson Philip Mangula and the secretary general Abdulrahman Kinana has denied the use of money and presidential campaigns before the time of time and now UVCCM has given an open statement to deal with groups of corruption in those areas.

The secretary of the nominated member of parliament of CCM, Paul Makonda has said yesterday, Tuesday that the party cannot be able to stop high use of money.

Without mentioning the names of those involved, Makonda is showing off one of the group of presidential candidate which has been using a lot of corruption to look for presidency, a situation that he said is against him and the purpose of the establishment of CCM.

He knew the statement by Doctor Egidius Mwei, who said that the "party of any political party in the world increased due to conflicts facing a long-term experience of the big political parties which has shown that because a party is supposed to withstand power from some of its leaders and inside his government.

And Doctor Bashiru Ally who said that the 'political party is ideology of the political party is politics because the real way of the word' politics - "politics" is a place where people with a great purpose in the country is not a shortage of "water with up," - water that has been put in front and went up to make money or get positions at any cost! "

He congratulated the stand of Kinana by the secretary of ideology and propagation, Nape Nnauye, about climate change and urged them to stop doing so since they don't have a good intention of CCM and the citizens of Tanzania.

"We the youths we know that those allegations and those words have been given by the bad intentions and to aim to remove those leaders of the party, to ensure that there is a strategy of treason, controlling and coordinated by" internet "inside the party which has organized to run for treason.

"We the youth of UVCCM we recognize that to appreciate the efforts of the secretary general and its headquarters to strengthen and strengthening the party and the aim of supporting them, to listen and participate in conflict resolution, problems and their challenges is not to be taken to the party," he says.
