
Farmers, Ubungo try to buy.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The District Commissioner of Ubungo, Dar es Salaam, Humphrey Polepole, has urged all farmers and women of that area to arrive in his office starting next week to take advantage of more than four percent and that it cannot get a bond so that they can buy chicken to get out of poverty.

He said that while there is a report that every Tanzanian is supposed to eat 300 eggs in a year, something that has not been reached because up to now, 75 eggs are being paid.
Polepole said that in Dar es Salaam during the commemoration of the World Habitat Day, that was organized by the chicken stakeholders (TPRI). He urged parents to grow their businesses and make sure that children get better services especially eating eggs in plenty.
"Many families cannot eat a eggs, it is now for breeders and even the residents of Ubungo you are in my office, to get a small interest loans and as it will become Tanzania that it will be added a loan from two times," said Polepole.
According to Polepole, is the first time for Tanzania to commemorate that day.
He said that in order to get the loan, they are required to have five people groups, they do work hard and to ensure that they are realizing the conditions of getting loans so as to increase the scope of getting more loans.
"If a breeder will take one hundred thousand shillings and he will be able to buy a fine of 1002 and the government will vote for a loan once again, so as to continue expanding their business more times," said Polepole.
He has said that in that district there is $250,000 to be in that district with 25000 households, because every household has only one chicken, an issue that causes many families unable to eat the eggs and the required levels to build better health.
A chicken officer in Ubungo district, Agenda Kasibu, said there are challenges in rearing chicken in the district including breeders of the chicken to open industries which are low-scale farmers and the others to buy machines for not receiving bribes and place them in homes without considering the required procedures.
