
The construction of 2 cargo ship will be completed this month.

It has been written by Joachim Nyambo.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

The Marine Transport Regulatory Authority has assured the government that the two cargo ship that continues to be built in the port of Itonya in Kyela district, Mbeya Region will be complete by end of this month.

The Director of that company, Salehe Abdullah has said that by October 30 this year, that company will be criticized for the two cargo ship in the Lake Nyasa to be ready for trials.
He gave that statement the day before yesterday after the Mbeya Provincial Commissioner Amos Makalla made a surprise visit at the port of Itonya about the construction of the new ship.
That director said that for now the construction of two cargo ship has reached more than 80 percent, therefore the jobs that are remaining are completion including illegal immigrants and already the ship has received the names of Mv Ruvuma and Mv Njombe.
He said that the passengers' ship whose construction will end in February next year will be given the Mv Mbeya II as the name of Mv Mbeya II as the name of Mv Mbeya was to be used in the past years in the northern region in Nyasa to many years ago.
"Mv Mbeya II is ready for the construction has started using abusive language, we are expecting that after the two cargo ship admitted at the lake where we will get enough opportunity for the beginning of a big construction of the passengers that will have the ability to take two hundred passengers and two hundred thousand tons in one time," he said.
While giving his evaluation after the tour, Makalla said he was impressed by the steps of that construction and that he has faith that the promise to return to the two cargo ship at the end of this month will have been advised.
"I have shown that everything already has been closed down and engines that are remaining is small because the speed will continue recently by the end of this month will have already been killed and I will come to participate in the trials," said Makalla.
He said that various business stakeholders have started to show the intention of using that transport just after giving services.
