Traffic safety is in doubt.
Petit 30, 2016.

President John Magufuli has been forced to know her for the 28-page about various accusations against the Department of Information, Senior Officer of the government, which includes the boss of the department to destroy the government's secret documents to one of the big opposition parties in the country.
In the middle of those accusations, the deputy head of government, Cassin Chidinma, who holding the position for approximately 22 years now.
Those accusations have been written by the patriotic workers of that department, in their letter of May 5, 2016 that had been taken to the office of the chief secretary (State House).
"Khajida Kopa, the government's chief justice has a very close relationship with the leaders of the opposition party, because there are some of the documents that was presented to the party, saying that he has denied those reports, saying that he has no relationship with the political leaders and that he is not a threat to the government.
In addition to that, Chihira has said that he is alleged to have the purchase without following the laws of purchase, getting secret of the government in the private company and to have a lot of relationship with some of the private companies, especially gender.
In me, he doesn't know that in that way, those servants have decided to see its use, those servants have claimed that, in the year 2011, the department bought the machines that have ever been used from Germany, contrary to the law of the purchase of the year 2011 and its regulations of the year 2011.
"The machine has been bought as' Folmachines" (which has been made) from Germany without following the procedures and law of purchase the truth is that this machine was bought using machines from Germany, but it does not have some important areas like "Clients," and "Ciano."
In addition, when this machine is contributed by, the government was confused by the attorney general of the government that the machine is new and is full, so it is a whole issue because after being defeated in the factory was forced to work until it was added, "said part of the letter to Magufuli.
According to those workers, the machine for now has no documents for its procurement, although it was bought at a cost of a total of two billion shillings.
Due to the poor condition of the machine, those workers have claimed that the government entered into a huge loss of registering votes in a private company with Yussuf Himid because the machines were required to do that work in the Department of Mpaze.
Other allegations against Chihira has a two years before retiring from work in accordance with the law it involves the issue of privacy of the government.
The workers who wrote on Magufuli claims that it is important to be the oath of presidency that he gets the president together with new ministers, constitution, has been recommended by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) all which were defeated outside the department, something that has endangering the development of the country.
"These important jobs that are being defeated outside the government factory, for normal is brought to the factory and is needed for all the preparations to reach the steps to be taken against them.
"But because it is poor being taken out of the government factory and in the secret, as the secretary general, he is getting confused by the wife of the government that work that were defeated in the factory," said the letter.
The workers are also accusing Chidinma along with the disappearance of 104 licenses for the weapon ownership in the factory "Matatizo." In the year 2011.
A 140 license that had been completed are being reserved in "TimizaMkopo kwa Wakala," the unit was lost on, an error in the controversy without having his hand or the same way.
"It should be known that the was one of the equipment, which is a result of the Registrar of keys and the other is known by the head teacher of the government, Mister Cassin Chipa," said the letter.
That document was explained that in that incident of loss of which occurred without having hand over a penalty, 140 licenses were lost in the middle although the ones that were above and below were not lost.
Just after getting these accusations, BBC Mwema should wait and get Chihira who had agreed to speak and explained his part.
He said all the accusations that were directed to him are headed by people who decided to resolve his honor of the government service that he was working for more than 30 years.
