
Doctor Kikwete wants the elderly to support the leadership of President Magufuli.

The national chairperson of CCM, retired President Doctor Jakaya Kikwete, has asked the elderly in the country to support President Doctor John Magufuli in his leadership so as to give them his leadership.
What is the heart to serve God?
He said, during the period that Doctor Magufuli has arrived in power until now it's a short time, therefore it is not good to start getting married and it's not happy, instead the elderly and Tanzanians in general have been able to help him for the benefit of the nation.
Kikwete gave that request when he was speaking at a meeting with the elders of Singida province, where he said that he was leading with the advice of elders in the country can be demolished.
"Lead the country without other elders not to do well and when you see the old man in the young ship in the youth they can start doing well and the instrument they will go through safe," said Kikwete while celebrating with the elderly.
It's not every elder of the party, each one with the person, each person, others have gotten themselves in the party.
He emphasized that if you want the country to focus on the elderly, but it is leading the country by using the youth only to the country can be demolished and there is a place where he went to vie for a member of parliament in his constituency, Bagamoyo, Coast, he made a member of the elders that made him so much.
The elderly are part of the hopes of the party and the government, so that there should be the existence of the elders that are not near the party, "I thank all elders go through the party and support the government heading to now by Doctor John Magufuli," insisted Doctor Kikwete and added that.
Even in our party we have made a council of the elders of the elderly people to sit down, where many the elderly we want to marry off some people who want them to listen, but the last issue that will need the advice.
He said one of the leaders who usually do not tire to form that council was the third term president, Benjamin Mkapa, who gave advice to be called to give advice that there is a big issue and that even they give advice to leaders who are in power to fail or not.
He urged the elders to continue supporting the government of the current government which for now has attained a short period of three months which is the same as a small child that is there.
He said that the big possibility is to support him, more than the person getting married or else they will face the heart, within five years, it will be willing to attend to you more so that the country can move ahead of development.
Kikwete stressed that even when he is expected to go to give advice to go, and when I advise you to take him, but he told them that he is not every thing, the elders will go back to give advice, will delay many things.
It has been organized by Richard Mwaikenda, Singida.
