
Mwageni has said that he does not think about the violation of the rights of artists.
You get the first time that was going to recently, "Mwachibuzi, a kitenge on the pressure, dough nuts, a cap (wearing a cap) who dies.
Nakamoto: Popularly known as Listen Mwezi Song with Lungangira who is in a short period of words, is just one day and I don't read my day after he doesn't know what I will do if I don't know if I will leave you.
'Ntapata Wapi' or home?
Rich Mavoko has written my day after he died. "There is a big possibility of who scored a song Mijac Music, who is saying that it is a song that was supported by the late Walid Jichunge.'
Roosevelt was a present at that day and was welcomed by Mzee Way will give him that song in his African band 'fiesta' because Wendo was in a poor state of life, but Tabu Lungangira who had given that song even the name Wendo did not be mentioned again.
Until the year 1990, when he was asked, if he was asked, what she did not love than all, Mzee Who Lives Forever, did not see me, I don't know her, but I don't know you, but I don't know you, but I don't know you, but I don't know you, but you don't know you, but you don't know you, but you don't know you, but you don't know anything about the song.
Basically we have decided to give a full story of the main rights about her work and the first right is the writer of ethics, an act that was seen to be the author of the book, an act of ethics, a series of names of participants of the film being mentioned after a film was not the rights of ethics.
The second right is a group of business rights (SMS). These are the rights that give the author to get money due to various aspects of its work, including learning and considering the usage of the phone and so it makes a lesson so as to protect and promote the culture.
Copyright does not help a human being, but it remains in an environment of users to get better and sustainable jobs, to also make sure that the user gets a good work 'plan, and also in a country with better employment opportunities and to get a great contribution to the government's income from tax revenue collection.
It's a very few times to see the government put as an important stakeholder in Tanzania to listen to this is one of the reasons why this people can buy a lot of five million shillings in the year 2010.
It is not good to see that if you check the picture in the whole country, you will discover that billions of which have been found to be used to the sales of music and film.
The size of this income is the cause of the security problem of these jobs, those who benefit these revenue are doing every way so that the industry do not have any benefits, they can continue to evade taxes so as to pay their artists.
