
He is a stakeholder in his heart scandal.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

There are many children in the country who fail to continue with their studies, due to poverty of parents, we should come out for the councils that are set aside for the purpose of providing them to them.

That has been said by the education stakeholder in the country, John Kalaghe because he gave his private views yesterday about the issue of Rehema Mwilima (16), a resident of Mtoni village in Dar es Salaam city, who lost the studies due to the poverty of his parents.
Rehema Nchimbi participated in the primary education at Mtoni school in the year 2013 and was appointed and elected to join form one in the secondary school in Dar es Salaam city.
However, Rehema Madusa was unable to start those studies due to the difficulty of life of his parents, thus, causing them to sit at home until today, so they should come and have a dream of reading and be for teachers.
Regarding the life of difficult, Kalaghe who is the executive director of Henet Ward, said that it is not a new issue for children to fail or continue with their studies.
He said the councils are supposed to recognize that and it is a solution.
"There are many children of that kind in the country, Rehema Madusa is one of them, but I know that there is a law that will enable the council to set aside time so that they can help other issues," said Kalaghe said that those are not the opinion polls so that they can be able to help such issues, "said Kalaghe said that those are not the opinion polls so that they can help other issues," said Kalaghe said that those are not the opinion polls so that they can be able to help such issues, "said Kalaghe said that those are not the views of a education, but it is a whole.
He said there is an importance for the council to know how many people have been able to help many people, because they have been a lot of several programs to help the children, who fail to continue with their studies.
For all the three years, Rehema has been very attractive to say that there is one of the days he will look for him and that is one of the reasons for him to refuse to get married because he believes that there is a day he will go to that education it will be a savior in it.
In ensuring that he has given that dream, Rehema had a phone and communicate with the leaders of the newspaper analysis of the government, planning, in this newspaper, he believes that his thirst for education will be successful.
