
The effects of health to play in.
Last week I had all the players of Serengeti Boys which is preparing to go down in the youth competition under the 17 years, forced him to retire while preparing to play during the solar eclipse at the Karume Stadium so as to pave way for that situation.
It is not a bad condition and this exercise is good because in doing so that the body will discuss and start afresh so as to deal with that situation but it is important to have a precaution to play in that situation.
It is good today when we get the knowledge and know the health effects of playing in a high environment.
Many times, the young people who receive injuries that come from sharp teeth especially in the training camp, the situation usually comes more during night which usually have high risks.
Their players are in eternal peace while doing a lot of exercises at the criminal field which are used in football, can also be a shortage of water and clean water in the body and it should also be able to reduce climate change, the aim is to reduce climate change.
One of the high risks of the health came out as they have a shortage of water in the body through an extent, this situation can be accompanied by various health effects including kid and the thigh muscles.
A shortage of water and salt in the body you do not think it by giving birth to the body and giving back the amount of water, an average can bring more effects including sharp teeth.
Other effects that can arise from the condition of not being affected by the sun and grasses of water in the body includes head cases, to see network, the body being so cunning, to try to marry off the training.
As a result of coming out of those effects, this is important for a player to recognize the importance of drinking water before getting into training / matches as well as drinking water every time after a half time and after finishing exercises.
It is good that a player told him that doctors from the team, will see the symptoms of these effects that are affected by sharp teeth.
Basically, a player should not play in that area of sharp edges, the effects that I got a player or another person, is very big because a player is proud of getting a lesson that will be trusted by sores.
