Its in the community, a director is helping as Ghana.
It is safe.
Four are still his effects.
What is this child.
In order to help them to plan even you know that you will be able to be blamed and any running mate did her work as a result of many property, it becomes a series of life that produces in eternal peace.
He was and without a cost.
The services are continuing to ensure.
Payment as a result of the damage caused by the theft of TANESCO's infrastructure being easy to cooperate with the citizens in giving those reports on the theft, it was not easy to cooperate with them in order to cooperate with them with more efficiency, but these citizens are complaining about what they reached in the morning.
Because the vehicle broke out to buy and as to school.
At night, when it got to a short time in three hours I was given an appropriate time in three o'clock in the past, I was given a good way to three villages in a very easy way to help in three villages and business people have a very delicious market like you want to solve the problems of the fans of today in the area of our league, we want to solve problems of the fans of today.
On Wednesday, Mchaga said that on Friday, the biggest reason is what especially in making research to buy.
In our community you need more than other people that have been found to be self-employed and those who know their children.
Little of us.
You know that patients who have a meaning of Mister go to travel that you want to represent Tanzania to get services.
Then it will be a lot.
And you are a very reason.
In a lorry.
And when I receive him it because we are paying them with their crops together with their crops.
So as to be able to protect the security.
In a large extent.
To vote for residents of Swaya town in Morogoro province, are taking place with mother and child, we are giving services of foreign patients and special service providers, we give all the vaccination services.
Another and our services are the services that we are not doing business because the government is trying to contribute to the things that are required by the organization that requires good children to get free medical services in order to see the young people get free medical services for example the cost of seeing the specialist doctor from five years.
Five even our government hospitals to care of us are more than one hundred thousand shillings, you can't know what we are being used by involving the citizens.
Among the journalists.
