
The possibility of getting a new constitution before the year 2015 is.
Jide 24, 2014.

The process of the new constitution is true in a bad state and the possibility of this process will end up to the constitution that will be used during the 2015 general elections to be played.
If you look at different issues it is easy to see that what is happening now and what has already been made is the great use of the tax tax in the process that it will not be used because it can be a part of a new constitution that enables you to peace.
There are many factors that have already worked well and which in the process has been prepared and to put up all over before the general elections needs a great leadership that was found guilty, an entrepreneur's talent and lucky that it had gone to them.

I will try to show a few things that I believe are standing if there is a big challenge that we have organized that we are required to get pregnant so that eventually they can be in a safe area to reach the new constitution.
On the first of the United Republic of Tanzania, if people believe that conflicts between the constitutional parliament and the draft constitution were severe, then they don't know what is going on in front of the issue of the coalition in mistakes that it did not be used to be part of the process of the new constitution.
The issue of the union is very big and it was not the first time before we have decided to have a new constitution because this will be the relationship between Zanzibar and Tanganyika after the new constitution got the decision.
Unfortunately, now Zanzibar has a great opportunity in the process of a new constitution when Tanganyika doesn't have representatives of the constitutional parliament, his president has not been involved in building the commission or being involved in the way of the constitutional process because the president did not pictured.
Second on the right is the Tanganyika Constitution.

One of the major problems of this process is that even a new constitution has been completed, something that is very difficult, we will have to look for procedure and time to get the Tanganyika constitution and the agencies resulting from that constitution before the general elections.
It means that for example, the new constitution will be found and it is possible that the creation of Tanganyika government then the Tanganyika government will need to have its constitution so that it can have its constitution to ensure that the constitution is available.
It's a must that you need to write a new constitution of Tanganyika?
The authority of doing so will be done where the current constitution has not been changed and who will enable delegates or members of parliament of the Tanganyika Constitution?
Talks about laws.
Among the big problems that have already happened and it will be able to change the possibility of changing various laws related to the elections because of the existence of a new constitution.
Already there is a draft of changes to the elections law which by the amount of going against the new constitution. However, that draft was accepted by the law of law and eventually the law before the new constitution can be able to compete on the requirements of the new constitution.
Such as it is, where some of the laws especially related to election issues, security, government structure, and even performance of different media stations in the United Nations especially - we will have to change afresh.
This is very true especially if the Tanganyika government will be there because it was made by the Tanganyika government, it will not have its laws even one, even if the conclusion of any union law will be used as Tanganyika laws.
Otherwise, the parliament or the National Examination Council of Tanganyika will be able to work hard to discuss and pass various laws that will be used on the Tanganyika stadium.
It is possible we have to have Tanganyika because the laws that are used in Zanzibar or a certain procedure in order to make sure that the Tanganyika were made and they will be done before the general elections and they should not be there even if we want it to be so much.
Most of these laws that make various institutions like we will agree to take place the current procedure of involving various stakeholders is clear that it will be another long debate and I don't know if it will be possible to do so.
The system of the Constitutional Assembly is bad.
This is not a lot so much because they have already saw Mister Maganga of us when they decided to unite all members of parliament and all the representatives to be more than a lot (time) in the constitutional parliament who put it a great impetus in reaching the new constitution.
The constitution of the constitution and the United Republic are not for the same time because one organization affects one of the meetings.
This is supposed to be careful, especially considering that the speaker of parliament of the union is a member of the Parliament of the Constitution, while the minister is the chairperson of the Constitutional Parliament!
We have already been facing conflicts with conflicts which has caused the birth of UKAWA which is just the results of this proposed system that was carried out by some of this draft, because they do not meet this draft or the parliament can come up with his draft.

These effects are very expensive because they do not affect the availability of new constitution and there we have not done other restrictions that were able to affect the conflict and delays, that is why our leaders sit down and agree on the possibility of getting a new constitution in the country.
Therefore, demonstrators to keep away from this process and to stop that responsibility should be for the next leadership after the general elections.

When they decided to do soon, he would avoid the nation and the value of ideas that are not a must and instead people continue with other politics of heading to the general elections.

This will give the current chance now to improve various laws of various aspects including various political parties without being in a state of a head on issues of new constitution.
The only thing that they can decide to do at the moment and I believe that it does not require a new constitution is the citizens of Zanzibar to vote if they want to remain in the union or from when they decided that then the next general elections will be part of the presence of Zanzibar and Tanganyika as a free nations.

It is possible.
