
A good thing of Mbowe, Mdee and Lipumba has gone to Slaa, ACT-Wazalendo to pick up his candidate Lipumba.

Yesterday it was the first day between ten days to register themselves in the voters' book by using the Health Insurance Fund (BVR) in Dar es Salaam city.

I thank God ready to have my card for the purpose of getting my best leaders on October 25th this year.

Siwema who failed to get that certificate, does not like to exchange ideas and to remove my colleagues when I was unable to speak to the leader of the Civic United Front party at the village level.

In addition to other things I stopped from his stand of CUF in UKAWA which is the presidential candidate through UKAWA which is not allowed to know why.

That was really impressed by the ACT's stand about the candidate of UKAWA who will be appointed.

Basically the leader told him that CUF still have not registered in UKAWA. About the candidate whom many leaders from parties that form UKAWA are supposed to be the flag of UKAWA which is Professor Ibrahim Lipumba.

Lipumba is being supported by Ihanga village, Rungwe, Halima Mdee with the criteria that he has no wisdom, he is a patient with a patient and shivered to make decisions.

Slaa is explained to be afraid of manslaughter, something that is in building that government can cost them.

I wanted to know the reasons for Mbowe didn't agree with his secretary general, Wilison Slaa as the flag of UKAWA.

It is reported that there is a demonstrations that had already been done by Slaa but the things were shocked and he was charged and he was accused of being traitors and he is doing to revenge for the act of Lowassa was required by Mbowe inside CHADEMA, but I would say it is another reason.

The Alliance for Change and Development Party (ACT), as the opposition party and the party is still a good child according to the CUF leader saying that in UKAWA they will join Lipumba as the presidential candidate and instead they will support Lipumba otherwise they will join him and instead they will join him, otherwise they will join them.

According to that leader, there is a big possibility of CUF to vie for UKAWA and created a union of ACT Patriots and put him a presidential candidate who will fly the presidential flag.

Let's wait and see how it will benefit.
