Maalim Seif a threat.
Autoworks and 29, 2014 by Almighty God, elections.

The president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, has distributed the leaders of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA) and those of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) about the issue of if he will vie for presidency in the general elections this year.
Our citizens has been told by its reliable sources that there are some members of CCM who have started selling words that Doctor Shein is not vying for the presidency in the year 2015.
The information was operated on during the session of the CCM executive committee (CC) that took place in Dodoma last week, where there are delegates who explained that Shein has come from politics of Zanzibar and he is not vying for the presidency in the year.
For the first time, this newspaper was told by one of the famous delegates of CC to that Doctor Shein has already made a report that he does not want again to vie for presidency in Zanzibar.
"Now we are preparing and look for the new president of Zanzibar because Doctor Shein is saying that he does not want again but I think that he was tired of these politics of Zanzibar.
"We are doing now is to prepare his successor who will face the Citizens Party's candidate (CUF) who without doubt, he will be Maalim Seif.
"
After getting those reports, this newspaper looked for one of the political leaders of Doctor Shein who is one of the ministers of SMZ who had a report and said it is false.
He said that they are understand that there are politicians in charge of charge and CCM who want to take the position of Doctor Shein and have found a easy way to start doing things that do not have problems.
"Those are just political politics but it's impossible for Zanzibar to start looking for a new president at a time when Tanzania is also looking for a new President Doctor Shein, it is a must he will complete his ten years according to the constitution.
"There are people who understand the presidential candidate of Zanzibar and they should be patient of waiting for Doctor Shein, to finish his ten years. I could not vie for presidency and he has no need to release a level," said the minister, who talked with this newspaper on condition of not being mentioned.
The veteran in charge of SMZ went to the most popular politicians in Zanzibar including the ministers of SMZ being in the United Republic of Tanzania who said they are responsible for that plan.
However, because of ethics, we support the reserve for now the names of politicians who were mentioned to be involved with that plan.
This newspaper has been told that the words of that Doctor Shein "has written and he does not want to vie for presidency," he has already started that politician and he has explained his disappointment with those reports.
One of the effects of Shein, who talked with the conditions of not being mentioned by the name, said that politician who is the doctor was quoted saying he can have a lot of heart to release a group, if he would see people get a strong desire to release that level.
"You know that for his presidential candidate, Doctor Shein was only blood and he himself did not want it to be once the vice president of the United Republic of Zanzibar, Shein was requested and followed keenly.
"His opponents know that if they are attractive, then you can decide to boycott the country because this is an important to finish with his ten years of constitutional.
"We will decide to start the signing up so that people should narrate to meet their leadership programs, I would like to inform Zanzibar there will be no president who will complete two seasons but there are people who are close to Doctor Shein for approximately ten years now.
This newspaper has been explained that some of the politicians who want to inherit the Shein are communicating with some of the politicians of Tanzania mainland wanting the petition to take over Mohamed Shein.
However, at the end of Zanzibar, among the six presidents who passed before Shein, they are only two of the ones who attended the ten years of leadership because of different reasons.
The first President of Zanzibar, Abeid Amani Karume was killed by being shot while being in the eighth year of his administration.
Aboud Jumbe released the level after that was called "the Meteorological Authority of Zanzibar, before the Parliament finished his term.
