Breaking news, President Magufuli has announced the lake region.

The fellow journalists and the Tanzanians in general, I'm very happy and am welcoming them at this session of announcing the ministers' council.

We will also be 19 ministers, there are some ministries that will be ministers and they will not have ministers because the aim is to have a small council to reduce the cost.

Be sold at 2 billion, two ministers will be selected to go to the educative seminar, but what I appoint you will not have a educative seminar and money we will inform another part if they are desks or in free education.

The ministry is 18 but ministers are 19 because the ministry of the office of the president, management of public service will connect with good governance thus the ministry will have two ministers.

1, the ministry of office of the president, Tamisemi, service and good administration.

Ministers - George Simbachile and Angella Kairuki.

Deputy Minister - Sakali.

230,000 in the ministry of office of the president, union and environment.

Minister - January Makamba.

Deputy Minister, Luhaga Mpina.

374, the office of the prime minister, policies, parliament, youth, employment and disabled.

Minister - Jenista Mhagama.

The deputies are Doctor Pindi Chana and Anthony Mavunde.

493 in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries.

Minister - Mwigulu Nchemba.

The Deputy Minister - William Ole Nasha.

54th the Ministry of Works Transport and Communication.

Prime Minister has not yet been found.

The Deputy Minister of Health, Edwin Ambandusi Ngonyani.

6,000,000 the Ministry of Finance and Planning.

Prime Minister has not yet been found.

Assistant minister - who is only Kiziguto.

736, Ministry of Energy and Minerals.

Minister - Maelezo, Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.

Deputy Minister - Kallero has been killed.

84th the ministry of constitution and law.

Minister - Harrison Mwakyembe.

949 years, minister of foreign affairs, East Africa regions and international cooperation.

Minister -- Doctor Augustino Mahiga.

Deputy Minister - Doctor Susan Kolimba.

1002 and the ministry of defense and the police force.
Minister - - Doctor Hussein Mwinyi.

11 - the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

Minister - Charles Kitwanga.

1298, the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development.

Minister - William Lukuvi.

Deputy Minister - Angelina Mabula.

13 - the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.

Prime Minister has not yet been found.

Deputy Minister of OMPR, Mister Avit Nyambele.

14 are Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment.

Minister of Charles Mwijage.

15 are the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training.

Prime Minister has not yet been found.

Deputy Minister - Maelezo. Stella Manyanya.

16 are ministry of health, community development, gender, elderly and children.

Minister - Ummy.

The Deputy Minister, Doctor Hamis Kigwangala.

17, Ministry of Information Science and Sports.

Minister Blog, Nape Nnauye.

Deputy Minister - Maelezo.

18 of the Ministry of Water and Irrigation.

Minister - Professor Makame Mbarawa.

The Deputy Minister of OMPR, Honorable Davis Mosha.
