The NHO project, UKAWA which is the journey of Kikwete.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

I have seen him in the morning, I met with news on different blogs that concern a disclaimer from our Central Bank (BoT) about the bank of Al Shabab.
According to BoT the news that were spread on the networks that tomorrow Monday, FNjombe will be supported by all activities being put under the management of the Central Bank, it is not true that the bank does not happen under the destruction of BoT and will continue to provide services as usual. "
Approximately one week later, I met with a news like that, but a joke to him is that the bank of Al-Square has finally been put under the management of BoT.
I went to I asked himself, a day like five days ago BoT has condemned the truth that Falcke won't be under its management, today happens when an offense was caused by that private institution.

I believe that a disclaimer from BoT was caused by conflict, although I am not a expert on issues of bank or money, what I understand is that the foreign bank has already been accused by the American security institutions that deals with financial crime.
Currently, without a need to be an expert on operations or management of the bank, what is expected to conclude that BoT has started investigations into one of those reports, instead of depending on the weather.

I think that maybe there was tension by the involved in BoT "to be dealt with from" but up to time I have written this article that occurred.
Previously, there were heard a rumor that the leadership of BoT is expected to resign but the rumors were lost very fast as it started.
I was directed to speak about my articles in the past, that I have contributed to the procedure of starting my day through your news through the network but due to his disappointment with the news from Tanzania though there are our representatives here to Glasgow, African Community? "
I decided to let me lose your holiday "and give my strength to look for news concerning my country, here I was surprised and if my colleagues does not see in your television and reported to other media, our representatives have continued to maintain the history of" tourists. "
But up to each other, it's a statement by the deputy minister of sports analyst, Juma Noma, that our representatives here to Glasgow, Loretta Lynch to be with bad results.
This is a person who don't care! In his defense and our representatives, there isn't a difficult results because we are preparing to do well but we should remember them, but we are unable to do well but we are unable to do well but we are unable to do well but we are supposed to do so that the tournament could have a competition after falling down?
Truly, we cannot get compared to "country" like England who emerged the winner with a number of medals, but why our neighbors in Kenya have been able to do well several times more.
At all times we are saying that we are with the ones that give your condolences to our colleagues in Kenya, they will increase their sportsmen that came to Glasgow, our colleagues can be unable to sit down to be a Tanzanian.
And therefore, we are expecting to make our bad results in that tournament that ended here at the end of last week when we gave the women and other sports leaders to expected to be a cry for each other day and they will do better preparations in front.
Therefore, even the news of my country from Glasgow, it is like that I will meet with every morning from home, I decided to continue following what is happening there.
I met with the news of President Jakaya Kikwete to see his procedure of addressing the nation every end of the month and is nothing to know why he was silent for now.
But by those who were married to be the silence of President Kikwete in his last speech of the month, it would be resolved by the new hope in his recent speech, I believe that gets stranded.
The biggest thing in that speech was the scandal of a new constitution, where our president got the blame from the misunderstanding that is going on and involve many blame, members of the Union of the Union of Sinyati Enterprises - UKAWA.
In short, the speech by President Kikwete did not have any efforts to bring back or increase the efforts of getting a new constitution as history and experience which have shown to be blame but not a solution to problems.
I feel extremely honored that maybe there will be good news from Mozambique where our nation's team was looking for a chance to participate in the United Nations tournament.
