
By Marusu.
Since the announcement of the new education program, there have been different opinions related to the issue, some of them were confirmed by the program but they discovered a foundation stone for more than normal complaints.
If they have not given alternative ways or they don't want to see good things that were invented, I think it is correct to change the structure of education which in one way or another it is helping to continue using the same kind by looking for more knowledge more than it was previously.
I recognize the challenges that remained is the issue of implementation, that is the teachers, President Jakaya Kikwete has explained openly that the following project is the construction of houses for teachers in the villages.
The area also used to offenders, as the fees paid, they said the construction of laboratory is not complete so that they get into the project of construction of houses for teachers in the villages is to increase the cargo that cannot be implemented.
Well, those are accusations that have been depending on the philosophy of failing to think those who think all the time fail is why to put every kind of restrictions to do in life.
However, I say only, there is a good thing to be talked about for example here in the country for the 15 year, he cannot be the producer or founder but he is continuing to play for planting home.
He is being taken as a child (reason for the constitution) but the truth is not a hindrance of creativity to any thing, therefore, I have seen to say a lot about this new plan which I can say it has been a new direction and sustainable developments.
First, I will increase the government to reduce the age of starting that school, this means we will have graduates of more than 20 years and those of 22 years of age.
This diploma will know early as the strength of the needs (they do not get official employment), it will enable you to know more and that it is disrupting the creativity, finally, the development of one of the European countries you find the person who is 26 years old but he has 5 years.
This is the way you want to continue to read more in the professional therefore, life has not started getting married and he has not identified himself, but the system that has made many to get "masters," at the age of 28 and continuing.
Secondly, this policy will be completed in a total of 10 years this year, it is good for someone that wants to join or I advise you or talk about anything for him to talk like them.
Third, it is good that the government decided to announce openly that Kiango which will be used to teach in school (although it is not a answer to one of the development of education, because the first language of the party is that Swahili can have more value.
The government of the third and four phase which will improve the investment and all communication systems (air and water is still little), youths they will move to the school is still small and employment it is anywhere in the world.
There are some who will be international business people, there are some who use and sell new skills and investors, we need our scholars and many technology that come in the whole language (English), therefore there is another possibility that the government will not just be English instead of falling.
Four, many countries have participated and stealing their skills from outside the country and they mentioned to hold their property, so that our people can be able to steal products outside, they must know the language first.
In addition, children of three or four years have been taught in all studies in English, it is easy to take and understand.
Five, education studies, economy (business) agriculture, sports has been given special priority because there is no government in the world that forced all the scholars.
Therefore, we should wait for the system to be self-employed in all the games, big business, agriculture and when they get this education since early marriages will help them to complete form four in the age of 15.
For that age a loss will be filled with mental disabilities and even if he will see you know if there is a big group of people therefore it's good to have a big education that has mentioned among others.
