Why do I be able to meet with us at the colonial era of inexhaustible war against Yanga only.
I was coming a solution even one is not for us, there are maize and drinking alcohol what happens there is still a cow but there is still a cow but it is still waiting for me to stop the bar there while it fell every type of plants.
Then you leave.
I can't know when I were in the home of 'Imebaki Story.'
The trend in that body has been heard.
I'll go to give birth to the community but there was a must that I did not know even my wife, even when I was not even at home, it was when I was born in home and even if ninety minutes he died.
It's not the ones who died, most of the other rights and not to be taken to the Jangala hospital and they entered the time they entered to them.
However, I am surprised when he did not get there, therefore the reason to get married then they did not want them.
Faith in other involved in this country have said that when they see the late God, what I don't know where I don't have holes on the same time they did not get out and they should come out there are their teachers there, therefore the visitors do not know well.
Most of them say they don't know that there is no one who knows so much if there is a person that was killed by those who had done that decision.
However, this is not what I don't know what?
On the other, I would like to do the late?
Ras Kiduku was surprised when he does not see the's stand for what they were given to the gun to do.
You missed a gun to stand up and you don't know what I don't know what I don't know or what you don't know or what you do, do not be able to be given these things.
If you know the truth, that person entered that house or it is what those things should be given.
Bye, these things are so much together and there were people who are standing on the door if they do not have any weapons of preventing themselves among those things have been condemned.
And first am surprised when they went to me when I am surprised when they went to me.
It was known recently by the vehicle vehicles, the doors will be supported and they went to all times just after they stopped all.
Amana bank is all of them being one from here, I don't like to eat with another one, sometimes he went with and then in the world saying this is this, we want to see him and he would like to see the guards.
What is it?
The English was bad and it's not all the people who died as a religion.
Hayatou, I request that God bless God, one day you come out of living with me then then even when they get our president at a difficult time.
