

By Bashir Nkoromo, Dar es Salaam City.
The health experts in the world have warned that the non-infectious diseases (NGOs) are determined to be a threat to those non-communicable diseases.
They are saying that if action will be taken, the number of people who suffer from those diseases will continue to increase.
According to Uganda which is in the World Health Organization (WHO), non-infectious diseases are accused of approximately 38 million people every year.
According to that network close to three months of those deaths, equivalent to 28 million happens in countries with low-income and under Tanzania, including Tanzania.
You clarified that 16 million deaths equivalent to 82 percent happen before the age of 70 years in those countries.
The minister for health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu, admits that the increase in number of people who suffer from non-communicable diseases in the country is a challenge.
"There is a big congestion at the moment in some of our hospitals, it is a matter that is taking up or I think how to deal with that situation.
"But among those patients, we have noted that many of them are those suffering from non-infectious diseases," he says.
He says that the government has been using a total of 20 billion to 25 billion every year, the treatment of people suffering from those diseases outside the country.
These are a lot of money so that, that is why the government wants to improve its hospitals to enable specialist services like the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI), to be available in the country on a level that is not easy to reduce the number of products that are not outside the country.
"Now it intends to start doing kidney transplantation for those kidney transplantation has been unable to work and the ones that can't be able to do and what do not have the ability to hear," he says.
Risk of diseases.
According to WHO, heart diseases, cancer and diabetes are mentioned that the ones that are leading in causing a large number of deaths from those diseases.
It is reported that those diseases contributes to the amount of 82 percent in all the deaths from non-communicable diseases.
The heart diseases have killed approximately 5 million people equivalent to 5 percent every year followed by that cancer which causes a total of 82 million deaths.
Others are sexually transmitted diseases which cause four million people every year together with diabetes, which owns 15 people.
