The biggest thing that you are required to have right now as a youth of our youth?
They are thanking leaders or members of political fanaticism.
Still there is a conflict that you are blocking the parties or we are in a leader who is integrity to run our nation!
Back, giving him.
I can't write one directly if they are holding parties or they are holding leaders because of the leaders.
The party is the institution that is going to prepare for leaders now like the party, and that is why they are separated with the leaders who are successful.
Youths together with that many are involved in elections for leaders but also.
To look for a party that can be able to thank this leader who has been chosen.
A leader is a human being.
He is possible that you can be known but if he is in the party at this time the party has the ability to participate in the party and it is why the youth are supposed to make her love to the party and it is a very important thing to go to the elections.
You can't choose a party, you can be forced to choose someone now if they will choose someone.
Then.
He ordered them living a life, as he also wanted to go back and there is no responsibility to elect leaders with better leaders but also they have a responsibility to choose parties that there are better, they will also be better because they are not good.
This is the two hundred and ten thousand new year we have said we are in the world of God right now.
You are like a youth.
We think it is right time now nation can be able to get.
Or the leader from another party different from the party which have already been done now but also to get a leader who we have seen is.
Who will understand the interests of many people who are the strength of the way you look at a youth from those who see that they are the elderly seated for a long time now, then for advisers do not see one statement saying that it is true that we are supposed to be, but the elders know.
That in every election, we must inform the youth they should not enter but?
They believe it is impossible to understand the way.
?
He knew what he is leading because the management is to show how you get to lead people when you don't know.
So as youths will be present is to know the way it is correct.
He urged our youth to lead because they have.
But it should not have died because elections must be who?
We believe that we are getting a person who will be able to land from one area to another area but I come back to say that together with all the youth, people have a lot of things to see in future, in order to see big issues which are also correct.
For half a youth to lead if they will be found with ability.
When you look at this matter it is a platform with youths that I have told me that this is my analyst in political issues that we will not use it will be able to check the general elections which they are going to take place at the end of this year not another but it is the same way.
I love you.
So as to speak to some of the youths that I have met with them in the streets so as to see that they provide information through the small elections that took place last year, but as to check the evaluation of the general election, why to go to this year what they want to speak if the education has been given.
Or it is still a threat to that election close to them.
