
Law to control or uses of property.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The law is looking for men who are used to eat with conspiracy and contribute to them or increase the value of wealth of the couple.

If the bill of law of preventing and the registration of the year 2016 will be accepted, one of his work will be able to reduce some of the people who were used to reduce or increase the value of wealth of the couple.
While giving his speech, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi while presenting the bill of law to control the registration of the year 2016, he said drugs for men who were used to live for women's property have been found.
"Here I want many women to listen to them, now this law will affect some of the people who are used to do this game to eat with men, something that has been causing many conflicts in the family and the community," he said.
While talking to the section, the nominated member of parliament, Sophia Simba (CCM), said that there have been many conflicts when it comes to the issue of testing property, the father and mother and that women have been being bullied.
"There is a need for women to be educated and to know about these laws, I request the members of parliament to see women who we see and educate our women so that they get to them," he said.
The nominated member of parliament, Eliasa (CCM), said that the law will destroy the conflicts of inheritance as well as taking long time but now it will be easy to be responsible quickly by inheritance from especially concerning property.
According to Lukuvi said that the law is also aims to remove flaws, the problems and conflicts, citizens have said that they are believed to be paid compensation by setting up a period of compensation that has been prepared as well as supporting all investors to pay compensation in time.
This will reduce the conflicts of compensation that has become a huge nuisance to the citizens who their land has been taken to the promise to be paid for compensation and it was not sold at a time when it will make a lot of money to get into the market and they have no qualifications, conmen and non-communicable diseases whose long time have been passing through the nation.
Even those who have been used to do the collection of property is the purpose of paying tax exemptions and used to increase the value of climate change in the table of compensation that is now going against them because the government has been having a big loss.
Minister Lukuvi noted that under that law, it will be under the registration that is understood and it will be easy to recognize all those who use the professional ethics, to give a warning to those that involve the law including a sentence, being stopped from registration.
