
That government intends to reduce the infection of infection.

It has been written by Halima Kimanumanu, Dodoma.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

The government has intended to invest and implement policies and plans to reduce the problem of HIV infection and reproductive deaths especially to female youths who were revealed to be a big part of people who receive the disease.

According to the deputy minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamis Kigwangalla has been a system to start a relationship with small businesses, a situation that helps the youths to distribute that disease to their fellow youths, thus increasing the speed of infection.
Doctor Damas Ndumbaro said that in Dodoma the day before yesterday when he was speaking at a two-day seminar for members of parliament concerning the problems of AIDS virus, maternal deaths and early marriages that was organized by the union members of the East African Community (SADC) and the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS).
He said in the assessment done, it has been revealed that many people who have already have their partners as they want to start a small-term relationship that they have their partners and those results are spread very fast through the circulation.
Research shows that youths under the age of 15 to 19 who are participating in the sex actions are continuing to increase in the year till the year, although 40 percent of the female youth and 47 percent of the male youths have already been understanding to the problem of AIDS disease, "he insisted.
The deputy speaker of parliament, Doctor Tulia Ackson, said that it is the responsibility of members of parliament to use the opportunity and their responsibility to advise and supervise the government and ensure that it is implementing plans and its strategies that have been able to address those problems of AIDS virus, maternal deaths and early marriages.
The director of projects and the adviser of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority, Boemo too, advised the government to revise the way of giving priority to the health and reproductive health issues due to the fact that approximately 80 percent of the budget of those issues are coming out of the country and sometimes it did not participate in time.
