
Congo are happy to go back to Dar.

It has been written by me.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Business people from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), have agreed to start using the port of Dar es Salaam after the government removing restrictions that caused the theft of cargo.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the president of those business people, SUMATRA Edward said for two years the business people were supposed to live cargo through that port because of the challenges that were there.
However, he said that they have been given 30 days where in November this year they will start using that port to pass their products.
He said that previously they joined the port and put the cargo from other port that were close to them but they discovered fraud and decided to start afresh the port of Dar es Salaam.
"We thank all the two governments of Tanzania and DRC because they have done a great job to prevent us by using restrictions that have been there and now we start using this port," said Edward.
He emphasized that many business people depend on getting benefits in their businesses, therefore, the presence of restrictions in the port which have contributed to their port where they feel it will get profit.
He explained that the restrictions that are causing the relocating to the port is the presence of a lot of roads in the road, theft of cargo where business people were suffering from their cargo and cargo to sit for a long time at the port.
"The barrier of the port has already passed since they are located in Vigwaza village which is in Pwani province and Kigoma, all presidents have assured that the issue of theft of goods will not be there," we have decided to return home, "he said.
According to Edward, the issue of value-added tax (VAT) does not have a problem because all the business people want a great importance and caused the cargo on a clean way and explained that the hole will have been stolen, therefore it is a must to pay taxes.
