A constitution, hope and fear.
Autoworks and 29, 2014.

There is a rains that doesn't take off by surprise, it will be preceded by a chameleon because there is no heavy rains and signs are important to study at times.
According to the Coast locals who understand the behavior of this trees at the Mnazi Mmoja fields, the fire broke down, then the tree does not have a habit of war or by following the wind power and strong winds, a very high speed at the Mnazi Mmoja hospital.
Because, for now, the wind power has not been sent and not in our country, even out of our boundaries, there are many effects of change and even having the fear of the future of their country, the coming of the new constitution has become a new advent of the new constitution.
Retired judge Mark Bomani, got an answer to the constitution in his way to make sure that the new constitution will help to bring affordable prices to ensure that the new constitution is important for now and that there is no need to make changes in our constitution.
It is in that he had talked about Judge Bomani, when we see two in the new constitution that is being waited until we have signed with citizens, and fear of some of the new constitution causing some of the new constitution and therefore their personal interests or for a few interests.
And the public will have fear, that few politicians have decided to put changes to the constitution and be ready to change the nation in violence, causing them to fear and calmness since a few people have fear of losing their interests.
The new constitution for now is the requirements of the big part of the public for the interests of the public, it is not a matter for political parties alone, it will involve all of us as a nation because our country is true, that our country's constitution does not meet the requirements of the current constitution.
We've started to focus in looking for a trap of what we are required to do and write a new constitution or to write a new constitution what we are struggling to start free and that is why the ministers run afresh, therefore, the constitution that goes against them may be called a new constitution.
When we want to do if the country is to strengthen the constitution, a question here is, what we are doing so much or big changes in the world, there are important things that are supposed to be dealt with and put openly, such as the high level of elections and the system of elections.
Because of the biggest reasons for our countries to remain in development, it is true that they have been using a constitution that was caused by the colonialist.
Therefore, so as to continue using the proposed constitution as a result of the colonial constitution that has given a chance to a few who were given priority to leadership, by making them not able to put their lives and even be used as an increase in the market that is called the world market.
That is why the new constitution that are derived from the citizens themselves can be able to control to a large extent of theft of public property, including those involved in poor contracts and interests to the nation and they are still continuing to be safe for the result of the current constitution.
Because, it is these cases of the current constitution we will not speak, that is why they have done citizens with bitterness for their country, being called "who are wrong!"
