Explore this type and they tried to see me.
28th of 07, 2014.

Since January 7, this year, Rwanda has been in the commemoration of 20 years of the killing of Kimbari which took place between the year 1994 to 1995, and claimed the lives of approximately one million people.
Those commemorations that were given by quail is 20 percent ("microcephaly") is a word to serve his Rwandan which is a meaning of "remember" together with the implementation of the records "inside and outside the country, line with international debates in various cities in the world.
By bad luck and maybe a penalty is when the Nyamatala, Rwanda were trying to believe in a unity and solidarity which recently has come out by touching on some of the media stations in that country, which is the first one has been said President Jakaya Kikwete, and maybe, Tanzania in general.
And if there is a news agency which can be held in witchcraft "then it is a newspaper that is owned by the government of Rwanda, News of Rwanda, this newspaper has been on the front line to give birth to President Kikwete and Tanzania in general.
What happens before it is true that the newspaper is owned by the government, and which is written by the office of the government of Rwanda.
In a series of dirty games, recently, the newspaper reported that President Kikwete recently had talks with two groups of rebels who missed the government of that country, Rwanda National Congress (RC) and the Democratic Republic of Rwanda (FDS).
A joke is that during that newspaper claiming that, President Kikwete was in Switzerland to attend the annual meeting of the world economy (World Lung Foundation). It is clear that it has not been possible for Kikwete to urge the visitors "though he himself is outside the country.
And even if those news were true, why should be a fact, then the first to be President Kikwete and not the government of Tanzania?
Same, maybe the Nyamwezi had not been directed by that advice, but the noise that call after the Kikwete call was supposed to end at that time and not developing these issues.
Many people want that when Rwanda is celebrating 20 years of the killing of Kimbari to be looking for him about the opportunity of the media in building or demolishing the peace that it should be remembered that among the criteria used to resolve the murder of Kimbari is the danger of Kangana.
But if you check keenly, what is happening in Rwanda's newspaper by Kikwete and maybe Tanzania in general it does not have different meanings in the media industry to identify that which was written, especially because of the use of reliable sources, but not by names.
In a large extent, we have continued to assume the great efforts that are ongoing in Rwanda to control the relationship between the neighboring countries and maybe assume that there came from given priority to Kagera Sugar and its effects have continued to last until now (for example the war has affected our economy).
But also, our Tanzania is being faced with a challenge of poverty, bribery, and even if the efforts to deal with those challenges is not give birth to many fruits, the last thing that our country needs to get into conflict that doesn't have productivity and our neighbors in Rwanda.
When you feel that someone who love me in Rwanda, for example News of Rwanda, for example News of Rwanda, her silence and our salvation is translated as a shame of "our brotherhood of our country being put in public" or even refusing to give the mental disabilities to recognize that peace is important than Ligi Ndogo.
However, it is important for the News of Rwanda and all those who deals with the strategic plan to disrupt the relationship between us and Rwanda to recognize the contribution of Tanzania in helping that country during the killing of Kimbari.
Despite our poverty, we have been forced to store on top of refugees from that country and although recently the government was forced to run an operation against illegal immigrants which on a certain way they affected some of our country as well as good people we have changed despite our various problems.
