CCM Mbeya have turned into that candidate.
Brightiles 11, 2015.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mbeya town is confused, with lack of a solution to fail to liberate Iringa province from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
What happens, the CCM appeared to prepare well to liberate that province, but the strategy is open that the party was clear.
In a situation that is not expected by many, in the general elections of this year, CCM used to lose its disappearance inside Mbeya City after being unable to hold the councilor's seat and parliamentary positions.
The results of that election could pay a huge victory, while giving 26 wards out of 36 that form the city, while CCM ended up nine constituencies as well as one ward going on elections.
The picture of disappearance of CCM in Mbeya City came out more at the parliamentary position where CCM's parliamentary candidate, Joseph Mbilinyi emerged with a huge victory of 97,775 votes against 46 votes, 894 votes are CCM's candidate, Wilfred Lwakatare.
It was waiting for him.
There are two capital factors to look for reasons especially those who put up CCM in Mbeya City and maybe other areas in the country.
The first view is of those who are looking at it at the CCM candidate, Shprygin is that what does not have the strength of those party is together with leaders of the party in that region who are claiming that their candidate was also contributing with his history as the member of parliament.
When the member of parliament Shangazi has participated in the two times to vie for the Mbeya Rural constituency and all times he didn't succeed even so, CCM's followers and some of the residents of those regions they believe that Shprygin will not complete his party and his step of moving to CCM they felt it was a solution to their claims.
In that view, there are some senior officials of that ruling party in Mbeya Province, and they ask for blame to their candidate, although it is why that helped him to represent their party.
The Assistant Secretary of CCM of Mbeya Region, Abdallah Mayomba, he does not give a direct answer, although he didn't agree with a certain amount of that issue, saying that he will not know where the election results is a lesson to the residents of that city, that the concept of tribalism.
"The results takes a lesson to our colleagues that the cleaning you cannot build a member of parliament for Mbeya," said Mayimbu in his interview with Raia Mwema, in his office recently.
The second view that is being supported by the former candidate of that party is the one who are supposed to participate in the party and to manage that view, they believe that CCM has occurred in his leaders, and that I have decided to blame the candidate for looking for each other things.
"CCM has fell in two issues with the Ukawa group inside CCM and a group that came up with the opinion polls," he said the news source inside that party.
The existence of Ukawa in that party is not yet confirmed by one of the leaders that have ever played the top positions in that party in Mbeya Province, that leader was heard on some of the areas explaining about the victory of President Doctor John Magufuli claiming that the candidate of Ukawa Edward Lowassa won but he was stolen.
"I am happy when I'm in the city, Lowassa was married," complained the leader of CCM.
However, in his talk time, that leader did not lose his feelings after getting himself and he was a person to Lowassa.
Shangani will break the silence.
Finally, the former candidate of CCM, Shangazi has broken her silence and put clearly the reasons that they had made in that election together with all the symptoms of the victory of CCM.
Shprygin is claimed that the main reason to be groups inside their party has mentioned the ones that came together with the opinion polls of some of his competitors in the process of running the fight against their candidate.
The second group is vying for Ukawa in their party, a group that is joining the one of the followers of the former candidate of parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), Edward Lowassa.
"Mbeya I was quoted by the leaders of CCM, when you gave a campaign manager, all of them were Lowassa's campaign, all of Royal College (430 kW), so it was easy to receive instructions and to fulfill this newspaper.
Shprygin is saying that if he is not accused of being accused by the leaders of that party, due to when getting their duties to Lowassa, the party's candidate and the winner will be the presidential candidate, Doctor Magufuli had not get the 58 percent but more than that.
"Magufuli did not be able to get 58 percent, due to his reputation of work, integrity, and their love for his country," says Shree.
