

In the past few years, although now it seems not like in the past years, there was an presence of the commission of Judge Warioba together with President Benjamin Mkapa and was led by Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba one of the Asian countries that have built a great reputation of honesty, integrity and patriotism.
That commission passed with several recommendations that were not seen and it's also important in the war and because many people entered the hope that maybe they could be the solution to fighting with a great enemy to any nation, bribery.
Several steps were taken here and there, two three laws will be changed but it will also climb with a lot of work, including politics, law, psychology and science subjects are required to do the analysis and to write several articles.
Again at the time the commission of Warioba was established as bribery if it is still a small problem and it was like "corruption, tea processing and it was seen by the direction of the commission to protect the huge corruption that was the first time.
However, it seems that after a long time, the commission prepared the women to fight again and it's just the beginning of bribery, also there is no fear of God but also the fear of the law and the government started to put him well.
Giving up, lead, lack of patriotism and a very common things and the community is holding very well and praising someone who knows the government or the one that got the courage to get wealth through it, and it is, a thing that began to take them quickly and that it started to get into a bad state.
And the truth since the time Tanzania has planned to be mentioned in the bad state of countries that deals with bribery and destruction of political, economic, and even the level of bribery has sunk in the community until now it has been as a culture and normal life of Tanzanian.
A person knows the number of 6 billion to ten billion, a person infected with public property to a high level is not a problem, to hear 500 vehicles have been written without taxes but it has not been able to buy cargo but even one has not paid taxes or even a Tanzanian.
Or a Tanzanian of today, they were arrested and bribery, they don't know if we are like the man in front of the community without caring about that wealth, how to make sure they make medicine, education or any service to a must.
The government of Jakaya Kikwete, until now, we have come from John Pingping from 54th to Magufuli, try to evade the loopholes of all the ways, but the termite there are no need to control the public property.
