

Inside a house with certificates in the east and west of the capital city of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa city, photos of a girl Andy Lollipop, a photo with Prophet Mohammed VI is claimed to be surrounded by a bouquet of flowers.
The girl aged 16 years died on November first this year, after planting a small bus of the public and the men group.
Madenge doesn't be the one that happened in India for three years ago when a girl was accompanied by the men group within the bus and went to the hospital for injuries he had given.
That incident that was awarded news headlines in the world caused a series of protests in the biggest nation in the world and made a call to stop violence on women and a stern warning to criminals.
But in Ethiopia, the second nation in Africa is in large numbers of the response of privacy, it was not there completely.
The economy of the nation has reduced from fast in the recent years and that country has got great progress in health projects and control of poverty a period of two years ago.
But the women has remained as a lot of time, it's like I went to speak about, a situation that is making it is growing.
80 percent of people who live in the villages in the villages, where traditional and a couple that will place women as a citizen of the second bridge.
In the city of towns, women of Ethiopia and visitors were together suffering from sexual excitement.
According to the United Nations report (UN) of the year 2013, Ethiopia is in the 121 accused of 187 countries in an issue of gender equality.
Adele's case was not known until the eyes of Bhebey Ndey, a lecturer at the university and a activist for rights of women found themselves in a short story that is being buried in the previous newspaper of the newspaper in that country.
"I found himself the case did not be given weight and it has been very easy because I have already been shocked by the first time I received my friends and asked him, so I heard this case but there is no even one person known," Bowman.
Bony has started running the awareness campaign through the movements of Njoku, a group of activities led to the University of Addis Ababa city.
His followers on social media in the community saw it together with Thehabari and it did not take a time he made enough information to make more people to read it.
Adele has already started as any other day.
"The morning he worked at home as usual, to prepare well and do a house of house," says father of FASDO, Lahasi, and added that "I told me they will go to school so that he can't understand."
Absolom claims that the best student is what he didn't have the truth but keenly, and the lady promised his father to be the doctor in one day.
