Tanzania will put a stand about the speaker.
Dec 18, 2014.

Tanzania's members of parliament who arrived at the emergency meeting of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA), that was planned to take place today in Arusha town if the East African Court (ERCI) will not accept to take place or else they will not be present, otherwise he will not be attended, otherwise he will not be present.

The report from the meeting between the members of parliament of Tanzania in a meeting with the Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta, that took place in Dar es Salaam city the day before yesterday, explained that basically the members of parliament have agreed to support the motion of former speaker of EALA, late Margaret Zillax.

There was a section among the members of parliament of Tanzania concerning the issue of speaker's parliament while some of it was alleged to have agreed with others while refusing to implement that agenda which are claimed to be carried out by members of parliament of Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda.

"Honorable Sitta led that session well as members of parliament were happy because that was his first time to meet with all the members of parliament in the official session.

"You know Tanzania is now the chairperson of the East African Community (EAC) and it will not be better if there will be a conflict among the members of parliament and that is why the meeting was done.

"Members of parliament have agreed that they will not support the argument of destroying the lake region because it doesn't follow the procedures of Zeco ward to oppose the decision done," said one of the high-level officials of that ministry who spoke with conditions of not being mentioned.

Mke Mwema should be told that the chairperson of the members of parliament of EALA, Adam Kimbisa said he spoke at that meeting and explained his disappointment about the parliamentarians of Tanzania who are in their nation by accepting to join issues that have no interests to the nation.

All the members of parliament of Tanzania who are in the meeting that attended that meeting with Sitta, except one is Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani, from the NCCR-Revolutions Party, who did not attend.

Rufaro Chatora speaking to his colleague, Abdallah Mwinyi from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) are alleged to be among the ones who were on the front line to Zito Anto be given, although the name of Angela Kizigha was also mentioned to be among the ones who were in that group.

Newspaper has been told that in that session of the day before yesterday, Mwinyi who is the first lady of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, tried to defend the issue of embarrassing the Lake Region that he has spoken to all laws but he did not follow the law.

The agreements that the meeting was explained to that the members of parliament who came to the emergency meeting if Ehud J will decide to take place but if the court will not say anything until today, parliamentarians of Tanzania will not be present.

"It's just a wisdom of Mzee Sitta and the one that was used by him is the one who asked the members of parliament that if Eif I would decide the meeting is legal, then the parliamentarians are allowed to go in parliament.

"Argument of Sitta was that Tanzania can't have two enemies to one time and that members of parliament should not exceed 60 years and also no one hundred and Eucharist won.

Basically, the government of the party members of EAC are not allowed to intervene in internal affairs of EALA and it is going to do it is to give advice and not the stand of his members.

The meeting that was planned to take place in Arusha today has the aim to discuss and finally be given to the Lake Region, who has landed in Eastleigh neighborhood to oppose the legality of that meeting.

Mwema should understand that 35 members of EALA from the countries of Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi - which are more than two-thirds of all the 45 members of parliament have agreed to destroy the Lake Region on claims of not having the ability to lead that institution.

The resolutions of the Lake Region arrived at the time of the parliament meeting that took place in Nairobi city at the end of last week, although the attorney general of Sheke Ahenkora has already confirmed that the meeting was not attractive to them.

The Parliamentary Committee of EALA, led by the resident of Parliament from the ruling party of Uganda Nicrox, is the one that supports different accusations against Zlake and this newspaper has been told by its sources involved, that a big percentage of its members are known as on the front line to prevent the speaker.

Bowman or himself is the one who is vying for the presidential position in the elections to elect the elections that took place two years ago and Zlake has been claiming that his fellow musician is doing a conspiracy for him to choose him.

In that case, the lake's case has made Eliamin J through his lawyers, he has explained that the resignation of him was not legal because the procedures of doing so did not be followed.
