In the end of the registration exercise for the national identity cards that is going on in the province of Dar es Salaam, where some people have complained to be remembered of showing more than one different meanings in good deeds that are heard on the media.
However, the executive director of Chakwama, Dickson Maimu has admitted the receiving of those reports and that mistakes that arose are underway for more information.
The voting exercise for the national identity cards that are sponsored by the authority of twenty members.
Different positions in the city of Dar es Salaam, where we are thanking the some of those areas and witness several challenges.
At the center of happiness and in the Island of Jesus, who is a sales officer explained the challenges they meet and put a little understanding to the citizens about the importance of the exercise yesterday early, and if a long time is called, she does not go back to his father and she does not go back but they don't know her as a mother.
While the registration were given to blame to citizens, they were left with their opinion about the situation.
The identity card to vote for forgiveness, you will not see him because you can have stolen a gun shot.
Also Batuli I have.
It is a critical condition for now, we don't come out yesterday to come up today they are getting in the first form one, you find the person to go the day before the form is under the ones professionally as possible.
People similar to two in the whole time, death in details by your people.
They see for now how come and take the other sites for now, he is doing so that I did not recognize that, me I will get that it is not different to help you are not being fair.
As a result of those complaints, I have talked to the executive director of identity cards in the country, Dickson Maimu and has said that his office is continuing to improve the work and to remove flaws that came up.
If you have tried.
The legal wife is.
To come even.
You can write well without problems.
Men and women are expected to continue after planning themselves in line with the first time.
He said that Africa is ready to help them.
So as to be able to remain with those who will need to help him because you can't write and read.
There is an explanation that you sell your information and wait and go to this work when I wanted to lead others.
!
The late?
Close to small businesses to be able to help.
If you go to Grind.
Head of Muslims have more than four hundred centers to register and more than three thousand workers are doing work.
Comes back (right) it is not an entrepreneur.
