We can teach children because it is difficult.
In Dodoma a special thing that they can hold children at home, we said there is a lot for now, it is a very important time to see our children in this farming and to make sure that we be able to meet if we get the people in homes it will help in a very big way.
This topic here knowledge of children so that they can be able to perform well and even after.
Graduates of form behind we are asked in schools but we are thankful to the organization for many questions we can make sure we believe and empowerment of our children in primary schools so that they can be able to use here and be able to use them in their homes.
Farming is good.
When it has got the smallness of the smallness like that, if we want?
We thank Samuel Sitta and her husband who have been able to make us to go and give birth and be taught how to invest if they are taught the history of involving students and teachers and the community as a whole.
Therefore, he was doing well.
When I was a person who wants the floods here in the city as well as the stomach, they put it open when they see it.
You should do when you go through if you finished in the past, can't understand the desire to remain here.
They are making them to discuss what you will help them in those lives, claiming that he urged the villagers of community members who agreed to be found, when he went for Namanga and it is called to teach in home and some of their games.
Stephen.
And it is getting according to people when they teach them that they complained.
To start the seeds he did in the Bible and then give them a long time.
The crops is not allowed, but I was not aware because the district will make sure that you have a great opportunity to run Ukawa through your whole world, and the whole world is not good and it continued to live in all the days they were in homes with the solar energy.
I don't know where we learn with this one which is sustainable to us and it's not the same, I will follow up with the challenge that schools and they do the work.
