
The contribution of journalists to grow.
Stakeholders in the language of Burkina Faso are still continuing to complain about the contribution of those who are in media stations to be able to enhance security so that it can grow the language.
Recently, I heard the statement that if he had been quoted again by two men of Swahili, Professor Ken Nyauhenga with his colleague who believes that everyone has reached, many Kenyans have believe that everything that was announced or to be released is correct.
The champions of the language complained about the fear of poverty that comes out of the Swahili language especially those who don't want to do any research after dealing with some of the language and then to marry each other with its results.
They are saying, "many cases are written as a result of bad use of the analysis, these sayings and part of the journalists who are preventing themselves because they want to get tired by doing research and that you don't know so.
For instance, they do not know the word which was being used in talks or a result of getting married without caring about the meaning and its structure well, "the first thing that comes up to each one of the news readers in the radio and our television said that the one has been made to read the news.
I thank you, "I believe it's difficult to differentiate these readers of news from each one and everyone think it have been taught so much and any thing is that the system does not use any value in the broadcasting," says that she has been infected.
According to the specialist, my reader is supposed to read it just on the ordinary way to rise and drop in statements, insisted on a message and also to save the reader.
It will be easy to know that news reporter of Foreign Affairs of Kenya is very happy because we are doing his voice and even when we do not meet with him outside the studio we're with him and even if we don't know why there should be no wonder because I don't understand by anything and the reporter.
The experts also complained about the bad behavior in our media stations.
When we go a lot of food because there is a food safety without doubt, there is a situation of the country to have enough food and then we have already taken a lot of food and then we have already been forced to hear and then, "we have already taken five goals against Chelsea yesterday.
Another one is heard saying, "the accident that has taken place and more than 10 passengers have been able to bid farewell to the world," these statements are forced to do so, I have an impromptu visit to the Citizen newspaper (U-1).
Advice from these professionals so as to dodge these problems is to study hard and to work on the new words, an inhaly and new sayings before starting to find out of what is mentioned to the citizens and the media stations so as to evade them.
With one statement, it was not been said that the issue of strengthening the language is not allowed to look for it only if the Swahili council of the nation will be made up of honor as required.
