
Put inspiration of voting.
By Peter Jiang.
A few kilometers from Nairobi in Nairobi city, in Ruembe area, where they live in James Nyambo, the retired judge from the army several years ago.
After retiring from that unit, Nyato, who is 59 years old, decided to do a rearing of poultry farming, activities that he is proud of.
The farmer says that the issue of lack of a huge farm in controlling the farm is supposed to be careful.
I think this one is of a period of one acre, and in one place of touching the plot, he has built the building that they will involve more than fifty goats (50).
Evident, the barley farmer is faced with timber and timber and have been charged with a length of one hundred and a half hours and it is being maintained in the environment, and it's not there that many times it is determined from that place when he is charged.
According to Nyato, he gets a 2-4 kilometers from one goats every day, even so, it is not all goats that are avoided, because some of them have not reached the age of children and to be completed.
That farmer believes that he gets a total of 20-25 dollars for the day from the ones who are avoided if they sell all the money for a day, given one liter of milk it is sold to approximately 150-200 shillings.
This is clear that he has the ability to enter into the pocket more than 3,000 shillings every day and even so that she has produced a certain amount for what purpose did not be used in his home.
Previously, he started doing breast cancer activities by being pumped by a shame when they were in with them even so that the shame will be postponed and he started increasing the number of livestock.
"I talked to the first goats at 15,000 bottles from my neighbor who had a emergency money in the farm, at that time the goats had a half of a cup," he noted.
Later, he bought others from Mtambani Primary School, Meru, Thika and Eucharist.
Nyanga, who is the father of three children, believes that the capital which Diamond Platnumz started to start this agricultural project that approximately 100,000 shillings, cash money.
Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has shared a lot from that farmer is that, contrary to the expectations of many who is believed to get pregnant, he also does not use abusive language and there is no doubt that if they use the livestock.
"These days there is a shortage of farms for planting trees and plants of looking for goats," he says, while adding that the changes in air crafts has also used that they are measurable.
Previously, he claimed that the rearing of goats makes a person to have a dummy check, but get punctures, especially in Nairobi areas, there should be looking for a hole in the rice farm!
A non-communicable diseases are not done so that then it does not be able to make the foods to listen to his goats.
"We've taken a period of approximately three years before we get the tests and the right measure of food that are not fit for foods that we make, I use one acre of food, which is being able to fulfill 50 kilograms of everyone who is mature."
He says, while insisting that those foods have 18 minerals.
The farmer has three types of goats on his home, 'Sawazisha', 'French Carlos Quiem' and those that he loves Kenya, Chrizostom Thadeo.
Apart from being a stable farmer, he is also the secretary of the union of breeders of the goats, he from Nairobi, Nairobi, the United Nations' shop in Nairobi city, which causes milk from 200 shillings to one million shillings.
He urged the those who are blocking us from starting the rearing of poultry farming not to take advantage of the issue of lack of a huge farm as usual.
Furthermore, he revealed that the rearing of milk goats does not have a foolish thing.
