
Zitto Zuberi to look for president.
Brightiles 19, 2015.

There is a big possibility that the presidential candidate through the new party of ACT-Wazalendo should not be the Professor Kitila Mkumbo who has been announced now and instead he gets another person, another citizen can change him.
The other day before yesterday, the Secretary General of the party, Maquei Lueth, took the presidential form at the office of the National Electoral Commission (NEC) on behalf of his party, with the name of the University of Dar es Salaam which is being mentioned to vie for that position.
However, this newspaper has been told that basically the ACT-Wazalendo party has not yet released Professor Mkumbo to contest for that position and instead he can be another politician who is able to carry the foundations of that party.
The efforts of that party to find the presidential candidate who will be led by the chief leader of ACT, Zitto Kabwe, who is alleged for four days ago he has been doing communication night with various politicians that he can carry the flag of his party.
Zitto Kabwe has age under 40 years, an issue that opposed the reputation of being a candidate in the election of this year.
At the meeting of the ACT Patriots committee that took place last week in Dar es Salaam city, the party members claimed that if their party will not vie for the presidential candidate, there is a probability of its disappearance in the political map.
However, this newspaper has also been told that there are other delegates who seen that their party has not have the ability of in resources to participate in the election, maybe if he will be found in the national status.
More than Kitila, Good Governance, delegates of the executive committee of ACT Patriots have also mentioned names of politicians like Anna Mghwira who is the chairman of the party, controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), Ludovick Utouh.
Speaking to this newspaper the day before yesterday, Zitto confessed the existence of the debate inside his party about vying for the presidency and that it is looking for someone who will go with their policies.
"We cannot put a candidate that he will not go with our ideology. It is a must that someone who doesn't know if ACT-Patriots are saying, it is a must for someone who will see him well.
"I would have been very careful, we could not get the real time but we had already said that there are people who have requested them to come out for us with the aim of wanting to convince him to vie for the presidency but we have refused that Friday we will enable them to build forms and name he knew," said Zitto Kabwe.
