
The parents do not sell the children that complete.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

There's been different challenges in the country, such as early marriages and children against violence against women and children, acts of violence and early marriages to some of the provinces in the country are things that are being done in secret and sometimes the society is seeing as usual.

There are provinces where those actions have been made even by the parents of the concerned children, and the others are improving the traditional culture that the female child should not get married but are supposed to get married, but do not get married, but are very common to them.
But all that are big events that are supposed to be used to do education together with legal action, are supposed to be taken against those directors because it endangers the rights of human rights and also about the existence of the constitution of the country.
Today students of class seven in the whole country have finished their exams for completing primary education and it is an important step to them, because it reaches a new page of continuing with secondary education, an issue that many love them in our family.
In this year, a total of 761 candidates were doing that examination, while the number of girls being 422878 which are more than half of the candidates, equivalent to 5314 percent.
While boys are 37883 households that are equivalent to 4689 percent of all candidates which have completed the primary education is more than a half of all candidates, but that is supposed to attain their final fate after completing their studies.
It is not true that in the next year, I failed to have a large number of students who are involved in secondary education as boys, that is possible to arise from the number of girls that have been reduced.
The most important thing is that some of the parents and guardians in one way or another, have been contributing to that situation by getting off their children just after completing primary education.
Many believe that female child is supposed to get education to remove the ignorance, and to know, so that the truth is that all children have the same rights.
My emphasis on parents and guardians who have completed their primary education this year and the coming years, to make sure that they stop bad behavior of getting married, a step that takes their future dreams.
And also a lot of female children who come from the provinces leading in helping children living in the small age, they don't work hard and even those who do hard work, most of them have already been cheated.
Now, then it is good for parents and guardians to recognize that education is the right for all children in the country according to the constitution and that the whole of the person starts from 18 years, therefore it is clear that those developing the lives of the children under that age, know that they broke the law and are supposed to be taken against them.
But all this is possible, if the whole community we will follow up and rebuke all the strength of those actions and also to make sure that we get our responsibility, to give information to the relevant agencies and the habit of saying that the child is my friend.
International statistics show that the number of female children who are charged Africa will cost more than two times by the year 2050 and said there is need to take precaution in order to control this situation.
In Africa, it is estimated that children who are self-employed in the age of 18 years has increased and there will be 310 million children in the year 2050, which is more than 40 percent of their number in the world.
Currently, 40 million children in the world which is equivalent to 25 percent of the ones being used to oppose those acts in Tanzania, some of the leading provinces in Tanzania, Shinyanga, Manyara, Mwanza, Dodoma, Mtwara, Arusha, and Lindi.
