Nyerere, taking off from the scene of freedom.
Sei 12, 2014.

There are one freedom of people who will never be avoided, they should not be careful.
Martin Luwi, King, a leader of the movement of fighting for the Black Americans, had a dream about Americans of African descent that has explained openly that, when he addressed a crowd of people in Washington, America, August 28th, 1983.
Today is paying taxes from many people and the people of Zanzibar have a dream of having a full authority to register our country, a dream of having one million and six hundred thousand residents, but the history has a habit of having severe pain.

On the 18th of September, eight days from today, NGOs who will decide to get in decisions if they will be asked, they should be asked in that decision instead of being free but now they will be asked, "should be taxed.

I don't know Nyerere who had a lot of relationship and do not depend on taxes but he would advise them to collect taxes from what came to him.

Don't pay taxes, as it is in Zanzibar, it will have been a nation but it is not a nation that is free from 1707 / = shillings together with England for Wales, it has been made by England in the year 1536 and later 181 and later 181 and later 181 and later 181.

This month is paying taxes and they get the opportunity to decide if they want their country to be more than the nation, that is if they want to be dollars of freedom and full authority.

This opportunity is that the votes will be played 300 years after being tested from Tanzania and those the third century can't understand and seem to have no reason although they have been able to be avoided.

That is important is that in all the long time to collect taxes from the British who have been living in peace if those are not done by the people of Zanzibar, maybe the big difference is in the side of economic development.

Contrary to it is in Zanzibar with his union and Tanganyika, the United Republic of us from Europe have been getting into power from great economic development.

However, Sunnis are not satisfied with the development they have and not that they did not be successful but they want to have success in the environment of freedom and how the freedom will give them a full authority to make issues without knowledge of those researchers and England.

The main party which is fighting for a full of taxes in the country is what makes up the current government of there that is Scott party (SCA), this is a patriotic party to collect taxes from this party, it will be taxed.

The SELEKT program is that full freedom will bring themselves from taxes by giving it a great grace and that the freedom will give the country a lot of opportunities for the new opportunities.

The weaknesses of that argument is that SFF did not give full information on how the country will get that opportunity.

One of the shortage of voluntary contribution, for example, is that the party does not say it is a constitution of which kind to be paid for taxes, it will be a constitution that has just been postponed by queen Elizabeth in England and all cutters that will not be taxed.

And then there is a problem of bacterial infections which is striving to continue using the currency of English pounds but England, on its part, it has been reported that it will not accept any currency to be taxed.

The people of Zanzibar on their part want to have their currency themselves and they do not want to use Tanganyika.

And there is an issue of defense and this I think you are benefiting from Zanzibar that most of the two countries did not require great security because it is free of land to change.
