
A child has lived for 15 years without a place of need.

It has been written by Thriller ', H.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The child Flora William of the Mandi village in Babati district, Manyara Province, who was born with disabilities of not having a big need, he has continued to pay for a period of 15 years now due to his parents not having the ability to enable its treatment.

Despite making a long time, he has been a difficult time due to stigmatization that is born with his fellow children, the biggest reason of them is to use the stomach, to give a great need.
The parents of that child, Stella Martin, who is a mother and her husband, William Ruto, have talked about the condition of their child.
Stella Manyanya said he gave birth to that situation and when he tried to inform anyone, he wanted me to tell anyone who he wanted to say that it will be a shame for the community that surrounds the child.
He said they tried to get her husband to take him to that child at a small hospital so as to be treated too and who were lucky to go to the Hai Hospital in Manyara Region, where he got the medical camp in different places.
He said later he was told to vote the child at KCMC Referral Hospital in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Province for more treatment where they were required to pay shillings 200,000 so that the child can be treated, but they did not have those funds.
As a result of that situation, the mother said that they used to go back home to look for more money, but they did not succeed and therefore continuing to remain with their child who for now he has been having a 15 year old age.
It is said that, the condition of the child as he knows it continues to be bad due to the place he was blocked for, according to the mother of that child, for now, it gives the mother to own 150 plastic cards at the time of short so as to save a foolish thing.
The biological father of that child said that for now, he has no money to take him to the child to hospital because of having a low state of economy, therefore he requested the society to come out and help him to take him to the child.
