
Simon: The winner of EAC who need the country to be the doctor.
Filbert Mponzi and Citizen Ntwa kampuni za wateja wao.
A student Simon Sabaya showing 1,500 kilometers from America that was handed over by President John Magufuli after winning the journalism profession that includes the East African Community (EAC). Picture by Philbert Mwaijage.
He was coming from a community of breeders in Arusha region for 19 years of life has never been selected as he would have agreed to fight with the president of his country.
It was not that, because Simon Sabaya and only one year since the come from the children's group (age of 18), he succeeded to get lucky to do it.
It's not only talks with the president of his nation, but this means that it will enable him deal with the presidents of five countries that make the East African Community (EAC).
Having a habit of love to analysts and various things, the situation is taking up to participate in the journalism competition regarding the community and in the end of the winner and therefore getting an opportunity to meet the face of the face of those presidents.
Simon emerged the first winner in the 12th competition to pray for the EAC, while the topic is important to our political parties because of the integration of the East African Community? "
After the judges from the examinations councils of all the five countries through about 25, five are from every country, Simon succeeded to get 79 points and win a total of 1,500 kilometers from America, followed by his close opponent, Njoki (BN) from Kimara B Primary School in Kenya.
Other winners are Oscar Pistorius after getting out from the Langoni Area, Uganda and the last one is Eliy Roida who was born in Rio de Janeiro from Burundi.
Simon says he was pleased with his fellow student who won the competition to write a competition of writing the East African Community in the national level in 2012, at the time he was a form one student.
"I met me to participate in the competition and I did so when I got in form one, but all times I did not succeed to the step that I got this year.
"I wish you better and do exercises for time to make sure you live in the last year's competition I prepared himself for three consecutive months to my fellow students to be surprised by seeing every time I'm in order to prepare for form four exams."
He says in 2014, he was among the 25 students that did well in writing the idea about the increase in transparency and provision of better services in the government, the step that forced them to continue until the award of the EAC.
In front of the presidents of EAC, Simon who does his dream in life is to come to be the doctor of diseases that concern us, he says it was not easy to be mentioned the first winner in front of several people who attended the 17th meeting of those heads of the country and to get an opportunity of giving them hands.
"President John Magufuli who is the president of Tanzania I have never seen him by more than television stations and the other's newspaper are very happy and I have never seen that if there is one day I will meet with these leaders," he explains.
Advice to presidents has advised the leaders of EAC to maintain unity and solidarity which in his opinion he believes that it is the important pillar in bringing together citizens of East Africa and eventually get them into their development dreams.
He says that peace and love are primary things that are supposed to be given priority by those leaders and never different leaders should not be the source of the union to prevent it as it was previously.
His opinion about education in the country Simon has given advice to the government to stop using the education system in the country, including the existence of one procedure that is needed nationally, he says there is a must for a employment process so that the students can have a wider economy.
His teacher and the head teacher of Mzumbe Secondary School, Kihwaga Tambwe has said the victory of Simon has been received with joy by the community of that school because it has announced that the East African region.
