
The ministry gives land documents.
By Mwangi, professor.
The Ministry of Land and the headquarters yesterday announced that it will give 1 million dollars to be 5 million shillings for Kenyans before June this year.
In different reports from the media and the head of the communication unit in that ministry, Mister Joseph Kamara, said that the criminal activities have been sent in areas that will be used to ensure that the who will be sold at the important documents of the legality of the farms.
"At the moment there's no worries at the era of Meru and Timbo Kalugira so they should prepare a report for those who will benefit from this government's plan, we aim to sell their views in those two areas earlier this year," he said.
In those activities, the area of Meru will receive documents which will be canceled, whereby we're very disturbing.
Before those areas, illegal immigrants were affected in the western areas, Rankings, and the Coast that uses of groups that benefited with those documents before June.
He said the main aim of the government to provide 15 million shillings is to legalize the one that is among the Kenyans and then give any changes to investment through farms like natural resources in the country.
He said that to now the amendments to ban the department of land has begun to bear fruit through removing the corruption that had been allowed to reach among the government officials in the ministry of land, lawyers and those who are capable of shivered.
"By now, we should be able to reduce the services in the offices of 13 farms and for now they have been suspended from corruption of its customers.
"We also have reduced the difficulty of getting documents and we have also designed a special committee in the ministry of solving conflicts in the farms so as to give them poor eyesight and eventually they get into their farms," he said.
He said that the investigation of those farms are shown to be true that many Kenyans have been trying and then return to be sold to the rights of their nation.
"In all the 13 offices, the Pepsi company don't know that those who have been worked on by the chairpersons of the ones that have been put in farms with transparency and then connect with us in order to get the record that involve him in the ministry's headquarters," he said.
That report is the reason, Mister Boers said that the activity will be filled with this year, the main aim being the citizens to start receiving land services without being involved in the corruption of a must, to be played for time.
"It is a must for our officers to be responsible in providing services that are not responsible so as to provide services that are not beneficial to their time, whom they would send them to improve economically," he said.
He said that it is a right to be a right to the victims of human beings they were found, saying that the ministry is in a special unit to receive the public in the public instead of being presented in court.
