The true leader is a must for me to be "royalties.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

Tanzanians who want to vie for the presidency of our nation through the ruling party of CCM have continued to come out and even though it is the right for every Tanzanian to vie for this position, we are heading to make this position as a joke.
The fans have started using who will emerge the winner and every person you want to give his reasons, an issue that is saying that all that will be discussed about the candidates, there is no one to be done in any primary issues.
The discussions are not to remain at the level of looking for someone with a person, tribe, tribe, his religion, her bucket, weight, his ability to speak English, and not his skill of talking to our nation!
We will not allow you to do more, a good chapter, what does it mean inside you are attractive and with a high price, then there is a length of a person's length.
His mind and short summary of the person represents his mental checkup?
The ability to speak English helps to bring development or help to protect our nation because what do you do someone to have a great value in the nation?

Actually, and lead the country it is not an issue of the game and changed the country, it is not a thing that every person can be accepted by the British who have a word that is called "
Its meaning is that it is seen to be open, the benefits that poured.
It is clear that among the many good things, something or a person who is in our photographer cious "has no problem with a black plane while among the heavy rains, seems to be quickly.
Or there is no problem of tribalism.
And or a person cannot start discussing, maybe if someone has a disease of not knowing different color.
Being among the black plane, she does not have any problem if he seems to be fast and even if you see the president, it is a must to see the president.
It is a must that you learn among many. This is not a matter of controversy, it is possible that there are two or three people who are "royalties.
On the side of administration and leadership.
But the criteria were put openly is one must that you get more than another one, this does not have a need to use money.
Many and dirty posture so as to loose the mud found with a person known as urologists.
A person of natural, clean, doesn't know bribery, founder, with talent for leadership, a scholar and a person, wisdom, wisdom and patriotism is a must to learn more.
He is not happy.
When we go to you, it is a person who does not have any creativity, his work is to return without change or increasing any thing.
A famous politician in Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Khatib Makame has explained well the habit of standing up.
Kasibu, true that he can have helped with losses to the benefits, as the one who engaged to him was a great leader by putting it a nation in front of another thing.
Loss, as a leader.
Who there was a fox which had a huge loss of Kasulo of fake phones is very dangerous, because when the day you will stop the fire that he was impressed by it, it's a cry and grind too.
The aim of this article to explain the behavior of Kasibu.
The eyes do not know and one who doesn't know.
To listen.
Kasanga told me that he can't know if he cannot get married and "Kasanga told me he cannot leave the country! This is no reason that he cannot get into power, he can get into power, he can enter into power, he can get married and.
His creation.
The leader of this way is not "royalties.
Her are known as a whole world and I don't have a need.
Examples!
Apart from yesterday, old, tribalism, Milele FM, I do that Tanzanians have been able to test their candidates for good health, this is a good reputation although it is not easy to say that all those who want to vie for the presidency of our nation must be able to maintain their health.
This argument is coming from where its reason is why maybe the people are worried that the president of health will die quickly and they have managed to end the nation at a loss.
The general election in a short period as they fear of Zambia?
It's not the aim of this article to defend anyone, the issue is that even a candidate.
With a lot of health, he has the right to be elected as he is happy and if he is normal, if it is not young, if it is not the ordinary citizens, if he did not participate in any way.
Use our nation, if he can be able to kill his life.
The purpose of the development of our nation.
However, he disappeared.
One of us will not know that we got a loss.
It is not a person coming out to how many years some parts of power are there.
What is when he was in power.
Someone can stay in.
Most of power, but he was carrying a loss.
To the nation, we are remember women Mobutu, each other.
Iddi who comes to what of the meaning.
A long time of power.
Late John F. Mlingwa filling in America in a short period of time.
Today his name Dudumizi.
The whole world has also been discovered that this was a person with the disease that involves severe pains to an extent that she didn't know.
He would continue to rule.
But he said because he had a lot of patriotism to serve his nation he urged them to destroy his pain until when he was found.
His life and otherwise he would continue to rule.
Life lives with the disease.
Jesus Christ, did his service for a period of three years only, it's a short period of time, but in the period he was able to make those affected by today.
After two thousand years of death!
Primary is not something in which way?
With the aim of having a short heart, it is aiming to serve people and bring development to the heart of contraception?
It is a must that you do a cow as a tree that has been forced to be faced with water.
It is a must for development if a tree can be supported, one person who live and good health.
Many fruits and Matamu Island even if the work will do?
For five minutes.
