A tree planting a nation.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published (03 / 2016.

At the end of the week, the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan, has led the campaign to climb 20,000 trees in Dar es Salaam city.

Samia who is the environmental guardian, has advised that the tree planting campaign to be in the whole country.
We we support the statement of Vice President because of the fact that trees have a lot of benefits, including removing climate change which contributes to changes in the country.
A tree planting trees at a nation, will help to prevent the environment of environment, it will reduce serious actions, floods and other problems arising from lack of trees, therefore, it has come for every Tanzanian to ensure he becomes a friend of the environment.
We support him due to the fact that, every Tanzanian knows the effects of getting the environment, especially the buying of trees that are done by human beings, therefore the campaign will help to protect the environment and ensure they are not safe and ensure that they help reduce climate change.
The command of planting trees is not only in Tanzania only, it is the whole world, the aim is to reduce climate change which is a big percentage in the abdomen, therefore the causes to remove the wall of Ozone and caused an increase in climate change in the world.
The effects of the increase of natural gas especially climate change is important so that planting trees is important in ensuring that the World Cup which has lost more than a half of forests, is said back to its state.
Due to human cases of controlling the forests in illegal forest products, have contributed to the climate change in spreading up to 25 percent of smoke, which do not pollute the environment.
Therefore, the campaign for planting trees in the whole country will be going on with the strategy of African countries through its plan that had been given 100 million shillings, that you want the whole continent to have a acres of more than 100 million shillings by the year 2030.
The plan is a result of an agreement with the leaders who met in Paris City, France to discuss climate change, whereby African nations have agreed to carry the responsibility of reducing the environment, by planting trees.
Tanzania being among the African countries, it is required to implement the agreement of Paris by setting aside areas for planting trees so as to protect the environment, prevent a spread of the desert and protect the land for agriculture.
We are supporting the Vice President as a result of the fact that the whole world, through the international meeting of climate change, Bonnele hotel, Germany, called for nations to implement the agreement of Paris to reduce the increase in climate change in the world by planting trees.
Therefore, Tanzania is not the island of planting trees nationally, international standards, it is a must to be supported since the environment of environment is every one in this world, because our lives depend on trees.
