Fans benefit from soccer.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The sponsors of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, Vodacom mobile phone company has launched a new package that will be known as' the Bando with soccer club for the purpose of fans of the soccer game.

According to the report of the head of the marketing and communication unit of the company NAPA- MNCH) has emerged the package for providing information of soccer in the country and the international league at an affordable cost of 500 shillings that will give them a talk time of Vodacom Premier League to Vodacom and 2 minutes in other networks.
At an affordable cost of 500 shillings, the soccer fans who use Vodacom network will get various information of soccer here at home and international soccer for a period of 7 days, 20 minutes for all networks and a short period of words (SMS) for a period of 24 hours, "he said in his report.
He said Vodacom Tanzania celebrating the package of "the Bando with the Bando with this period in which the league season continues, therefore it will be easy for fans to get information from the league easily through its network including giving them its customers and encourage all customers in general.
"The company values and recognizing the contribution of fans in the growth of this league since it started controlling it for that is why we have defended this service so that they get entertainment and soccer reports on time and at an affordable cost," said Matagigi.
In order to buy this package that what is required to do a customer is to make a number of 149 shots from 1st April, and choose the Bando with soccer team that she supports the 'Yanga team', "Simba" or "Azam," I got the ball to the number 1560.
Also, the customer can get soccer information through the website of the sun, when the customer who will join that service will also get a chance to enjoy a offer and various prizes from Vodacom such as free time, sending a message or MB) to protect the internet especially when they receive it.
