
Investors are required to pay taxes.

It has been written by special writer, Serengeti.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

The government in Serengeti province, has urged investors to pay taxes and contribute towards development activities in that district.

This happened at the session of the development stakeholders that was requested by the District Commissioner of Serengeti, Nurdin Babu, when he spoke to investors in the district at the council meeting hall.
In addition, Babu has been disappointed with the action of investors who are in that district, not to contribute to development activities so that the heads of the company do not come out.
The chairman of the council of Serengeti district, Juma Duni has urged companies with tourism camp in that district to pay taxes and appropriate fees to the government so as to enable the government through the council to provide better services to the residents of that district.
Moreover, he has appealed to the companies with the tourism camp in the Serengeti National Park, to employ people from Handeni district.
"I believe in Serengeti there are youths who are self-employed in the tourism companies in the safeguard," said the chairperson.
The executive director of Serengeti District Council, Juma Malewa, congratulated the district commissioner for the efforts he is doing to ensure the construction of the district hospital is complete and he advised the creation of the committee that involved the reserve together with the tourism companies to address the issue of completion of the construction.
The District Council of Serengeti, started a project of construction of Iramba District Hospital starting from the year 2007 / 2008 in order to strengthen the services to patients who have been given an appeal from 54 centers of health services that are in the district and those who come from the city of Mugumu and neighboring villages.
Moreover, the idea of building that hospital was supported by the fourth president, Jakaya Kikwete after seeing the importance of construction of the hospital so as to provide services to the community and the invited guests to visit the tourism attractions at the neighboring town of Serengeti, especially the Serengeti National Park.
Up to now the construction of the District Hospital has reduced because the council will not get money to complete the construction of the hospital.
