
It's true I have copied the film of so much - the writer of the new film of JB.

The film writer, Jacob 'JB' Stephen, Daniel Manufacturing, has defended the actor that he did not have a mistake of acting the film of "Mzee of Solo," which is a copy of the film film, Timka na mawakala wao.

Manege, who wrote that film together with others including the other driver, I will go to a player, Shangani, Mzee Chilo said another person, has written a message through Facebook and claimed that JB is not a person to blame but he is a writer.

First, I could also start with you all, and I believe in good health, I have decided to write this message after seeing and get a few phones about the rumors of the film Mzee of Saintly, "he wrote.

I want to explain reasons for doing so, before I am not explained the reason I would like to tell all those who use this scandal, it is clear that they will continue to speak after this message is clear that they will continue to speak after this message is clear that they will benefit them.

First of me, I am the great writer of JB from the era of DJ Ben Saanane, motorbike riders, I will go back to Coach, Shangani, all other singers among them and talking to them and talk to them and talk to them and talk to them and talk to them.

Now about the elder of Suwedi, JB has made big films with different content and it was the norm, if it was not affected by other people, but I am happy that I did not do well in the market.

This film has touched me the whole year starting from January to March 2014, therefore I did not get a chance to listen to him since we were given a chance to go to Turkey so that they can give him a chance to go back to Turkey so that when I get married he did not want jokes.

After the problems JB wanted the film that goes with senior relationship, DJ Ben and I will go to my friend because I had not seen him, but I had not seen him, but I would like to tell you from you today, something that made him listen to you today.

The truth is that all over the world do not see the content of Story.'

Another thing, you are proud of doing the work of giving them what they want every day and make sure you do not like a small issue, we're looking for everyone to make my friend, I request you to look for us because I don't look for us because the environment is very difficult.

On this, I have written that I would like to tell me that I get tired of her consciousness and me, I saw my responsibility as JB and I think it is not a sin to do so, when I see me, I request me to talk and cooperate and cooperate to improve our film. "
