
Farmers.
Many farmers especially from RTO) are continuing to prepare for a season to rise and there is a need to be given enough help from the relevant department of agriculture.
In Rbillion and some of the western part of the country, there is a big wealth of agriculture and it is a must the government to give good films to improve their crops.
It is true that farmers have been faced with challenges of climate change but there is a great speed in the government's side to help in the agricultural sector in the country.
For example the low price issues together with the increase of conmen in the market is an issue that the national board and the Mazombe and GB Primary School (NCB) has been unable to disrupt the farmers.
The painful truth is that for now, Kenya does not have enough food to its citizens, and we are continuing to depend on food from the country despite having all resources of growing food and hatching of them.
Different issues that were given by the farmers in front of the parliamentary committee on agriculture has not been accepted.
For example, the government has not implemented his promise of giving an airplane at an affordable price.
Listen to you of NCPB all over the country, they are not enough that despite this is a season that farmers really need for heavy rains.
Some of the branches of NPB which has the amount of water has been faced with the cases of theft of that product while some of the supervisors were used for discrimination when they sell discrimination.
Local government, he said that the ones that are supposed to use the agricultural sector is more so as to ensure the farmers get the seedlings and agricultural equipment can be allowed to travel up to capital city.
Under two years ago to complete his two term, the government of Diamond has not explained a lot of his promises about agriculture.
It is important for the government to set strategies of providing training to farmers about modern practices so as to reduce the cost and increase their income.
The produce of Kenya like flour and tea which has great status in international markets and it is good to give small farmers by providing good economic and professional market.
It is good that the farmers of this equipment are in the way to save water from rain and agriculture is the back to our economy and it is a must to be careful with the local government that he from the high level.
