
JPM intervene in two months to get electricity at Bakhresa Foods Company.
The Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has been given two months to ensure it continues to reach electricity services at the factory to produce fruits and producing cold drinks, Nachingwea Ward, Mkuranga District, Coast Province.
The order has been issued by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania Honorable Doctor John Pombe Magufuli during the launching ceremony of the factory that took place today in Mkuranga District, Coast Province.
He said that it is dangerous for the investor to start the construction as he completes and later starts production and later starts production, then the issue of electrical energy is growing a situation that gives an investor to use alternative energy (Junction) something that causes the cost of operation to be big.
In the short time, I urge you that you live in this factory before the 12th of May, no wonder someone is starting to build you, when he depends on how you look at, when he is looking for someone he is supposed to stop, "said President Magufuli.
He added that it is his faith that after the electricity was taken to court, the cost of violence will go down and led to make improvements on the interests of its workers.
In another step, President Magufuli has used that opportunity to ask the chairman of Bakhresa Foods Company, Said Salim Bakhresa for the possibility of doing investment like that in other regional areas to give an opportunity for the citizens living in those areas to get the market of their products.
On his part, the Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Honorable Charles Mwijage has said that investment that was done by Bakhresa Foods Company helps to stimulate the agriculture of fruits and give opportunities of reliable market to farmers.
Mwijage said that the sector of industry in the country has continued to ensure that goal of reaching Tanzania with a central economy from the industries will be stable if the business people of industries will be patriotic as Bakhresa.
And the representative of Bakhresa Food Product Company Limited, Mister Yusuph Mwenda, has thanked the government for providing cooperation with business people with industries in the country, a situation that will help to reach the aim of the fifth term government of urging Tanzania to be country with industries by the year 2025.
