
I was written by Francis Dande, Jichunge.'

Tanzania continues to connect with secondary schools.

The secretary general of the ministry of communication, construction and infrastructure Professor Faustine Kamuzora, speaking to students of Jangwani girls, during the signing of an agreement between the government and the Tigo mobile phone company, that company will involve secondary schools and internet through the E-Fi project.
By Tom Maganga.
Neighboring countries who have received in the issue of information and communication technology (ICT) in school. One of the countries that are mentioned to be more than in that issue is Rwanda, which is said that a big percentage of the students in that country are using the computers to the class.
It is reported that 1200 primary schools in that country are using the computer.
On the side of Tanzania, what is happy is that many private schools have been teaching issues of ICT and the government is not behind in helping primary and secondary schools in ICT.
Right now ICT is not seen as an issue of increasing the quality of services but it is the main area for the development of the country's economy.
In showing the importance of the internet in school, the leading company in the digital lifestyle Company, Tigo Tanzania has participated in partnership with the Ministry of Communication, Works, and Infrastructure, by enabling the electronic education in secondary schools in the country, the aim being to enable the electronic education in the school.
As part of those agreements, the ministry will also identify and give a list of schools that have no computer laboratories to be taken and so as to lead the implementation of the project when Tigo will run for development projects in the school, including uniting with lines in school, including using the internet banking.
While signing those agreements at the Jangwani Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city, Chief Executive Officer of Tigo, Sanatan Bergh, said Mrs Asha "through our community's department to enter the economy by the year 2025 and our company is prepared to ensure many secondary schools have been reached by the internet.
"We are proud to cooperate with the ministry of communication, construction and infrastructure in enabling the youth and the community in general to get in the whole course of information and understanding, where they will learn and expand their understanding and cooperate with their colleagues in various parts of the world."
Berlusconi's added saying, "Tigo will continue to work with the government in other creativity projects and we will attract so as to improve the lives of most Tanzanians."
Thanking Tigo during the signing of those agreements, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Communication, Works and Infrastructure, Professor Faustine Kamuzora, said that "it is through this partnership, this is where we will be able to distribute modern skills of ICT together with understanding to the youth so as to enable them to deal with challenges that result from the flow of climate change every day in the community and in the world economy."
Professor Kamuzora added that "I commend Tigo for his skill of getting into the agreement between the private partnership with the public sector in order to help the students of secondary schools in the country because we welcome other stakeholders to participate and get connected to this technology.
