
Majaliwa leads the list of big debtors of water.

It has been written by special writer, Dodoma.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has ordered it to be the list of big debtors in all government institutions in Dodoma Province who have amassed over the debt of 14 billion shillings being the cost of water.

The Prime Minister gave the directive yesterday when he was speaking with the workers and leaders of Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Company Dodoma (Iloha), after inspecting the performance of the water source in the outskirts of Dodoma city.
"I appoint you fast on the list of all debtors in the government offices and public institutions who have not paid taxes so that all the debts are there," he said.
The Prime Minister who is in a two-day visit to inspect the preparations of the government moving to Dodoma, is visiting various areas of providing community services together with inspecting the province's infrastructure.
He urged the religious leaders to relocate and all servants make sure they improve services of water availability especially in areas that are tested in the fields so that the citizens or investors to buy the services are there and they should start construction immediately.
"We have invited investors, I want to build the industries and the hotels here in Dodoma, now they have found water and electricity in their areas," he said and instructed the district commissioner of Dodoma, Christina Mndeme the area that is neighboring the source of water and it was not treated with any person that is proud of reading a fire.
We're reading a fire with a natural vegetation that has destroyed many water sources. It is a big problem here in the country and it has no reason to be supervised by you, "he insisted.
He reached that decision after receiving a report from the Executive Director of Tamfi, David Palluded that there are citizens have started to build and make social activities that are neighboring the source despite that they had been removed in the past.
Regarding the big debtors, Pallaghe said that the public organizations and government institutions are leading by using debts.
"The ordinary citizens are saying that their debt is not great and those we have been forced," he said when speaking to this news reporter, he said that another problem is supposed to buy the fire so as to reach it to other machines of the water source.
