Politics of cold drinks.
Mlabu all, 2014.

I have narrated the events that happened in our history for the purpose of discussing the major issues that have affected us so that we can be able to think that they can loose their history and they are still continuing to be a nation or the community.

We have no need to learn from the problems we have done, and also to learn from the achievements we were given, therefore, that is how we will be able to build a nation with the future, so that we will be able to build a nation with the future so that we will not be a nation.

The scandal of Uhuru of Angola and our stand like the country is very important, and the primary issues in the subject of Diplomacy, especially because we were a nation known as the head of the liberation movement of the African continent.

Angola was forced to enter the African Continent, we are divided into two buildings as one of the countries supporting the government of Agnieszka Radwan, and the second left is the one that has planned for him to join his party.

This is important to understand that in the context of the cold drinks, countries were divided into those countries about the relationship between the western countries and the East African countries that are led by political parties that are led by political parties that are led by political parties in the country, that is Diplomacy.

The countries that have changed as the patriotic African countries like Tanzania for instance, were found themselves twice and they have already been involved, we are diplomatic relations, especially in local politics which had different levels of Diplomacy, were in general, in general, African countries.

The first side, came in Tanzania, had a country like Mozambique, Guinea Bissau, Algeria, Ethiopia, Congo and Brazil and so on, on the second side, they played in Kenya were found a country like Ivory Coast, Ciara and Liberia.

Because of the issues of diplomacy in Africa we know that, to an extent that a member of the country was going on to speak, we know what this stand took place once again in several issues, for example the dispute between the Sahara Desert.

In that logic, it has already announced so much for Tanzania to fail to recognize the United Republic of Angola that the Uhuru on 11 / 11 / 205.

When we were found in Makoroboi market and a series of cold drinks, heads of the Western nations did not want Angola to be found and in what they did, if the women of Nelson Mandela, Robert Mugabe and Joshua Nkenye, and they were beaten by western countries.

In this fight of ideologies every type of weapons used, including the lack of religious ideology, in America, tribalism and etc that every type which were used to lure them are heads of our government and especially the heads of Diplomacy in our countries.

I have explained that Galinoma who was an agent of Portugal's intelligence organization, PAFRI, and his main responsibility was to controlling the fight for war crime, so that it does not run power in Angola.

On 11 / 11 / 205, students from the University of Dar es Salaam did the demonstrations to commemorate the Uhuru day of Angola, and following the donation of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, a check of money to help Angola, and he said that he doesn't know the money he would like who wanted the creation of the national union of Angola.

These news that I got when I was in Nyon town, where we have been surrounded by people's affected by their loved Boers (south) and FGM?

When I was surprised when I was impressed by the sun, Mozambique, and talked with the former ambassador to our country, Catholed Mbogo Kataas seen him how I was surprised by the stand of my country about Angola, he told me a very much more.

Ambassador Katanga told me that he was passing by a very actual problem with the president of Mozambique, Samora, Machel, who had asked me that he told the Samora, that he took all the important information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that every time he emphasized the importance of stealing the local government of Uhuru.
