
Don't understand by men Katoma in Ndeki. He knows the chief physician, Makanga, we have people.

Yesterday we were in the end of Karume very little, about these, I think about what they want to do a marriage with me, I went to ask him and listen to her fiancée who is waiting for him to listen and listen to his wife who is in the country, we have people themselves as usual.

1 billion as you go to you, as their empowerment, I don't see me when I saw it, then I don't know where her husband went at work even if the husband was going to work even though I don't know how her husband goes through, why I don't know if you're with a red carpet.

2 - not to learn about the love and a new system, when I think it is not a must you have a long time especially in a room, even though I ask my husband to me, even if you see me, what should you go back to his marriage.

3 -. We do not understand our husbands due to their condition, an example is baptism necessary for us to start blame from her husband when you get your problems.

4 kilometers and the cleanliness of the house, the whole body, without forgetting the chameleon and you're close to you like you're close to your family when you want them to get pregnant while you're close to me, surprising thing that you want to go back quickly up!

5 - in the past, you should be the founder of the country that you get a chance to put your food to you, it's not each other day for her husband to get the desire to eat the bar as a lover of alcohol then it does not end there and just a lover.

6 trillion shillings, noise in homes. Here women don't leave at least a lot of words at each other, it's not good and we have to sit down, or even if we get your voice even if you get married, it is not good to sign him or not!

7 million, when you missed a mistake and ask for forgiveness for men when they were seen, they are the head and they are supposed to be the whole city, it gives three days within a week when she has broken her.

8 -.

9 -. I don't like children using a lot of time for the purpose of a child and for the purpose of your child too.

If there is self-Chillah, it does not increase the vehicle.
