
Students who are alleged to have sharp teeth.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been published in October, 2016.

Three class six students at Nkrumah Primary School in Nkasi district that were being detained by the police station on claims of switching off the office of their teachers, they have been released free after being supported by their parents.

The Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando, mentioned those students to be Elisha Kifu (14), Maasais' (14) and Daniel Mizengo (14).
According to Kyando, those students have been released free by conditions that they will be expelled from the police station in Mkwajuni, three times in a day, 4 o'clock in the morning and 10 o'clock in the evening.
In addition, those students have been allowed to continue with their studies in that school. Kyando explained that the Police Force is continuing to look for six other students including two girls who are accused of breaking the office of their teachers.
He mentioned those students to be together with MwasumilIbrahim, Martin Thomas FGM (14) and John Emmanuel all who are studying in class six in that school. Girls are together with Diana Edward who is in class six and Martha who is in class five.
Those suspects are alleged to have committed the crime last Thursday at 2 o'clock at night.
Those students are alleged to have used the oil company to burn in fire equipment, including books and house furniture within the office of the teachers.
He said that three students were arrested and questioned, they admitted to burn those equipment within the office of teachers after falling on her oil while claimed that their aim was to spread down in that school.
According to the head teacher of that school, Richard Kasanga said those nine students have been identified as a sharp teeth.
"The day before yesterday, I made a letter to call the parents and guardians of those big students so that they can be interviewed by the school committee of huge students here in the school there were nine o'clock at night which was alleged to burn in fire equipment including books in the teachers office," he said.
He said that they are trusted people doing their balances, therefore it claimed that they were able to buy oil for the lights that they use in that crime.
It is alleged to prevent their parents being interviewed by the school committee.
He said that night of the incident that the school is under the road, people who were found they viewed as a huge fire at that school where they were shocked.
"The neighbors and the teachers who live near the school were rushing to school and started putting off the fire by using water and succeed in all the offices of the teachers, it has been the poor vision of the lights," he said.
That night, three female students were arrested and questioned by the police force, that school has 1,087 students and 22 teachers.
