Sheikhs and bishops and sins of "high-old.
Jide 31, 2014.

The retired captain of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) and the member of parliament of Mbinga, John Komba, grieving when the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, in the year 1999, made a song with the father of the nation, "now let's go and then get advice when they see the father, Mwalimu Nyerere."
15 years after the death of a teacher, the country has no one with the status of being called to a member of the nation! If he is the readers' readers!
And Christians we know the importance of being given, because their leader Christ, Jesus said, "I love you," the country does not see God, "the country does not have a mediator among the people that is expected to see God!
If the country would have been a mediator or went to show and wisdom in the quarter finals of the king Suleiman Kova, it would have condemned leadership in heavy issues as it is now.
Coming from a big national issue but not causing a lot of person, there is no one that came up to the death of politics but all of us know that many people do not wait and request to do.
It has been a style of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and its government now to command the religious leaders to intervene in and looking for a goalless draw, whose source is good and his government.
And because the religious leaders are ordered politics, even their advice cannot be the logic or being heard by their believers.
It is clear that the trust of those leaders know the source of conflicts in the community, but some of bishops and our Sheikhs should not know.
And it's understood that even to the members of parliament of CCM, they were inclined more in bed in the Parliament of the constitution, there is no reason, the bishop or chief Sheikh among the delegates of that parliament, who was called to rebuke me "from the hands of delegates, especially of CCM.

Why does it mean to know what is in CCM, who to give them?
My reader wants you miss a lot of conflicts with a cow as a reason why the government was called to resolve it when it comes today, political tensions among those who requested those religious leaders?
I ask you again Mrs Zindzi said that there is a lot of attacks from VPL to Richmond Development, Merseyside with Kaguta, and even the current leader of Tegeta Escrow Account, there is a religious leader who is called or is called to be the arbitrator.
So, is it true that instead they have requested the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and TAKUKURU is to reduce?
Recently, our religious leaders believe that why in the social conflicts such as corruption that bring poverty to being thrown out of their believers did not be sold between, except only in politics of a tension about the new constitution?
If they are believed because they have a lot of money and that they will be heard, because they are not satisfied by solving other conflicts such as land and other corruption?
These have ever been requested by the president, the prime minister, heads of provinces or district, to pray for them "if they are said, we are urged to pray for" some of the delegates of the constitutional parliament?
Sheikhs and bishops have not heard this because there is the boundaries for getting him to them, we care that you will be identifying why we are urged to politicians when they feel it is supposed to get a hundred dollar notes.
It is important to Sheikhs and our bishops to recognize that they do politicians who need them during their problems so that they do not get a lot of their cargo while stirring, lets continue to view the other side that they want to know it.
They want the Sheikhs and others to be able to fulfill the address in UKAWA with the hosts of Mtwara to accept the issue of gas, but not the corrupt people should return to God, because some of them were receiving their money and drinking them and deal with their differences.
For example, a cry for the citizens of Mtwara about being given an opportunity in the natural gas project can be taken to their request and the Novena or the Novena or the Novena or it goes.
Who is not saying that CCM and his government entered into the cost of controlling the Sheikhs and bishops of Mtwara and going back to Dar es Salaam for yourself the efforts of the government to enable the citizens of Mtwara and decide them to continue claiming they are claiming.
Every station that they pass during that tour, the Sheikhs and bishops joined the gas project!
She has got to hear the President Barack Obama of the United States or the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, or leader of Iran listening to religious leaders to discuss about the rule of economy in the world, or Tufani or, being shot in citizens or how to reduce Israel?
No, and the reason is that those are work of politicians and not for religious leaders, the work of religious leaders is to address people from committing sin and if they do not lie!
How can it be that the religious leaders us here in Tanzania do not agree or put aside from CCM and his government so that they can be able to solve the conflicts that they have caused them, and that time they can cause them, and that time they can cause them.
It's right now, CCM and his government wants to use so that they continue to stop the eyes, and also to evade the eyes of the believers and their believers to view themselves in the lives of their believers.
Why, the Sheikh or Bishop of using his term to discuss the issue of UKAWA going back to the parliament without conditions instead of using that long time (48) are supposed to continue with their studies by lack of 20,000 shillings only for the contribution of the school as a result of the funds they got from the village levels, ward, council and ministry.
If the Sheikhs and others love their believers so that they should not support CCM, instead of making posters with a loss of millions to millions and do not want to check beer from using the money to make desks in every village?
In our country, many villages have a big environmental houses (Butiama and Kilombero) but it's surprising to be on positions there are posters of the biggest pictures of CCM candidates, parliamentary and president!
Making sure you will discover that pictures will cost millions of money to make the millions of money that would have never been used to make desks or even the children of poor families or orphans.
