

When I was a small daughter when I am happy to hear and singing one song that I don't like to hear and singing one song that I love you, but it is not another song, but it is a song that had a great sign of our nation of freedom of Uhuru.
The song was sentenced to this way, "we have already joined the torch of Mwenge and had managed to climb the mountain, starting from Mount Kilimanjaro, starting the torch of Mwenge and managed Kilimanjaro Region.
Well, I don't like Tanzania, and I remember even while in secondary, we will be able to contribute five thousand shillings for the lights of that torch.
Recent days, even so, most of us want to be distributed on social media, showing the torch of Uhuru and below there are many people who agree with the decision to be true that the nation has a number one servant.
There are also, including me, where we believe that after President John Magufuli's coming from power, then he would like to keep away from Mwenge to stop this year so that most of us do not think these because the Uhuru Torch has no benefits.
Unfortunately, I was told that the Mwenge has not been wanted, it is still there and it will continue to return this year, I decided to ask several questions about why especially those of the torch of Uhuru is still wanted?
For starting, I urge you to differentiate these things here, we are freedom of Uhuru, then there are two different things, so as to understand the difference of these two things, I think we should give back to history.
Therefore, it will understand that the torch of Uhuru started on December 9th, 1961, 2016, Uhuru National Team has been played at the National Stadium, Tanganyika flag was constructed in line with the torch of freedom to be buried on the peak of Mount Kilimanjaro. Which shows that Uhuru torch has a great meaning to the freedom of this country.
According to the website of the government of Tanzania, the torch of Uhuru has gone into the whole country with a message of hope, love, honor and peace of the torch will end in October 14, a day that Mwenge will have a different message every year, according to the priorities in the concerned year.
History, it has also explained to him that the torch of Uhuru was at the end of Mount Kilimanjaro for the first time, Mwalimu Nyerere said that the following words, "we want to eradicate Mwenge and went up to Mount Kilimanjaro, order to sign them where there is no hope of love for a place where he is with hatred and respect.
That torch was put at the peak of Mount Kilimanjaro and Lieutenant Colonel, Alexander Nyenshile, Mwalimu Nyerere insisted that Mwenge has a great importance in building Tanzania with a union, love and solidarity among all people.
That was December 9, 1961, and since I was able to listen to him and I have ever heard every year in the torch races but I think his goal is to inform us about our responsibility as citizens have a unity, solidarity, love and peace.
