Yes, the government should have seen the problem and start a plan of electronic structure as to reduce the love due to houses built at the rainy season so as to speed up development, there were when I met.
In the disasters, as a result of the heavy rains here?
They have lost life and their property like livestock that has brought down here under food.
If we came and asked the system of getting change in Manchester United has changed the contracts for two sides.
And on a good house.
If you miss this ministers, we started with a fast speed and three are required we continue with our heart of our article and already he has started.
To the Almighty God, we are supposed to build a person that agreed to know that it is not wrong, we got the ten and three months and at the end of ten thousand.
They won't set aside five hundred thousand, where we are leading is the best, because it helps I wake up, but when they see you, they are seeing each other.
If we are in us to have a seven-day seminar, I will give you a chance to see those statements and also brought the body and reputation.
Also it has changed the ten and eight years maybe, we should ask you will be a must for Christians we should ask you, we are required.
That we start as it is something.
In the community Zimbabwe and street are the deputy secretary if you love the church he knows that the Bible to ask for one leadership.
The chairman of West Brom wants the first to be done by you to know that but also we cannot get to you every time in other things and then the invited guests finish, he will enjoy statistics from again here in the middle.
When the time is the one when I arrived at the end of it does not lie!
The late God is doing a picture from the bad luck.
The pastor leading to the user.
We know where it has started to do but with any host, it's just getting confused, after that and teach them.
As a result of making all names, we have planned the procedure because they are five five, we will make we give them the only two from the trend of statistics of his wife and the development by being unable to do that.
In addition to the development of education and as for the purpose of construction of good houses making an opportunity for employment and income to the youths to help them build a good house, he cannot get the house of mud and that has got a lot of joy.
Back, I found himself.
Truly that I have heard, when I get married, I wish you and build another house or I think it has not been released and I think people are confirmed to build a lot of houses that we want to have, why should I have not seen.
Therefore, he is very happy.
Therefore, it is not good.
Number today being beaten.
I agree that here you will look for all the ones listening keenly to them as the first of iron sheets, I don't have a very big problem, but if the youth pay a lot of heavy rains, we can't know that there is no doubt that we have no water.
