
Mo Blog does not wait and work.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
The technical director in Bagashe (left) giving the players of Mombasa to give them an advice.
It is very difficult to see the leader of soccer and especially the technical bench as he continued to hold that authority for a long period of 30 years or more.
Many times the officer of the technical bench was expelled from the time the team she is doing, is doing badly and failed in several league matches.
But Aidan Baher has been the technical director of various clubs in Pwani province for 30 years and in all the clubs, he has managed to lead the success.
The hip-old man aged 52, believes that it is due to the efforts, efforts and how to know well with players and his fellow officers, what are the things that made him to move to the team that they will serve the success and good results.
"I have succeeded to respect the team that I started doing well in the league and competitions of cups, because of collaborating with my fellow officers together with knowing how to take players," said Bagdad.
As a result of doing well in the clubs that he used to serve the championship of the Super Week competition that we saw the gift of a cup for giving thanks for the good work that he takes place in football fields.
Bagdad has started his activities of being one of the popular games of the games in the year 1984 when he was one of the two-year-old people's FC as a coach and for a period of three years, he released the team from Mombasa with the first class to give birth.
He succeeded to cut off their son to the Coast Premier League in the year 1989, and up to the national league, the team changed the name and called Ivory Coast FC for the purpose of getting an opportunity to participate in the Kenya Premier League in the year 1993.
As a result of lack of experience in the premier league, the Coast Stars team defeated the level and continued to participate in the region's league for the interview of his skills and wisdom, Bagdad was signed up by Coast Stars at the year 2010.
Bagdad has helped the team of Congo United to win the Coast premier league and the next season of 2011 may rise up to the premier league together with Port FC. However, the Coastal Union were reported.
"Our Manchester United team could be able to remain in the premier league but after the first match will be completed, we missed the sponsorship and any reason it makes us unable to remain in the season followed," said Bagdad.
During the year 2012, Bagdad has joined by Adal FC, a team that brought up to the national level league and doing well in the 2013 season but due to the problem of lack of sponsorship, the team was eliminated from the league.
"Even though they finished in the sixth position and to be beaten in the league, but last year we did not participate in the league, but we are expecting to get sponsorship so that we can be returned to the club," B Gwao.
