The appointment of Nyalandu (NCAA).
Jah 03 / 2014.

Store Manager of Marketing and Tourism and public leaders in Arusha province have condemned the appointment of the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu at the new board of directors of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), which was launched recently in Ngorongoro District.

The Board of Directors of Nicrox, was expected to be launched on Monday this week by Minister Nyalandu at the headquarters of that organization in Ngorongoro, Arusha province.

That new board takes the position of the board that happened its time in the year 2011 that was under chairperson Pius Msekwa and for more than three years, Nicrox, did not meet the board, an issue that has been involved in the performance of the management of the authority.

According to the government's edition that was given on June 6 this year, the Board of Directors of Nicrox, will be led by Ambassador Mbelwa, and other 10 members.

That announcement explains that the delegates of that board include Job Ndugai (the deputy speaker of parliament), Lukaya (second from Philip & B), Doctor David Mrisho (the former member of parliament Henet Ward, CCM).

Others in accordance with that announcement is Mujahideen, (chairman of the pastoralists) Phone Manufacturing Company (National Board of Energy), Juma Pinto (executive director of Jambo Constituent) and Dononda village.

However, together with that launch, various stakeholders and citizens of Ngorongoro District through their leaders have complained of the appointment of the board on claims that it has not consider the interests of the citizens that live in that reserve.
While speaking to Good Citizen, some of those stakeholders have explained his disappointment with the prime minister Nyalandu to select the board members who did not meet the interests of the citizens that live in Ngorongoro Conservation Area.

Speaking to Good Citizen at the end of the week, the Chairperson of Ngorongoro District Council, Elias Mwandu said he is disappointed by the decision by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism concerning the appointment of that board.

Muhanga said earlier in May this year, eight members from the council of councilors of Ngorongoro District Council met in Dar es Salaam city by the minister Nyalandu and gave them recommendations about the appointment of the board of directors of Ngorongoro.
"After meeting with Nyalandu and giving our suggestions also, we met the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, and giving him those recommendations, but the surprising thing is that those recommendations are not satisfied," he said.
He said among those recommendations is by the government to select the ratio of 50 percent in the appointment of the board of directors, delegates from various groups of Ngorongoro community.

"By true, this issue has been wrecking your news, Ngorongoro have been given one opportunity and other delegates are people who we think they don't have interests even by the citizens of Ngorongoro,"
I wouldn't know that the list of these delegates is clear that they have been selected for shooting Swahili and others are people who have already been used in various positions of public leadership and they did not have positive results in those positions, "he said.

That chairman added, "now we are doing the process of discussing a session of the special council of councilors to discuss this issue so as to know his right time."

And the councilor of Bugesa Ward in that district, Joseline Kamuhanda, explained that the appointment of Nyalandu has no difference with another board that has ever started to service in the past.

"The board is same as the ones of the previous years, it does not understand that there will be any changes in performance and management of issues of citizens living in the park," said the councilor.

He said there is no one delegate, among the all who were selected who will represent the citizens of Ngorongoro and even one delegate who was appointed from people of that community still has a conflict of living in life and the management of the authority.

"People who live in this park are facing a lot of problems like hunger, poverty, it will pay a lot of small children, lack of infrastructure, lack of community services like water, education and health services," he said.

On his part, the lawyer of the Council of pastoralists, William Ole Nasha said the law does not allow the minister to choose the board members in the way he knows but he was supposed to use a normal wisdom in doing collaborations between delegates.

"Every time we have decided to take suggestions to the aim of improving their talents in the reserve, we go against the voice so that the participation of the community in the issues of their development should be high."
