
The political parties does not help the public.
After the President Uhuru Kenyatta to do a meeting with members of parliament together with the Diamond Jubilee Hall, the decision by the president accepting to participate in the national talks seems to be avoided.
During the celebrations of Deali, B, the president explained the existence of strategies to run the national discussion with a goalless draw, something that is seen to be involved in politics and the factory.
It is important for President Kenyatta to avoid political parties which have no benefit to the citizens and instead they should not put on efforts that aim at improving their lives and to protect the Kenyans.
It is true that the president need his followers to support him and make sure that the government's bills is called to parliament but it should remember that many Kenyans have the ability to give him authority to lead.
The decision by the leader in the parliament from Aden Hazard, said that the national talks that are being done in government institutions are not allowed because the situation is for now, it needs a quick decisions from the leaders.
The institutions that were given, Mister Djinnit, has been there at the time those who were started to accept the invitation of Correa scored and it is important to get alternative means of solving those challenges through meetings and exchange ideas.
The left wing, Khaled who is also required to present his recommendations without showing threats that the action could make sure if they have a certain plot.
It is clear that even after the government forced more security officers to strengthen the international film industry and to invest more in buying security equipment, still the security situation in the country is a soldier.
The issue of security of the nation is not supposed to remain politics so the government is supposed to do all efforts to provide safety of citizens and visitors who visited Kenya so as among other issues, save the tourism sector.
Citizens are important for the Kenyans who were not involved in the national talks so as to give their contribution on how to change the performance of the government so as to improve the lives of everyone.
The recommendations of the international leaders, experts together with religious leaders are good because they will expand those talks and give a great opportunity to get a fast rate.
The activities in possession of the mosquito bite of the vehicle are stranded, after the leaders of those areas were involved with the intention of removing those insurgents.
This step is to cooperate with the Central Bank with the government with the ability to get the help from nations that have the ability to give security support.
The Relations Officer of Kenya and China should not be criticized as the Diamond Jubilee in conjunction with the Western nations to ensure that it has implemented his responsibilities in protecting the Kenyans.
The attempt failed to evade a trap of buying a trap of the police officers and this needs the government to change his strategies to fight with the bad behavior.
The Kenyans have been enough and the conflicts were dominated by fish.
The system of supervision and which is the main criterion for the implementation of the constitution.
He can download the government of Kenya and go up to the state to reach the level of Nigeria and the United Republic of Africa.
