But alcohol is supposed to do on the fifth commandment in the world.
The wave of saying that I sell the mother to Ukawa has its own options.
In the language it will be tested for recently, it shows twenty percent of Tanzanians.
What is working is?
To recognize that the constitution are bad, grow and maintain love for.
I commend so much when he left.
Crime has said that two non-language in the parliament of the constitution.
A period of time.
For fear on the show you may know the place?
In a discussion ready, I lead the proposed constitution to touch with your head so that we have been a lot of one day, there would have a normal day after when we read it, but if we get an oath.
We have seen here is a Swahili language that is wherever you are, when you miss this language, I say it is freedom.
That tomorrow and the day before yesterday and the day after tomorrow it can be buried, she claims that the cupboard from them in the constitution has said that the nation's constitution is just extended to countries it's just a lot of people that is in our country at our Swahili because such as food.
We are attractive, there is something that is related to him is something that is going on with something that people like to discover themselves and do not know if you look at different parts of the world but Tanzanians we have been connected to power anywhere in the world but Tanzanians should benefit from paying the end of voters.
It's because the period in which we see that he has taken a long time but when the other film is seen, they will try to talk about a certain Swahili, something that we are playing with or there is something that does not get a certain kind, a person that will let us lose?
They talk.
There is a long time.
They don't know.
When you look for sex, you forced him to be happy and even you are not present at there he learned a system that causes security to improve a little Swahili language only.
Andrey Coutinho on seven o'clock.
I look for an indication that you are from Zanzibar.
For them, they will be able to take this time when you go through a long time, it is something that is needed for Tanzanians for a long time, we do not know if we are only a woman and therefore it is not the only way for us to see if you feel it is the first part in the constitution.
