
I was written by Francis Dande, May 5th, 2016.

Hope Nangi, a physically challenged person who released his songs.

By Abdalla Maganga, Dar es Salaam City.
People with disabilities are quoted that they have a shortage in one of their organs in the body, and therefore needed the help of one way or another in their work performance.
Lack of various community services to people with disabilities, is making them to be taxed.
Several research conducted in some of the provinces in the mainland and Zanzibar intended to ensure that people with disabilities get the same opportunity to get the rights of education due to the traditional thoughts that there are destruction of resources.
However, despite meeting with restrictions, there are still people with disabilities who have discovered that disability is not a disease, one who are Hope for Change.
The first day to see Hope Program, is a student of form five at Kipala Primary School located in Bagamoyo District, Coast Province, I did not believe that he has great ability than even people with disabilities.
This student with disability has been doing great things compared to the condition he has.
Hope has a lot of attractive, including her creativity, singing and the way he does not use education more about anything, he believes that it will help them in life.
Despite being a child of the deputy minister of education, science, technology and vocational training, Engineer Stella Manyanya, Hope Program has canceled the position of her mother, what he believes is that education is the one that will come to save and not inheritance from their parents.
Speaking to Mtanzania about his own history, give birth to what they have Hope Program, "I am a last child to our family, where I have brother and my sister.
"The primary education I got at Rahaleo Primary School in Masaki, here in Dar es Salaam, after starting from form one to three months whereby I met from form one to three whereby I met at form four."
Hope Program says that form four did well where he got the reputation of wanting to continue with secondary schools - form five and six and he joined the Secondary School, where he is taking the arts of Arts.
Speaking about his talent, he says that he started with singing, where his mother was announcing a lot in singing environmental songs to encourage the residents of Dar es Salaam city to put clean up their environment, but also to promote his talent.
Engineer Manyanya was a big stakeholder in the climate issues in Dar es Salaam city, and his activities were helped to a large extent to reduce dirty.
Hope Program says that recently he has left in singing, although he has remained in a lot of songs and he has a mixed tape, which has contributed to the reserve for his previous years later.
"I was born in Swahili language, he believes that my songs has had been very much, but now I have failed more in education, therefore, when I do not have," he says.
Speaking about the fashion model, he says that he started itself with a third form, but he was not known as a school when reading it was not a fashion model and creativity.
"I was able to come here if you read here, I met there are competitions of fashion issues and looking for looking for the school's Tanzania's competition (Miss Eunice Chiume), I was allowed to stop bias against sexual excitement.
"Students they saw my drawings that I want to see how I will hold the fashion designers for the form six graduation, I got married, I saw him by using the support, not a machine, and that is very fast," he says.
Jahazi is saying that he has also called on his mother of fashion designers who is supposed to wear while they are going to different celebrations.
"Even the honor was on my car on the wedding on my wedding, I explained to what he gets so much, he was happy with my creativity," says Hope.
