
Wednesday, December 31st, 2014.

The behavior of a child of 0-3-0 involved.

In the last article, we look at very important events in two major areas of the child's growth being 1 (1) and 2).

Footsteps are ongoing.

Involved in the past, in general we can say the age of more than three years is happy about the presence of other people although the aim is to benefit from this child and said that we are related to this child and therefore we find more thinking that what he believes is more than our expectations.

Since when he was born, the child bought communication and people who are mocking him, the first relations starts with her mother because it is the one who decides to listen more than other people because it is why we are born with the need of people more than other things.

Until when he reached six months, the child usually have the ability to consider those who sell their daughters, crying, laughing out acts of having four months, for example, the child usually has the ability to destroy his mother and other people.

Normally, before six months to end, the child does not have a shame, but when he attains one year, there is expected to build a good ability to read the feelings of other people and therefore they usually have a great enthusiasm to be seen by his important people.

Starting from the 12 and 18 month, it starts to discover themselves in order to differentiate these and others say "during this period, parents can fail to know why the child can't understand what she said."

Likewise, in this age, he cannot play with other children for cooperation although he can play with other children because he can play with other children because it is still the same way to see things on his opinion and he cannot understand the logic of collaborating with other people.
However, it starts to get separation with the mother and her guardian and you need to be accompanied by him for all the time. We are told, it is a must for a very close relationship with her mother, a result of the way what goes with other people.

When he got two years, he will have the ability to start his own games although it means that it has changed and she has no ability to cooperate well with his fellow children and therefore he does not have the ability to wait and see her fellow children. During this period, he can fall down and he understood.

Behavior of light.

Basically, his relationship and those who have their differences will depend on its economic growth, as he is able to recognize him and be able to understand the feelings of other people as in general, he has seen something that is normal and so as to say that he is not a must to have a lot of pain but the best way to communicate with those who live.

Since when he was born, any signs that he is doing is when the child is doing a mother or close friends for example, in the first year, although the child does not have the ability to read his views on his needs.

When he is heading to the month of 18, the child starts to understand the needs of other people and started to try to give them others because he thinks it is free of being independent and that is why in two years, even if it's true he starts to understand their feelings.

The process of the attempt to do things are supposed to do exercises when it takes the second year. She desires to do that is being done by many people who have their husbands.
It doesn't jump so much especially when you want to do what he wants to do.
It starts from using a language as one way, there is one of the control of his feelings and thus on the right now it starts the reduction.

After attaining two years, the child starts to understand the results of a certain behavior which he's doing or they make sure that what has done it is correct for instance, it can't understand what what was done is correct because it means that what was done is not correct.

The main aim is when three years is satisfied with its parents although the aim is to get an opportunity to be highly commended and bullied.

In ending, we can say that, the age of one day and three years old had great ability like any person, although the ability helps him to recognize things in a different way with people with great age, but the child wants her to recognize things because this situation makes him to understand what they have made.
Yams are involved, many people who have the ones that are getting us in any way to be by seeing him, to protect themselves and so on.

In the following article, we will discuss how the upbringing of this child who you don't know here is capable of affecting his soul.

It is continuing.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
