
The patients is NHIF.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The management of the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) has given an explanation on the increase in medical prices and said that they will not affect the contributions of its members and that it's aiming to improve more services that are given members as they look for treatment support to the stations that are registered by that fund.

Furthermore, the management has said that the new prices which have increased by an average of 13 percent have already been banned after a long time discussion.
It has said the changes that happened on the improvement of prices have aimed to expand the services and cooperation including surgery and fees to see the doctor while they added the benefits of tests and treatment including surgery for heart diseases in the country.
Speaking in Dar es Salaam, the acting director general of the fund, Bernard Konga, said the discussion of making changes in the price that took place for two years and involved various stakeholders, there are areas that have increased, other areas have not been destroyed due to the systems and health policies of the country.
The director explaining more, he said it is not true that those changes have resulted from that fund to fail to pay service providers as claimed but it's because of the research that showed the existence of good treatment to its members and to eliminate the difference in payments.
He said if the fund could have the problem they would be able to pay more than 200 billion shillings for the financial year 2015 / 16 by serving its members for the coming four years without contributions.
Speaking about the changes that were done on improvements, he said the intention was to change the system of paying, including the fee to see the doctor in order to eliminate the previous system that had different levels of fees for a patient who is present at the hospital for the first time and he gets back again.
"At the moment the fees are paid in same standards where the fund will pay as a need for need and also surgery has been placed as a result of its kind as a small, big or professionally," he said.
Konga said the fund is implementing policies, guidelines, and procedures given by social responsibility and to consider instructions of professionally, therefore the stations that are registered with the fund have different levels, thus the prices of services are allowed to be paid depending on the bridge of the concerned center.
Up to June, this year, the stations that are registered are 439 people, among them the local government of 5,091, various religious denominations and 76,000 and those drugs are paid equal to all levels of stations, with different changes being paid in the size of the profession.
He said that as a result of being an agreement with service providers in order to provide services to its members, if a member will be left to be given legal action will be taken against them due to cheating.
He urged the members that when they get problems about any claims that are in their treatment to make free of 800 dollars (63).
He said in the transition period of those improvements, starting from July to December, this year they will continue to receive opinions and complaints especially the issue of tests, an issue that is associated with some of the service providers after the fund decided to pay one cost of service providers.
The areas that are being improved on the acting director of professional services (NHIF) Doctor Aifena Mramba, speaking about the benefits of improvements he said after tests and heart surgery is expected to take place in the country have increased the treatment benefits of those diseases.
Doctor Mramba said that for the surgery services, they have increased by 100 percent and gave an example of reproductive surgery that was paid 130 million shillings, now it is 20,000 shillings.
He also said that the operation of closing the family of reproductive health and a finger to have been set aside 1300 shillings only has been added money to 300,000 shillings.
Other improvements is a fee to see the doctor where Mramba said that different from it was previously where in provincial hospitals were paid 1000 shillings while the District Hospital where they were paid 1000 shillings as the doctor will be paid 10,000 shillings.
He said the NHIF fund is improving the availability of medical services to its beneficiaries which are more than 33 million girls who receive treatment at 6,400 centers in the whole country.
An explanation from NHIF has come after the existence of a good report to members of the fund that it has reduced the payment of 60 percent, a step that was seen to cause the beneficiaries of service.
