
Members of parliament are questioning the new budget, old projects.
Sharon SCE will not recognize the Citizen Who Lives Matandiko and Yuksekdag.
The spokesman of the opposition camp in parliament of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, Magdalena Sakaya speaking to alternative budget of the ministry for the year 2016 / 17 in Dodoma yesterday.
Dodoma's members of parliament have said that the action of the government to be unable to take advantage of development projects in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, in the 2015 / 16 budget, it made the parliament to see how it depends on the new budget for the purpose of those projects, in reality of the old projects.
That statement was made in parliament yesterday by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Mary Nagu when presenting the views of his committee about the budget of that ministry for the year 2016 / 17.
He said the analysis that was done by the committee has revealed various development projects that have been set aside for the year 2016 / 2017 is a continuation of the implementation of this year's implementation for the financial projects and new projects of 2016 / 17.
"The trend has made a parliament that be a new budget for the purpose of new development projects, in reality, it is a budget for sustainable development projects," he said.
That committee requested the parliament to announce his government to complete those projects before starting new projects.
He said the proposal will help reduce the burden to the government to have a lot of projects that are not completed, because nobody will cause the government to losses and lack of faith in the citizens about the services intended.
About the control of illegal fishing tools, that committee requested the parliament to advise the government to prepare a special procedure that will enable the members of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF).
To do exercises so as to control those acts, especially the bombs.
Previously, presenting the speech of the budget in that ministry, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Mwigulu Nchemba said that the special squad known as' Matter in order to address the environment, including controlling the illegal fishing.
He said the squad uses delegates from the office of the president, public service management and good administration, his ministry, Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Security and Security.
Others from the ministry of constitution and law, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Office of the Director of Public Service and Chief Justice.
