
Wastara Juma filling the love of her.

The film actor in the country, Wastara Juma who for now is reported to be in love with his fellow actor, Bond Suleiman is alleged to have lost consciousness just after being given a report that his lover had got a fourth child for another woman.

According to the great source, Wastara said that he doesn't pay her with his former lover Lulu Semhaly, Aunty Ezekiel "and told him that he has not been sentenced to him because he was another woman who has given birth to the fourth child.

"We thank you so much to learn that she was married and gave him a gift of her sister's birthday while she was born with one woman, some of her husband, is the first one," said the source.

The source is going round that, after being given those reports and Aunty Lulu, she had gone down and was admitted to the hospital, "Wastara said that after being given those reports, I have arrested a lot of information now saying that issue was bad, Aunty Lulu followed him in the afternoon.

Shot, Aunty Lulu who previously was surprised about the love of the vehicle being sent away from time to time after being interviewed and asked God for separation and asking him that those news had any truth.

"It is true I told everything that Wastara and we have planned to go to see the child who was born in order to know if the truth is.

"I decided to open up after beating me that it will be deeply grieved as I had gone down, if I had gone down, if I had gone down and was admitted to me," said Aunty Lulu.

On his part, Wastara said he confessed to lost consciousness and was admitted to the hospital, but he refuses the things to hear from those reports, but due to malaria.

"I have found an affordable and I have been released in the hospital, I was sent away from Malaria, doctors answered, but I was sent, but I am very close to here, I am very happy and here is when I am heading to Mwanza town," he said.

Our reporter told me that Wastara wants to know how to get his home as an indication of having four children, he said it was not true because he would not be surprised by the issue especially because he was not a man a man and also his life that does not concern it.

I am my life, he has his life, right now, I will let me tell you that there is no doubt that is going between him and he does not understand us because because that is the truth, "he said.
