
It is the expectations of many that Clay doesn't have intentions.
And the beneficiaries of the Permanent Committee.
By getting into history of politics of this nation, leaders have been using methods of killing of one community or several so as to build a political building.
It is a means that it has been seen to have fruits' to those leaders, and now I'm worried about your opinion polls they have been able to follow through that way, to reach their goals, or "Masau boasted.
In addition, after the Mzee MOI has assured Uhuru Kenyatta to be a huge number of Kanu during that time, that announcement has brought in opposition to ban for reasons among the politicians of that party and making them to move from promoting the Democratic Party party (LDP).
Among those who defected from peace includes the late Professor George Sawazisha ', Musomba, Joseph Kamenya and some of the others, they need LPG together with the announcement of Mister MOI.
So as to inform their plan, LPG together with National Alliance of Kenya (Nakheel) under the leadership of Mwaura Tena, Charity Ngapa with Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kwangu Kulwa and Michael Kemi Otieno.
But in this step, that is clear that Mister Kenyatta, as a result of illegal immigrants, got the support of a small community in the Rift Valley area together with the Wikipedia area, where they came from.
A lot of votes for Gogo who is working is Mister Kibondemaji, who was chosen to be the president, in that plan, which has 41 communities against one community.
After the conflicts they emerged from IRC, the leaders used that way to prepare for the 2007 election.
That plan was planned as' Siri ya Mtungi 'by Mister Kibana, by creating an agreement with control of authority (Moyoni) where Mister Odinga was the prime minister of the authority.
The end of the year 2007 without doubt if you followed the order of 2002, where this time, it is a community of the ones that were seen ahead by the other communities.
That risk may set up this nation the violence erupted in 2007 / 2008.
By getting rid of the decisions of the year 2005, a huge conflict that had started in the year 2007, the expectations of many is that Correa scored for the votes as a plot to plan for some community against others.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
