
Procurement, monitoring the government a loss of 23 billion shillings.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has done an inspection of public procurement and discovered the government to get a loss of 23 billion shillings from different reasons, including weaknesses in organizing plans of projects, poor preparations for needs and weaknesses in the management of contracts.

Chairman of the Board of Directors of PPRA, Ambassador, Matern Lumbanga, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was giving a briefing of the inspection reports on public procurement in the financial year 2015 / 2016, together with the verification of inspection, that took place in the financial year 2014 / 2015.
He said that a total of 70 institutions have been presented on how to meet the law and regulations of procurement and regulations of guidelines and systems that was organized by PPRA.
He said that due to the completion of the investigation, PPRA was removed and removed the process of two tender worth 890,536 billion shillings after being satisfied that the government seems not to get the value of money.
Also, they found the government can save 2245 billion shillings as the concerned institution to take recommendations that were given by PPRA, also the inspection of public procurement has revealed more than 1 billion shillings which was not done by that institutions are the City Council of Dar es Salaam (REA) and MOI and the Pension Fund of LAPF.
Ambassador Lumbanga, said that the research that took place between April and September this year, 15 institutions that are in the ministry of ministries, departments and government institutions, government authorities, and public institutions.
He mentioned the institutions that got unsatisfactory performance as part of the production institution (TP), National Parks Agency (TCRA), National Examinations Council (MOI), National Examination Council of Bukoba (MOI), Kinondoni Municipal Council and Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (MOI).
He said that in that institution inspected the possibility of the presence of bribery cases, 20 percent of those institutions indicate the possibility of the presence of bribery actions.
He mentioned those institutions to be the National Memorial Stadium, the Council of Dar es Salaam, (REA), TCRA, DART, councils of Dodoma Municipal Council and the Ministry of Water and Irrigation.
On the side of the violation of the law and procedures of procurement, PPRA did a investigation on 14 accusations concerning the 49 contracts that are estimated to be worth 1 trillion shillings and the investigation is at eight institutions.
He mentioned those institutions are the ministry of internal affairs, the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, the National Identification Authority (TCAA), Ministry of Water and Irrigation, the Council of Water and Irrigation, the District Council of Kondoa and TRL.
