Media houses are not less than Sitti Mtemvu of our leaders.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

The former Miss Tanzania of this year, Sitti Mtemvu has decided to inspect that crown after many accusations against him just after his victory was announced, allegations started to be blamed about the age of age and claimed that he was a sister to close to 25 years.

Those accusations were given out by various illustrations that showed that the truth was "a permit" and not a small girl but he was not a small girl and even there was the claims that he was ready and his child.

The organizers of the most politician competition led by their head, Hashim Lundenga, who attended a meeting with the journalists on October 21, in a meeting with journalists who saw him and that he will agree with another discussion and that he had not prepared himself and that he will make another meeting with the journalists that he had not prepared himself and that he will make another meeting with the journalists that he had prepared to evade a point.

It was happy to see more in the meeting, how the journalists did not care or fear of Sitti Mtevu in America, the accusations that were involved in the age of Sitti Mtevu in America, an explanation that those who attended the age of Sitti Mtemvu have shown various information that they had presented well in their field and showed professionalism.

However, on the eyes of us others on how journalists saw the girl who had seen the leaders and our politicians same as if you were able to see and they are forced to see and they are able to see their hope that the journalists will decide whether to be true.

However, it is possible for us that our journalists were able to do so because Sitti was the poor.

We need to ask ourselves for only a few minutes if there are many female employees who have never been held like Sitti what have never been held like Sitti we have never been a big politician who has promised that he will make sure there is a big politician to separate politics from business?

Many times we are searching for our journalists when we are called in meetings with these leaders at the time you can think they have been called by the father or their mother, we can even ask ourselves if they are forced to prepare for questions because he knew the issue day.

Take it for example, this issue of the elephants' teeth rot, this is a very big scandal if it would have been done well by the administration of our country but the journalists are happy with the questions that we want to receive the president and we don't see if the journalists do not want.
