When he was painful to me I am happy and I'm with my colleague, I think of Metropolitan Health Insurance if you are not funny when you are not tire you.
If you realize that learning about your name is the first, it was just after every day I would have to know what we have been, I would have been given one thing like what I would have, then I was to go to the end due to the topic then I was to attend to some of them.
Different things are to give a statement on Friday, if today we will have doctors who will talk about the municipality from here we shall reach all of Tanzanians to talk to the two topics.
Ramadhani was making the best though the tournament has never live, it would have been suffering from some people who are still ongoing up to different times.
But we should not hesitate to take me your blood in the international blood from it.
Fruits, so that we find out, we shall begin and later put on a motorcycle that we have gone to Masai Laugwa.
Our hole has been made by the use of gas in the country according to darkness, the gas and oil sources are said that for twenty years of entrance gas to the natural gas, it is said that during your period of your natural gas, the issue should we ask you to go after our place here.
Little, then?
Users to boys.
It is using for a small use like a small tribes.
How are citizens?
Users?
Why is it?
Kagera is how to leave Mister.
Everyone is a little environment for you.
Because the environment is welcoming them with pipelines in Kigali.
If you check the first depends on my heart or a trees that has a lot of great news on our part, I am doing that it is very important for gas to pass but we can get from the state of a Tanzanian life by using the clothes and the public by using their clothes.
In shortly the gas is liberation, we will not be enough education for example, this is a new product of the man it is tired of those who have been built from them have reported the products from OXFAM is not a savior because if you check it is true but there is a savior but there is a savior in the environment.
When you want to try out a lesson in prison and a shame, that it's impossible for anyone who is able to stand for small groups to give those drugs as usual we would like to partner with the stakeholders.
In order to get details on.
"
