
Simba will tell you the squad.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The assistant coach of Simba soccer club, Jackson Mayanja has decided to have a full squad and the best player this season, while claiming that the results of Azam FC and Majimaji will decide the fate of Simba to win the championship.

Speaking to journalists today after their game with Mtibwa Sugar, Mayanja said that until now they have found a correct system of not played in the game, Simba defeated Mtibwa 2-0.
"Simba of this year is best due to the kind of players we have the meaning that they start the first squad and the ones that are in good bench as the technical bench we have the great job for now, he is fans to continue cooperating and support their team so as to fulfill the aim of winning the premier league championship.
He said that for now they are looking for their coming matches of Azam and Majimaji, the results that they got in the games that will decide the fate of the championship, including Yanga's game that will be held on October first, Simba plays against Azam on September 24.
"We have remained with a few games before playing with Yanga, we know it is difficult for the coming matches and with great feelings to fans, therefore we need good results, but we should use this season and promised that they will win the league championship and every match will take it as a finals.
In another step, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has confirmed the game between Simba and Azam that was to be played this Saturday, has been pushed forward to September 24 to pave way for the finals to play for youths under the age of 17 years against Congo witnessed.
If Serengeti will be successful in winning its matches against Congo who will have qualified to play for those finals next year in Madagascar.
Mayanga, the coach who got great success in the last season with Tanzania Prisons, he said together with losing that game, his team has a chance to respect their mistakes and to fulfill the goals they have done this season.
Mayanga landed in Mtibwa to hold the position of Mecky Maxime, who had gone for Kagera Sugar.
Mayanga has a great job to build the team's squad after being left with many players on the registration exercise that was scored recently.
