
IPTL, BRT will join TANESCO to oppose the Standard Chartered Bank.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) and Pan African Power Solutions (PAP) Tanzania Limited, have joined the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) to oppose the decision made recently by the International Criminal Court in Hong Kong City (Sneijder in Hong Kong) to pay approximately 384 million American dollars.

That stand has also been made by the former bishop of IPTL, VIP Engineering and Sewerage Company Limited, which has claimed that the debt that is CBB is holding the investigation that is owned by TANESCO, has been caused by a lot of controversy.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the lawyer of IPTL and PAP, Joseph Makandege, said that countries have been charged with the request that was given by WWW) for the benefit of SCBB, which was to open that process as their agent.
"We are not worried about this of the Standard Chartered Bank of Hong Kong, together with our debtors in accordance with the records, we have ever been handed the IPTL equipment from the previous person," he said.
Makandege noted that due to SCBB of Tanzania, continuing to deal with the IPTL, the creditor to open that bank is not the norm for IPTL and that a compensation of 3924 billion American dollars, which is approximately 648 billion American dollars.
"Therefore, you can see who the person claimed to be his colleague has claimed that when they are at the Standard Chartered Bank of Hong Kong, claimed that this bank's issue to be the creditor to have not been destroyed by any legal court here in the country, therefore, can't come out to claim anything here," he said.
Makandege claimed that the command of ICSIDO I has violated the decisions that were given by the High Court in front of Judge Festus Mengele, who made a stern warning to TANESCO and the Standard Chartered Bank of Hong Kong, not to sit and reduce the price of electricity until the process was opened by TTCL will be released a decision.
"We have every reason to oppose this decision, which is aimed at hiding our court and instead of bringing evidence if they are the legal wife of IPTL, in the process of 60 / 2014, they are not known as Sneijder in 2014.
We will not hesitate to agree with this matter like TANESCO and we are supporting them in every situation, "he said.
On his part, the VIP lawyer, Doctor Coshuma Mtengeti, explained that in a special interview that the stand of its customers is to see that the decision of ICSIDO I will not be on paper, because there are big weaknesses that caused those decisions and requested TANESCO to take action against them.
"We will also agree with this decisions and any court discovered that the debt of the Standard Chartered Bank of Hong Kong have been discovered to be paid a lot of mistakes that shows this debt is not legal," he said.
He clarified that the debt of 120 million American dollars (CBB) produced by IPTL, instead the VIP Engineering who is a running mate and his board was not involved in the program was known even by the bank itself.
"Because nobody had refused to put open about the debt, the VIP and his board members, they refused to cost since 2001," he said.
TANESCO statement on Thursday last week, the Executive Director of TANESCO, Felchesmi Mramba, said the board of directors of that organization, has planned to appeal against the decision made by the International Criminal Court of Hong Kong, (SB - HK).
Those funds are the cause of investment costs in the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), Tegeta in Dar es Salaam city, Felchesmi Mramba, said that the plan to appeal is due to the violation of the law and several regulations of the court since it was opened in 2010, it made the last decision recently.
He said in a recent decision, that court was unable to consider his previous decision of the year 2014, and gave new decisions, like that case has been run afresh, something that is contrary to the requirements of the law and regulations of the court.
He said that as a result of that decision, TANESCO will send to his lawyer, Richard Miles, the founder of Rhema Trust, giving an appeal for the appeal within 90 days given by Makabane.
In addition to the decision the day before yesterday not a new compared to the previous day given by the international court on February 12, 2014, while excluding more than TANESCO, but that organization has insisted that there are still areas that if it will be viewed as a result of the last decision of money that is supposed to be paid, but also the legal authority to be paid.
