
Simba, Toto Africans.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been witnessed, 23 October, 2016.

The Wekundu wa Msimbazi goals today will be at home at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to welcome Toto Africans of Mwanza in a Tanzania Mainland Premier League.

The leaders Simba and Toto opposition are as Yanga and Simba.
There has been a view of some of the soccer stakeholders saying Toto and Yanga are the brother that every time when you meet Simba are playing because of many times that team is in the region of getting a bridge that does not kill Simba.
Last season, Simba did not depend on the front of Toto as in the first game that was played on December 19, 2015 with a draw of 1-1 goals and the repeat match that was played on April 16, 2016 were beaten by 1-0 goals.
That was the last season where that team of Msimbazi did not be well, but now your things are well and Toto is supposed to get into the field with a great extent otherwise it will not be done something like the other teams.
Simba is leading the top of the position with 26 points with a good record of not losing the game even one in 10, won eight matches and got two goals.
Different from Toto which this season will be available well as it is holding the last after playing 11 games, two goals and lost seven points by eight points.
Simba is proud of having a better channel of attacks, mid-fielder and even defense officers who are greedy for wedding while Ibrahim Ajib, Laudit Mavugo and Fredrick Sumaye, the others who showed up is Mohamed Ibrahim and Mzamiru Yassin.
Speaking about today's match, the assistant coach of Simba soccer club, Jackson Mayanja said that he was understand the difficulty of today's match but they every match they play in those finals they played with the previous teams that will play against Toto.
Another match that will be played today is between Prisons against Mbao FC that will be played at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya town.
All the teams are good and they have been about its quality, before yesterday's games, Prisons was in the sixth position with 14 points.
Prisons is playing at home ground, we need to get good results, therefore today's match will not be easy for Mbao FC is out to score 1-0 goals by Simba in the last match against Mbao FC is the team that has tried to bring great opposition especially for a big team.
