
Why do you get pregnant until the death.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Or when the age of age will continue to be careful, he will continue to get into the Mox which is owned by skin disorders, and that's why the death of President Michael Sata of Zambia that was quoted by bad luck, but JB is independent and asked for important questions.
There is no leader of the African nation who is able to step down from office for health reasons, follow the treatment without putting off their country in fear, he added and it is only a good example of African countries who do not have a good example to the leaders.
However, it does not know a lot in Kenya, it is a good example to Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, he found himself using a high level despite facing a huge challenge of old and health problems.
In the last years of the life of Mzee Kenyatta, even his very close friends they did not have a lot of days to live and that is why they started strategies to inherit the.
He said that he was open about that years they will tell Daniel MOI to have great objection, even the aim of wanting to change the constitution so that they can be the acting president, while he followed the way to shivered.
When you get married, when you know when you leave you, and you know that your health is okay, why you will leave that your health is not known, why you can't know why our neighbor, Ethiopia got approximately two years ago.
That he knew that he is breast cancer but he refuses to leave office, because he left each other in the whole country has died.
Just look for the age of age! Now President Omar Al-Bashir from Sudan has appointed to contest for the third term of presidential that will be held on April next year.
Apart from breaking his promise he didn't contest for a third term because he has been office for a long time, he has the health problems in the whole country.
Jehovah's living in exile or passport or not supposed to be aired, if you have heard two days he would have died or a critical condition that he had died or a critical condition when he got the son of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
When he was chosen for what he is able to lead his country as he is.
I gave out that claims by Daniel MOI to be more than 20 years ago, he has retired in and directed by others for 14 years now, and that Kenya has not qualified!
Mwokozi, the veteran Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, 90, for three months is not only two months without stopping.
The claims that he has a Kibondemaji, has increased all over the world for a long time, but what he did, the elderly of people are annoyed instead they succeeded even when I think it followed when I think there was no whole country will die.
About politics, I say it is illegal for praising me! Now, Al-Bashir promised that he would not vie for another period according to power since 1989, again Sudan needs new leaders.
If you welcome him, he got in with the real man since the old leader of age believe there is no other.
