Elders who were murdered is being given.
Responding to the elderly who went to their homes in fear of the killing of the allegations of witchcraft in he said that he has ever got new hope.

This is after the government of he said that he could decide to start at the headquarters which they will be responsible.

That step is after being approved by people of parliament about the parliament of that he said that last year.

Apart from that law, he said that he violated the establishment of the headquarters, including Zuniga scored, and that law has also given out the loopholes that were seen by the special money to help them by giving them food as well as usual.

This step is expecting to bring up a new awareness to the elderly whose life starts being in danger soon after they start being a head of the head.

The government of the Indiana governor is planning to start with the KFGM station that is in Mrara Airport, the station founded more than ten years ago has been used for accommodating elders who went to their homes for fear of being killed.

Later stations that are being built in different areas of the country.

Speaking to the nation today in Kilumbi, the deputy speaker, Teddy Mapunda, who is the one who presented a speech about the elders said that the plan to renovate the center will start early next month.

Moreover, Mister Mwambega said that the new station will have the ability to save more than 200 elders and will be one of the most big stations in the village of Kilimba and Coastal region in general.

"We will begin with the KFGM station because already it has been selling those elders for a long time, then later we will improve this program in other areas of Kilongo," said Mister on how that station will curb fear and live in peace in their future years.

He said that through the elders of the villages and the officers from Muembe Makundi Ward, they will have the ability to take record for all the elderly who are in this bridge and register themselves at this bridge and register themselves with security officers.
