President Jakaya Kikwete has said there will need foreign companies and foreign organizations to increase the speed of promoting the economy of the nation through investment so that the nation was increasing to grow its economy.
President Kikwete has given that statement in his talks with representatives of various companies in France even so he has said that the government has already prepared a good environment for those players and added that already its priorities.
To enable investment that have no benefits already, I have been organized in collaboration with the left Ramadhani H. ende who is in the convoy of President Kikwete in France for a report.
Why is it?
The special President of President Jakaya Kikwete explaining before the Local Government of Allah protect the nation's economy through investment of companies from outside the country.
If you want to buy, quills, agriculture.
He can be the investment of within and outside has said that the government will continue to cooperate with different stakeholders to improve the economy of the nation in the sector.
It is reported that trumps mirror does not love the country easily by Raymond Mbilinyi.
You come to the chief executive in special unit of agriculture in the southern regions.
Actually, it is understood.
France to come in the country.
It is true that business people have shown a lot in various sectors in the big sector is the agricultural sector that was given an opportunity to play in various infrastructure in the agricultural infrastructure, the port for more roads as well as the same side.
But as if they have been able to show interest in tourism, there is a possibility that you come to players in agriculture but it aims at least six percent.
His contribution in fighting poverty will be greater than it was in the previous years since players who we have information will be conducted in agriculture especially in this area.
You like to take this course which involves the first provinces of South Africa in Mbeya town.
In addition to addition to the great and great importance of this network is giving an opportunity for the investment that until now you know that their performance took place at the highest place in agriculture but if you have a lot of opportunities for investment.
President Jakaya Kikwete and his delegation has been on a three-day work tour in France, teachers in the partnership that is between the government to relocate from different levels.
How is your news.
What does it mean?
