
The new fares have increased the Pugu auction in hand with the improvements.

It has been written by me.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The Tanzania Railways Company (TRL) tomorrow has opened a total of 600 million shillings to a whole one and 100 shillings to a student, for the train that is making trips from Dar es Salaam to end.

Since the start of that train in July this year, the fare is being charged by that company before the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), approve the 400 shillings for a whole one and 200 shillings to a student from one station to another.
The acting executive director of TRL, Hudugu Ng'amilo said that the first week the train began on trials, it was taking free passengers from Pugu area for the purpose of improving.
He also said that after the trials, the company was giving 400 shillings during the completion of the process to take care of the fare which was supervised by SUMATRA.
The coming of the train has been of great help to the users of that transport especially to the residents that live in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam as the Gongo la Mboto estate in Chanika in Pugu auction, where there have been a big number of people who come to do business in the city.
There are some of the passengers have been facing them, before the establishment of the train, following a large number of buses, the train had 10 wagons, which is three hours within the morning and three days in the evening, five days of the week.
Ng'ombeni, said since the establishment of the train, the day collecting more than 12 million shillings on the fare at 400 and 200 shillings to students, a situation that shows that the train revenue will increase.
In addition to great success in that train, it has started a two months ago, there have been different problems that many stakeholders of that transport need to be careful, for the improvements according to the fare that they started to impose fees and lack of fees in those attacks.
Compared to the train of Ubungo, which those things are available, TRL is required to ensure that the Pugu auction will be able to make sure that the Pugu auction will be able to announce the stations.
The Pugu auction, they're being forced to listen to their voice to announce stations in eight wagons, which every one has more than 150 people, therefore, in the strategies that TRL has been put in the issue so that the train can have more success.
However, the train sometimes have been leaving outside time, on what is explained that they are making the renovations for the renovations that would have occurred in the afternoon, which the train is in a half time.
For a short time in the evening, the train is supposed to get out 9 o'clock Mrs 55 or only time, it is supposed to leave at 4 o'clock in the past, but sometimes it comes at 4 o'clock or at 4 o'clock.
I believe the leadership of this train can make great changes, if they will see the challenges and look for solutions, since the users of that service are many more than all that we are doing earlier.
Also, we believe that hatching of the fare is 600 million shillings, go hand in hand with the improvement of the train so that it can attract more people more, because TRL is also in the business competition and the train of Tanzania Railways Company and Zambia (TAZARA), which also has its journey from Pugu auction.
