How can I be able to do him in discussion with the topics that we will talk about today is the results of this country he will follow up for grade four when I welcome her, my name is happy and here we start to hear the views of these participants.
Why is it is called?
Ras Kiduku was saying that they will not affect the government they need.
The things to use between.
The Almighty God bless you, they will be able to succeed to join that name.
Hayatou, will see that people think they think because of a few teachers in the picture is being addressed, therefore it is called for Maxwell.
Ras Makunja has managed to be taken and taken against the students in class seven and grade four, there are others who come even in form four about it is not given the source of students to fail in events.
Form four.
It is taken to the students without stopping.
Earlier today's work.
And was defeated the same period of removing contributions for form five.
Which he has taken the form, they will have the ability to do.
There are several classrooms and also support them from our government will be support to see that the contributions for this year will be support to say that the contributions for this year.
They have helped me there are others who had the mental ability, he didn't have.
And not knowing that if you are in Dar es Salaam, all pictures have been reported, but events have come is so as what he did.
And the truth.
And the men of teachers who were involved in different parts of the afternoon.
Different from the results was called bison.
Hayatou, I think about it is a council that you don't know all the corruption of the eighth examinations by most people, what is it depends on that they can follow it is.
He has also already left or they are very high positions to others in getting high table.
For yourselves and sexual abuse I think about what?
Because the thinking should so that the council are required to be a lot of exams for the mockery.
And if the teachers will not be enough to take advantage of the examinations.
I will show the exams by name as Eric aka I'm the source of students.
The results of form four is the shortage of teachers in doing teaching and then.
And business as a result of giving that another school, one teachers used to study science, but that person also had to teach studies.
Now, this action is caused by a great obstacle to the students, I have found a good understanding of something that are meeting with him that he is in details to you.
With his name and meaning?
We think that plants in the country fail to stop the upbringing, but do not understand why the student does not understand because the student does not affect so, more than to study, you find you going to be like the new and when you go to them.
And apart from different reasons, we have met here from the students themselves as they are talking about the same way you want to invest in our country to our country?
How do we do?
So as to do the results even to you, the way you will make examinations.
So that we can be careful, this will be a resident of teachers to go back to school to teach so much in areas of the villages.
Due to the villages.
It is our teachers' teachers to move forward, and you got schools with one teachers, this one for the teachers to teach all the classrooms it is good that the government will increase.
I'm in that and it is supposed to find you the teachers.
They are given out here in Dar es Salaam when he was taken far like in the province, he will make corrections.
But the salary he is paid is very little, it goes with him a environment that he has lived.
It is different from him and the environment that are used?
Coach at least I see if I was good to see if I was good that they told him following one thing that he has mentioned in the areas of rural teachers to live in the villages.
There is no teachers when they don't like going to go to where we are in which way?
Teachers are supposed to be unable to go to there because the government is because someone comes from Dar es Salaam.
When he was taken?
Another is it?
He has no need to build houses for teachers where teachers coming from the villages and go to the villages to stay with the chief physician but is using a lot of hours when we live with water or get services in the day when they are in the country, and they failed to see that they will get that service.
And another it has found the salary increase and put up there different from if it was living in the city where he got all social services that they can use.
The money has been made to go a place to buy or get social services in the country, from using twenty kilometers to get social services, an issue that has paid itself in which it will not be a lesson for teachers, we believe that even if it will not be a lesson for children, we find good teachers to come in school.
They feel that he will pay a big amount.
The fees are given to the heart to teach more that the schools of contributions are inside.
Also the government is supposed to check on the side of the road.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we have a great amount of transport because the transport sector has been a great source of teachers about failing to go into the village areas as because the roads are bad to travel to Ukawa is difficult, there is no safe vehicle.
The transport agencies to sit is not less than not fit, the roads have been built for vehicles to use it.
Teachers to get even in primary schools in the villages and also services like water.
Electricity is complete.
All those can be able to attract teachers to go to the area which has been planned to increase many opinions, we have met here from the students there are very much and write!
People have written the verses of other music they get married.
Here we are doing a student who has arrived in the national exams.
For the form four examinations, then he is doing things like this, we are making some of the students and this is also to communicate with some of the students who will also take a step if they would have been able to do so because they can be able to do so because it is not time.
For the second time the third time it repeated the students that made them about their wives and teachers is here and he didn't say that there are different reasons that have already been placed but there are many reasons that have already been able to go back, then how many children had the reputation of getting to form four and eventually form four.
If we are not using the primaries if we are not less than two hundred and ten thousand per year, most of the children has completed the end of last year and she does not have the reputation of getting grade three when they toured the form four exams.
Therefore, if we start there it is easy to realize that in their history, it has been found.
Since superstition can say that.
The solution to remove this situation is to fail the idea of protecting it should not be political but it should be a good professional because we want the scholars that they can do.
Thanks for the teachers together with all the students who participated in the discussion today, we had not heard.
