Makinda, Anna Abdallah, Ndugai "
Brightiles 24, 2015.

The speaker of parliament of Tanzania, Ann Makinda, his deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, and one of the veteran members of the country, Anna Abdallah, is among approximately 44 members who were affected by the government's step to remove parliamentarians in the board of public organizations.
Mke Mwema has taken a number of parliamentarians to be 44 this week from the previous reports of the National Audit Office (NAO T) which has ever done investigation about parliamentarians who are in the board of public organizations.
The investigation of this newspaper has revealed that Makinda is the chairperson of the Majani ya Chai board in the country when Anna Abdallah who has announced his retirement from politics after the general elections of this year is the chairman of the board of cashews.
However, that CCM's statement was sold to have changes in the country and there, because one of the members of parliament, the late captain John Komba has been reported to be a member of the coffee board although he has already died.
There are two types of members that are used to the board of public organizations, there are those who are faced with the government to enter the board and others in accordance with the law, it was appointed by their fellow members to represent parliament in those organizations.
Mwema should not been forced to get names of all opposition members who were mentioned to be among those board but it has been able to get a few names due to the investigation that was done.
According to the government's procedure, investigation of government interests in the public organizations are the registrar of treasury, who is the one with other delegates of the board of organizations that government has interests.
However, the efforts of Raia Mwema want to get names of all members of parliament who are in the board of public organizations from the registrar of treasury, Lawurence Museru, it did not produce a long distance time when they're going against them on Monday.
In his communication he made by this newspaper in a short way, Mafuru wanted the first to know the goal of the newspaper in looking for those names, but he advised that request for it after the official procedures.
"About the Almighty God to inform all the delegates of the board of organizations and public institutions, I would like to know the aim of that step and its use, I advise you to know what you feel like," wrote Mafuru through the email letter while in Dodoma province.
On the side of the Parliament of Tanzania, his secretary, Doctor Thomas Kashimba, said the institution has no official number of members who are in the board because it is not a must for a member of parliament when he was appointed to the board.
"We are here we have a list of members of parliament who are members of the board of institutions that are required to have members of parliament who are elected inside here.
"In other organizations, sometimes the members of parliament are supposed to be discriminated against the parliament to be informed about anything that's why I cannot get especially tell ourselves that many parliamentarians will be affected by that decision by the government, said Kashgar.
More than Makinda and Abdallah, other parliamentarians who were known in various board are Doctor Festus Mengele, who is the chairperson of Pamba board, deputy speaker, Job Ndugai, who is in the Board of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), Doctor Binilith Mahenge who is in the Zhakem Grounds for PRocky.
Speaking in parliament in Dodoma town two weeks ago, Minister of Finance, Saada Mkuya, said that all the ones that are in that board will be removed from June 30th this year, because of wanting to increase accountability in those organizations.
That step has caused a long period of the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) wanting the parliamentarians to break up on the board because that is happening contrary to the regulations of accountability.
The report of the CAG report for inspection of public organizations for the year 2013 / 2014 was presented to the parliament in Dodoma, it explained that those recommendations were presented for the first time in the year 2008 / 2009.
In that report, former CAG, Ludovic Utouh has said that during the accountability meeting that took place between January 23 and 24, 2009 to the country, it was decided that parliamentarians who are the supervisors of the constitutional law should not be appointed as members of the board of public organizations.
"This trend is unique and there is only Tanzania only and will not be used anywhere in the community which Tanzania is its member and even any country in the world," said CAG has denied the proposal for five consecutive years without being implemented by the concerned authorities. "
However, the number of members of parliament in various government institutions had begun to reduce since the CAG's office began making noise about that issue seven years ago.
