
212,150 nets are being collected in Mnazi Mmoja.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The residents of Dar es Salaam have contributed to 212,150 nets in two days, which the provincial commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda made a donation to those residents to test their health and meet the specialist doctors of various diseases.

Speaking to this newspaper, the Executive Officer of the National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS), Lucas Michael said the blood was given by the residents that arrived at the Mnazi Mmoja Grounds on September 24 and 25 this year.
"The message of the citizens is very good, those citizens arrived here at Mnazi Mmoja to test their health but as to think it is a good thing that we have contributed to the blood, therefore we agreed with them into large numbers of blood and their weight before giving their blood," said Michael.
Furthermore, he said the blood that was given can save the lives of more than 500 people who need to be given blood, therefore it will help them.
He said many people are continuing to come out to test and contribute blood, therefore they are expecting to get a lot of blood.
"The blood amount can save a life of more than 500 people, it is just one person who needs blood in which way to be among them, and there is another person who can be more than one hour," he said.
He said the blood will not be done, if it will have infection of diseases such as fever, syphilis and AIDS, will also be safe and the one that is safe then will be used.
He said that our country has never been able to meet the blood needs, that is why the contribution of blood is not allowed in every time.
According to the chief medical officer of Dar es Salaam Province, Grace Magato, up to yesterday afternoon, 4890 people were given services and that the people who had been given services until the end of that service which is 11,351.
He said the service was given two days, but the provincial commissioner added two days which were yesterday and today due to the response of people being great than the expectations that they had.
