
Clinton is the wife for the party's primaries when you're close to the party.
By OMR.
New York, America.
Former American president, Bill Clinton for the first time, on Monday, was came out to vote for his wife Hillary Clinton to vie for the presidency this year, and he described as a politician and she has ever been seen in many years.
The former President of the 69 years old, was heading to the New Hampshire state, who has also called Senator and mother of the nation.
Hillary is leading in the opinion polls about the pastor and one who won the ticket of the Republican Party that took place before the general elections next month.
On Monday, he made a public rally at the social media college, Nasir, and thank Hillary Clinton for volunteering to do America to be the country with more rights, with more security to the poor and who need in life.
"I believe in life, there is no one who has prepared for this position in a very important time like this one who has graduated from their skills, expertise and calmness when you know what is needed to be done," he said.
If he mentioned it is a grandfather who is happy, "Clinton said that Hillary is the most good person" since they met with a good person "since they met at any position but he wanted to give legal services to those poor.
"Everything he touched me, where he did not be more better," he said, and he described him that "we are not happy," however, Donald Trump wants to vie for the presidency through the Republican Party that had been condemned and said he has a bad reputation for the women's relationship.
He continued to get married on Monday, probably you were given, Hillary Clinton has said Trump is the two of women.
"How can I say that though he has the biggest of women in his home, she is waiting for back home night," he told the news agency of CNN.
"Something, more than Hillary Clinton will allow her husband to vote for him," he said through the social media network on Sunday.
The Republican Party trying to inherit the Clinton's office through the chairmanship of parliament in the year 1998 but failed, on claims that he was blocking the investigation about the claims of participating in love outside marriage.
On Sunday, Hillary Clinton by the member of parliament of the Republican Party in the New Hampshire state about the claims that brought together her husband and participated in love outside marriage.
"You don't have a lot a lot," he told me for you before writing another person who was in a crowd.
His husband does not mention Trump in his 30 minutes speech by Nasir, but he warned that the great success made in the health and environmental policies may be shaken if they will also choose the president of the Republican Party.
"Is very worried," he said, while asking for votes the police do not lie on the statements of the presidency.
