
There are some of the different groups in the community that have already been forgotten in the health services especially the elderly, disabled and mental patients.
In addition to that there are special stations that have been built for them but they don't have supervisors and workers of giving them their needs as required.
The elders that live in Bukumbi Community Welfare Center in Kigongo Village, Idetemya Ward Misungwi District, Mwanza Province, are asked the government to give health services at the health center of their center.
Those elders are explaining the challenges of health and reproductive health services at a press conference that was organized by the institution concerned with the increase of people's population and family planning (TCDAA).
While speaking at different times, those elders are saying that at that clinic there is no drugs and when they are forced, they are forced to buy.
Chairman of the camp, Helena Emmanuel, says they are faced with various challenges of health services, reproductive health services together with some of the elders and the disabled who are not self-employed from the camp.
When we arrived at our clinic, the doctor is doing well but there is no drugs, therefore he gets to me and make sure that they buy at the drugs shops.
"In fact this is a big challenge to us because sometimes when we get money to purchase the medicine, a situation that makes us continue to suffer and we have no income," said Helena.
He says another challenge is an increase in children who are born in that camp whose father are unknown.
He says that the reproductive health service is needed at the station because there are girls living in that camp to get pregnant women from time when their father are not allowed.
"In this camp, we live the elderly, disabled and mental patients, and a large number of people who receive pregnancy are mental patients and those who fall down.
"At the moment here, we are 78 people but there are seven people who have been expelled and they were told to go to the villages while they don't have the ability to take care of themselves, I don't have the ability to help them because they are disabled," he says.
The officer in charge of the headquarters, Michael Mungure, says there are 17 children that have been born in that camp with their mother living in that camp but their father are unknown.
"Children were very much but recently, we saw those who lost 18 years and take them to the special area that was specially set for their purpose and therefore they had been more than 800 children.
"The number has been increasing because some of them lose pregnancy as well as other girls get from the youths who live outside the camp," says Bundala.
And the chairman of Kigongo village in Idetemya county, Sebastian Kisumu says there's a challenge of youths from outside giving pregnant women living in that camp and caused the increase of income that is not expected.
He says there are various experts who are coming to the camp to offer family planning education but many of them are not seekers, a situation that causes a big number of children who don't have a father.
"Now has come at a time of taking action and urging our youth to ensure they use reproductive health services with the aim of reducing the children who are born time to time being dependent on the government," says Kisumu.
