Newsletter, otherwise in the new plane of Magufuli.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The popular newsletter of the Forbes magazine has been charged by two Dash8-Q400 type, which already Tanzania has bought to be security, using a little fuel that uses little fuel.

According to the article that was published by the magazine with the news headline.
"We can compete in the Bombardier Q400 type to save Air Service, Ambassador US $us," the writer is explaining the benefits of those planes, compared to other planes that conduct internal transport in America.
"ATCL has a good speed and meet with the needs of the internal journey to the level of having more income, compared to other planes of its kind like Ar," you wrote the Forbes magazine.
In addition, the magazine has mentioned other benefits of those airplanes to be the ability to use little oil, a move that will help to reduce the cost of air transportation in the country for passengers affected by those planes so that there was a little amounts of 48 up to 50 percent of another plane.
Forbes is insisted that as a result of the cost of repairs and other cost of operations, including good salaries on the pilots, there is a big possibility that the government is operated on a easy price and it will sell tickets at a easy price than another plane.
"For now, we need to make sure that the type of vehicles, the ones will be alternative and will hold a lot of tax (American) at an amount of 50 to 60 percent and will help restore the transport that has been prepared for a huge cost of other planes in approximately 20 stadiums," clarified that magazine.
While he was quoted in that article, Mike Arnautovic, the president of the business affairs of the country says that the previous words of passengers about those planes use the electronic system have reduced, now it has dropped because the engines and modern infrastructure of those airplanes are making it not to be so much like.
"Many buyers of these planes have noted that lack of noise, and many users believe that you can be alternative for other affordable prices," says the officer, statements that were accepted by the Forbes analysis.
Already the government of Tanzania has promised to bring another second plane this week, after the first one in the country last week being a strategy of the implementation of the promise of President John Magufuli of promoting Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL).
The arrival of those airplanes are also made by President Magufuli that he desires, in the period of one year of his leadership.
Apart from bringing those planes, there are a lot of things that President Magufuli has started to make sure that he promised during the general election campaign last year, a step that has caused many people inside and outside the country.
Our aircraft had a bad condition as a result of being unable to run away from the high cost of operations and few passengers, who use the air travel.
The analysis of various attraction sites in the country, including scholars and former employees of ATCL, have noted benefits and cost of Tanzania to use that plane more than other planes which have a high cost.
They are saying the real price of type Boeing which will be faced by many Tanzanians is 296 million American dollars, while the Bombardier Q400 type that are being sold for 35 million American dollars.
Those analysis have refused because of Tanzania to buy Boeing, it is better to increase the amount of 19 million American dollars and buy a total of nine million dollars.
Regarding the speed of those planes, the analysis shows that if the speed of type Boeing is big more than getting into oil, because of Boeing is 438,905 kilometers for eight hours from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza, it will use 145 hours and it will use at 115 hours and it is only 25 minutes.
Furthermore, Boeing is used to use one of the four hundred thousand oil for one hour, because for one hour, they will give approximately 300,000 shillings to be able to pay 300,000 shillings in order to pay for oil costs, the costs are outside the cost of services and employees and the benefits in general.
On the right side, it is using 17 million shillings of oil for oil for one way, that is when you use it using one acre of oil for one hour.
For example, Songea in Dar es Salaam is approximately 537 kilometers, therefore, it will use 3970,089 kilometers, while the biggest debate caused by the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam (JNIA) from Canada.
After landing in that plane, it was given a special honor which is given out by any new plane that takes place in his country (Water Front branch) and then went with and parked in the army plane (Airwing Ukonga).
Speaking after arriving at the plane, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Doctor Leonard Mao, said the second plane is expected to arrive after one week.
"After arriving at the second plane that will be held officially, that will be led by President Magufuli for the end of which will be announced later," said Chamwamba.
In the previous report that was released by ATCL at the end of the week, it explained that the plane has a capacity to carry 76 passengers having four pilots from Canada started a journey to come in the country since two weeks that shall take place in the country since two weeks that shall take place through the Reekmans.
It explained that those planes will start to do its journey immediately after completing the process of being signed by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA).
"Because they will play with the registration of Canada, we will be forced to use two days to three to return to TCAA registration as well as completing other legal procedures so that they can get permission to do their journey here," he explained.
He added that the first journey of that plane is expected to take place on September 27th, this year to Mwanza City.
"We will also have two bridges, which is the level of economy (the class one) that will involve 70 passengers and the business bridge (Business level) that will involve six passengers for every plane," it was noted that some of the provinces where that organization will improve more than their trips to be in Dodoma, Mwanza, Arusha, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora,
