The secretary of Nyerere.
On the 18th of 18th, 2015.

The Secretary General of the national father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Mzee Samuel Kasibu, has received threats from several people after his decision of "wrote a foolish thing, after some of the politicians inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) involved the Mwalimu Nyerere race and their presidential race.
That situation has come out as a few days since Mzee Kasu was quoted by her sister and this of the citizens of Tanzania, that some of the politicians are using the Mwalimu Nyerere name for their goals.
Miss Tanzania newspaper named Kasibu, a few days ago since the member of parliament for Mbinga West, John Komba, was quoted by the newspaper on February 10, this year, claiming that before Mwalimu Nyerere died and he left with Lowassa.
"It is true that the name of Lowassa was affected by a teacher because of different reasons, but President Mkapa announced his cabinet of ministers in 1995, after two years he saw Lowassa at the council of ministers. I believe he was given advice to Mwalimu Nyerere," he quoted Komba.
Rumors against him.
After the newspaper of Tanzania citizens being sworn in, he was quoted saying part of the signing of Komba, Elder Kasibu, talked to our news analysis and explained that he got from one of the workers in the government (his name and the institution is reserved).
In threats that were donated by his phone through his phone, Kasanga said he is supposed to stop spreading the plans of people's lives (even so, this newspaper was not allowed to identify immediately the plans that is swelled in life is pregnant especially.
More information from several news sources from the government shows that Mzee Kasele has taken different steps including being forced to protect some of the government authorities in the government.
"
The message is going on to explain that, "this new God called for money has an additional force in mind and our hearts."
What is saying Mzee Kasanga.
By considering the instructions of Komba, how it was quoted earlier, the Tanzanian newspaper looked into Kasibu, one of the close relatives of Mwalimu Nyerere, who placed a surprise of, he didn't know if Mwalimu Nyerere was impressed by Lowassa as he claimed.
I believe this issues I played 74 days didn't know all and make them on the network Siwema who did 74 matches did not be open, "he started talking to Elder Kasanga.
In his explanation, Kasese district is continuing to say that, Honorable Edward Lowassa was one of the candidates vying for the presidential position in 1995, and he was dismissed from heavy arguments due to lack of parliament for a short period in CCM and the government.
Just after going back in Butiama, 1995, after his resignation from the presidential position one day earlier on morning, Mister Lowassa said that he cannot go to tell him, Mister Lowassa said he cannot go to tell him, Mister Lowassa said he cannot go to say when I went to Butiama and finally he was the first to give him a phone.
