President Magufuli and from BADEA.
Dec 80, 2015.

For those who follow this column, they will remember that just after CCM asked Doctor John Magufuli to be his presidential candidate in the last general elections, I have written the articles that resulted from the conduct of the ruling party for several years now, I will also have great hopes that the opposition parties, especially women should give us the alternative of CCM.
However, after parliamentarians and other parties sponsored by the Citizens Union Constitution (Ukawa) to receive the former prime minister Edward Lowassa, and later appointed him as their candidate, together with giving him a surprise "that was also the secretary general of the party, I think afresh about my stand.
Previously, I explained my strength in fighting with the presidential decision of Ukawa to receive Lowassa and put him that their presidential candidate was being received by the opposition because I was forced to find him at the CCM candidate, Doctor Magufuli, for the third position.
After listening to his speech on the time of the launch of CCM campaigns and the speech followed when she had gone into different parts of our country to ask for votes, I decided to support him by 100 percent while the decision was not difficult because if the decision made it had bought by CCM.
Easily and support Doctor Magufuli been contributed by, an assurance that when he made Lowassa's followers who at a large extent, they refused to put that logic before the feelings of the song that met him, "that is, in a broad way to reach them," that is, in a broad way to reach them.
Therefore, I made it hope that if Doctor Magufuli won and fulfill his promise then it will not complete noise from those who had been promised by Lowassa but it will also get a dream of every Tanzanian to see our country got a tough leader as they prepare.
Unfortunately, it's not only that Doctor Magufuli won but for a short time since he came to power he has no great joy to get a lot of people that we have, and eventually, our country can be proud of.
Personally, I have contributed to the process of starting my day by looking at home, through different media stations in the internet for many times the day before yesterday, it was full of bad news, since every day it was full of bad news, but every day before yesterday without meeting with corruption, crimes and so on.
But the current situation is different since Magufuli came to power because it is good for a good news for good news and it's not difficult to have great hope considering that until when I have written this article, President Magufuli has been in power for approximately three weeks to participate in Tanzania with an example to be employed.
And that has already started.
