Chunya village, a white blood is black.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

The step of the government to prevent the cotton industries in the Catholic Archdiocese of Chunya District, has condemned the economy of its farmers, even so in recent years, the farmers have alternative treatments of that product, and they are their husbands.

It has been approximately 15 years now since being built through the cotton industries in Chunya District, a step that affected the economy is not the district of Chunya District, and other districts, especially in Mbeya town where there were industries for production of oil and for production of oil.

To be defeated in the industries for building the cotton industries which was caused by lack of natural resources, increase employment to the mother, but the biggest is the industries for production of geothermal energy.

The cotton business has been done more by the mother in Mbeya City, and due to the great benefits that they succeeded to strengthen the development of their families including educating the children, therefore, the damage to the economy of many families in the city.

Their thing of touching the citizens of Songwe.
When it is started in the past years of the end of the year 1990, the value of us did not be given the importance, but as the end of it, the importance of that product is to identify, and in recent years they will be able to pay for income.

Mary Simfukwe who is the barley farmer from the Catholic Archdiocese of Chunya District, and in his interview with Raia Mwema, he believes that one usually have an average of 30 years to 32 with one acre.

The level of the name Mary is an average of 81 million shillings in the season, being the income that is available on one economic activities of the farmer, agriculture, and their own kind.

However, it depends on a lot of rains, because their product is capable of causing a little amount of rain, when I continued affects the development of the disease, therefore, it is not good for the agricultural sector that is between the month of February and March.
"I believe that it is helped a lot to me, educating my four children and other needs of here at home," says Mary.

The view of the farmer continues with his colleague, who identified himself by the name Neema Tawale, who together with the little of her child is still seen, that's a savior in his life is equal to 14 acres which are equivalent to the end of the past.

"The farming of us has made me in the economy, it has helped to open other projects that is contributed to a lot of income, I have been able to build a modern house," he says.

It has said that the women get rid of their success in the agricultural sector, where the government continues to eliminate its farmers and guardians of that product.
