
A child has died in a bucket of foot and torched.

It has been written by Pickup,.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

Three people have died in different events in Rukwa province, including the old child of one year, Being Eliona.

Rukwa Regional Police Commander, George Kyando, confirmed the occurrence of those events and said that the child entered water for water on September 24th, this year, at 8 o'clock in the afternoon in Mkimbii Village in Nkasi district.
He has said that when that child is land in a water problem, her mother was carrying a clothes.
"The incident happened after the mother entered inside and went to take his clothes to leave his child while playing with his fellow children.
When he went outside, so as to continue producing the child, he found her child with a lot of water being died, "he said.
In another event, a resident of Kazuka village in Kalala district, Athanase Nkubito (76) has been killed by being shot by traditional weapons and then his body will face off in the fire.
Commander Kyando said that event happened on September 24th, this year, 3 of 00 Tanzanian shillings night in Kazuka village, Kalala district.
He said the cause of those killings are faith in witchcraft and that the suspects have been arrested and they will be taken in court when you will be completed.
Commander Kyando, said that in another event that occurred in September 24th, this year, at 6 o'clock in the afternoon at the Sumbawanga Municipality, a resident of Sumbwanga village, a resident of Sumbawanga village, resident Damian Lubuva (45), was found himself forced him by using his trousers using a red carpet.
He said on September 22, this year Damian Lubuva left the village that is going on and went to village village to be in Kalunga together with the church.
He explained that the next day the wife of the late child known as Mwanazuo's anga, after realizing that they are tired of all of them, but her husband decided to communicate with him through the mobile phone and to be listened to that he is still in village.
He said that it is alleged that the person did not go back to his home in the village where it's up to his body that was found guilty, it was claimed that he had betrayed him.
"The source of disclaimer is a family conflict between him (the late) and his wife, after the man to buy the farm from Emmanuel Solo an, an act that brought her wife who decided to take their children and leave them to live in his own kind by Eve Damian Lubuva," he said.
According to Commander Kyando, the body of the car that is unacceptable, was handed over to his brothers for preparations for the burial, he said that the investigation of inspection is claimed that his death was caused by lack of weather.
