
Tax, bribery in the private sector.

It has been written by our writer, Bagamoyo.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

The standards of tax, tax management and bribery have been explained that the big restrictions that cause the difficulty of business people in the private sector to run and grow their activities.

Those are in the view of the view of business leaders on investment environment in Tanzania for the year 2015 which was launched in the city by the executive director of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TSNP), Godfrey Simbeye.
The research which is six months to get the view of the business people in the country, has revealed that until the year 2015, electricity will be a big problem but now the problem of the tax management has risen up and become big.
Also, the research which is important since the view of those business people that would be able to convince the decisions of investment, it has also shown to be given a high position about the level of tax.
In that research, where those leaders business people were asked to do a conducive environment, issues that cause difficulty of doing business, bureaucracy, law and opinions about government accountability, the issue of bribery that was started in 2010, has been completed the fourth position while the financial opportunities are in the fifth position.
Speaking after launching that report, Simbeye has said that although there are changes in the energy sector and the situation continues to reduce bribery, the issue of taxes and its administration is the police force to create policies and regulations to check the better environment of business so as to have the development of investment.
He said that without the correct environment of investment there will be no industries, there will be no employment and there will be no tax.
Furthermore, he said together with doubt that the presence of government relationship and private sectors just after the fifth term, they have been sure due to the public institutions to start having discipline in addressing some issues that are made in their table.
