The investigation case for parliamentarians should be completed.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

The investigation officer who is leading in Dar es Salaam Regional Administrative Secretary, Theresia Mbiku involving three member of parliament, including Ubungo, Saed Kubenea, has been completed.

The government's lawyer, Flora Massawe has said yesterday in front of the Resident Magistrate's Court, Huruma witness, when the case was mentioned at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Dar es Salaam city.
Due to the completion of the investigation, lawyer Flora asked the court to stop the case up to another date to attend to them being the previous explanations.
Apart from Kubenea, other members of parliament are Halima Mdee (Kawe), Mwita Bhoke (Ukonga) and the councilor of Tabata Kimanga area, Aziz Abood, who was the councilor of Kimara B Primary School, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said.
The resident magistrate was postponed that case up to October 12th this year, for the purpose of those students to have the previous information.
The citizens are alleged to are reported on February 27 this year, at the Karimjee hall, Ilala district, together with that he has left Mtwara and caused injuries that happened during the mayor and his assistant in Dar es Salaam City.
In another step, the case against economic growth has caused the government a loss of 1 billion shillings against the former managing director of the National Identification Authority (Nida), Dickson Maimu and seven of his colleagues has been postponed until October 12th this year.
The resident magistrate of general, Professor Godius Kahyarara has postponed that case after the lawyer of the institute of preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), Leonard Lutegama Maboko to claim that the investigation of that case is not complete.
Apart from Ericsson, the others who are out on bail is the business manager of the National Identification Authority (NIDA), Avila Kakingo, Director of Henet Ward, Joseph Makani.
Others are the acting director general of NIDA, Benjamin Mughwira, and the Director of Clarkson Insurance Brokers, MONDE, the Transport Officer, George Kivumbi, the law director, Sabina Raymond and Xavery Malekela.
The citizens are faced with charges of using their power, eating conspiracy, using false documents to the employer and causing the government to a loss of more than 16,000,00 shillings.
