Things by speed and standards - Sitta.
MTVs, 2014.

The speaker of the ninth parliament who is also the Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta (71), has said that he has learned a lot from being outside the leadership of parliament and now he is mature more to lead the constitutional parliament.
Sitta was removed from the race to vie for the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania after the general elections of the year 2010, due to his party (CCM) to put conditions that is vying for that position on the ticket of that party and it is a must for a woman.
In those decisions, they met with Ann Makinda, he was selected to be the CCM flag and finally they were chosen to lead the 10th Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Speaking with this newspaper, Sitta, who will play with other candidates of that position, Hashim Rungwe, Tenenbum and John Lennarth Huvisa said that now he has organized himself well to lead the historic parliament.
I have done well very well, I recognize that this bail is very big and for sure it needs someone to prepare well and I have been able to learn more so by considering that I have been affected by this parliament, "said Sitta.
Speaking about the controversy of the parliament to decide about doing his decision through the secret and open votes, Sitta said that the issue is a must for them to be a solution early if he is elected.
"About this issue of secret votes or open votes, I will partner with the committee of leadership that will be involved in line with the Marist Committee that we cannot have a official procedure to decide on this issues," he said.
However, he said if elected President he will organize afresh the executive committee of the constitutional parliament that was set up by the chairperson of the constitution, Pandu, Ameir Kificho.
"I will organize afresh the executive committee of the Constitutional Assembly to be able to improve more on the heavy national work," he said.
On his part, the running mate of that position Hashimu Lundenga, who as he is the lawyer, told our writer that he believes that he had a great ability to lead that parliament.
I have taken a form to vie for the chairmanship of the special assembly of the constitution that I believe that will I be availed with experience and I have been a leader of political parties for a long time and even now I will lead the public party.
"Ukawa (union of the Citizens Constitution) that made up of some of the delegates of the Constitutional Assembly, especially the delegates of the opposition parties, I urge them to support him and I believe I will win because I want changes and through my seat, changes will be found," said Rungwe.
The newspaper did not succeed to get other candidates who were mentioned to take the form, Doctor Tenenbum and John Lukuwi, despite several efforts to look for Mister Huvisa added that the minister of state, the office of the president and Environment while Chiponda village is a veteran politician in the year 1960.
In another step, that parliament yesterday Tuesday reached an intention to pass through regulations.
While reading the declaration, Professor Ibrahim Maasais' said that lack of regulations put on the law of constitutional changes last year that allows him to lead the parliament to lead the Parliament in the preparation of the parliamentary regulations and running the elections of the permanent chairperson.
"Therefore, the special parliament seems to have changed and passing the regulations as it was presented in accordance with the 37 and 38 regulations that will be placed on those regulations after being decided," said Professor Makumbulu.
After that, the interim chairperson, Kificho gave an opportunity to talk to several delegates from different groups and all they joined the motion, by considering that a long time used is long as if they get bad thoughts from what we are facing many.
They were talking to Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, Doctor Francis Michael, who is the vice chairperson (elected) of the delegates believed to be appointed by President, Jenister Mhagama, Idrissa Kitoro (group of disabled).
Others are Vuai Ali Vuai, Sheikh Musa (right), Freeman Mbowe, Jussa Ladhu said that Bishop Amos Makalla agreed to leave the management.
In supporting that issue, Mbowe said that Mrs Salma, today is 21 days since this seminar started to discuss these regulations as 21 days of trials where a 21-day operation is used in history. "
On his part, Mbatia said that yesterday was a day to be remembered in history of Tanzania because, different from other countries that has been able to make their constitution as Tanzania has succeeded to pass the regulations within 21 days, while there are countries made this matter for six months.
