
Teachers get identity cards in buses that do not be demolished.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in 15th of September.

February this year, the former district commissioner of Kinondoni, Paul Makonda announced the teachers of primary and secondary schools to start working for free without paying the fare at the city of Dar es Salaam when they go and come from work.

That announcement of Makonda, which is continuing to be implemented until now being the provincial commissioner of Dar es Salaam, he said before the leaders of the opposition parties and drivers of the province of Dar es Salaam.
In addition, Makonda said that the idea, has been supported by the party leaders' strike and owners of the buses, where that service is a great help to those servants.
It is clear that no one doesn't know the importance of teachers at any level of life, and that they were given to them an offer, it is a matter that does not followed up and see that its implementation and its implementation.
There are some teachers who have been using private transport for the purpose of getting them to their health centers, there are even those who use public transport so that they can be able to arrive at the public areas so that they can be able to arrive at the exercise of free fare so as to eliminate their discomfort.
I am saying that because there are teachers, who have been getting rid from conductors of the buses from some of the buses due to them not to wear identity cards, and find themselves that it was alleged to have shown the fare for them, despite them, considering that they are teachers.
It is true that they can be teachers, but without putting on identity cards as required, how will be able to be identified himself is clear that the teachers do not have identity cards because they did not have put restrictions that they do not have stolen, the teachers who have risen up with conductors of the ones that they don't jump.
I have been saying that, the teachers sees the identity card is an issue that doesn't know how it has not been able to pay the required fare at that agency of public transport so as to avoid conflicts because other youths who collect the fare will not be treated with the good statements.
Recently at the Kimara bus station, passengers had to come out of the conflict between Doctor Magufuli and the teachers, because as they meet, he started mocking the fare for the strength of the teachers, who did not win as required, he was unable to do so.
As a result of that step, Doctor Magufuli found himself a lesson to the teachers to be able to obey instructions that were accepted so that they should not enter into conflict and that will be remembered because that transport is public and it should be better and he is supposed to sign the identity cards in the vehicle.
In order to avoid that situation to continue the occurrence of others, it is good for the teachers to remember to have gotten the identity cards thus they are required to have their photos so that they can be involved in any kind of travel because they are in the age of transport.
On your part, the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Makonda, and remember it will follow up on this issue and you will look for how to take place in other provinces in the country so that the teachers in the country can be able to benefit from them in their work centers, including that, that issue should be successful for the benefit of the teachers in the country.
