
Ukawa are not seen, CCM should not allow me.
May 15, 2014.

Let me start by congratulating the Prime Minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mizengo Pinda, who last week in parliament while trying to symbolize a group of delegates of the special constitutional parliament that gets themselves at the name of UKAWA which will return to the constitutional parliament said they can stop using abusive language and threats.

That I have not understood, because he has been forced to go up to UKAWA which was not allowed to Parliament by true, abusive language and threats have been there at the Jamhuri Parliament even before the constitutional parliament and these issues have not been affecting the culture of contraception?

The Prime Minister would like to dodge the act even if UKAWA will not turn back to the constitutional parliament and this means that our leaders together with the prime minister did not want to dodge the act.

In a certain way, the debate of the constitution has contributed a real habit of contraception?

People fear or be able to say the truth what they intend to say by fear the results (SMS) especially when their views should go against hypocrisy and use their positions to be employed in some leadership positions.

In the issue of knowing the same, without doubt, even our education system is not guilty, today I would like to give an example of one thing about this issue, that is in UKAWA.

On my part, my long time I have been living in the village and I was told that these UKAWA which have been condemned the founders of our nation, is disappointed.

I talked to my member of parliament (Iringa Town member of parliament, Pastor Peter Msigwa and explained to him that they did not do well in that she has narrated it that I had not done enough research! I was surprised the statements by President Jakaya Kikwete's statement.

When I arrived in town, we follow up on well and discovered that there is no worries in any scandal that what caused people to think about to the right of parliament not understand.

Currently, there are some people while in the streets they've heard in UKAWA, but there are so cunning, they don't know the policies of his founder is Mwalimu Julius Nyerere himself and that in the short time you will not affect us from his position among us.

At the moment there is a bad game to view things so that if they buy the stadium to reflect on issues that are available on the table. Many will be a person to look for what is said by big leaders, we are looking for opportunities and accepted, or we evade the results.

The issue of a constitution is very important and it may be this opportunity to go back during our life again, especially because of the cost, we should not participate in this opportunity, "the news reports should not be known," without knowing the reason is bad.

Tanzania has also been a problem of thinking because of our education system and its operations, how it has put hard environment in bringing up their lives "of people who think fully.

However, the structure of our administration will fly the media freedom or when you give great authority that do not be interviewed because some of the heads are the source of preventing others.

There's when I say we need very much the new constitution and we will never be able to get married or a person standing by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) or UKAWA which will protect themselves without hypocrisy when these are all without caring about the party, tribe or the side of the union.
The writer of this article, Jokate Mwegelo, has identified himself as a reader of this newspaper of eternal peace and former member of parliament of Iringa town where it is available on a phone number of 890,67275 million shillings.
