
The year 2016 is the important for Diamond to deal with the scandal of 2015.
The year 2015 is the year where the Diamond Jubilee does not want to forget and get married on the grave of Jesus.
It is a year that when they witness blood from opposition, activists and non-governmental organizations and sometimes the church through its leaders have been condemned strongly especially due to lack of corruption that happened in every sector.
These diseases seemed to destroy the government and to make sure that they are few days that have been selected to fill in the government positions and after the term it was completed.
The main scandal that performed some of the Kenyans lost faith in the government is the same way.
If there is a year that will have the importance of the Diamond's government is this year of 2016 if you may land if they will be chosen for the second time and to get a way from the deputy president in the year 2022.
Its the turn of President Kenyatta to use his house in the country, so if he can't affect the loopholes and holes that were left out by corruption, a large number of Kenyans are saying that Safaricom it is good.
But there is a good thing is a problem and this company now sign the 'Lungwani Market, a win of three rooms'.
This competition will enable several Kenyans since they are forced to pay their taxes using this service.
Internet network also threatens the effects of scholars and they are still getting pregnant in politics that leaders are improving.
The campaigns so that politicians have a foundation of tribalism because they reach many Kenyans.
This issue has reduced up to the universities and bring war because students should go against the politicians.
He stated that he has brought together different meanings in the main difference, being an increase at the borders of the mud which he has never been heard or seen well for the purpose of tribalism.
For many Kenyans, this is the right time to remove these leaders that do not have a vision and stand firm if one community should be its direction.
John Pombe Magufuli today for a good work to true that you have never been given a ring on the nation today is doing an issue to be followed and be informed because many universities have been popular and will also get the opportunity to work through the Swahili dialect they send the article on the nation today.
Congratulations to all the employees of Taifa Stars for the good work that did in the year 2015 of educating, I urge you to ensure that various information that are sent by people are expected to reach different communities in the country, Mary Executive Director, Uhuru Kenyatta, after holding a short forum for the video that was done on the internet without scoring a car.
It is clear that many Kenyans do not know the President Kenyatta well.
The truth is that if many Kenyans live in him, Uhuru is very good and a very good thing and you shouldn't know if this is because she was a member of parliament here, she was a person who likes to be very common to have a normal citizen.
Kimani will also know that in Addis Ababa they would like to ask for the government through the Ministry of Education to reduce education officers in public schools. I believe that they are partnering with the head teachers to increase fees in public schools. I am my child last year I had left 23,000 shillings.
In the meeting of all parents, there were one of the supervisors of the education, he said that they agree that it has a new fees for fees.
The officers who are the representatives of the main government in that he believes that she is happening at the public schools.
Hassan Abdalla Omar, Nairobi.
