The alternative treatments and the natural medicine was not seen.
Autoworks and 25, 2016 by our correspondent.

In recent days, there have been reports of conflicts between the government on one side and health centers and doctors who do natural treatment and alternative treatments.

First, which must it be said it is an effort that are seen to be done by the government to ensure that those treatments are being done in helping some of the country.

This is an important thing for a period of 20 years ago, this is a area that has been attacked by conmen of every way that different professions have been affected by the unplanned settlements.

For many times people who follow these services are the ones who have been unable to get medical services in good health services, usually take it to these experts while they have taken up and they do anything they are told.

However, when these efforts are continuing, it is important for the government to ensure that our nation is needed to know that alternative treatments and natural treatment is part of our life.

The exercise to strengthen this service is supposed to take place in an environment of preventing and agreed in the countries that are developed, China and India, the perpetrators of alternative medicine and percentage are making part of the economy of their countries.

The natural treatment experts is the one of our nation that causes us to make us about the wealth of treatment which plants which arise in Tanzania has been affected.

These days there are foreign companies not to sell for natural medicine from them when plants are already in the country.

There is also a report that there are foreign companies that started to get this solar energy and making drugs that arise from small industries that are from America or Europe.

There are some people who use life for not knowing alternative treatments, there are many diseases that citizens can even get themselves if they would like the treatment that is being produced by frying onions, carrots and so on.

We believe that the government has a responsibility to build their ability and serve the traditional and natural therapy services.

There is a possibility that there is a disease that is found in the world, but the words that would be known in Tanzania is known as we can get billions of foreign money as a nation.

This will be able to take place by building their natural experts in the same time when we are trying to market the whole sector.

At the end.
