Why CCM Yang and insisted that the government was.
Mose 21, 2014.

The Chama Cha Mapinduzi has emphasized that the two-government structure to fear that three government will not be forced to make sure the strong and sustainable safety of both sides of the United Republic, has been known.
Since the start of the process of writing a new constitution, CCM has given one of the party members and its leaders to continue to defend his policies of having a union of unity with two governments, an extent that cost them some of the members and executives who go against that stand.
Mansour Yussuf Himid, who was a member of parliament and the representative of Kiroreli village, is among the examples of the party members and the executives of that party who their stand headed to the CCM policies of having two government structure, it shows them for being stripped off his membership.

News from several news sources within CCM, which have been confirmed by some senior officials in the party, are saying that the main aim that pushed the founders of this nation of Tanzania, the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Amri Abeid Karume, was the safety of any kind from outside the two nations and not the issue of brotherhood to history if it has mentioned all days with some politicians.

The union of two nations in the Tanganyika and Zanzibar took place on April 26, there were approximately three months after the overthrowing of Zanzibar on January 12th, there were also approximately three years after Uhuru of Tanganyika.

Several times, it has been explained by some of the politicians of all the two sides of the union that the result of that union was a long-term history of the presence of those countries that made them live as a brother even before these countries are under the colonialist.

However, that issue of brotherhood to the citizens of those countries, has been explained by some senior officials of CCM that it is a political language, but the real truth was to strengthen security against foreign enemies.
"The brotherhood of these two countries is being used well as the source of our union, this is the reliable security for all the two sides of the United Republic, Zanzibar cannot be safe, then in mainland we cannot be safe," says a senior leader of CCM and added.
"If you remember, the teacher once told him that if he would have been able to hear a few hundred thousand in the islands of Zanzibar, he was playing so by this union it will be maintained, but because he does not have the ability, then the union must be taught in every step.
"Therefore, when we (CCM) we pray the structure of the union with two governments because of our nation's security and its people, our colleagues want three governments to be able to get an opportunity to enter the state house but they do not wait for how they will ensure our safety is sustainable.
"Marco Chali said it is openly in their political steps that they want three governments because the government will go back, CHADEMA will enter the Zanzibar State House and CUF will face the Zanzibar State House but he did not talk about the issue of security.
"And because of that reason, our colleagues in Zanzibar (CCM) of Zanzibar (CCM), have told it open that the new constitution came up with three governments, they will open up on their way so that they can return to Zanzibar when those of politics from ASP and Zito."
One of the senior leader of CCM, told BBC Afrique reports that the big part of the people of Zanzibar and the coalition are not ready to see Zanzibar is being built inside the union because it was in the end of 1950, and in the beginning of the year 1984.

According to that leader, the group of people of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Tanzania, for now, are only waiting for the new constitution to be a structure of union members with three governments, who will be able to return to Afrima-Shirley (ASP) in order to deal with the main opposition party in that country, the Citizens Party (CUF) as it was before the revolution.
