If you go to Grind.
And someone will have heard different from the station of his goats and now we have come back in another place where it is also the end of this short period of youth.
The electricity project should be followed with him for a long time now, I followed the trend and time it has been making a long time and right now he has shown more intentions of getting into the form and he could not get the position of councilor.
There are changes that you can be able to confirm to the Tanzanians until we don't know why we are going to go and go to him.
Wema did not come.
It is the only thing.
What is it?
Tanzanians are sick.
The residents of Mtibwa ward that has shown an intention to vie for the councilor seat in my first way of education.
Yes, what is it?
He did not live.
I love you.
I will go through the name of God like my party and it cares for him and they visited them.
And the latest technology in the creation of the cervix.
They decided to prepare a new generation and the breast that involves themselves with the word of eternal peace, should I be careful.
But the?
Something that is behind the youth who by bad luck did not get an opportunity to get education.
Eternal life?
In the wards that have been given you that I would like to see I would be able to see my fellow youths who don't know themselves and you are not good for us to have small industries for making food that is recognized by the youth.
To be sold to get education in the system.
The incident that is understood to be able to get that education through other ways again that all of us want to produce and though the long time we be able to produce their income and be able to produce their income and enable them to increase income to our nation.
I did not recognize the issue of education if the commission is usually paid for the first time but now there is now.
Most of them has been lost.
There is a lot of fear and continue in the community.
We are saying it is one of the people who have died in colleges who have seen how youths are forced to ensure that they are getting employment.
When you know the fees you are able to pass through your priority, there are many youths up to the moment they are working together with the issue of industries, the citizens do not know anything due to the issue of employment but there are people who have already started learning and see the employment they can help you.
To reach your goals by providing more education to those who don't have education.
Can I ask for example nations that have continued since.
If you check the European continent with Mister and America one year and five hundred shillings.
It is a period that we are living in farming has not called Abraham.
It takes a revolution in farming.
Now so as to be able to produce a lot of employment.
In the nation.
It is first to have a revolution in agriculture.
In line with the overthrowing of Joey, I will come out to come back into a farm that gets into a farm as a youth who are in town, we believe that we have been clean but if our leaders like our leaders don't know if we have been clean, but our leaders must come out and leave at home where any time they should come from.
We have been running mate in farming.
Good about the Tanzanians before the sun takes place in farms and those that they cannot get employment in a disaster, because George Masaju will get to the sun, but they have decided to come and get an actor that had come to class a woman.
I don't know earlier on the beginning of the European court then though who suffer from suffering from a child, then that complete the White House.
He has been mentioned in that work with these players that they took place where basically the one about their people wanted to cheer their player.
There was a rumor that some people have noted that they are suffering from issues of the water sector that is also there and it does not make sure we need other experts.
Capital is the international income where it will have a big screen and most of those types of type which they did not get about there, we will talk about what we will meet if we will meet the ones to be able to produce them.
The foundation stone for their strength to the nation will sell Manny Pacquiao is good, they will affect the level of power they have to be released but the problem that can be bought using and does not have a leader who already has no leader.
Do we learn.
We will see you know the Tanzanians need to do at that time questions, I know when I was the one that brought more information to the nation because of it.
You will have education.
It does not have money is a place to go and do their needs, it has also no money that will also come.
Do you go to you to see that you would send their colleagues.
Money because of employment is that the income of I can help them.
So that can be able to promise the growth still underway.
To continue with that level in other sectors that are such behaviors.
Education and the primary education that will be administered in which we need to have one of the education that will help the lake and let me ask you to have modern nurses and let me ask you to have modern practices in the world that is being found and they don't be paid is big in our nation because we are not paid.
Education that use our wealth at the right time.
I'm very happy that there should be able to see it is in this period I want many things that earlier will be done but therefore we do something they are not in your journey towards the seat of the council.
Pascal Malesa said that I have arrived at the end of this period of having youths, I was also known for more than five hundred and five thousand per month which he has given us a chance to be keen in this period of a day which he has touched me and promised until now.
