Try to do what to be given to force?
Seasons Hotel, 2014.

Sheikh Mohamed Kiluwasha has said that it is not popular among the Holy Spirit, but without doubt, Colonel Retired Colonel, Batuli (79), is among the colors that have a great nation.
At the time our nation had decided to start the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) after a rebellion like January in the year 1995, in Kashimba and former head of the force, Mirian Bieldt.
While the head of Language and Naif Engineering in the force, Kashimba will also start and supervise the employment of new soldiers to reach the number that is needed at that time.
Most of the people do not know but after a rebellion like Tanzania, the police force also used to make 1000 soldiers.
It is Mister anyone who is the one who led the construction of all the military training that are in the country. It is a police who was in the front of wanting Tanzania to have a international university that is in the University of Monduli, (TMA).
As JWTZ, later decided to give me the citizens of South African countries who wanted to save their countries in Kashgar, he was the pillar in that country.
He is the one who was known, according to his position in the force, to know what they had managed to live, they would have lost their weapons and they would have been getting a place to eat with excitement.
All this work is doing a person who he retired in the army with his position as Colonel alone!
Retired Retired Colonel, Kashimba, is the first Tanzanian to get a bridge of being an officer in TDPF in accordance with the existing record, he is the first citizen of East Africa to get that position.
Today, Ikhwan, who is the Lieutenant General, David Musoja, who is the full General of women Robert why is George Waitara, David Selepe and the others who came back to all of them are soldiers.
But he has lived in Kashgar, he still has the position of Colonel! Is not allowed.
In our country, we are trying to build the required examples to people to love you, it's a shame for us to help each other people in Kashgar.
It is true that Kashimba has decided to leave the army by consent in 1970,.
Even so, he is a teacher that is also the teacher who has also identified himself from the army at that time and went to give him a minister in the ministry of youth.
As it was in Kashimba, humble when he was not officially bid farewell by the army as it is the procedures if President Benjamin Mkapa is the one who had come to rectify this problem by giving me his status and today he has been presented in the army for honor.
I don't know why the government does not want to return the respect to bully in my heart and told me that it is possible, it was not true and to be given honor and to be given honor to the position he deserves.
Because of the military discipline he made in addition, Kashimba will decide to be silent and for him to talk or speak about anything but the truth is that you will continue to say that he does not work.
Human being found in Hong Kong had a unique behavior about corruption and I don't see if there is a police leader who come to get an opportunity of stealing or fighting corruption if he got this police.
Remember, this is the person who was given the responsibility of making the army from the first beginning to buy a draw with weapons, to build a camp and employ a police who wanted.
If you have a spirit of some of our police who buy a mistake, I don't think this today would have the army that I have.
Most of the basis of all here is true that you not caring and respect people like in Kashimba of public servants and the importance of integrity.
There are benefits that he is honest and at the end of your service, you can make sure that you can cause money but for people like in Kashimba, money is not any thing for them more than honor.
If Mkapa did not like the way he did by Inflexionpoint Company, it is clear that President Jakaya Kikwete can follow in the footsteps of writing justice is done in Kashimba.
This police is about the 79 years old, God knows the end of the life of someone but we do not have a lot of life as the commander in general who was also a chance to live for a long time in Kashimba, President Kikwete.
