
Mbowe passes away.

October 19, 2016.

The Tanzania High Court, department of land has thrown out the request of the Mbowe-Cola Company Limited that is owned by the businessman and chairman of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe, to be returned to the building of Billnas.
The company was taken out of that building by the National Housing Corporation (NHC), September first, this year by the brokerage company, Fm Auctioneers and held his property.
While reading the decision, Judge Sufiani said that NHC had given all procedures to release that company in the building where the claims of Mbowe against entering the contract with that organization has no benefit, the agreement was never implemented.
In that case, that was part of an emergency certificate without being paid for the cost, the judge of gas said the claim that it's resorted to the law and a company that doesn't be signed (Fm Auctioneers) and have no legal requirements.
He said after the court through the issues of both sides, he saw it is the first reports from the NHC, followed the all legal procedures to release it, the company of Zantel did good work.
He added that together with the claims of having a contract between NHC and Mbowe, the contract was never implemented thus it's not there.
Lawyer, in that case was appointed by Lawyer Peter Kibatala and John Mallya, the side of NHC had appointed Aloyce Sethi, Mariam Mungele.
Mwamgaya has said that the court has gone to see that the agent did his work by following legal procedures, all assets are being held up until the value of more than 1 billion shillings so that he can get married.
On his part, Mallya speaking on behalf of his colleagues, he said that they have received a decision by the court that they want to go ahead of appeal.
"We have received a decision by the court, we have been told that we will be given names of the judgment and we want to appeal early today (yesterday), because the court said the contract of Mbowe and the NHC has not yet been implemented, because his contract is not there," said Mallya.
He said they have taken their request to ask you so that it should be done anything in that building about the property of Mbowe until the decision they have been done by the referral hospital against their appeal.
He added that the judge of gas in his decision said that the contract of NHC and Mbowe was not implemented and it's not there legal thus they are waiting to use the judgment so as to go through the request of appeal in the High Court.
During the oath of oath, Mbowe claimed that he has gone into the conflict to return to arbitration, according to a partnership with the partnership, but the NHC opposed the step saying they gave the notice to relocate from that building by following the law.
It is alleged that while in that building, he is a politician, a partnership that he has claimed to perform with the NHC cannot work because he had already completed his term.
However, Mbowe claimed that he is not a member of the building, but he is a partner that she had at 75 percent of its operations and NHC they had at 25 percent.
Mbowe through the oath of honor, he said that they are not given to a five hundred and NHC similar to the building, he has been doing that required actions in accordance with his contract with that organization.
In that case, apart from Mbowe to be returned to the building, he also requested the court to give their balances that were taken by NHC through their agent.
He also asked the court to give an indication of not unyielding after being returned.
