

Doctor Freddie Roach, left, MONDE, PHD.
Ongoing with someone who has the ability to prevent more than ten diseases, fast, each person will make that drug only, but immediately you will tell you that the medicine is doing exercises every day, will bring him a foolish thing.
Despite the fact that most of us don't like looking at exercises, research shows, do exercises once in time can avoid more than ten diseases including diabetes, heart disease, and some of cancer diseases have also used to prevent the effects of health from the age of age.
In this article I will identify diseases, kind of exercises and witness this plain truth.

Cancer, diabetes, and various diseases.
About more than 40 effects involving people and different countries to ensure that exercise can prevent diseases like diabetes, heart diseases and some of the cancer is seen that, different from them do not attract smoking, be careful.
Make sure you exercise for example, there is need for a period not less than half an hour each day, at least five times in a week and do not hesitate to do exercises for change (prevent and save weight) at least two times in a week.

The disease of Zohra Moore (JNIA).
In the research that included more than 50 research, it seemed that exercise can prevent and even treat the problem of the farm, these researchers have noted that, together with increasing the factors to cooperate with others, something that is very important to prevent this problem and exercise is also used in preventing diseases (EFD).
Make sure you exercise in groups or mother, "I'm in a fast group (MARI) in the streets or anywhere, there should be a habit, helps to prevent and treat this problem.

The effects of the health that come from the sun.
It is true that when the age depends on, the possibility of getting diseases also increased, this is a reason a situation that makes many people even to cause diabetes, heart and cancer diseases have confirmed the ability to reduce the speed of diabetes, heart and cancer which have confirmed the ability to reduce the speed of diabetes, heart and cancer which have confirmed the ability to reduce the speed of diabetes, heart and cancer which have confirmed the ability to reduce the speed of diabetes, heart and cancer.
Be keen on exercises for instance, there is need of strength and how to move ahead and give the body organs, because the elderly are very important during the old period, because the elders live so much and the problem is usually caused by lack of the ratio (SMS).
