
Upbringing is looking for children.
I was happy to listen to one of the television stations here in Tanzania, I have heard a reporter about the issue of the fish and said that behavior is a habit of human beings but it is supposed to be defeated since the person is in small so that they learn about the others.
That statement made me some of me when I met me when he finished form six I got working to serve 300 children from nursery school to ensure that it was many years ago.
I remember that day I told me that I will give me all the things to play for him and take him in one place where there were vehicles to play for Sunderland and other things, Sister Anna has received new children on that day.
Children were put part of the things to play for him.
There are some children who reached one thing involving themselves, who are waiting for this event, there are some children who failed even to play for those things because they were trying to carry all things from their hands.
My appointed them that those who had fled to and has to carry each other that make the behavior of the fish, therefore they will be given very close upbringing so that they can be able to come out of that disease.
Today I tell me that the truth about a human being is a habit because those children are small and it's not easy to say you have learned inside their families.
I have heard the presenter, speaking about the effects of the most importantly so that everyone would like to get married from early, so that we can be able to stop taxes, because it is a habit of a human being, it is a must to stop the war.
That's the argument that brought up in this platform today, but I asked himself, they will help each other to come children from the fish, I request that because many of the people who have a similar behaviors will find you even their parents or guardians.
When it has come for parents and guardians to see that they give food to food, food, accommodation, education of the class only is not enough to them if we love our children to help them get rid of the child, to you as a parent or guardian to the nation as a whole.
The blood is a mother of evil acts against another human being from the lower level of relationship between human beings and other human beings until the level of the nation or not international.
Most of us believe that we cannot have love, someone who doesn't understand us, for someone who are mocking him, is sure those who sell their problems in a lot of problems in many marriages.
You do not make someone to have a heart of people not to care about others.
The husband has a good condition, the wife is the husband who has money, he has a car but his wife is pregnant if they sell the repressive system that makes another person to make him be careful.
Those are the effects of the selfish ones if the person do not expect to do different from the leadership positions as they give them an opportunity to the leadership because it's the corrupt people to stop after falling.
It is a habit that they feel just because they used for a long time, they do not know that they do not know that any other actions can make sure that your car takes place in that country, which is blindness.
The great job is done to now in 'removing' lice 'of those types in public performance.
However, if you are among those who know your children and the difficulty that we will get in their lives due to their behavior of the fish, maybe the ones that we had gone to you, like the truth, it has separated with them.
You do not know your child when you get married without vigilance, that she is doing a lot of joy that you want to try and do a certain life that was caused by corruption.
You do not get a parent of her marriage is in a capital city because of the behavior which had survived, earlier, I would have live a good life of marriage like where my children of my colleagues.
Two child seems to be early and look at your child she gets easily annoyed when you get visitors inside your house, look at how he cannot get food due to his friend from the school, who doesn't like those with food.
Mwangi, his face is how the Parliament is when you told him that all his clothes are not allowed to take the village to children who do not have clothes.
Mwangi, how she is disappointed when you want to see the act of your brother to you, "this is a child that does not want to do his things to be seen," this is a lot of diseases that were left to you, to you, and so much to the nation, take action.
Most of us think of every time you're not supposed to sign that habit, even parents or guardians who come up that behavior are being affected by your house, look at how it cannot get food from your house, look at how he cannot get food due to his friend from the school.
Her husband will be a parent or a guardian?
Maybe the guardian or a parent of the fish you have been filled so much to the extent that even those problems, what should you know is just because they are not getting your services from other children.
I believe that in a human ability to change that behavior, even if you are a parent or guardian, we are supposed to help this nation by recognizing the behavior of the stem cells to reduce early so as to reduce disturbances by corruption.
We can make it a good Sunday.
