Fans that he was involved with youths who had gone to their civil servants and this year, as he led to now, I am pleased with the challenge of desks to the youth and I have never been involved with that loans despite fulfilling all the conditions among those groups including registration.
Which the number and stakeholders is therefore talking to him and that's why I love you, but the first, I saw them, he urged youths to kill them about them.
It has broken the youth.
And the children's advisor, the child and those in the group where we used the opportunity not to follow the same challenges despite giving those training, the youth or bribery as an obstacle to them in improving the economy of youths as using them as people.
We have heard the youth not to be dealt with in Swahili when they found themselves inside.
Vehicles.
Now, why have we been commanded?
.
They are not found.
Do not provide anything.
The visitors that is for you were for you to get married.
Today let us start!
Even by knowing what I will do?
Say the same.
Therefore, Tulia.
When football hope or walking for you in the Central Region or not getting married.
Listen to them is at time.
If the minutes he is waiting for.
They are involved in doing an issue and it's just a bad time now, but together with youths who are believed to face problems or challenges at home we were speaking, but if the board has agreed to learn because there are another process that we have and a difficult time.
Germany to see the agricultural activities but Absolom went to Bariadi games for what to you have been beaten as youths.
In Dodoma again, the youth can help me if the youth can be careful when you get a small thing in general for the way to make it a mosquito nets in the two countries in America to do even.
The government has a lot of challenges as the way of being able to reach the youth up to the stomach, and this is through if I went to them.
For many youths, most of the young people do not support him and has been able to check up while talking about it through Masoud Kipanya has said if it's impossible for their products to young people in the country and we should talk like because of improving the youth team in our country but as well as usual.
Blood will pass early we have to take him from taking each other to also go to the youth from the development of Mister so as to continue to write different explanations for the purpose of getting money until now the government is only to see for different things too.
