The CCM candidate who is competing in his party.
October 5th, 2014.

I will get out something but when I promise the first that you should not know my name in your article, "he told me that my heart will be grave and that I will leave everything that I want to know.
When I had set up for a phone last week, I was having the desire to pray for the next general elections of Tanzania which by far has begun to know who will emerge the presidential candidate of his party and what does not give those thinking.
There were other things that I wanted to inform you about the leaders of CCM who are mentioned to be the one that may be paid for that-finals, but I didn't agree on how he knows me.
"Every day I request God to succeed next year," he told me and then he continued, "and I think my work has been accepted because I see good symptoms."
I asked him, why when he gets into his party, he gave enough explanation that after seeing him seen that his main reason is of bad leadership, corruption, and bad leadership of his leaders.
I talked to him keenly to realize that two of the first half that this young man has self-employed to the extent of requesting his party not unable to do him later to try to sell him.
Secondly, the second one that I got all over where the election winner is important at other times and who failed are important.
The main issue of that party member of CCM is that his party will not only get saved, when you go through the next general elections, we will meet and put aside, it appears in the past, but it has no longer be easy for the parties that has failed to invest again.
We have witnessed us that the parties that have fallen in power for a very long time, failed in elections then it starts to attract a lot of relief for Kenya African National Union (Dawasco), Malawi national party and United National Association (MARI) in Zambia.
I started asking themselves because I believe that if he is one of the person he thinks, maybe he has a colleague and even if he is with other things like CCM and if that is how the situation is so that CCM cannot get out, when he went to State House.
The party is being faced with several challenges but I believe that two are the major ones that are the first ones, how his leaders should give an agreement, each one being ready to destroy his colleague.
The second challenge is the opposition facing that party and this is the cooperation of opposition parties that emerged due to the constitutional process, you can be respected in CCM and on its part so that it can attract the party that will do everything to bring in the partnership.
The opposition parties on their part will continue to combat their cooperation so that they can be able to bring down the CCM party in the elections that there will be revenge for a democratic way.
However, there is a big danger that is facing opposition parties in the danger of itself being the way that deals with citizens as they have been competed for by CCM by using one thing and having a bad thing in the running of their meetings.
At the moment, all political parties in the country have talked with a democratic language, transparency, rights and efficiency, without explaining that success will be of who benefit from.
I assure them that the second is speaking about the language of neurosurgeons.
It's not true that in Tanzania, all political parties - that deals with opposition parties and this is a nation that has been successful in the whole community.
Today it has been like the parties that have resulted in front of the energy of globalization, neying, and agreed not to face the issue of looking for a period in class, there are opposition leaders as to be handed international institutions like the World Bank and the Department of International Monetary Fund (IMF).
It is a clear celebration from any worker of Tanzania to have bad opinion, that process of believing that our country's economy can be implemented without caring for the interests of the concerned parties and to enable those who are involved in that, they can take them.
It is possible that there is no even one party that is looking at Tanzania's problems in class one because Tanzania is a nation with great shape and the condition of many lives of many living in villages and cities to wane.
