
Most importantly, the body of that conference is seen.
By Bashir Yakub.

Hundreds of people came out yesterday to look at the body of the late Raila Odinga, in the body of Lee on the net, Nairobi, police officers receiving security during that activity.
The head of Cord Raila Odinga with his family, he led that activities that it started in a short service of request.
Several people who identified himself or the body of the deceased registered themselves and others stopped him and forced the security officers to help those affected by sadness.
The mother of the deceased, Miss Iyanja, who arrived later, was unable to walk after seeing the body of her child, and to be assisted to return to his car and the former member of parliament of Kathmandu, the shivered.
Minister of Lands, Charity Ngapa, led other officers in the government in that activity that was caused by calmness against the fear of earlier that the youth could have caused an eruption of violence.
The police commander in the city of Nairobi Kibondemaji, said that the police officers saw the police officers at the end of the activity so as to make sure they are run in peace.
"The traffic activities and on the road that are close to Lee who was ongoing as usual without any violence, we thank the police officers in order to maintain peace and cooperate with the police officers," said Mister Kibiga.
Several leaders of Ufulaga, all the political parties accompanied by citizens to give their honor to the conference which was released on Sunday at his home in Karen.
The chairperson of Women's Development (MYWiwa), Rwizile said that they had a member of parliament for Ranaut have been among leaders who came to view the body of the deceased.
According to the committee that deals with the burial, the customer service provider will take place today at the All Trust church, halls that were transported to Bondo, which will be buried on Saturday.
On Tuesday, two meetings were done, one in the location of Mister Odinga, an ancient area, Baboons and another in the deceased, the late Jichunge.'
Several youths have pledged to help pay taxes, to carry water and to make sure that the funeral area has been built.
This is taking place with four different experts who were expected to give an official results of what caused the death group.
On Tuesday, those experts did their investigation but they have said that they need to take samples of body of the deceased in the laboratory of the government for more investigation.
It is alleged that the family of Mister Odinga was informed about the first results of the operation, but the official report and health care will be released later.
That operation was done by the government's surgery experts in collaboration with family experts to identify the death of the deceased in the age of 41 years and who is the father of one child.
The conference took place on January 10 in a pose with their family, close to the grave of his grandfather's graves in Nyamatala, Raila Odinga, who died in 1994.
