Is it true that corruption has a nuisance to religious leaders?
January 17, 2014.

Right now, we are in the period of heading to the preparation of the general elections of 2015. It is a time that everything is being done in power and the religious leaders don't like to recognize the government and the Quran do not affect the Bible and the Quran not have said themselves and for this time it is a nuisance to corruption and corruption.

It's not bad to stop bribery, but sometimes it becomes a game of acting, hypocrisy or fear of bribery and considering the corrupt people on stage without having a unique system or drugs to stop bribery.

At the other time is a joke or not to talk about it, the bishop or another religious leader receiving bribes from corruption, but when giving them a lot of millions of millions to the believers and their income, "explained brothers," said brothers that they tried to do you.

We are told and to be taught that religious leaders are communicating with our believers and they lead the hearts of their believers so that we can enjoy the eyes of their believers at the moment, what we do you live, but they don't understand the lives of their believers.

Here in Tanzania, together with our stand that the government does not have religious leaders, but our leaders of the government are believers of our religious leaders, we believe here in Tanzania.

Therefore, instead of these religious leaders to convince the government to convince the government to prevent them and protect their religion when they take them about their teachings and stop hypocrisy when they feel it is a group of few people just like the government and allowed them to attack the life system of the whole community of Tanzania.

It is difficult to see the soul of more than 400 or 500 people who had gathered to worship for everyone who becomes a sore or a heart of affliction, pain and mistreatment in diseases which are supposed to be demolished and they have been treated in a collection of service.

The Catholic church has a way of giving them about these diseases, especially on the sacrament, then I think they gave them to you, maybe if the patient gets married, maybe I advise you or pay for me, therefore, we advise you or stop completely.

Most of the people we pray for a finger to eating bribery and during public property, it's not saying that people with joy, good life or people who like them do not know why there is no stadium or the platform of someone termed it to be assisted.

When we take the example of Perfect, the woman in the book of Jichunge.'
