Shekau was forced to assume the allegations of corruption, he will hold his soul.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

Councilors of Korogwe Rural council from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have announced his resignation from their positions if the leadership of the party at the province level will continue with the process of removing the former chairman of that council, Yusuf Kalaghe that was sacked from his position on March, this year.
News followed by our citizens here in the district and later, the verification of some councilors say that their conflict by their party at the current level, "has reached me."
Kalaghe stated that the position of chairperson of the council and councilors in a session of the council that took place on March 15 this year, on various accusations of misuse of power, being involved in corruption and divide the servants of the council and councilors.
However, reports are indicating, apart from Kalaghe claimed that the appeal to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda that even so that it hasn't been done, by CCM at the regional level where leaders of the party are doing an effort to sign him in his position.
Those reports are continuing to explain that the step by the leaders of CCM at the province of province wants to remove Kalaghe because of his position has caused a huge conflict between the councilors and their party and they have planned to resign from their positions if leaders will continue with that plan.
It is alleged that the councilors have been on special sittings to the secret time to put a strategy to deal with "conspiracy" for the leaders of CCM of the province, especially the chairperson, Henry Lieberum, and his secretary to protect Reeva, who are alleged to be leaders of the program.
They should be called the security committee and ethics.

Already the leadership of province of that ruling party has given a letter to all councilors in an interview with the committee on security and ethics of that party, that will take place on June 19th this year, at the CCM offices in Tanga province.
Moreover, also that interview will involve all the delegates of the political committee of Korogwe district, a situation that is claimed to continue to bring about conflict, wisely, the scandal.
Mke Mwema have seen some of the letter that can be easily read, "they are requested to arrive at the session of the security and ethics committee of the province at 4 o'clock in the morning without lack of."
That letter on June 11, this year has memories of CMSA / 17 / 48 / = shillings (1 / 21).
The letter of calling you in an interview with the delegates of the political committee of the district has memories of CMSA / 1 / 1 / 1 / = shillings (1 / 22), has been given by CCM secretary, Korogwe district, Juma Pinto.
That letter also, June 11, can be easily read, "you are requested to protect the political committee of the district to attend the session of the security and ethics committee that will take place at the CCM offices, from 4 o'clock in the morning without lack of lack."
The source of the crisis.

Speaking to Good Citizen on condition of not being mentioned by the newspaper, one of the councilors explained that the reason of the conflict is a step by the CCM's leadership commissioner to intervene in the decision of the council of councilors, Kalaghe reminded his position on allegations of corruption, and using his power.
He said that all the councilors of Korogwe villages are derived from CCM, Kalaghe and he handed the chairmanship not to vie for councilor because the chairperson that took his position also comes from CCM.
"
He added, "in a session of the council of councilors' vote of not having faith, it has been confirmed that they signed contracts and put it directly without showing the director or the lawyer of the council, something that is using power there and there were signs of existence of corruption."
Another councilor who also requested for his name to pray for instance, he claimed to be surprised by the action of the leaders of the province, "Nisubiri" instead of call him to the security committee and ethics of the party because of the accusations of using his power and instead, those leaders want to arrest the councilors.
Instead, we don't know that we're being interviewed, I don't say that I don't know where I would have been when Mwalimu Nyerere's era, Kalaghe because she has been expelled from "complained that councilor.
He said in the decision made by the Council of councilors, Kalaghe reminded his position, regulations and laws used to be high-governmental institutions and that's why he bought the appeal to the prime minister, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi).
"It is impossible to see that our party is going into a conflict that doesn't have any interests to the citizens when we are heading to the local government elections later this year, for the purpose of protecting one person," explained the councilor.
He claimed that in removing the chairperson of the council members following the law and regulations that are leading the local government and he was given a chance to fight against the accusations that are facing him.
