
Minister being given dirty water in Dodoma.
Mister el Chidawali about the Citizen that was unconscious.
In Dodoma town, the residents of Nyala village and its neighborhoods the day before yesterday involved with dirty water, the Deputy Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister, Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Employment and Employment Anthony Mavunde, requesting them to be used.
Mavunde, met with the tragedy in a short time when he came to the village a distance of nine kilometers at night, where the residents of the area were waiting for them since the morning.
Together with a report of the village that was given by the executive officer of the ward, Mathias Ndayisenga says the residents attacked them and made noise about that report that it touched me on their problems, but it stopped a big issue of water.
In his life, Ndayisenga says he has explained the issue of water, electricity, infrastructure and a shortage of desks, but the noise from people saying something to them is only one, that is water.
In a short time, participating in people wanted to ask for things that they put as primary, then Mavunde, what should be given the opportunity to ask first before going to greet them.
One of the questions was David Banda, who explained how the residents of that village got a great desire to look for water which he wrote is like gold.
PDB has said that they have got that opportunity for a long time and they have not seen in the light of hope of continuing to get out with a water loss of 500 shillings.
"The price of sugar is increasing every day, but it's not a problem here, the problem is water, Honorable we are unable to contribute to water and livestock I don't know if we are forced to contribute to water and livestock I don't know if we will not see," said she is coordinated and caused a meeting to explode.
The leadership of the village and the district, you are blocking the noise from youths that stopped the parliamentarian.
Responding to those topics, Mavunde explained that they should be shown by promised from today, he will start implementing his promise before doing anything.
"It is true that water is one of the promises that I promised to you, tomorrow it is not a day of work, but starting the day after tomorrow (Monday) I will cause it here and start producing a well at my cost," said Mavunde.
While standing with the water he was given, he said that he is ready to stop the parliamentary activities he will continue to cooperate with struggling with the water, up to when they get married and start creating a solution.
Speaking to journalists after the meeting, the Deputy Minister said in the campaign period he arrived in the area and promised to give them water, but the time was still even so, the fifth phase has six months in power.
That was a part of my promise in the campaign, because the water problems here and you know that it is great, that is why I have decided to disrupt every schedule so that I can make sure that you are in affliction, "he said.
The water engineer of Dodoma Municipality, Simon Sonero said that the village has 7,600 residents who need 230,000 shillings per day, but there is a well that provides approximately 39 percent, a situation that gives problems especially women because many of them are forced to look for water for a long distance.
