
Yanga denies going to Zanzibar.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

Yanga's leadership have written a letter to the government of Zanzibar requesting to use the Amaan Stadium for its matches in the Mainland Premier League and other competitions.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the acting secretary general of Yanga, Baraka Deusdedit said that they take that decision after the government announced to ban Yanga and Simba to use the National Stadium.
The government followed that step after the fans of those teams involved in infrastructure of the stadium, being together with breaking up of certificates and completing seats in the match between them last week where were scored a draw of 1-1 goals.
"We have heard the minister of information, culture, tourism, and sports of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar requesting to use the Amaan Stadium in different competitions including the Tanzania Mainland Premier League," said Deusdedit.
Yanga's decision will be accepted, the teams will be forced to travel to Zanzibar to make it to the premier league and international matches even so, the teams are supposed to elect Yanga at the provincial stadium since the neighboring region of Tanzania mainland.
According to the 6th policy (1-6) of the mainland premier league explains how the team will serve his home field and will help TFF and the league board in a period of confirmation of the league's participation and another step that TFF can decide because of having the last authority.
The second section of the regulations is said, "in a special environment, the team can play his home in another stadium if there is a huge reason for participating in the league or for a special request for TLB) at least seven days before the date of the concerned game."
Article four of that regulations is said, "if any team does not have a home ground to play in the premier league can choose another stadium to the city or region and province of the national team, the team will not be allowed to change the stadium contrary to the reasons related to them."
But article six it has said that TFF has the last authority to relocate the game to another stadium or to change the station of the game because it is possible for the game and in another step, Simba is expecting to announce the stadium to be used today.
