
Ghost workers in Dar es Salaam to reach 209.
Pamela Chilufya, The Citizen that hurts Me Sing.
Dar es Salaam City, while the ghost workers in Dar es Salaam were increasing and by 209 from 17, heads of the department have signed up to identify and put open.
Yesterday, the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda said that those servants have caused the government a loss of 229 billion shillings.
As a result of that increase, Makonda warned the heads of the provincial department and the three municipality to give them one week to verify if there are other ghost workers in their areas to give information.
Previously, the heads of those departments have removed 17 ghost workers who were given a loss of 330 million shillings after preventing those officers, we got 29 billion shillings from this one being paid 29 billion shillings due to this, I have given one week to be able to verify them, "said Makonda.
He said they have reached that decision after the heads of those department to provide false statistics to the directors of those municipality of Ilala, Kinondoni and Temeke, an issue that affects there in their work performance.
Makonda said that after one week, the commission made a commission to investigate the ghost workers and the head of that department has been found with the workers at the end of the week.
He said that the contract that made him are the head of the department to pay a cost of losses when it is revealed that having ghost workers in his area.
Makonda said in Dar es Salaam city has the staff of the government 26,86 among them 166 students from the provincial commissioner, local governments authorities from Ilala Municipal Council 9710, others from Kinondoni were 9709 workers and Temeke 8,477,185.
He said the servants were very happy, being 26,115 percent among those, 209 which are ghost workers, the administrative secretary of that province, Theresia Mmbando, said the Municipal of Ilala has 9,710 workers and the second phase is 35 workers.
Kinondoni has blamed 34 workers and the second phase were discovered that 55 others have killed 13 ghost workers and the second phase of 51.
