
To talk about the media bill.

It has been written by our correspondent, Bukoba.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The journalists in Kagera province have been requested to give their views about the bill of law of media services.

The Deputy Chairperson of the Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), Deodatus Balile said the statement while presenting the bill to the law to the press at the workshop that took place in Bukoba Municipality, Kagera province.
He has said that it is good for journalists to give a special day to read, let it take the day before October 14, this year.
"It should be remembered that our law will not invest more than 40 years since the proposed constitution is good, it aims to increase professionalism to the journalists, it's a deficit in several areas, but we believe that the proposed constitution is a shortage in several areas, but we believe that the availability of the government in the whole country, but we believe it is a shortage in several areas, but we believe that the HIV infection," Balile insisted.
"We thank the minister of bail and issues of information, Nape Nnauye has been getting rid of this process, we believe that journalists and stakeholders of media issues are in the country giving their opinions and we will arrive well in making laws that will be used even to the next 100 years," he said.
According to Balile, the opinions of the stakeholders will be joined by other provinces and taken to the front of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Development this month.
The process of making laws of media services started in the year 1992 and for a period of 22 years ended up due to the previous government not presented the parliament.
March last year, the fourth government of the fourth government, presented him to the bill under special certificates without involving stakeholders and after a cry for stakeholders, the government did not get time to continue with that bill.
Under the regulations of people in parliament, the parliament is completed his term, all the bills that has not been approved by the death of the traditional death since the 11 parliament passed the work after being launched by President John Magufuli, he had to take all the bills to be left afresh for the first time.
Nape Nnauye who is partnering with the ministry experts to clear the bill that was to be presented under an emergency certificate, increasing the sections that were contributing towards the policy of information and safety of the year 2003.
In the parliament which was concluded on September, Nape has presented this bill that was taken to resign without being read for the first time and now it has been brought to the hands of stakeholders for the purpose of expanding their views.
The stakeholders of the stakeholders of information and information services (COMING) in collaboration with the Tanzania Media Council of Tanzania (NECTA) met in Dar es Salaam last week to select the Editors Forum.
