Simba striker, "doesn't be avoided," this season.

October 21, 2016.

The leaders of the Vodacom Tanzania Mainland Premier League, Simba yesterday continued with his win of victory after defeating Mbao FC of Mwanza 2-0 in the league game that was played at Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
As a result of that victory, Simba, which seems to give him to repeat the four seasons ago has attained 26 points in the league standings, being leading and played ten matches.
In that game, Mbao FC entered into the field if it has organized itself more and gave them the attackers of Simba who were led by Dollaso together with Lufunyo Nkinda in a difficult time while doing an impromptu visit to Yanga FC.
Absolom went to Simba a goal in the third minute while inside a penalty but was unable to connect with a penalty that was played by the defender, Jichunge.'
Simba continued with TP Mazembe's goal, whereby on the 9 minute the captain, Jonas Mkude, released a heated one while in a box where football was defeated by defenders and claimed to have fruits.
The Mbao FC of Mbao FC was seen off the attackers of Simba who were seen to have fallen from goals and succeeded to buy all the attacks that were directed to their goal.
Mbao FC did not get a goal in the 36 minute through Soudy Brown, who released a tough stand in the 18th minute where Simba's goalkeeper, Vicent Bossou, was shot dead in every corner of the country.
In the 77th minute, Emmanuel Arnold Okwi, with Simba's goalkeeper, was unable to give Mbao FC after the Simba defender, Moher Hussein 'Nahreel' to save with great skill.
The second half started with Simba continuing with attacks on Mbao FC, where the 53 minutes, Kichuya at the 18th minute he released a huge shot on the goal.
In the 56 minutes, Youssouf Sabaya, released the bomb attack, a penalty that I got into the net, but the goalkeeper of Simba Agnetta.
Blacks, who took the position of Laudit Mavugo from what would have got Simba a goal in the 78th minute after voting in a box, but the ball was on well by Mbao FC.
Prophet Zachamiru Yassin made the profile of Simba in the 86 minutes after he given his team to investigate after receiving a pond.
Until when the match referee carries the entrance fee for the end, Simba emerged victorious with 1-0 goals, which was celebrated by strength and his fans who were seen to get out of their team to leave and win.
