The Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal has said that the government is not ready to see the child and he is found in the diabetes disease when they lost life due to carelessness or poor.
The Vice President opening the annual meeting of the doctors of diabetes in Africa is taking place in Arusha town, which is taking place in Dodoma province, which will be used as a health service center and kidney diseases which are among the problems facing people who are faced with diabetes.
They should be keen and listen to a knee problem.
The specialist doctors who deal with nine of the diabetes disease in various countries that are in the African continent are meeting in Dar es Salaam city where the big challenge that we shall be of lack of medicine as the vice president, Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal has said the government is doing an effort to take them away.
Through those challenges, the Vice President Doctor, Mohamed Gharib Bilal said the government has already started making efforts to fight the diabetes disease.
And the government is doing good work on her side because it should be first, we are preparing to take them.
For these diabetes disease in different schools, if I have talked about the verification of it was buried and we should start doing good work for these days that will be realized in every district.
But also.
The biggest judgment being in this work of dealing with diabetes.
And you can baptize and other diseases that did not mean?
It is a bad behavior in line with the exercise of testing diabetes for the residents of Dar es Salaam city where the International Health Center Meeting Hall, P-Square gave free treatment whereby on the side of the citizens who came out to test their health.
What does it get from.
I have discovered that there is a lot of importance to build a procedure of testing their health from time to time.
Because if necessary comes back for my age?
I know that it is me.
But after testing the five, it told that the weight you have not qualified for my health and to reduce each one is good.
I was able to know what is baptism?
The Almighty God rest more.
Your province does not mean?
