The late God bless you to work on Monday work of another job, we will talk to the late God and the one that was there as usual, the vice president is continuing to make the late God create the late.
I will be able to ask you and we will talk to me, the Almighty God bless you.
When you get safe, they will be able to work there and when I agree with me, I don't know where I don't know what I don't know her, then I don't know what I love me.
Or but we want to have noted that Express network continues.
I am just safe, he can also be difficult, a man and the child is still even when I am not seen, I wish you and continued to grow then Francis and male.
Undoubtedly you are annoyed so much, the late God has told me that there is a person who has told me that there is a person who wants to want drought soon after how many times he wants to be two.
Two then I will tell later that I will see if I am saying this evening, you know what I'm with me.
She has been great and he has been very big, he knows the late God, he is speaking even if he is saying that he sees it.
He knows the message the day before yesterday was called Halima Mdee.
And he was not supposed to be careful, it should be grateful for the thing, said there are others who are confirmed to go and go together with Nairobi or home here, but I was my work.
Same as I see your things is the same, that I will realize that I will bless you later there is good plans that I will help me.
You're very happy and like yours, even eat it.
Her have touched me that these have been many but you are saying words or Jerry the late I don't have the money I'm in here.
And our correspondent.
So as to see the late God, I won the fifth time if you will bring up with its benefits that will destroy the ring on how many of how you will be given to two hundred thousand shillings and one day I will help me.
That call will give you an opportunity to inform them, I want him to have no problem if you told me.
The late Adam and NHO project in the government is expected to come today next week I want today and I don't have the money to welcome him today I don't have the money I don't know what I told me.
This will help me because I was able to go to them and put on well on Sunday.
