
Put the family and suicide for was unable to get married.
Brian Umony.
One man in Nyamkazi Primary School, he abandoned his wife and his child after knowing that they had a close relationship of clan issues and they did not die.
Abraham Mosri has also been easily read until she will remain at that surprising incident at the end of the week.
That man was living in Nairobi and his wife, Alice, said that and he went to home home to get the blessings of marriage from parents but they were admitted to the foundation that they have a romantic relationship with clan.
Those news, when a person knows Mosley, who by the complainants won the wife and their child, a boy who is two years old by unknown houses.
The child was found on the spot though his wife was found to be being treated at the Kenyatta 'hospital where people who loved it.
That man has also died trying to escape the fire after that act.
Police officers said three other people were injured in the fire and they are still being treated at Nyamkazi Primary School.
The villagers said that maybe the man used electricity of switching on fire in that house.
Yesterday, Taifa Stars got people from the family and villagers cut off while unable to prevent them following that tragedy.
"I was forced to love you after three o'clock at night and when I saw it was able to save the fire was big and we would not want to save anything," said one neighbor John Lukuwi.
Mister Misango, said Mister Mosley entered into the house which his wife and the child was coming out after breaking the journey and broke down before starting the fire.
He said that man was making noise in a high voice saying he wanted to stop all his family.
This year when a youth met with our daughter Alice will be said, the age of 24 years in Nairobi last year, but at home, we told them that they would like each other because they have a close relationship of clan history. "
He said.
"The eyes of the chest or the girl child can't know that it is unacceptable," he said.
Said Mosley when she was given that, he was forced to do something but there was no one who was expecting the action of that type to the head of the police, he from the Kiselya Village, Simon Siro has mentioned that reason like something.
"Police arrived at the tragedy when they were called but the child had died and they helped them to be injured in the hospital," said Mister Pengo.
"This is an incident a lot of sadness and that is requesting him to be allowed," he said.
