Doubt, Mrs Fissoo gave himself.
May 1st, 2014.

The legendary trainer of Sauti Sol of South America, Shaka Saro, has said that one of the people gave their heart to continue with the work of writing news and especially for the African Community is Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
Saro, Ugandan who has worked for 3 years now, says about Mwalo Nyerere, she told me why I don't go back home (Uganda) to help the construction of my country, but before my contribution is needed, "he said.
In the whole step of electronic Saro, he has urged the journalists to see that they have a responsibility to be on the front line in ensuring that many African countries are directed anywhere in the world, because Africa does not be defended by the journalists of Africa there is no one who does not hesitate to fulfill that continent.
"I am happy to cooperate with the courage to kill in Africa and to resolve the ones in this continent, so that one day you should be for the heroes of this continent," he said.
Saro, who was in the country for a special interview with President Jakaya Kikwete, said the defense of the African continent is the fight, and the achievements he did not be easily available soon, except that he will start some people and big journalists in the world that she has attained 14 years.
He says that in his life he has struggled to make sure that most of the real age and that is why even his period has continued to explain the issues of Africa for its-inch width because he believes that it is through the writing of information that Africa will not be met.
"There is no long time without communicating with Africa, I have written the phone every day, it is a very important thing to me, that is why even the African child has maintained, I have continued to be the old man, who was born Kabona (Uganda)," he said.
Speaking about the process of the new constitution that is going on in the country, has said that we are supposed to listen to concerns against them and be patient with the argument that it did not support them, even if the waste can be available on.
He has urged us to see the importance of the process of writing a new constitution in the future of the nation and according to the needs of Tanzania.
However, in the demolition exercise, even some of the things that are used today are similar to the pressure, the intention of listening and learn every person from the other one is very important, "said Somba, presenter and producer of the film Straight Outta Africa, that is broadcasted in English.
He was in Mwanza this week and he spoke with the leaders of the association of journalists of Mwanza Province (MREFA) and the Union of Media of Tanzania (UTPC) here.
He added that they should partner and listen to the issues of the second side is a way of reaching an agreement and be able to get the constitution of the citizens.
He said that to succeed and to fail is the twins that concern them and therefore every time the nation is doing a big issue like this time it is very important to avoid things that can cause them and not to fulfill the goals because not to make the nation be.
He urged the politicians to avoid getting politics of private interests in the important national issues and instead make them to change the competition on various issues so as to avoid problems that makes others feel right to say on behalf of others than their colleagues.
"Competition of ideas is good for the interests of many, because politics is like a business that involves who gets what is doing, while in which way we need to benefit many," he said.
However, he warned that politics being supervised and it could make sure citizens because politics can have a look and many ways that are expecting to have a lot and a lot of ways that you want to hundreds of them.
"Politics is the art of any possibility (the Ambassador of Art of All Fund), is doing something that does not affect so much or it is possible that it is facing the management of resources and the division," he said.
