
The digital change in Zanzibar will start on December.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, has assured the workers of the Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) that the government will improve the digital change to digital change, by December 31st this year.

Speaking to the workers of various sections of ZBC is the day before yesterday, Doctor Shein urged the leadership of the organization and concerned ministry, to take action to address the problems facing the workers of that center, including the live.
He explained that, the aim is to ensure that by December this year, the advertisements for ZBC is the digital system when it was completed.
During the surprise visit, Doctor Shein visited all sections that are in the National Housing Corporation, "Karume Memorial" that is in Mnazi Mmoja and check the real situation of work, equipment and the building of the center.
Doctor Shein was listening to various challenges facing them, while showing it being touched by the state of that organization which is one of the elderly and television stations in Africa.
He agreed with the argument that was explained and explained the plans of that government to improve afresh, so as to be able to provide information that match their status and which do not meet their needs.
Among the challenges that him explained the president it's lack of training, transport and servants of their professions, transport and servants of that organization, to strengthen the history of the agency which before its establishment in Zanzibar's hall.
The executive director of ZBC is the executive director of ZBC, he explained that together with the challenges there are still workers of that organization, they have been unable to work with expertise to meet the expectations of their viewers during that tour, they were the chief secretary, Ministry of Information, Tourism, Culture and Sports, Omar Hassan Omar.
