
The important things we want to save.
Tonny H.
There is a saying that the English says, "help me so much," this saying I used to prevent it from the performance of President John Magufuli will be completed that until now all of the decision made since he took the leadership of the fifth term government, "it is clean, good and safe water."
Some of the decision is a very difficult time, "but it was important in getting in this nation that would be able to go to Kibangu river from outside the railway course.
Kibondemaji, which was out of railway, every Tanzanian knows his results as it is the end of the journey.
Tanzania, a good country and attractive, with people living with mental disabilities who do not have an example in the African continent, together with a lot of wealth of human resources and resources it was heading to me, or "the truth.
President Magufuli in the process of praising the country and to return to the "economic growth" economy, we should have every reason to ask God, the efforts of President Magufuli's efforts to succeed in, "this bridge of river water being infected."
In addition to many important decisions that he made up to now, I believe that there is still a lot of good work.
First, let me take this opportunity to thank the President for the good speech he made during the peak of the World Health Day.
Many were mentioned in any speech which I can't take advantage of here, we can't know the few things and recommend the other at least more.
First thanking you in the speech, it is a decision by the president to reduce tax tax (PAYE) tax from 11 to 9 percent.
The strategic plan I will be able to study here about the reduction of tax tax (PAYE) it is to request the government to revise the possibility of making improvements so as to bring more income to employees, by dealing with the cost of life in the whole country.
In order for what purpose, nine percent of the value of 55,731 shillings instead of the salary of 170,000 people.
With the same intention of giving life relief to the workers, a reduction in all the salaries instead of looking at a low level.
There is an importance of giving afresh the purchase of industries that caused the industries not to be shaken, they will not be able to give him the "we will do or we will implement it or" we are in the race to complete.
Any investor from outside did not like to understand the environment of investment in the industries in the country through CDM you will benefit and run industries and not through politicians.
Therefore, any strategies of developing the industries in the country will be successful more if the plan will involve us fully.
Other areas where President Magufuli can identify the eyes of the health insurance area for every employee and eventually every Tanzanian, as a matter of a must and not voluntary.
Another area is to look at the possibility of being involved in the free electoral commission in a period of five years for its leadership together and follow keenly more on the issue of freedom of the media in the country including that of the ethics of the leadership and public service.
The issue of a new constitution did not leave the first to follow up until when it will expire so that it should not be distracting the pace of efforts he could make it in the country and improve the lives of banana?
President also can look at the possibility of having a team of advisers of the economic issues (the Council of Revolution), who is not the directors in the government or those who come from the state house which will have the responsibility of telling the president about all the economic issues every day they will be forced.
Another important area that the president can stop the eyes of having a professional team of tax issues which will involve stakeholders, but not the servants of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), which will be given the responsibility to review afresh the whole system of misuse of tax in the country so as to deal with the real state of economic and business environment in the country.
With the aim of improving productivity in tax paying tax (EAGI), to attract investors to protect our local industries, to expand the scope of revenue sources of government, hatching of taxes which are not fair to those with low income and contribute to revenue according to the level of wealth.
Tonny Samuel Sitta and on the right is the analyst of economic and social sciences (035521).
