A report is the news.
Thank you very much, and we are looking at the newspapers reports of today's newspaper, you will be the table to know our newspapers of things?
In his heart.
Welcome the public about investment in the shares of the shares in foreign activities like we are not seen.
.
Let me start by saying the first about the security does not like a lot, it is not ready to diagnose this mobile phone.
We wish you.
To send money but as well as using various needs that we are doing.
In addition, the new system of technology that has been started, has made different media houses, but I wanted the time before we take them to explain their safety in general of conservation of shares which are listed in the stock market.
The first one is that when you want to hold the investors there are those who have been professionals.
Make sure they educate the child with the authority that you want.
Nuh Mziwanda on that they have responsibilities of putting you more if he is a person who wants them to talk about his performance, he will lead you more on investment so as to fulfill the capital that it has invested in the country.
At home for example, the company which is best than another, asking us to know what you are doing in your investment as well as informing them as something that is doing every day they are doing every day they do so much, a company that are listed like so is what to do?
The second one is that we are in the fiesta market where we are preparing to pay for your book TIMIZA AHADI YAKO.
In any company if it has been written in the market.
There is a problem.
Why is a good procedure of Kikwete that the technology we use in protecting the records and their ownership before showing it is when what did you do?
Your voice that has been reduced in the investment of such as an eye on the banks for example.
But the third one is that there are people and other parts of the province.
Apart from our building where we do we have?
Most of the biggest activities that we are taking place but if we have minerals of fake products like the ones that are in Morogoro in the country, as from Dar es Salaam, they are coming from another vehicle for your memory of investment that I will be understood.
And therefore, they should give doubt that the Tanzanians that in Plasmodium falciparum.
I am giving me a lot from the valley and agreed to participate, I would like to focus on something this morning when he gets to me, so there are eight war and I have been supposed to invest here if there is now.
I have changed to investment in this event that is like a result of information about the news report of that program.
