
Dance music songs has increased in pregnancy.

It has been written by John Ndeki.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The increase of traditional music videos in the Gairo district, Morogoro Province, has contributed to the presence of many early marriages which are a threat to development in education and community.

Head of the Gairo district, Sameel Joosub, said that the day before yesterday when he was explaining the challenges facing the district in front of the vice president, Samia Suluhu Hassan, when he made a long time in the city and spoke to citizens while on the way to Dodoma.
Mchaga, said that early marriages in that district are in high level, are as a result of two hundred thousand children, so as to make many female children to give their studies because of getting pregnant and others being employed at a small age.
Therefore, he requested the vice president, due to the opportunities available on him in that city, he will partner with the parents who came to receive him about the effects of early marriages.
Deputy president, was unable to see small children of female children get pregnant while under supervision and guardians of parents and guardians.
Therefore, he said, the use of early marriages is contributed by the parents and guardians to be responsible, as required in the upbringing of their family, an issue that affects the lives of those children.
"Couples in the villages are being organized by our parents and guardians, and we get married to female children and boys getting married, we must ensure our female children and boys are in this matter so that they can get the education development," said the Vice President.
He said that the government has removed the fees from early education, class one to form four, so as to give an opportunity for all children to be able to study without restrictions.
Therefore, the responsibility of parents and guardians is to supervise closely the upbringing of their children, especially the female children so that they can get an opportunity to study from early education up to top.
The Vice President, urged female students to consider the murder of the wearing of 38,90four students which are a draw of the school, in Dar es Salaam over the graduation, a draw of pregnancy and not for pregnancy.
He ordered the parents and guardians to ensure that early marriages in that district are seen and be completely stopped.
