Close to him and he announced that together we are now part of the interview but I see the guest of honor, he still didn't arrived instead, we get this article which is trying to remind and remove it, it does not have modern chicken and how to do modern chicken but at other times.
Projects there are different projects that start the efforts by the late father in various institutions but what should be washed away is that when those partners are not present as it was previously when it was previously a situation that has been prepared by our writer in Dar es Salaam city.
There are various projects in the country that is being implemented and it is operated by various donations which can benefit or benefit to the community but that situation has changed just after the resignation of their long time but the star of the second chicken of Ford and all.
In the moment the company claimed to be run for cooperation between the Sokoine university of Sua team and the American donation is currently different and it is important that has died after lack of sponsorship since it is still ongoing well after a period of milk and the completion of one year.
The lives of this project is due to the community that surrounds the areas of that project continuing to benefit from different ways including two schools among the ten schools in Changombe district which we started a rearing of traditional chicken under the only one and ten thousand shillings which has been completed two weeks ago.
Those schools are being able to Sinza Changalmighty God, which have participated and seen three small tribes to be three whereby Christine Ishengoma, who is the supervisor of that project in that school they talk about the high way it is taking.
The aim of the project to educate the community.
.
Students.
They should come here in school.
And it is enough, there are many who were helped to do when you are not funny when you are not lie!
What is it?
If you are found?
What is it?
You can Ukawa have been lost.
Today so as to be used for the purpose of teaching these students is not a little project.
Starting from a class.
Khan is a must.
A work with religion but being read.
Those involved or they are getting six again.
He will take a restaurant after maybe the class seven class to end their education for this season.
When I saw our debt.
We started first and to choose the chicken.
And after seeing the chicken you are.
What I was looking for is the best chicken for the best to be taught about chicken you are doing so that they can be able to follow up by being beaten.
After that, we were able to increase the chicken from people who are involved in the area of the school, he started with eight hours and three, there were our project.
There was a challenge of here and there because it is still the project that was starts but in collaboration with our experts from the University of Sua challenges we put in dealing.
Two thousand and ten thousand in which they toured the.
There was a must to forward to one hundred and seven chicken.
There are only one hundred thousand chicken.
There were big chicken and.
And don't have a small way to prevent each other.
And we are at this fact, and we will see that this project yet.
Some of the teachers and educate the radio in the radio have explained how this rearing of women started to school.
This project has been helping as many.
We should help us in solving small challenges which I have been of school?
If we have the ability to sell chicken, I do not lie to a place where we have lost the benefits from the government and we will sell if they buy equipment which are used in improving education and to be responsible for students.
And also, we have been able to use coffee like it is not a place to welcome visitors and to visit here in school but we will also give them loans for the purpose of giving them to the students, where those students have done well in their exams and we have done well in their exams.
So as to prove that he will go to him, now I will continue with them.
And right now.
I request I urge you to sell and I get the late God and I help them.
Ras Kiduku was opening with brothers and that we are putting drugs to every time after three months ago, we have bought everything on what we want to use this week and who do not expect to take advantage of this week and who we need to use one hour so that we need to use one hour each day.
They love each number of chicken because you know that we have paid self sustainability, causing several challenges which include the reduction of food shortage, animals and illegal diseases together with diseases.
As a result of the success made in those schools, it is an assurance that other children are leading the projects are funded by normal so as to see the completion of the project in customs and especially the community to promote the projects.
