Ole Sendeka was prepared in the strategy of returning.
APR of 29, 2015.

During the end of the general elections of the year 2015, continue to rise in different regions in the country, more than 110 acres in Simanjiro Province in Manyara province have started a special operation of MC Scholar (MARI), the Member of Parliament for that constituency, Christopher Ole Sendeka in that election.
The operation has been given by the name "Feng Gogo (Dakar, Ole Sendeka) involving youths from different social groups like the business people of Tanzanite, lawyers, farmers and pastoralists from different areas of that constituency.
Mke Mwema got a report on the existence of a youth network last week after getting involved in some of the youths through the Funding network where those youths were communicating with urging another one to implement that operation.
According to those reports and other sources of those youths started that network more than six months ago with the aim of educating, and encourage other community groups in order to bring political changes in that province by using that election.
Already the delegation of those youths is saying that the spread of various villages in that province which a big percentage of its residents are the community of breeders of the Maasais' and it explained that many citizens have started supporting them due to those youths having a huge influence in their community.
Analysis of politics in that province believe that the operation that are run by those youths can be able to prevent and set free in a difficult time, that member of parliament in winning the opinion polls in CCM and also the general election if he will be called by his party.
According to various sources, Ole Sendeka is faced with great opposition from a member of parliament who is the head of Kakonko district, Kigoma province, Peter Totoo Zebingwa, and businessman Lengatei ward which have already announced to vie for that constituency through CCM.
In addition, if Ole Sendeka will address the opinion polls of CCM so as to be the member of parliament of that province for another phase, he will be forced to pass through "an ancient attack on Ukawa" which are expecting to suspend lawyer James Ole Millya.
Youths have confirmed.
Speaking to Good Citizen in Kinshasa City, he will arrive in that province, one of those youths, Moses Ole Somba, confirmed the existence of a youth network of that district which has started the process of wanting Ole Sendeka to come out in the election of this year.
"It is true" we have started the operation, Fukeni Mose (MASA), Ole Sendeka, with our great aim is to bring changes in leadership in our region, especially the parliamentary position, "said Ole Sakali.
We are using social media to educate each other and be happy about the importance of having a member of parliament who can unite people of this region different from the current situation where our community have fallen apart from the bad leadership of Ole Sendeka, "he claimed.
He said in a period of 10 years of the leadership of Ole Sendeka, there have been a lot of challenges in that region especially the land conflicts between the citizens and investors, villages and villages and even reach a step of private people to vie for land.
Giving an example, Ole Saro, claims that in his village of Masaki, he will agree with an albino investor (the name withheld) rents a total of 291 acres which were revealed that he got the land against the procedure.
"The villagers later issued the resolutions that then he had a tax of 2800 million shillings per year, but the member of parliament has intervened in a way through the lawyer of the council that asked the investor to get any money, an issue that has caused the citizens to have a conflict with the investor," claimed a Sakali.
According to a member of parliament, member of parliament, Ole Sendeka was also involved with huge conflict that emerged in the village in the local government elections in 2014 where a member of CCM that won the opinion polls, Ikwililo, Solo, where he had been named by the political committee of the district after winning the opinion polls.
After removing the name of that candidate, the committee announced that Tumaini Ndevu, a step that has contributed to the village facing several people being injured and one lost life.
"
