
The government bought bags of 722 billion shillings.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been published in 21st October, 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has said that the fifth term government is prepared to ensure that the community service sector has been prepared and to ensure that it has paid a debt of more than 100 billion shillings which was alleged to have funds.

Prime Minister Majaliwa said that yesterday at the sixth general meeting of stakeholders and members of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) that took place in Arusha town, explaining that the debt is between the debts of contributions for a total of 99,716 billion shillings.
He said that the government has completed the verification of debts of bags projects so as to give birth certificates in a period that happened in June this year, statistics show that the number of members has increased to 21 million shillings.
The Prime Minister told the members and stakeholders that in the fifth phase government, ensure that the cost of funds are reduced from 19 percent of contributions by members to reach 10 percent according to the regulations of the funds that were given by the Authority of Social Security and Regulatory Authority (SSRA).
He said the government is prepared to see the country get quick development to the benefit of the nation-benefit from implementing the National Development Corporation (CCM) aimed to enable the country to become central economy of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), it's aimed to enable the country to have economic growth and industries to reduce poverty.
Prime Minister was very worried that NSSF has planned to go with that speed by expanding the scope of its investment and educate them in the industries that will increase employment, to increase production and grow the general economy.
He said those decisions will enable NSSF and other bags to get new members and to collect more contributions and to invest in order to fulfill the foundation stone of the community reserve.
He said the decision by NSSF by PPF to cooperate so as to deal with the sugar problem in the country by building a sugar industry in Morogoro region, the Mkulazi region will be able to produce 200,000 dollars per year and employ more than 100,000 people to be followed by every person and institutions and various companies in the country.
He said other organizations will also think about the way to grow the economy of the country and its citizens and not to focus on a few goals that didn't give citizens very fast and more transparency.
He urged the employers in the country to ensure that they get out the payment of their members on time without being pumped by the organization to make its work hard.
And the Prime Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Employment, Youth and Children, Jenista Mhagama told the Prime Minister that his order of collecting all big debts has begun being implemented by the board's board without any restrictions.
Jenista said that big debtors were given to those houses and those who had bought and failed to present their legal action is being prepared as well as getting them in court for more action.
He said the current investment is investment in that industries has no objection to the organization and the management and the board together, they have organized to ensure those goals are successful.
And the Executive Director of NSSF, Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that the organization has managed to invest in the industries sector in the country in line with improving employment standards in the country and to improve the lives of members of the fund and the citizens in general.
Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that they have decided to make great changes in investment by purpose on investment that will involve one of the citizens and to change their lives to be better, and they have decided to direct their success and bring productivity for the aim of improving the economy of the country and its citizens by increasing employment and to increase its members.
