The main challenge of the ACT Patriots Party does not allow parliamentary and member of parliament.
Mr 25, 2015.

The big offence that the new political party which is expected to be launched officially at the end of the week of Alliance for Change and Development (ACT) can be able to make sure that the biggest challenge against him is the opposition party in the country, will parliament.
And contrary to this, it's also true that, it will be a mistake, and I believe already has had a mistake, if you will enable you to pay even in a few seconds to become the new member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe (Kigoma North) by joining it.
I said this because for a long time, all the two parties have been seen and they don't see what they will not see if they don't see what they will do to participate so that they can be a threat to the CCM party.
That is why some people who were star and big leaders inside the parliament were able to join it immediately and if we put record because they were involved well in our party's life.
It is clear that it's not possible to separate a relationship between these two parties and one is a party that is the light of her and having another threat to another, all the two parties believe it can be very good to eliminate the darkness, a situation that made our political nation.
This is even so that it is not easy until now parties and especially the ACT Patriots are supposed to be very easy because we will continue to be happy and to announce that everyone has been made in the past, but we have been made in the past, but we have been made in the past.
Since going back to many political parties, we have witnessed the purpose of looking for art in the country where members from not being satisfied from the other parties and joined other parties for a long time, has been only a political issue and politicians more than the issue of parties.
And this is not a result of people who are only leaders, we have witnessed close to every place where there is a political party meetings by joining CCM as well as Nape Nnauye, then I was surprised by CCM party members to join CCM party and to join CCM as it happens.
But in this current, if you remove this one of different party members that usually get a flowers wherever you are committed and I don't see him or I don't see him and I don't see him and I don't see him and I don't want to do now before the constitutional parliament!
Already ACT has used a lot of time and the most resources to compete with the parliament and we have seen that they are unable to make everything in order to ensure that ACT's poor and maybe the same thing is mistakes and I believe it will be a big offence for ACT Patriots.
These parties are a must that you know that the great importance is that the administration of the Revolutionary Party.
