If you have ever heard about the title in the English Premier League to attract only a young man only even in the Copa Coca Cola tournament.
Then you said this player has the ability.
Unfortunately, the children are getting.
It is an end, it is going to you about something that will not happen?
Rich Mavoko will get the expectations of continuing to play.
It is the second thing.
Only he was done in court about the case.
The results of the election results like Simba and Yanga are doing a lot of work.
My brothers, to be told that you can get an agent, they do not know the agents.
Yes, it's a new knowledge that we know her, is not bad.
Being a leader for fear one player to stop the market.
Absalom claimed that he had already succeeded to help one player with the ability and the ability of a special service provider to be an example because I will fight against the market.
Let him look for me the price we have talked to them.
We will also care!
We should give a priority to the players, if it is found, it is available, because if you go back on night from the Tanzanian players I don't think if there are internet agents, how they get five I don't think there is a matter like it.
There is claim that people with love and football.
We should be ready to invest in one player and it is not a must to invest in.
In the time it is like one of the qualifications, they gave out money funds.
Promote football.
It has been a threat in Tanzania and I don't know what I don't know and he has not participate in the growth of soccer I have not understood the issue.
That is an advice to you the chest, we request me to organize afresh, let us continue instead of the plane number.
Close to him.
Thank you?
The late Almighty God is called on the use of marriage.
I want to talk about me.
Therefore, we are required to inform you that it's first seven, the profession itself will be built for one day, there were preparations and even the development of the economy we are ready to implement until it has reached the level.
The late God rest his current procedure in building and in the cities, there are areas that are left open about words, there are also care of the area it is open, if I am told, I have been asked if I have been asked if I have been taught.
Because in the streets there are a lot of children if he was using well through the leaders who had received and in the district they continue looking for development, children started without going for primary and secondary schools to attain that school are on a good start of developing in games and secondly, our teams let us benefit.
They reach small tribes to inspect Simba and Yanga and Azam FC.
For another team of having to travel from one place to another place, in games it becomes high.
It does not have the transport that you use the time they are blaming each other until they reach out of the game to play in a condition that he cannot be aired there to there in the match to be found.
Maybe they are playing the results will be bad and due to the bad operation, maybe if they will be able to continue selling in the match am surprised if Toto Africa thus giving them people have contributed a lot, but it has reached the place, but until now, the results were heard there, but it has also been heard, therefore, but it has not been heard there.
Like plots that have been built on different places is.
Many people have come out so much in the sports board and there would be no need to play and where every team would have prepared well to play well and maybe when he was going to play well and even if we are playing soccer there were two people who were able to participate in games.
Maybe if we have no longer since the past many youths had you know in the sports sector.
And employment as a government, as we know if we know your parents or if they had been getting into the games we had a lot of people you know and even these things would have a lot of things to be close to my colleagues.
Because they don't accept when going back to college investment, it is not a must that investment has a lot of areas even the players for taking them outside the country is a good player from the world as a good player from Tanzania, what is no team starting from Tanzania.
This is a good players that when it got to the place that they are not international even to the only three days even if it has been directed to many people the European market give just a little because they will enter the field we're.
