
Coach Oreo 'has called players in order to improve the team of independence.
By Thomas V.
The national team for seven players from every side that is preparing itself to participate in the Makoroboi market and in Las Vegas, Yellow FEST has been beaten by return to the star Collins Tamfi, Dennis Temu from Michael Wanjala.
The independence of this season have had a bad beginning to now being used for 14 positions in the table position, they are continuing to prepare for the fourth position and five of the competition.
The new coach, Felix Mighty One, who was appointed to fill in the position of Paul Bou who has decided to resign his position after the third course of Port Elizabeth, South Africa, has got married especially by going back to the players who are not aware of the incident.
It's only that is the best top scorer at all times in the history of that competition, together with those fellow colleagues, it is among the big two players who came out to play for the nation due to the conflict that has been done between them by the Confederation Cup of England.
That conflict that led to lack of three consecutive years of Gold Coast, Dubai and South Africa where the nation defeated 11 results that were collecting 11 points, thus the point of coaches to demonstrate to poor forces.
In addition, they have a lot of interest for many years in that squad, is expected to bring changes in games and it has taken place in the past two months.
With another person, Humphrey Kayla who is expecting to go back to the squad after falling, while dancing, he accused the Federation for the poor results.
A few weeks came up in three days after the resignation of the bacteria's resignation, his chairperson, Mwangi, who released his seat on claims that there was some of the officers of the agency that affects its obligations.
"Maziku said that there is now good to stimulate the production of the results in the field there are many that are going outside and inside the stadium and for sure that it is not a good step for this game to the one to blame is Koke who have been unable to provide a good pose with fights." Kayla said.
For now, Kenya is holding the 14 position in the position of Irene B, a woman is led by South Africa with 59 points.
