The American police have used the energy and military weapons.
Sei 12, 2014.

Mike Brown is a name that she got into the United States, especially among the Chinese citizens of that country.
This is a black boy of 18 years who was killed by police when he had no weapon and found with his hands on the stage that happened in Ferguson's city, Missouri, August 9 this year.
When he was shot, it is not one but six in her body and two bullets got into the head, and that he died immediately.
Dudu Baya has more said that even after he was born, the body of Brown was left roofless from the road for a period of four hours without being called very delicious.
Citizens that were identified himself, has called the journalists and that is where the whole country she had been informed with her friend Brown who told the journalists that when he was shot dead, the youth had gone against him as a sign of hunger.

Now it is heading to it is a normal issue to a black youth being shot by police in America, but this time the citizens have said, "it is enough."
This killing of God created a sharp object among the citizens who were kidnapped all over the country, claimed that the police should be dealt with because for a period of two weeks, the police commander of Ferguson refused and told the name of the investor and instead the police was given free holidays so that he cannot be shaken. "
Later, it was known that his name is Darcoboa, and is an assurance from Brown is an issue of racial discrimination as usual in the country.
The citizens who traveled with the police with weapons like gun, bombs, injuries and rhinos so as to demonstrations were surrounded by police with weapons and even the journalists that were surrounded by the arrest.
The situation was bad to that President Barack Obama was forced to give his holiday and went back to work and to give a statement, "Masau boasted.
The demonstrators they refused to obey the police force is divided into that reason being their rights constitution and they used their rights to claim that the police, Darcoboa, arrest and arraigned in court after 10 people were made in court.
The special statement released by the union of the army men, the government that fight for peace (Iloha), said that it is a must for the death of Brown is said that it is a must to take place in quick investigation that is open and free.

The committee for defending justice of journalists (TIN), has said that it is a must for police to stop complaining and arrest the journalists.
One of those times is Ryan Giggs, when he was shot dead, he was shot dead, he was arrested with sleeping, he was arrested for mistakes and he was not seen by the police, screamed, "who are the journalists!" Press! "

However, police while at a knee injury and started falling, two out of them were injured after the police were injured and they scored them in Karume Memorial Stadium and took them to prison without being told that offense.
When the journalists have shown their identity cards with the police they ask for what they have entered into the streets when one journalist has answered me, "it is because we're doing to work like and so as to do, it is our job to give the reports of demonstrations.

That was not able to help, since they were taken to prison and put in a box for eight hours after they were released without instructions.
I had even President Obama's responsibility for what they want to inform the journalists that they are doing their work. "Said people should advise protesters in peace because they use their constitutional rights.
However, the system remains to be there where this is a whole system of the use of energy, inside and outside the country. Obama has no ability to change the system and it is good to follow on this issue.
In the United States, the police are usually in the military picture by Hustler Dancers from the military while carrying the army weapons and rhinos so that they are going to war with Afghanistan and Unyiage in America, the police are heading to war, especially against the Blacks group.

American economy is looking for war and lack of weapons and international companies to work together so that they can sell their weapons and this is done outside the country and even inside.
