
Nyerere's stand and the liberation of a woman.
Last week at the University of Dar es Salaam, it was organized a professional conference (Economist Intelligence Unit) about life and service to Mwalimu Kambarage Nyerere, this festival organized to communicate with the professionals, politicians, citizens and students from various universities in Africa and elsewhere in the world.
History shows a lot of things that the leader made the leader, he wrote, "he said, where he went, he wanted his contribution to the liberation movement of Africa there is no doubt.
His contribution for the liberation of women is a challenge to women and men of Tanzania today and for many years to come.
In addition, South Africa has not reduced since it is respected since Africa has dropped, "Madee has been tired of the size of the world," we have remained and history should not affect the discussion and the debates showed great honor to continue educating the Mwalimu Nyerere for good service that he invented.
Kambarage Nyerere contribution for women is their own debt, for men it is a great debt to ensure the security and security of the women's rights for students is enough debt to be shaken by Kambarage Nyerere and its efforts to change in community issues.
Nyerere started writing about the era of his students, he used his education to write, educate and give information to the community through the fact, if the way we say in the past article 1944, Nyerere wrote history where many men do not concern it.
He won the best best award in Africa during this time it made it about women's rights for 90 years of Uganda, they have written his book and now they do in Swahili are available.
All the days I noted that there is a need for the liberation of our thoughts, which would enable you to use our website like people (women and men) in the system of gender discrimination.
Mwalimu Nyerere wanted our community to listen to the analysts of issues, he wanted education to pick on the concept of liberation movement, he wanted them to get into a high level of understanding and knowledge that he would like to appreciate the education and wanted all to get them.
World, the defense of the teacher for women agreed to come before the contracts of the union of nations of human rights to be written.
The contracts of women's rights followed later, it is clear that the procedure of putting on international justice has helped and give great honor to other human rights system without changing our responsibility to ensure this records will be done right now.
It is good to communicate with the teacher for his work that involved with patriotism and great integrity of the nation, it is good to communicate with acts for example, when I told the teacher today we look at the level of writing of our students who are in universities.
There are many things that allows them to invest in their lives of students and community, parents, brothers, faith, religion, other culture, teachers, systems, colleges, government and community development.
If students do not mean that or we are not knowing enough or they do not see the things that they see.
To write this is the liberation of thoughts, it is to give opinions and put appropriate measures for women's efforts to be taken care of as we are looking for other important records, the history of participation of women in the fight is not seen.
Women participated in the celebrations of Majimaji, Uhuru war through Tid and Tanaka and they are continuing to fight for the fight for better life of our senses, today, we will need to write this issues in details and putting correct record about the contribution of women in the fight of our community.
The value of a woman and the liberation is an international issue, not in Tanzania or South Africa, the countries of Europe and the American continent have a difficult system for women's rights.
These countries have participated in the constitutional process of women early more and its results have taken time to bear fruit and Ireland which started the fight for women early, still there is no enough records for the activities because they were directed to lack of vision about the aim of having a vision about the aim of having a vision of the aim.
Mwalimu Nyerere has denied the privacy of writing and caring for the memory of the author, a good reader and a vibrant analyst Mister he is working on her profession by writing to write a long time on the level of economic growth, the profession has a habit of wanting to write you, you will know and you want to give them others.
In our universities which have different sections, the students have written what in this magazine, the type of drinking government and private stakeholders will invest a lot of money getting divided into various universities and private institutions to provide information of various research through various aspects of various colleges.
Universities is also a creativity in various professional and social areas.
