If the brain of blood is Kikwete will leave Tanzania and a lasting fire.
Mr, 13, 2014.

The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, is said that there are a lot of things and among them, there are some people without a question.
A big one among those is that Nyerere was beaten in a ton, a quitle that he told the people that goes up or was supposed to go in exile.
That story continues to be accepted, especially with the youth of Nyerere who at their home is only part of the history, and sometimes, in news headlines, they have condemned the cases of everything on how Nyerere was Mkandamizi.

I request to select the reader that history will also be heard that Tanzania has never arrived to witness a big loss of human rights and misuse of power in 20 years ago compared to the administration of 24 years ago compared to the administration of 24 years.
Things that prevent us have witnessed in this 20 years ago, especially after 15 years ago, Honorable Benjamin Mkapa came to power until the time of Kikwete ended up in the year it is things that are taught.
President Benjamin Mkapa who left the State House in Tanzania has left two big points, a bad use of power and the availability of rights of human rights and public rights.
The issue of use of many power, we knew that he knew the scandal of Makonte bridge area in Tukuyu, Mbeya city when I was not talking about it because it had been abolished. because it would have another country, Mkapa is supposed to be supported by the court of citizens and if possible even to be presented.
The second issue is that most of the killings from Pemba and breast cancer is the killing of blood in the history of our nation and he himself has ever confirmed to be careful.
However, I believe it is Kikwete who has left very much hard and I don't see if he knows or he does not have a chance to know how it will be in the coming days and even though the blood poured in our coming elections and even all of them are required to look for you shortly.
If there is a elections that would have caused people to prevent blood as the first one of many parties in 1995, even so, together with a large extent of elections, there was no blood pressure diseases which we see these days from.
That is together with the fact that during the same time the former prime minister in the CCM government Augustino Lyatonga Mrema decided to resign as a few years ago and entered into the opposition.
Several places in the country were chosen as the opposition members for the first time without stopping the blood and the people who received their results together with his pain without knowing that American would be able to be used to do justice.
This was true even in the small elections followed by people they were not worried about the presence of the ruling party and this is a person of the ruling party and this is a member of events that have already been part of our election process to an extent that they are not true.
I have asked me what has happened since Kikwete entered into power 55it's why our politics after Kikwete entered into power, there should be careful so as to explain this situation so that I will help the community scientists which will come out and investigate before a scholar.
However, I request that I will work hard to listen to you if you look at all the events of violence that happened in different elections especially the place where CCM and CHADEMA are having several issues of making us lack of light.
That is true when you look at Kiteto District, Igunga, Arusha, Arumeru, Songea, Tukuyu, Mbeya, Mwanza, Iringa and even now in Kalenga, Iringa.
I request that I will get these two things only, the first, is the bad management of the security agencies and the second is the bad management of political parties!

A big possibility shown by the administration of President Kikwete in these two things have made environment of people not caring about the law, not caring about the procedures and more so that people not caring about the rights of a human rights.
And the big cargo of blame is why President Kikwete because he seems to have been able to be given these necessary events and instead he himself has shown as a big possibility of events such as it is to his prime minister, Mizengo Pinda.
Security agencies are required to have free from there and there are political parties that are required to make its work especially in the political environment that they have no part, we have witnessed other parts of the ruling party and not the government servants.
