Fifth time.
Yesterday Ras Kiduku was released last week at the Furahisha Stadium, I was talking about her important things that are located in the book that is written by the writer Emmanuel Mabumba, which is a Tanzanian boy who will teach universities in different countries like Tanzania.
And Rwanda?
And for now, it is a problem.
In one university here in Tanzania?
Emmanuel Charo, in the book of her biological mother who mingled about many things that are important.
Ahenkora has said our community has touched on many issues that it was called in our community, the late Adam concerning issues of not supposed to be responsible for the parents in a family that doesn't know.
Mother Tunu Pinda is the one that was responsible to make sure that it doesn't give them an important needs to welcome her mother to Zitto Kabwe together with these children, his children were suffering when their father's daughter-Shabaab's body had a lot of time he is in.
I will write a number I will get a number I will continue to ask for the ones I will continue to explain more about the accusation of a mother to kill him to stop the number one by two to seven o'clock.
Four four hours.
To be two seven thousand, two four times two players are from the ones that we have from that of them.
.
In Mwanza town, you know we're together in a Swahili language, then the one who read the phone I asked me the questions is between the gifts especially books and a gift.
The skin book will I give you as a gift and a gift of a chosen books from Literature in form five and six with a scholar who is a scholar who doesn't know what things have been written in this book but also we have a short message book.
A short message for short and wisdom of this bridge was written by water of the Swahili, the Lord Jesus represent our Swahili.
And the book was written in my car which was written by.
As a high table is the one that is present here as a gift, who will fall down.
These books for the rules of theater and otherwise, they will help us to increase your better life in Swahili language, I have been able to explain about the book of a mother's book.
We are here.
