
Bank institutions to investigate.
Brightiles 11, 2016.

And our correspondent.

The governor of Central Bank, Professor Benno Ndulu.

The business bank and financial institutions in the country have been urged to employ workers with ethics so as to evade the effects of theft and another financial crime including surgery for money.

That was noted last week at the 16th conference of the professionals of the East African Bank that took place in Mwanza City to meet experts from members countries including Kenya, Uganda, South Sudan and host Tanzania.

This conference which takes place every year and in the circulation of party members is taking place so as to check the challenges and success made in the bank sector and the banks of the banks.

Speaking after opening that conference, the Governor of the Central Bank, Professor Benno Ndulu said that the theft that happened in the bank is the results to employ employees who do not have ethics.

"Some people believe that they do not work the bank is to register it because there are many gods," he said.

Professor Ndulu urged business institutions and financial institutions to continue running the ethics training for their employees and how to supervise the money they will place treatment.

He said that meeting will be used as an aim of ensuring that the money will place well in the bank they will be safe and are being managed by great integrity.

The executive director of the institution of private institutions in the country (OOB), Coshuma Mtengeti, said the conference is special to the professionals of the bank sector to share ideas and to make efforts to improve service provision to customers.

"The bank are supposed to do an investigation when it wants to employ its workers so that they should be able to inform them that it is tired of the theft," Nyoni said.

He said when the bank are estimated that, then it will go into the possibility of taking the theft and funds of the bank, which are the money for people who want the security to be safe.

"Today it is supposed to do a person with the bank's profession being from another bank without considering that it may be chased away from doing crime," he said.

The issue of theft and evaluation of funds in the bank has been a challenge in that sector and have been informed that some of the workers are involved in one place.

According to the report of the Central Bank of Tanzania, starting in the year 2010 to 2013, Tanzania lost ten billion shillings from the theft that was done in machines for giving money to the bank only.

It has been explained that the growth of financial technology in which is caused by the success of the use of finance expenditure, is seen to have reduced due to the result of theft of money reserved for the customers' accounts.

The theft of money through the internet through special machines for providing money (ATM) continues to stabilize the bank in the country where for now those criminals have urged the money for customers who are outside the country by using cash cards.

The purpose of this conference was to bring professionals and employees of the bank so as to discuss how to cooperate in removing challenges that involve the sector.

The conference is also used to enable experts of banks issues to get a new system and the foundation of business for the purpose of increasing success in providing services.

The topics that will be discussed at the conference were about the improvement of the bank profession, service to customers, social strategies, creativity, and how to fight the competition, use of technology and increase the value of products and leadership in financial services.
