The secret of Lipumba brought down.

October 4, 2016.

The Deputy Secretary General of the Citizens Party (CUF), Magdalena Sakaya, has said that the reason that made that CUF chairperson, Professor Lipumba, to resign from that position and later to break the decision is the conflict that happened in CUF.
He said the former presidential candidate of CHADEMA, Edward Lowassa being supported by parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), he contributed a small part of the decision to suspend Professor Lipumba.
Sakaya said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was being interviewed in the Power Breakfast show that is broadcasted in the morning by the radio station of Clouds FM.
"The act of UKAWA to support him, Lowassa is a very important reason that made Professor Lipumba's resignation from CUF's chairperson before posting his decision, the truth is that he had resigned from that conflict that happened in CUF.
"All the senior leaders of CUF know Professor Lipumba who resigned because it was a leader you cannot speak about the conflict that is in your party," he said.
When he was asked about his resignation from the membership and the Executive Council of CUF National Council, Sakaya said he doesn't know for him because he has not been given any letter.
He added that he is being appointed by the national chairperson of CHADEMA, Freema Mbowe to bless the decision made by the council on membership cards, Professor Lipumba and removed some of the leaders and members of CUF.
Sakaya said that leaders of other opposition parties were supposed to maintain all sides so as to give them a solution to the crisis that is inside CUF instead of filling it.
"Mbowe is supposed to know that, UKAWA is not a party but he is a union of special agreements in accordance with four parties but every party has a procedure and its decisions," he said.
He said the previous parliament, the members of parliament of UKAWA is not from CUF, they told him, an issue that gives him a lot because someone who is not of his party to stop the person without a problem.
He added that during the campaign in UKAWA which joins strength after getting into the agreement, he signed the contracts of every time they had to do.
