
The controversy of the killing of 91 youths in Mkonga area.
From 1-1, human rights have said, the number of those who were killed is more than the police statistics insisting that, their investigation shows that they were killed in that period is 107.
"The full number that has launched the official launch is that 91 men have died in the cases of killings," the Chief Officer of the police of that country, Mrs Christine Ishengoma, he told the nation on Sunday.
Following those killings, the controversy has erupted about who involved in groups of defending human rights and some of the residents, the police force and groups of protecting its safety on their efforts to deal with many cases of crime in that he said.
Some of the residents and even the police officers are seeing the killing of those youths and the murder scandal that brought him to see the cause of drugs, use of drugs and illegal drugs.
These killings have caused an error in the state of tension in that he said that he had the main government showing the open and challenges to dodge the act.
The representative of the women in that country, Winnie Karoli has told the nation this Sunday that that situation has caused false accusations among other stakeholders.
"You are unable to understand that how the killings have been banned from time to him, he believes that those who protect themselves are only men.
Our women are continuing to be left together with those hope of getting married and lost those hope, "said Mrs Karoli.
He said that every week is reported to the killing of male youths, while their bodies were thrown out by the road, venues.
"The recent incident and which has been causing a lot of time is that the three men who were determined by their bodies were murdered in the rice farms," he said.
Miss Karoli said that those killings are not normal and it shows that, the murderers had implemented those cases, they have a certain message that will benefit from the hosts.
According to OCPD Mutta, those killings are implemented by criminal gered out before being killed and killing their bodies.
We do not understand the women who are involved with these killings and we continue with investigation so as to stop more deaths, "he said.
On their part, the groups of defending human rights has claimed that, that is the work of a special unit of police which was made in the area to deal with robbery and crime which last year has reached low standards.
"Many of these killings are implemented by the police officers who have been sent here to prevent the cases that were caused by switching off involving themselves with the locals," said the chairperson of the Kirombo and Original Yuksekdag.
Mister Martini said, the areas that have been affected by those brutal killings is Ngaka, Kimbira, Kaguta and of us.
Maggid Mjengwa, he added that, those cases have been like that those who have been witnessed in the year 2007 when the government's training will fight against illegal immigrants.
According to the head officer of the police in Mkonkole area, where many bodies have been found, Mister Mohammed Gurumo, there is no special squad of killing youths in the police department.
"Sufiani said that he will not be seen by the criminals.
War against them are still continuing to have security but these troops are not involved with the killings of this kind, "said Mister Sangawe.
Lubuvu is that, last month, the commissioner of he said that Mister Joseph Khajida Kopa announced the fight against the criminal offenses that had been forced to reach out of the area.
He ordered the security officers and administration to ensure that those cases have been operated and then all criminals have been surrounded by the deterioration of the area of protesters in accordance with the law.
"Just after that announcement, the cases of more than the youth who have been holding with the host if the criminals started being thrown out in different areas," said Mister Sangawe.
The residents are contributing to the truth about what involved with these murder, it is revealed that it has done another issue where police claim that the residents are the ones that contribute to these killings due to the desire to be abducted.
The head of the investigation unit in that country Mister Julius Mwaisege said that, he is reported to have many cases of the couple, to give excuses that they were kidnapped so that they can get a chance to get out of marriage.
"The social groups about the security begins by other people in implementing their husbands and launching a series of killing suspects," he said.
The police commander of good administration in that area, Mister Fadhili Dononda, is also involved in those killings and increasing the high level among the couples in that village.
On his part, the Governor of Chakwama, Mister Joseph Ndeki has said that he has presented his rumors to the police officers as he wanted to know the cause of criminal killings against his people.
He said that the killings have caused a result of a lot of time in that he said that he has been able to look for a lot of looking for what will benefit from.
Last week, Mister Ndandavala, organized a security meeting under the commissioner of Exeter in which he complained that the deterioration of the problem he has brought to borders.
Mister Ndevu, promised to provide petrol by police vehicles to strengthen security in the area, while announcing that he will buy 15 vehicles to help those officers in their activities.
Mister Boers also complained that, some of those killings are implemented by those criminals who have involved in that country after being unable to be aired from other capital cities in the country.
