
Serengeti Boys will go.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Tanzania for another time again has failed to qualify for the African Cup finals after the teams of the age of 17 years of Serengeti Boys has been released.

That team, despite winning 3-2 in the first game that was played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam later scored 1-0 in the repeat match that happened in Congo witnessed, it did not qualify.
Serengeti was defeated by the only goal in the previous minutes and found it being donated by an away goal following the two goals they got on Congo at the National Stadium.
That team before meeting with Congo won all its matches and showing a high level and release it up to South Africa which for many years has been using Tanzania's team every time we play.
The broke out of taxes today is not the end of skirmishes, thus the release of Serengeti Boys is not the end of that team or for Tanzania to participate in the international competition but it should be a challenge of planning more for other competitions.
The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is required to put good strategies against that team and to involve in different international matches, it will involve Tanzania Movie Talents Competition to improve more than any primary school teams because youths are everything in a stable foundation of the national team.
TFF decided to do if it is used to inspect them from the youth team because doing so there will be soccer in the country and every year the federation will have a job of making a team afresh instead of continuing with the youth team before being taken to playing for the big teams.
A good example, Nigeria, Ghana, Argentina, Brazil and others, their big teams that identified himself as followed up are those that made it better than their players when they were playing for youth teams in their countries.
Therefore, TFF has already been a primary or have capital through the Serengeti Boys team, which has shown that it can be continued instead of having his hand after being released at the international competition.
It is our expectations that the TFF's capital through Serengeti Boys will not be played but instead will be implemented and to be improved and to be implemented by one day to enable Tanzania to qualify for the African Confederation Cup (UEFA) to be in the youth or big youths.
It is very happy to be given to Serengeti Boys which is clear that it had the ability to qualify for the African Champions League for youths of that age to be held in Madagascar.
Serengeti Boys found himself off after getting a few goals in the game that was played at the National Stadium because it could get a lot of goals even a 1-0 defeat in Congo who could be able to attain it publicly.
Those have been called and now the only thing is for TFF to ensure it continues to protect that team for the purpose of competitions that come to come so that Tanzania can qualify for the next five years.
