
They will receive where for example?

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

They will receive where for example, it is the question that was asked by everything on Simba and Yanga, about the match of the soccer champions today, everyone wanted to evade a beating from that match in the first round of the Mainland Premier League.

This match also can move forward by the anger of Simba, that wants to pay him of being beaten two matches in the last season and Yanga, that wants to end the anger of losing his last match against Stand United, that is where each other time you ask each other.
All times when these teams come back to meet blood pressure to fans, we are happy with the preparations of every kind in today's match, where Simba was supposed to meet with Yanga that was full in every department.
Today Simba is meeting with Yanga in the line, is leading the league position with 16 points and has won five matches with one goal as Simba won 3-0 against Mtibwa Sugar, 2-0 against Mtibwa Sugar and 4-0 against Mtibwa Sugar.
But on Yanga's side, there is also same as it was in the last season, his attackers who are greedy for making a goal if it's in the premier league after winning three matches, one draw and lost one in the five matches that it has played.
However, Yanga is still well with its players seen in the high level and are used more than difficult matches due to their participation in the international competition, different from Simba who have the fourth year players have not played the international tournament and their team.
Yanga won against African Lyon by 3-0, Majimaji 3-0 and Mwadui 2-0 and was forced to a draw without scoring against Ndanda FC with 1-0 goals against Stand United.
The killers of Yanga in the match against Simba last season, are still in that team and they have a great opportunity to get again those goals are Malimi Busungu and Donald Ngoma who were involved in the first match and the second match.
Both teams have participated in the camp in different areas to prepare for that game.
Yanga bought his camp in Pemba, a place where it believes that it has lucky it up because it went to camp there and Simba on the side of Simba played in Morogoro. Every team is proud of its best squad this season.
Simba has changed at a huge amount while the attackers Laudit Mavugo, Ibrahim Ajib by Shiza Kichuya and Shiza Kichuya at the same team by scoring close goals in every match, Yanga has only players who are Barcelona, Msuva, and Msuva, who had congratulated Juma Mahadhi who believes that he can have the effects on the second side.
Yanga and Simba, have been using the 4-2 system even though the only one comes, due to the environment of the concerned match.
On the side of coaches, Joseph Omog is meeting with Yanga for the first time since joining the team from Azam, but Yanga's coach Hans Van Pluijm wants to make another record after the last season doing well by scoring Simba.
