The open document was open in UKAWA.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

The decision of the partnership of those who want the Constitution of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) to decide to boycott the special assembly of constitution threatens to cause violence and broke down in the process of heading to the new constitution.
This document will be for leaders, lovers, and fans of this cooperation which has been using alternative thoughts and those of the leaders that are in power under the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Because all signs that are available is that this process is not allowed to grow and continue on her way to do what does not depend on CCM, then I have decided to read this open document to the leadership of UKAWA, members and fans.
The aim of this open document is to give a call on UKAWA to get once in this process since the possibility of their ability to go back and stop the order of the requirements of the strength to be zero.
I have seen him in the past, just after them, he urged them to return to parliament there and later return to citizens.
However, I believe if they could have done this time, it would have been a good thing but now I'll take all the things that have happened until now I believe can't return to parliament without knowing they have changed and eating their lives.
The decision by UKAWA is a must for the current constitution is a must for now because of the first time, there will have a lot of billions of money that can be paid again without knowing that the possibility of getting a new constitution and complete this process before the general elections are not there.
Secondly, the second issue is that this decision will be quoted saying it will give two important positions.
The first position of the CCM party and all his leadership and those who agree with the CCM's stand decided to take a step in helping this process.
It is clear that all the delegates of UKAWA which they made it is difficult to get a draft of the constitution, because it will be difficult to get a large numbers to members who are supposed to vote and follow the articles of the draft constitution.
CCM will be able to change the laws that they joined in parliament so as to pay the validity of continuing with this process.
The second position that will be donated is for UKAWA to connect more and planning to win elections in front of the local government and the general elections - therefore, they will be able to pay a new constitution than the current process that I have ever made behind it is the illegal process.
Therefore, my request for UKAWA is to think that their union is normal and it's only a union with the aim of going more than that.
As UKAWA - this, I have been seen behind - there is only an aim of wanting the new constitution then the union or their partnership is so cunning, and it will decide the requirements of UKAWA and return to parliament.
The Revolutionary Party can be able to accept that it will be discussed as the draft of Judge Warioba together with other decisions, thus making UKAWA they should not be careful.
The results of this program is for CCM to ensure that its members in the constitutional parliament are following instructions of the party and by using the strength of the party to be open or secret and not the argument of switching off the recommendations of UKAWA.
But if this partnership is more about the issue of a new constitution and that it is a union that you want to bring policies and alternative vision to the nation and even to participate in elections then the issue of getting completely in this process is now and once it did not come up.
It was surprised by the reason to continue with any way to participate in this process, it is to give the legality that now you lack.
If UKAWA will decide to go back and participate, it will be under the strength of the leaders.
We have already witnessed the discussions on this few days ago and one thing is open and the difference between these two sides are very big and to make sure that the only way to be able to bring back to the political process.
Gervinho. I believe that it will be CCM and his leadership agreed to (Lowa) without agreed. That is that you will have agreed but they don't agree especially what they are required to agree.
If UKAWA will enter in the trap of accepting or agree with a goalless draw, they will be forced to start again with people who are those on the other things and they can have a bad time to manage their issues if they decided to kill them.
If they were given now, they will be able to prepare themselves as political parties (political parties) to sit down and talk about the cooperation of the policy and the vision of the nation and eventually be able to make one political agenda which will benefit together in elections.
The partnership of that kind will be more than a big union that will be in partnership with all the parties that will be aired live and write their agreement (at the picture) so that at least there should be the legal foundation of this partnership as soon I don't think this is open.
It is clear that if UKAWA which is unable to stop and prepare well then for another time, we expect the changes they can make changes the hearts broke down again for the good position if this will not receive again for many years to come.
It is a time of members and fans to start putting pressure to political leaders, to show more than the ones that have shown so that eventually they can lead the nation to write a new constitution from the citizens, because of the citizens and the citizens, which will last for the sake of generations.
