
It does not understand what is written about these words on the internet, Tiwa Savage is KFm.
Maasais' every year, hundreds of new words were put into different parts of the world.
In the British not only his new words that penetrates into the red carpet, even short periods of words like the MO Blog of Missouri.
And his debate (you taste a taste of light).
The language of the internet has been its own kind and it has spread all over the world especially because many are communicating with the English language.
The world is a village which has chosen one way to communicate through the internet and users of social networks once they have met once again with words like BL, "flash disk" to OG and many others.
If it is a guest, you can hear people that they talk about the tribe, which have never been heard in any place.
It is why words and new sayings goes through social media networks and it is in which way you are spread from one country to another, or this continent to another?
If social media is the truth, it is not true that it is not the only network that has changed how the world is communicating with the language that have already been there at all times, but the network has gone down.
Let us think about the first before the internet, which took many years some of the words spread by the mouth or even the radio which did not be able to cross the borders of the country.
The social network like Twitter, use a few words and it is easy to make research to recognize new words that are spread very fast.
Jacob Steven JB and his colleagues of Georgia Institute of Technology were working on different posts the 30th of Twitter between December 2009 to May 2011 to investigate the new words used so much.
The repetition showed how those words were affected from one area to another and its sources.
The author of the book 'Ambassador of the Soundton Sound Band has said that because of the social media, the words have been changed or put up according to how they go through words, lack of joy and attractive, Jehovah's eyes and attracting more pictures (I don't know).
Lolila-Chillah, Obabiyi Aishah Ajibola, WHUSM, official guest - Obrey Chirwa, my dear friend.
The artist Her - Shishi my son, (is disappointed) Lemomo Kenyatta.
