It is not every good thing.
December 11, 2014.

For a lot of families at home, approximately every night goes hand in hand over the television to look for different crimes.
That situation occurred also in the end of the week where those commemorations are allowed to be given to include, pieces of the whole week.
Many of the films are usually in foreign languages, but many of them follow it without problems or even so, when you feel it is not only a difficult time to follow up but even tell you, "the long time is going on in Dodoma. This means a session of the special assembly of the constitution.
Maybe it is good to tell me the readers of my stand about the issue of a new constitution, which I have never happened in my two weeks ago.
First, in addition to recognizing the need to have a better constitution that we have now, the truth that many problems facing our country will not be based on lack of law but the management and its implementation will not see how the new constitution (if it will not be only), "the solution to our problems but also.
Secondly, the structure of the union is the issue that appeared to rule the debate of the new constitution, and I have come back again to claim that I am very important to me, it is not the number of government constitutional changes, or even the government concerned can fulfill its responsibilities and serve the future generations.
Therefore, in a easy language, my stand on this issue of structure of the union is "any time that will give them sweating as well, conflicts going on about this issue of government structure, are complaining of other important issues that has brought the need to have a new constitution.
Now, because the environment explains that the availability of lack of a new constitution will depend on an appropriate time on the issue of a union of unity, then I don't want to discuss because it is a hindrance that can be able to eliminate the possibility of getting a new constitution.
At the beginning of this article, I was proud of the session of the special constitutional assembly of the constitution, but a joke is that during many foreign languages that involve the television stations in home are understood, despite being in foreign languages, this is the constitutional parliament not only continues to be understood, but it gets a good friend.
There is no need to return to a series of events that have been made to come out in the parliament, especially because all over them were stolen from the claims of the allowances for the parliament who change to eliminate the competence of arguing with the language that are not attractive.
But now there is a new issue that is not only in the difficulty of the debate of the structure of the union but it's also available even the life of the union because this issue is different documents to confirm the legality of the union.
I would like to assure you that I did not understand the documents of the union but how you know is that one is known as the father of the union.
But it knows it is only that it is in the right issue of Nyerere only, then for now it will not know that the claims that the United Nations (UN) have unknown facts after the UN claimed that there is not the UN but it is not true?
Before writing this article, I have met with details of one analyst on one social network explaining that with his understanding, the documents that was presented to the Special Constitutional Assembly in Dodoma, and the second candidate of United Republic of Zanzibar, and signed by Nyerere and Msekwa (not the secretary of parliament) at that time.
And even the documents would have been the real certificate of the union, still there is another correct problem of Nyerere and Msekwa being questionable.
The analyst he emphasized that the documents which had gone down "is the real use of the Tanganyika Union, they do not use the real use of the Tanganyika Parliament, they do the real change of the Chief Executive Council, they do not use the real name of Nyerere.
