
Ford, Kenya and New Ford, Kenya to form a union.
By Philemon Solomon.
The parties of Ford, Kenya and New York, Kenya are expected to start new political strategies, after violence led to him in the small elections of Chumbuni Ward, he from Trambalu High School in last year.
This is happening after the URP party which won the election in Muembe Makundi Ward, a price that it will do everything in the 2017 general elections.
Politicians from those two parties at the moment have been able to create a high level, in a situation that is expected to bring back s.
The leader of the New Hampshire party, Eugene Mari said that if they will remove their political differences early, then they will avoid failing in any way in the 2017 elections.
Different times, it has reached a time where we are supposed to remove all the difference between us and to work together because they may be losing our political position in Mkonkole area, "said Mister Mlabu all of their political position in which he has requested the leader of Ford, Kenya, Moses Noni, to join with him in the step that will lead to the referendum in that community.
The nominated member of parliament Chris Brown (Ford, Kenya) also gave a challenge to leaders from those two parties to join before 2017.
"It is advisable for now that Kenya politics need large numbers, I ask my fellow leaders to join, instead of continuing to relocate the same," said Mister Mande.
On the other side, the parties of UP and Tare expected to have those two parties to join new phones to strengthen its political control in that area.
"
Those political strategies is also expected to start in the council of that he said that those parties want to win the positions of the leader of many people in the council of the council that are set free by New Ford, Kenya.
Doctor Pose said that those two parties will not join in order to collect those positions under the Jubilee Hall, while visiting New Ford, Kenya as the guest of honor "in that union.
The "United Republic of Diamond Platinumz and URP and TFord, Kenya joined with us after the election, that, as they find themselves with a political wave which will be there," said the member of parliament.
However, the representatives of the New York City, Kenya, Neema Masenze, Simon Makandege and Alfred Lwiza of the council to oppose any efforts of taking the position of that party, leaving it as a result of the law. "
