
"TPDF is not involved in the ICT institution.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) has said that it does not work with political will, but their work is to protect the public and the nation and never led by non-governmental institutions.

The report of director of information and public relations that was released today in Dar es Salaam city, by the media said TPDF army like other army in various countries in the world, is implementing and fulfilling all its activities through the procedure they were presented to them and professionalism of the high level.
Therefore, it is not correct to use incitement words to prove to the public that the army has come in politics, while his work is to protect the public and the nation.
That statement was made as a result of Tanzania Daima newspaper on September 7th, 2016, that happened in the article that says' my name goes up with 'Nahreel' Mayele claiming that the force bombed people during the commemoration of World's Day on September first this year.
The report said by considering that this article can misleading the truth about the army, it is good for the citizens to understand that the army since it was founded in the year 2007, has been carried out his work together with operation, training, training and professionalism.
It said that in that article, the language that was used is incitement which aims at showing that the army has come in politics when the army's work is to protect the public in general and not the nation and not in the country and not the writer in ideology.
The report said this year the army will plan to commemorate 52 years of his birthday and explained to early the issues that they had planned to do the phone that include diabetes, blood pressure, blood pressure and other diseases.
They also came about to fly the fight as part of the celebrations to mark the birthday of the army to encourage the citizens and not to resolve the citizens as a writer in the article as he said.
"The language and words that was used is incitement which aims at showing that the army has come in politics while the force's work is to protect the public in general and the force is not a professional institution," it explained the JWTZ reports.
The report said it's good for the writer to be careful and to get an understanding of the force activities and the Big Results Now than using examples without misleading the public and urged citizens to fulfill those articles and support the army.
