
The government has ordered the refugees, who have weapons to succeed.

Nationally.
By Zainul Mzige.
June 21, 2016.
The government of Tanzania has urged all the refugees who were soldiers from the country that they started, to report to the concerned authorities so that they can be given a special care (soon) like soldiers.
The statement by the government has been issued by Kigoma Regional Commissioner, Brigadier General (Retired) Emmanuel Maganga, during the commemoration of the world refugees day that took place at Nyarugusu refugee camp, Kasulu District, Kigoma province.
He emphasized that the refugees who are in the country have caused soldiers who must be emphasized by the concerned authorities.
Moreover, Maganga urged the reasons for all the refugees that own weapons so that they put him by consent.
He said that there have been a lot of events of robbery in possession of weapons and thus endangering peace and order them to distribute them immediately to go to the law of the country they got the park.

That Head of province has also called on financial institutions in the world to give donations that are given out by donations that are given to the developed countries and added that the needs of a human being will not be satisfied with the countries that are developed.
He said that the refugees who are in the developed countries are given a permanent residence and different foods at the time they are in the countries that are usually given, with food and one type which are maize.
When he arrived in the last year, we failed to commemorate the refugees day in the world because we were received to refugees from Burundi, as a result of him.
He said most of the refugees are there so much in the country and now there are three units that involve refugees in the country.

At the same time, Tanzania has been added by the discovery of accommodating refugees for more than four hours not only in the East African region and even in the world.
The resident representative of the Refugees Organization (UNHCR), Sospeter Mhongo said that during the celebrations to commemorate the refugees day in the world with the theme being, 'together with the refugees, Tucta, join each other in the headlines.
In the same way, Tanzania is an example to be followed by a good example of accommodating many refugees in the world and also to also look for a goalless draw, "he said.

He said in the year 2014, Tanzania has given citizenship to be 162,000 refugees after living in the country for more than 40 years.
He added that, refugees are supposed to be appreciated as other human being because there is no one who decides to be a refugee.
Kapaya said that for now the Nyarugusu camp has more than non-communicable diseases which are many more and causing huge congestion in their lives.
