When you go down while in the islands anywhere, when you look at the user the user of the user, you should be grateful and I start with me we start with news reports.
One day after the end of changes in the cabinet of ministers here in the country, in the city, they have given their views while others saying those changes have productivity.
Giving their views to this center, some of the citizens have said that those ministers should be unable to work with integrity so that their citizens and faith in their citizens have made changes in the cabinet of ministers some of the citizens have released their views due to the changes.
The Almighty God continue to take his president Kikwete is small.
And the truth is to bring these changes and I believe that she does not want to finish it.
Therefore, you can't choose people that will come to be treated for him and he was just a small for me, I will be satisfied with the changes that will give them safe in the coming place.
In a state of a leader, he will make our work to a good business, he does not work with and I did not serve early, therefore, this will be a long time to stand for treatment and if the Honorable I had decided to hold positions since I started Honorable in his performance.
I would help him that it was not a very big thing that he won without caring about the interests of the children, that is what we need to do.
We need to be careful with the brain of socialism and I was surprised by what I worked on the interests of the whole nation is not for employment for someone.
President Jakaya Kikwete.
He has done changes of the council of ministers.
Followed by his position, the former minister of land, housing and housing development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka at the end of last year and resignation from the former minister of energy and minerals Professor Sospeter Muhongo.
President Jakaya Kikwete.
He has sworn in ministers and deputy ministers just after announcing the changes of the council of ministers.
Dominic Shoo.
And asking him.
And a half.
