
The company will help 50 million shillings to the victims.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published (03 / 2016.

Soft drinks company SBC Tanzania Limited (Pepsi) has handed 100 million shillings to the prime minister Kassim Majaliwa for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province on September 10 this year.

The earthquake killed 17 people, injured more than 200 others while leaving hundreds of accommodation, food and other social services.
The chief executive officer of SBC Tanzania Limited (Pepsi), Adil Jairo has said that his company has been touched by that national disaster and led by other stakeholders to contribute to the donation of those victims.
We we support the efforts of the government and President John Magufuli to help those who have been affected by this disaster. We are together to comfort the people who lost their brothers, relatives, and friend including the spoiling of their homes, infrastructure and causing hundreds of people to lack of primary and social services, "he said.
Jha who followed several officers of SBC Tanzania Limited (Pepsi), including the head of communication unit of that company, Alexander Nyami has told the prime minister that they have no need to help the community that surrounds them by showing the heart of us.
While giving an example of SBC Tanzania Limited, the director said that this year only has been awarded more than 200 desks to primary schools in Dar es Salaam city and through the office of Shinyanga province, they have given 20 million shillings in order to solve the shortage of desks to students.
Prime Minister Majaliwa thanked the leadership of that company and said that the donation has come at the right time because the residents of Kagera province need to support and build houses and other infrastructure.
"I have been very delicious with this cooperation which you will not give it to the government and to show the heart of love the government will ensure this donation is used as required by the government to take action against all those with intentions and causing them to reach those beneficiaries," he said.
