
That warning was made by the process of the constitution.
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

If there are people believe that peace and stability that are in the country have been planned to go and fail in Tanzania, the recent events should be encouraged to protect themselves.

In a sad news to have been released in recent days, the media stations in the day before yesterday and yesterday were pictures by the retired prime minister, Joseph Warioba when he was released at the hall was happening on the constitution.

We shall continue with African countries in general they are normal people who have given honor to people who are playing for the age, no one of age has loosened her and is able to give a surprise of someone with a big age of age.

We shall also have built a long-term culture of people without fighting and this is a culture that has touched me here and we are now while others being involved outside our nation.

However, the events that took place in this debate last Sunday are required to make us continue afresh, if we should not be careful, there are the danger of the nation to enter into great problems.

This problem is big more than looking for who had an error in the event, events of that area in Ubungo Plaza have been defending himself and get married on an amazing level.

Now it is normal to hear people wanting to fight inside the parliament hall and now it is normal to hear people being beaten in high sessions of political parties as the one of the executive committee.

Our nation now appears when it depends on the procedures and maybe, and we request God that it should not happen, there is still a very little thing that is very dangerous to make us use this disease.

God to protect us from that way.

However, this process of looking for a new constitution can inform us that if we will not be careful, from now, it has come at a time when we have reached a new constitution or we need first time to nation.

We are saying this because we are not doing other debates that will take place in which state which took place in Dar es Salaam city, all security agencies and people are on such as women and people were affected by violence and other provinces in the provinces?

Who can now stand up and request that what happened in Dar es Salaam cannot come out and elsewhere, again with the bad effects?

If there is no one who is able to make sure the security in this step we have done, we need to ensure that we can continue with this process of looking for a new constitution in the current environment.
