
Doctor Shein promised to attract investment.

It has been written by Rajab Mkomagu, the State House, Zanzibar.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has said his government has planned to put up on and strengthening the investment sector where its fruits will help all the citizens of Zanzibar.

He said that yesterday when he made an interview with journalists from different stations after completing his tour to visit Bakhresa Foods Company including the construction of 600 houses in Mtoni, Zanzibar.
He said the big project of construction of modern houses in FEST will help to a large extent as a result of the government to get income together with the citizens of FGM and the neighboring areas to get employment.
"FEST has been approved, but currently the completion of this project is the only part in improving our economy and to help all citizens due to the income that will be available in the project," said Doctor Shein.
He said the expectations of the construction which on the explanation of the leadership of the company, that area will be the Dubai of Zanzibar gives great hopes in improving the economy of Zanzibar, where that project will be known by the name.
"Pemba Island.
Furthermore, he said many countries in the world have participated in those projects that were poor more than Zanzibar, but now they have made great steps and be rich by the presence of such projects and explained that there is happening in the government in the whole issue of investment is productive to all citizens.
As a result of those efforts, Doctor Shein urged the citizens of Zanzibar to respect and follow all the procedures given by the government on the whole issue of land use.
In his explanation, Doctor Shein wanted the habit of some citizens to break the law and procedures made in land ownership, because everyone has the responsibility of enabling the youth of Zanzibar especially in the tourism sector, he said this important thing that will give the youth of Zanzibar employment in the sector is to have education of that profession.
He said that the issue of education is very important and gave a call to the youths of Zanzibar to focus more in looking for education and that is why the government is leading and has been able to put in addition on the issue by strengthening its University of Zanzibar (SUZA).
Earlier, Doctor Shein visited the modern house project with his host, famous businessman Said Salim Bakhresa and getting explanations about the improvement of the project that begins and 92 houses that are continuing to be built, which will be used for citizens with low-income and income.
The project which apart from the house will have a special area to the citizens, port that will help the residents of the area from the area to Dar es Salaam for a special vehicle that will be used in ensuring that the issue or security and security will be implemented.
Also, Doctor Shein got an opportunity to look at modern cooking oil owned by Bakhresa Foods Company and later to inspect the road that will come from that area to the airport.
Doctor Shein ended at Mtoni in the outskirts of Zanzibar town where he saw the construction of the hotel that will have the first environmental reputation "Dege Eco Village, said that the hotel will be aired on water and electricity services and to reduce the cost in those use.
In line with that, Doctor Shein visited the reserve area to see the increase in the sea with the size of 4 kilometers which is the area of that hotel that is expected to have reduced in a small ship of a large ship in every kind that will be played by citizens together with the tourists.
