
Temeke girls a tour.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

Temeke girls soccer team has been a champion in the youth competition under the 17 years of Airtel Rising Stars (on a) after winning in 3-4 penalty against Ilala.

That match went to a penalty penalty after a draw of 2-2 during the normal time in Ilala, the first one was the first to get a goal in the 9 minute, the scorer being represented by Antoine Griezmann with the second goal in the 53 minutes.
Those goals added that for Ilala and continued to rule that game, Temeke was going back to the game at the 59 minutes after Batuli Hassan was banned from the first goal before Batuli Hassan scored the first goal before Batshuayi for a draw of 2-2 in the 62 minutes.
When the women's mother finished 90 minutes in a draw of 2-2 and even after the time of the end, the results are not so much thus after that, after that, he got a penalty through Jackline Albert, Zainab Mrisho, Grace Tom, and Eve Charles.
At that time, Temeke boys team have been the third winner in that tournament after scoring against Kinondoni in a draw of 5-4 after scoring in a goalless draw.
The match that had great opposition and caused the coaches of every side failing to enter in their seats started with fast while every team is looking for a early goal.
However, all the efforts did not have fruits because the attackers had lost their positions that she gets. "The match was very difficult and is not true that the winner will be found through a penalty" said Brightiles Katanga, coach of Kinondoni.
Congratulated Temeke for the victory, Katoma, congratulated the team participating in showing great talents for all the time of the competition.
Temeke District coach has congratulated his players for playing well and especially on a penalty and getting victory.
Temeke won their penalty through Ramadhan Kawemama said, Frank Mande, Suleiman Suleiman, Ismail Mbani and Salum Salum, she lacked the penalty on the side of Temeke.
Kinondoni has won his penalty through Shaban Mohammed, Ally Hamis, Rose Muhando and Salum Jaba, Michael Emenalo about the side of Kinondoni. Moreover, Kinondoni girls got the third position after scoring 22-2.
