What will happen the process of a new constitution to be informed?
Kristen 14, 2014.

There is a big possibility that if you must or by lack of another way, the process of the new constitution will be called.
This possibility is because the intention of consent to enable talks to continue in the special constitutional parliament to reach the proposed constitution.
The possibility of the end of this process has got more than a few days, especially some of the politicians from the ruling party, have given thoughts of wanting this process to be discussed especially because there is no consent between the delegates from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and those who are from the party members from UKAWA which is as CUF, CHADEMA, and NCCR-Revolution.
If this is true, and I believe it has a fact, then we must ask ourselves who look for the answer or answers of what is supposed to happen if the process will be taken.
It is important to know different issues that are supposed to happen so that they are unable to do so that we are unable to take this next few years.
The process does not be taught, be taught.
The first and primary issue if the decision to stop this process is being taken to ensure that any decision will be taken to ensure that any decision will not be able to postpone the session of the Union of Parliament or the Council of representatives.
Postponed for a certain way, it will be the same and agreed to a certain extent that happened and that we will continue, from it we started. "
In my opinion, this process does not mean that since the beginning of all, therefore even to agree on a little, it is to give the honor that is not required.
It is good then the decision to be coughing and what is going to the doctor (known) we agree that it has been identified because of the objection and the life of our nation as a nation.
We should see you of this process and to stop the next leadership or of generations to start doing their process, we have tried to deal with our skills but we have already worked well, maybe there is a correct way for a new constitution.
Let's wait and see heading to election campaigns, it is a party or party that will come from the agenda that is understood about by the new constitution.
The law of constitutional changes are not allowed.
Because the process has been being run by following the bad law of constitutional changes, then there is no other way to follow up rather by putting off the current constitution by 100 percent. I have never explained how the process broke illegal and part of the current constitution is this law.
It is good then the issue will be presented to this process of our parliament members of the United Republic to prepare themselves with the law that will return to this law and therefore making sure that this process is to die with the natural death so that they can be able to come and start a new constitution of the new constitution.
The fate of the union was approved before the new constitution.
This is happening as a result of the process of preventing - primary things now, that must be dealt with early as possible so as to at least be able to reduce the work in front.
Some of the issues that.
Among the problems that we have already saw and they were easily annoyed instead it is the position of Zanzibar in the current union and the Tanganyika position in the new union.
These two have been part of our political problems for a long time now and time has come back early and possible before the 2015 general elections.
The issue of unity has been a problem for a long time because of Zanzibar it has come for people of Zanzibar to decide whether they want to be part of the union and Tanganyika.
Since the beginning of our union in Zanzibar, it has been being given because of the only position compared to Lake Tanganyika because many are the presence of lack of Zanzibar in the union is not a heavy motion to them.
But the presence of Tanganyika in the country of Zanzibar in the United Republic is a big issue to fear that there was a beginning that in a union that will be seen in Zanzibar has been completed and it has been true.
All, we are talking about the "Tanzania Revenue Authority" and "Zanzibar first," all are the results of this fact that Zanzibar can feel or at least make them talk, there is a group that believes Zanzibar has been directed by Tanganyika and now they want to get into the throat cancer.
