
Lowassa and the answers of the anger of the question.

The news stakeholders yesterday was a very unique day for the history of Tanzania, we have been promised and we heard a lot of everything that have been rumors on the party by the former presidential candidate for the running mate of CCM, brother, Israel.

Private thank you by using his right to marry Rachel because of doing difficult decisions, like a Tanzanian who will get the yellow fever.

First, on the first of its ownership of membership cards in Israel, it is said that he has stolen his membership card of membership within the CCM party, but on yesterday he took the membership card and to be given CCM cards so that yesterday I didn't see the membership card of CCM so that he doesn't see that party's card can be done before our eyes.

But as it is not enough he has not yet asked himself, it is not a big leader as he is worth rushing for answers before this nation on a primary question that had been touched by some of the leaders of the concerned ministry.

By saying that I am not known, "I got a" government sitting with the team, "I asked why I have heard this contract has problems?

I have the experience to break the contracts and this is that you used me, because they asked for permission to go back for one hour, after that they returned them have said they have been given a phone from the authority on an agreement that he does not destroy the party.

At the end of this quote, we thank you looking for here if the time of Him's sitting, then you're communicating with district commissioners who have refused to do with his fellow heads among these two people like PM or at the same way?

But also, I have no doubt when how the primary question was stolen from saying that, I don't know "AKA in Africa and any one with the evidence of me being involved with Richard go to court, if you don't take a decision on behalf of the government.

I have heard of power in the eight years where these things have increased in power, my hands is dangerous and someone who does not make noise, but the end of this matter but Tanzanians should stop the truth when we do not get good questions, but what happened there are my fellow news.

If this is not enough, I asked himself, Jomo, and the argument of what he did is ready to confirm this issue and he is ready to prove to the court today, we the Tanzanians we get this statement saying that he was not involved.

But I have closed down apart from asking Slaa and his colleagues are vying to the stage to see him by making a person who they are preparing to investigate it?

These things if you be able to avoid the answers then I will remain asking him without success and I request all stakeholders to move to them.
"The answers of the bible on the primary question.
