
The surprise of the death of mother, Dotto Mwaibale died on the same day.

Rashid Mkonga.

And Rashid Mkonga.

The morning of December 13, 1940, more than 70 years in a village in Mbagala, Rungwe, the family of the elder of Ackyshine, was in joy by getting a female child after a long time of having a female child.

It was a day that this family was lucky to have a female child that they got to the name Dudumizi.

The area of a village that is at a sun that brought the best film of that village that doesn't affect the farming of bananas and Majani ya Mtungi '.

He was born, at the sky and there is a good color who came out from one tree to another tree claiming their joy is part of the completion of the girl, joy and tired of the family and the village in general.
Karrueche Tran says that for the first time, the family of Mzee Jumbes, at a village in Mbagala, the Rungwe District scored a female child that they got to the name Nimelewa.

Twitikege Mlagha Mfumu, other children from the tribe of tribe in Kinyagutwa, brought up and brought up in the ethics being caused by traditional elders and a shortage of locals in those areas.

He died and brought up in the family of the lineage of the deceased, and the growth of other African children's development in the village, it is the same way the land grabbing a lot of food and therefore made a girl to grow them in life.

Many areas in the villages in those parts of land had natural fertility so as to celebrate the use of every kind and therefore do the use of every kind, due to the food shortage that is available in those areas.

As it is a shortage of African traditions in a girl when he attains the age of breaking the body being seen and taken care of in every state in order to fulfill the age of 13 years last year when she was engaged to a youth of the neighboring village and their home.

It was a lot of life history as well, who if they were given many youths of that time, there was no family's family to be avoided, most of them don't have living with ethics according to the traditional culture and the bacteria of those areas.

After closing his marriage with her husband, he took the bail of bringing up Almighty God to live well and they get a good example of their parents, they live in good shape and integrity and promised to live with joy in the whole period of life of their lives.

Fruits of their marriages are disappointed and finally they want to get his children to their husbands who were shocked and that if they were unable to inform them as the days of their same type.

For approximately 50 years of their marriage succeeded to get 9 female children, three out of them scored first in front of the rights and remain six children.

As it was in their upbringing in their family, Twitikege Mlagha Mfumu, congratulations to their children for ethics and guidelines of the religious, without forgetting traditional foods with a plot in Kinyagutwa, which were forced to live with different people and tribe.

In the year 2007, it is a day that the big crowd of Twitikege Mlagha Mfumu, has attained a total of 53 years of her marriage with her husband got a blow which could not accept when they come from his life.

The officer of her husband, Mzee Aaron Nanyaro, who died and asked me, although he got a lesson to the presence of her husband and her husband but the gap of losing her husband had not been identified.

When it was stolen, the gap of her husband inside his heart, tired and thoughts of losing his partner, although he got a lot of condolences to children who were living in different parts of his village.

Several times I ask you that they need to ask for permission from their work to come to see their mother and give him a solution, it was in an effort to request him to inform the pain when he had lost his running mate.

He told me that, he remember that as youths, he remember that the first day to be engaged to Akitanda, he lacked joy to hear her husband who failed even to take action against him as the father and one mother.

It is approximately seven years since he went to her husband AGAPE, for a period of two years, he started suffering from old diseases and therefore failing to get to them in the activities that he used to get to them and find them being forced to ask for assistance from him and to find them being forced to ask for assistance from him by saying that he joins all his children close to them.

The big crowd continued suffering from getting treatment in various foreign hospitals and outside the Mbeya Region and finally the year 2014 was taken by his children heading to Dar es Salaam for treatment.

Even though he had gone to the disease but he continued to be productive to those children when they saw them while speaking with him.

Every child was to be close to their mother so that they don't have his blessings even so, due to the disease he was not able to sit for all children at all times but he started being left behind by fever and are forced to be admitted to the hospital for treatment.

Every house of those who tried to live in that house is caused by joy and Baraka, that I commend and have been desiring to be with him at all times happy about his existence in those families.

He was admitted to him, let me look for forgiveness from their children when I remember their parents and their expectations of praying for him to ask for the joy and Baraka in their houses as it was previously.

It was not true again that I quote it, that I commend the children to see the big crowd that was in his previous condition, Almighty God decided to hear them.

As it was in his birthday, on August 13, that was born on December 13, 2014, with a total of 74 years ago on Friday, December 13, 2014, with a total of 74 years ago on Wednesday night of 5 o'clock in Dar es Salaam, leaving with a total of 74 years at night.

The late was bid farewell in Dar es Salaam city and his body is being transported to Mbeya province in Oyster Bay Area, Rungwe District, and buried on December 31st, at the cemetery in a family graveyard.
