
Where is where the sugar that had been directed by the government?
A large price of sugar and without a shop is supposed to be a difficult bone in the government because that situation is continuing to remove its citizens and it is not easy to find citizens the price that is being sold at least 600 million shillings in many provinces.
It is understood that the local industries are producing 300,000 tons of sugar because the needs are 420,000 tons, therefore there is a shortage of 120,000 tons.
As a result of sugar that becomes good and a high price, the government started a strategy to look for small business people that they have reduced and announced the importation of 70,000 tons from outside to compensate the shortage.
The statement was issued by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who also said 4957 tons had already arrived and that it would have been sold at a guiding fee.
Majaliwa also explained that 2000 tons will be channeled in northern regions, 3,000 tons in the Lake Region, 2000 tons of South Africa and 2000 tons of South Africa and 2000 tons of the Central Region.
About another hundred thousand tons, he said that they would arrive this Friday, May 13 and until road accidents will have been on Monday May 16 and 20,000 tons of the last month or at the beginning of this month.
Apart from that sugar, the government has been directed from outside, the government has been running a big operation of business people who are poor and sugar so that it can be good and therefore as required by selling them at a high price.
The strategy made many tons of sugar in different shops in the country. Some of the ones which were apprehended in Mbagala and Buguruni in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and other provinces and the government to announce that the sugar will be confiscated by the day before.
But since Majaliwa released the statement on May 10, the sugar price has continued to be high and is available in a few shops.
Still the citizens are getting into problems due to the ones that have fear to sell in different prices and the guiding fee, while used the instructions of the government getting them for a short time and later end.
That was depending on the situation to start a reduction due to the arrival of the sugar that had been directed by the government and a solution that was given to business people who had been buried and in their warehouses.
But the government's efforts to save that situation, are supposed to recognize him and the situation it repeated if it was the beginning.
That was depending on that issue would not have been an operation, but for all the time, but the government leaders who were seen to the president, now it has reduced the pace waiting for the head of the country to release another directive so that they can start it through an operation.
Our request is to leaders of the government not to leave on the way and instead they do the work that they start and make it up until the end, the president has given direction and his skill to follow up to ensure the aim of the president is expected to end when he wanted.
It is also good for those leaders to give reports of time to the time of work taking place so that citizens can live with hope.
