It is Kenya a terrorist group or a reason of the Islamic State are continuing to prevent youths to follow stern legal ideology.
In dealing with that group in that country has launched the project to remove those youths from the terror attack by providing training to the youth together with involving the youths that were affected.
It is a report of the author of his creation, a teaser sin from the White House in Nairobi city.
Again it is already it.
I think Haule was leading two youths who were proud of getting in great ideology and spoke to them on how to deal with the issue.
Or the one is the manager of Jambo Constituent.
The intention to encourage the youth against diabetes.
The program that involves two thousand youth in Kenya have been forced to pay for them and some of implementing the order of the court.
One of the announcement of that group is heard all over the country.
In Somalia the terrorists who sell Muslims in Kenya are unable to build conflicts between various religion in December stem cells, last year and many Kenyans have been able to make efforts to participate in sitting on how to deal with the message of great ideologies for youths they have been changed.
And following the great ideology of joining groups like Al-Shabaab, my plan may take place between six months up to three years in the village will end in Nairobi.
There is a Mosque that had received the second one on the second right of the union of the United Nations I heard one of the Mosque to contest.
I have heard another religion who was in the station for five years.
There is a long time it has given you a stern warning how they have discovered and deal with training with great stand in the community and many that are happening here, it seems to be the late father to return to the next week that many youths have lost.
Which we will say it is true.
He didn't cause a person who is a person to change the things that they are continuing to be.
He has talked about us that in there, there is need.
For us we have gone to there for a long time we are being taught about what people have been given things that we have been giving things that we have been doing so much according to what we were doing so that we have been doing so much according to what we have been doing so much, maybe if we are under the same water.
What does it mean to be one of the youths.
He got an ancient attack on other things and later on in the church.
Our children to join the neighborhood or bake.
Therefore, they were able to speak with any other ideology after attending that exercise.
That, we have been outdated, it has been changed immediately.
Brethren, we can be told about those issues but after that, I will be able to say me and my colleagues are that even if I'll leave it, I would have been able to give them more than fifty members and even if I don't come out from groups with great ideologies until until they don't want them to talk about the ethics of the use.
Further it is divided into a place like the north-east of Kenya.
The brother-Pesa go down even a new children.
You have been used by the popular program since the two consecutive year, but there is a long debate if they are doing.
Experts say his intention as lack of employment is a must.
A veteran man.
Very disturbing of those explosions have complained of signs.
What happens it said.
That question is a question.
He was brought together with things like that until taking weapons and offloading agents in the country to join the terror group or groups of people while South Africa continues to be used by terrorism suspects is a question that it did not identify them.
Prezidaa of the country.
