When I pray to you, we get one time when forgetting the members of parliament, they are required that they can go to three different stations for work outside the country, but we don't know that if we go back, maybe it has managed to explain to a big amount inside this way, I know it too.
Changes are very delicious with the person who can carry.
.
Do you make changes at home?
At the chicken when the time seems to be a mediator after going back from your journey, you're looking for treatment between the deputy speaker and especially the opposition camp regarding a relationship between the leadership of the White House.
Together with members of parliament themselves.
Five, which is six months have asked if you think about the fish, you're continuing to remember, you have not received the culture and different opinions, he said that then the situation is safe and we will continue as usual, I have not got a big issue.
After fining that I will be at the same time, there are I want you to know what you are doing?
You are looking for you a group photo.
Where or not and with the ruling party I want to look for opposition parties, the second one on how to take a good life even after not agree and agree on.
The last resort area has ever been in the small sector of Dar es Salaam, to be the first one year now members of parliament that you are leading by the members of parliament in that region are very close to us to see that they have no great faith.
They are continuing.
But they inform them on the words of their interests, the member of parliament for a long time, look at the member of parliament that you must continue to continue being patriotic while I want it.
I request citizens to believe that?
We are looking for instance, we are ready for all the long time people and also news that is the day of parliament and the newspapers through different ways and then the journey but the journey are.
It is legal.
I have been able to make sure that our intention is to make sure that we have been parliament for an example of the news, the Tanzanians will be careful when you go to control the content.
Do you know to make sure that we become a solution to understand that we have been accountability in the government.
Questions are you that the government can be paid in which we will go to do and if we will go to go and if we will go to a small plan, maybe when he is the head to rebuke you, you can't make this plan or be able to receive their views at any time.
One year now since the presidential candidate will take place in Dar es Salaam to follow up since the approval of the bill.
To get a very big opportunity in that, when you go to Dar es Salaam, we should know what happens after one year it has gone to you for you to sit for Miss Universe and another thing that doesn't know what is difficult to you.
The truth of the Bible and the Bible to buy for the five years since I were in a car, but when I would like to talk about something very difficult, the members of parliament who are new and those with them are very difficult, therefore your health care care and so it was difficult to do so.
Go together to come to you and not to enjoy the performance of that day I was going on.
Stew.
How will it be that then they will be able to manage the oath.
There is no need.
That is it that.
If you need and also I need to take this end, you're welcome him and it is the second pillar for now, when we start with the parliament and the court, but you will be returned to parliament because of developing the country.
One is caused by a lot of members of parliament because of the many that we have Diamond in a big way is white who many Tanzanians need.
And the Tanzanians in order to make it easy to get married, that Tanzanians need our problem?
The loved ones for our heroes does not depend on yourself in charge of decisions.
When you read the report they have given that match to vote and no to prevent it.
Chalila Kibuda, from people.
Therefore, the biggest thing is to pray to support me of us to take a chance to help him to make sure that but God is used like that, but this is not good for us to stop the government and not to stop the government and not to stop the government's work.
When you are at this time?
He comes with him.
Therefore, I advise you to check up because he was not there but it is also true that here I think in the sea and here is wealth, we have refused to hear the bodies here in the country, up to now, we do not want to do you.
Honorable speaker.
The journey of Dodoma's journey is going on and today I will meet with a believer in one year since the president did not stand here and to launch the ten-day parliament by Honorable Speaker Job Ndugai, urging them to meet the journey of those workers.
