When you got their journey at the reception area, if Mbwana Samatta was getting a lot about many children, we will sell it, you will get a money to be known in the whole world but our soccer will end here in Mwanza, Kagera, Kagera Province the threats that will go down here in Mwanza province.
Back, the Almighty God rest the sponsorship of the mobile phone company, that I think I think this football will not get good benefits, but when you get good benefits tomorrow, you can make sure that the soccer success will not invest but we request stakeholders in football and investors do not loose hope.
Them return.
The talents are under giving talents and all we know how they can use the cost but it's a must.
And so much much, this is the government policies, we request the government to change the stakeholders of football.
If I support I think there is no investors who are going round with customers to invest in people looking at the losses but they will be able to invest more so that there is a lot of people to do the procedures but the great issue is the patriotism and government policies to change.
The investors will be found and asked me.
He was in Ghana.
Therefore, I will forget where you come from this topic.
It is difficult because we don't have a stable foundation from the there because the government is looking at those people who have lived, but this is a person to go.
First in the recent schools, there's no longer a good example to live living in live, I see it is a good thing to start these schools they ever played because they can be able to help the children so that they can be able to help the children so that they can be able to help the children so that they can grow.
You know that you know the football and also something that is being done.
Children of female children have left behind soccer, that people have left behind, we should not want you to get from the club even in the female children, Twiga Stars will also be given to buy two players.
That will be used to be distributed in local players for example the report we want to inform us because they want to know that those who do not want to play for our country since even me what I used to play for our country's football does not have yesterday with Twiga Stars as well again.
More photos.
When he's birthday, I request that you should go through our director, I know that they could have the parents and soccer stakeholders that the female children are supposed to be a child even when I will go back to Bagamoyo we know how I will be free and continue to return.
First picture I would like to say.
.
Education is making sure that in the basis, together with our Tanzanian players even a big percentage.
Those players collect you a very few, tomorrow.
They don't know that I don't know if you started under the chest we should not enter on investment.
I would love to say.
Like so much to look for him?
You need to benefit from.
More than.
More than Mister James, who has invested in the world up to him, is the current success in the country quickly so as to invest in that years we can say that the first seven year.
That I would like to say players for youth?
For there.
For those who are disabled.
In these days the pictures will reach their talents to come out and be dealt with.
