
Cuba was increasing in Tanzania.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published in October, 2016.

Cuba has agreed to cooperate with the government of Tanzania in different levels, including the construction of a modern factory for making human medicine so as to reduce drugs outside the country and the construction of sugar industries.

Moreover, the government of Cuba has promised to help build the capacity of the experts of Tanzania in the issues of disasters and how to protect themselves from selling.
Those are some of the agreements that were reached by the two governments during the talks between the Vice President of Cuba, Salvador Valdes Mesa, and the Vice President of Tanzania, Samia Suluhu Hassan during a three-day work tour for Mendes Hospital that ends today.
Speaking about the agreements that they were held yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the Deputy President Samia said those agreements include in the health sector, education and other new areas of cooperation which are tourism, industries, investment and deal with disaster.
Samia said that in the health sector, Cuba has promised to build a factory for medicine so as to reduce the buying of human drugs outside the country while Tanzania has requested them to continue supporting health professionals and to bring doctors, where up to now there are 24 doctors from that country who help to provide health services in the country.
He said that in the factory for making acts of pesticides containing malaria diseases located in Kibaha in the Coastal Region, it will start paying taxes in the short period of six million shillings which will help reduce malaria disease in Tanzania and neighboring countries.
He said in the industries and investment is that business between those two countries are still small, therefore Tanzania have requested to cooperate in the production of sugar in the country and that the previous team of experts will come to the country because of talks to enable the start of that factory.
Likewise, we have agreed to have a procedure of business people to visit and check the various opportunities that are there between those countries.
He said that in the education sector, Cuba has agreed to continue with the cooperation of education through the program of adult education known by the name YESTanzania which involves giving training to study and write for more people by using radio and video.
He said that the first part of the trials for the program has been completed in great success where up to now approximately 2,316 people have been given training to study and write through that program.
He said the program will be run now in the whole country from the year 2017 / 2018 and I will benefit us the millions of those who do not know and write for a short time.
Speaking about the new areas of cooperation, he said Cuba has agreed to help build the ability of the disasters and how to protect themselves from Cuba was a long-term experience in dealing with different types of disasters, including the couple of land.
He said that the action was as a result of Tanzania soon being faced with an earthquake which the experts failed to prevent them together with dealing with those disasters and also the Vice President of Cuba, Mwachibuzi, thanked Tanzania for a good reception in his tour and urged the cooperation between those two countries to be maintained despite the presence of difficult things, but a relationship is not allowed.
Regarding investment, he said that they continue being plans to strengthen the relationship in other sectors as he wanted Tanzania and other countries, to help in the international community and any restrictions that have remained between those two countries.
Previously, the Vice President of Cuba met with President John Magufuli and agreed to strengthen and increase the relationship and cooperation with President Magufuli saying his government is prepared to ensure that it is prepared in areas with the benefit of economic and community development.
He requested the investors to come and invest in the construction of human medicine industries so as to ease the availability of drugs, to reduce the cost and investing in the production of sugar in the country.
