
Saturday, January 10, 2015.

The habit of preventing the people of children aged 0-0.

We saw how the bridge is causing the children to believe in themselves and use others in this article, we will look for several things that are being done by the parents, "even so, there is a fact that what seems to be used in other areas as well, we will look at one of the articles.

The children who know themselves but do not believe people.

In general, these are children who do not care about other people but when they find themselves more, they don't have no reason concerning people and their long time they get because they do not see a good thing more than other people.

All the source of all is what I am trying to control and even switching off the eyes of the child because it may make sure you feel good, "my child does not get married," he does not love them, "this is a bad behavior, and that it is capable of appreciating the feelings even if they have the truth.

In addition, sometimes the child is found in a environment that parents do "to ask" with her feelings because she feels what makes him appear in one way to carry out the feelings of this child or passport.


Take it for example a child has been oppressed on claims by leading with her colleagues in sports when she knows her, "what does it do," what does it do, "what does it do," what is seen, "you're seen," what is seen "or not seen.

This situation makes the children to build a habit of preventing their differences, makes the children lack the courage to say that they feel extremely honored by their parents and they feel that they don't know what they don't know whether they don't know what they feel inside.

Likewise, the environment that contributed the child to ignore, if you feel it is the parents that or they don't have time to know, "the child is determined," the child is determined, "the child is determined," the child is determined, "the child is determined," the child is determined, "the child is determined," the child is determined, "what is a solution.

The outcome of the child have learned that to showing the real feelings is that of acknowledging the feelings of the church, so as to be close to them, these children have been affected by any kind that parents do not have problems or upbringing that do not meet their colleagues without considering the child.

Understand more than living.

In his defense and the state to see if you're very happy, because you can use a parent to know how they can get a parent and therefore, this child lack the courage because he is not a way to get his mother.

In a environment that biological mother was attracted by efforts to learn that he knows in the child, to know and understand that several issues are not aware because they do not have a good ability to read it, even if they think they are proud of what they want to know, but not in the way they get to the people. "

The habit of silence, creativity, and not worried that they have discovered these children in the first six months. She does not accept to avoid sexual excitement and to return to him, my mother can even go down and has no information like it has gone back.
Its meaning is that he has decided to withdraw up "pressure," he cannot change him. "

When he was coming out of two and three years, we usually have a lot of activities that take his term more than if he knows how many people do not know, although there is a shame when he knows how many people do not know more, a habit that can continue even with a whole person.
When he decided to play, you are playing without a conflict without violence and complaining of it because it is a parent of this child to be careful, "I don't say it is only the only way to get the" couples "that does not get known for his parents and other people.
In the age of schools, children of this group are usually the technicians of vehicles, balls, open motorbikes, mental ability so much in the games and therefore we can say they know about the things more than people.

He cannot get related to his colleagues.

The big problem when he is playing with his colleagues is seen to be careful with the close leader every time when a challenge is that you are proud of her to recognize the feelings of his colleagues that are proud to be a problem but when he is at the age of school.

However, it is difficult to leave that process because the society is together with its parents to value the children that show them to know.
This situation makes a lot of joy and see better than others.

Unfortunately, it is that a relationship with people is not seen to know the alone, but to read the feelings of others.

For a briefing, these children have been making sure that for a life it is easy for their parents (1) it is important to evade the anger of her parents and not to build their talents in any human environment so as to know how parents want to know your strength on the brain and knowledge that they believe in themselves.

In the following article, we will look for what other children depend on, "people of people" and "many games," if the process of using a lot of time to serve the relationship with other people more than analysts and learn.

It is continuing.
