
The government is ready to look at the influx of taxes, the board.

It has been written by Halima Kimanumanu, Dodoma.

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

The government has said that it is ready to take action against touching the challenges facing business people and the industries, including through the problem of the influx of taxes and many board of the control of the industries in the country.

That was revealed in Dodoma yesterday by the chairman of the committee on industry, trade and environment, Doctor Auckland City when he spoke to journalists about the summary of work done by the committee for the whole period of two weeks.
He said that since the start of sessions of that committee, October 18th, this year, the committee has met with organizations, institutions and various businessmen who have in one way or another they identify the challenges they are facing in their business sector and industries.
Moreover, he said on the side of business people and industries, they presented their main complaint to the committee that they have been facing challenges of influx of taxes and the presence of many board of control that concern them.
He mentioned some of the board to be together with Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), National Security Regulatory Authority (TFDA), National Housing and Environment Council (www.pmoralg.go.tz).
Moreover, Jakaya Kikwete mentioned other challenges that are being directed by those business stakeholders and the industries that they are lack of good relationship between them and the government, the presence of small laws relating to business and challenges of the procurement, causing many restrictions to business people in business and government.
In addition to that, the chairperson said that when the committee met with business people of plastic products in the country, the government will make sure the time to put restrictions on the products so that they can be able to prepare and use modern products in the environment.
Speaking about the resolutions of the committee and answers of the government concerning those topics, Doctor Albina said the government agreed through all the challenges that were made by the stakeholders in order to build and build a good business environment and industries in the country.
He said in those sessions, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage, also agreed through the issue of business people of plastic products in order to see the best way to address that issue for the benefit of the environment and those stakeholders and the nation as a whole.
