Thank you very much in the trap of when they have been happy and I am happy to see.
The last time to see the face of the face, was during a class of fifty years in the world, while I continued to see him in the newspapers of a citizen that I have been very much like to see him in our main market and the University of holy martyr.
Welcome to you.
This is a week, elderly women who are a third year student of public communication has done his objection in the issues of writing news of newspapers in the country.
You give you safe.
But I am very expensive.
That is the best student of the third year to work on the first level of public communication that is growing at the electronic education sector because of radio and television.
It is okay.
I thank you so much in the city and treatment of love like your name.
You are in joy.
Everyone is using a problem then.
When he comes back in the past, even when I get into the 7th minute, today has refused to told his lover what means today has refused to told the minerals and the preparations.
The Pastor.
Mister.
The account has been in the forefront in front of the newspapers analysis of Tanzania starting from the whole week holding social media networks that make them put a debate about the case that you want to be a great contribution.
And even when you want to listen to the journalists or television they have discussions so as to look for them.
When the field I arrived in town.
Most of the major reasons for the Member of Parliament for all the events that has come out to succeed?
.
This scandal, there is a report due to that we get all the reputation of the news.
First, if we look at the amount of money?
The level of approximately three hundred million shillings, more than three hundred billion shillings in that country due to that amount of money and due to the state of the economy, when we have seen there was a huge tension through it, but we have seen the day before yesterday to answer questions from there.
He explained that there is a letter that was coming in court to prevent that the parliament was discussing the issue that was why the defenders of the case they echoed the issue of citizens when you look at the newspaper if the father comes with the truth about after the prime minister came to explain that.
Most of them was supposed to discuss issues because it is in court, Kisutu, all the friends they woke up and who is a question is what I received it but also the next day, you said yesterday I met David Cameron who died.
And in universities that there are some people want to reach them.
Every level of money if you look at the state of life of Tanzanians click here, this one should be a great debate for God to bless you.
Beans, while I was a member of parliament.
It's not I was told to do a big thing on the front page of the newspaper on the front of the television when it depends on something that we can make news or to think about what he can make you.
The 74 matches is making news because of the disco.
Or because it has been done by some people in the way to make sure that is why?
Ras Kiduku is in the Facebook page.
For the whole week Mary come from seven then I started to go to what it is making it to be a great news.
For my part, I would say those who is causing us to eliminate the great meaning it was in this week even in different cities, I believe that I think about us that we are inside any way or the people who will be avoided.
He said on my side and things.
The issue is not only but the availability of a matter is people who have never been taken ahead or a new year, you can't see why if we can be able to see why I can be able to see why I can be able to come and attract very few people that we can get twenty thousand people.
How do the crows want to take action in the small way he is believed to have a third position.
Why is now the bus will take this opportunity to say that because it was very different from the reasons for the money that is, a lot of five hundred shillings.
That depends on more that money have been taken by big leaders.
In this country who does not lie?
They are telling us that we are not happy about what they are doing.
