
Hunger does not use the lives of more witches.
And Oscar wrote.
More than our residents are faced with the bar of hunger in taking us with the area of Po'clock in the southern region, he reduced from Pambani County, from a drought situation that has been witnessed.
For now, many residents have decided to eat vegetables of vegetables because of fruits in the forest so as to reduce the cost of hunger.
This is happening after the farmers get married and livestock died from a drought.
Last year, the residents of that area lost more than one thousand livestock due to the disease of Uhondo program and fever of Pwani after the neighboring country of Uganda looking for water and water.
The drought situation is expected to continue until May.
The outcome of the national election today explained that of the areas that have already touched me more that we will go, Shangani, the Quran and also care.
While speaking yesterday at the Kigambini area, there is also a Member of Parliament for Pambani County, David Pickup, who has called on the government to give food for a donation every month as a way of helping to end the cost of hunger in being witnessed.
Mister Pickup, has called on the government and organizations of donations to distribute food to the donation so as to prevent disaster.
"We saw the Ministry of Gongo la Mboto to get food every month so that we can prevent the cost of hunger," he said.
That leader said that there is need for the government to cooperate with other non-governmental organizations to intervene in and providing food to a donation in those areas since they may disaster.
"There is a drought of water and food and this situation may be so bad," he said.
Likewise, that leader urged the government to build water boreholes in order to help residents get water as a way to deal with the bar of hunger.
"Many people did not get far and lost livestock because of disease and drought," he said.
He urged the government and organizations for donations to give food to food and water so as to save life, while the school has been closed down following a difficult state of life.
The residents are questioning the situation for now, it is very bad after dams to rise in danger of a drought that has been witnessed for a long time.
A resident of that area has a red card to prevent us after losing 62 livestock in last year and said residents are affected by the situation.
And a sweater is saying that this situation has prompted food shortage, while requesting the government and public organizations to help the hosts.
"The main government will help to help as we do food and children and children who use it so much," he said.
He said that those residents have been affected and they are affected, they were waiting for water.
Mister Yuko has talked about that there is a need for residents to sign drugs for those affected.
"Many people have been affected, they are affected and lack of water."
A resident wants the government to put strategies of moisture.
