
I don't have the crime of Dar es Salaam?
Few days ago, reports have spread on social media that recently, two musicians of one band have been forced to fight after the end of that show.
Looking for Maxwell, musicians is not a new thing to the name of alcohol, love and even the professional objection has become an important reason for the musicians to lack of decks and decide to end their differences in each other.
At the time I think about this, there are two songs that drive out on their head from one of the musicians who did not have in your fight.
These songs are still the competence of looking at music and when you look at the truth, making these songs has caused a musician to win the winner in that contest since the songs that will be supervised by more than 25 years ago and they are still ongoing.
In one song the concerned parties that we don't know that which the first song is famous in Dar es Salaam, I don't have the crime of this song was popular by Ukawa as the national song for East Africa since it was played every month where they were in the East African music video.
This song was supported by Omari Masukuzi, popular by the name Professor Omari who was a leader and a tennis ball in the Les Salaam band.
A group that is built from Simba's band of Nyami and the leader in that song was Issa Juma, who were responding to hand is John Ngubiagai who was also playing Solo together with Mohamed Mpinga.
This is John Ngapa with his skill of singing each other in a songs known as Afro, Amen and Nuzulack Dausen. Issa Juma and his voice usually heard well in the Les Salaam songs known as Pamela Mollel and Paulina Shao.
Turner in our topic, the source of the song I don't have a penalty that was born in Nairobi city and he was working with Professor Omari and became a great lover of Les Salaam region and finally he was working in the security department called soon.
Entering a love partnership with a security person in many countries in Africa, it is not a lot of wisdom even when this is Mister security had his family.
One day, Professor and his lover were seated on the restaurant that happened in Kenya, where he was found with this one at the Branch.
He started a lot of violence and gave a big defeat to Professor who was to be used by the music lovers that voted for him together with the tragedy the child continued to be a great lover of Dar es Salaam, even if the song was supported and got popularity as the side of Professor.
The anger of Mister 'you who are your home, I am my home to give me the birth of me, Mister I say I don't have a mistake by another song that came into Morogoro town which was famous for 60 and 70 years.
The tragedy of this song is said to be started by the incident of Mister one who together with being a good tailor, he also used other exercises for building your muscles, this attack made him and gave him the ability to do a lot of work including getting into the reserve without paying the entrance fee.
This man is said that it has ever introduced himself and he took him and he took him to join JKT Ruvu Band, that was being beaten, where his lover.
Basically he did not go back to Moro Jazz and that is "Bif" will begin with this relatives, there was when she found themselves with his close people when they met with her close friend and they decided to welcome him against this mosquito and will start being beaten.
They found himself and heading to his home and decided to stop even a band due to his skill of having many lovers, therefore his fellow musicians listening to work that they want to work together with there are things that have been taught.
One of them is to ask ourselves that two soldiers who were taken to Dar es Salaam, those were left with him every time he is going, "the second one is his colleague who told him that they have joined the song, they found himself, the day after being beaten by her younger.
There is when they found themselves back to the band and participated in a dance group and singing that song which is famous until today.
Hilary, there was a very disturbing, today has been beaten by a young man, a shame has had a small man, it is in which is where it is going to have it, "said what was found.
