
40 plastic policies in line with international standards.
The country in the office of the Vice President (United Republic of January Makamba has announced the arrest of plastic bags in Tanzania next year, this directive will go hand in hand with a cry for the whole world, juice, milk and others in the whole country, whereby every few meters long distances to our colleagues have already helped him under the tree.
Since he completed he continued with her beer that will be aired live, singing and sharp teeth.
When you're happy, if I would take a video by phone then I've sent a video by phone and I met a video or a camera that took the picture of every incident that is used to prevent the robbery and terrorism.
Perpetrators are forced to use that phone video to look for relatives and they were following up the bar which he released from his home.
They have been surprised and to make it up to the court but I did not attend the court.
Now, the same time he completed beer that won't be aired live under short periods and tomorrow it came out for several hours, but tomorrow it was not there again.
Legal action is not allowed to leave depressed.
A fox has been seen, immediately they are directed by the environment and good Samaritans who work in order to protect or prevent gender violence (Tanzanian PCA) and caused a special place for orphaned children.
Therefore, you will work with bags like we the human beings we make sure the cleaning of the child.
But when a few who do not care about that same time you will find out of getting into the road because there is a sentence of less than 4 million shillings (approximately 4 million shillings), approximately 4 million shillings, unfortunately a citizen does not have a bomb.
Among the reasons why is the cause of the animal is making love, despite the good economic, our colleagues who continue to be taught in compared to Africa.
The good thing is that if it is like the value of the press (we are saying in the picture), that day I've been removed and environmental workers then I had come to a long time with the roads, then he claimed that every day of work is needed to investigate if he has paid it same or not.
He talked about, "the whole mother was married by being stolen, he termed it as a parent of Algeria so he used me when I told him, when I told him, when I asked me when I asked me when I asked me when I saw it, why is why he was surprised by the guest.
But that's the work of the relatives of the relatives of the same as Maganjila being a special scarf, and boots they were forced to be self-scale farmers, including surgery, newspapers, plastic bags, and others.
In short, the reader has explained how it is not knowing that our colleagues in addition to the will and life, stomach, are still ensuring that the environment, so, all citizens are knowing the ones that will fund the services like this of the neighborhoods of the neighborhoods.
Our colleagues have reduced in technology, they started to strengthen the industry the three weeks ago while toilets and clean roads were given.
We have begun to understand the new technology of 60-70 years ago and we are not supposed to be used to, although African countries we had our technology (before the colonial era of slavery) has been forced to go after it reached, therefore they could have continued with us before the colonial era, maybe they had never been used for internal toilets.
Yes, our toilets are in bad condition and we are not so used to vehicles and the vehicle is still a foolish thing, Africa.
End, the vehicle is a high level organization that has a elections to use it or to stop at home, you can't recognize him (if you are a man) if you identify themselves because a woman is responsible for.
Our vehicle still, it is not a result of this cities, it has been contaminated by vehicles and machines in the villages and enough machines run away from South Africa, dirty and machine, and the vehicles is growing, a lung disease with albinism.
Towns like Dar es Salaam and Arusha heading to New Delhi, Beijing and New York, this cities are very dirty, and its host, they're close to the killing of dirty weather, "he said.
If you go back now in this plastic bags, it is a very big problem.
If we start plastic chairs and the research conducted in developed countries has shown the effects of eating foods and drinks that were scored within 150 plastic bags, to see for instance, 150 plastic bags are available in and causing the many diseases to connect the blood in the blood.
The whole world is happy about 150 ways to destroy the environment.
The policies of the office of the Prime Minister, January Makamba banned all plastic bags, 2017, to be approved by the whites who have been canceled, the use of this bags are many in the world, they have started using bags of stopping.
We shouldn't sell plastic bags, it is a good step for the health of the current and future generations.
- London, 31 May 2016, Barqat Mvungi who are 52 liters of 52 kilograms of Islam where the website is a website, "Matatizo."
