
The Deputy Secretary General of CT is vying for secretary general.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

The Deputy Secretary General of the Tanzania teachers' Association (CT), Ezekia Oliver Wema has resolved to contest for the position of the Secretary General of the Federation of Workers of the Union of Workers (TUCTA).

He has said today that he has decided to vie for that position after testing and seeing that he can serve the workers in that position.
Oliver Wema has said, he is waiting for the blessings of the National Examination Council of CT as it will give his name in his general meeting that is expected to take place this month in Dar es Salaam.
He said that what has given the courage to vie for that position is his 20 years experience he made the work in the position of deputy secretary general of CWT and became the deputy secretary general of the party, therefore he believes that he will get the opportunity to lead the workers.
"20 years experience have seen you to use employees in the federation, I will make us to fight for the interests of all the workers in the country so that they can live a better life by fighting for good interests in their work areas," he said.
Furthermore, Oliver Wema has said that he has signed that media to discuss the interests of his workers do not work well, therefore, they get the opportunity to ensure they are able to ensure they are required to make sure those talks.
"Law wants employers to discuss and discuss with employees about their interests, but many times that will be done, the employment law and the one for service are there but they are just in papers so that they must be a person of managing the person who are Oliver Wema," he said.
He has said that a big part of the workers are not faced by employers to discuss their interests, an issue that he said was a great cause of many conflicts.
Oliver Wema said that they get the opportunity for employees to discuss with their employers about better interests and he will ensure law and employment regulations are protected with all sides, that is employers and employees.
He said some of the employers are not satisfied by the law and employment procedures and that is what has been another source of conflicts between them and employees, a situation that causes the production.
"The occurrence of the law of work is a big challenge in the work of work that we have decided to fall in the field so as to bring peace in the areas of work, therefore, the production will increase in areas of the work, that will be my responsibility to ensure all employers and the employees have agreed," he said.
He said another thing that will involve yourself with all his efforts is to make sure that the Social Security Fund are PSPF, NSSF, PPF, GEPF, LAPF is continuing to a large extent, its members different from the situation is now.
Oliver Wema said the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), has shown that some of the bags are using money from its members, therefore he promised to manage to make sure members benefit from the money they had put in that fund.
