When you came out to look at the issue of Zanzibar.
28th of 11, 2016.

Three things depend on the instructions that are used as blood in Zanzibar so that CCM and his government will not do justice in the islands among those things include the presence of the country and the international organizations that are supposed to boycott the country, the threat of violence and build faith that the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, John Magufuli has the ability to end that conflict.
There are two types of results in the issue of conflict in Zanzibar, there are those who believe that the arrest of the election results in Zanzibar was correct because it is evidence of theft of votes done by the Citizens Party (CUF).
The second group is those who believe that the dismissal of the results is not only a violation of the constitution and law of Zanzibar, but also it was done with the aim of bringing up the Revolutionary Party (CCM) that was heading to him by their head opponents, CUF.
In my last respect, I have been put it open about my stand about Zanzibar and that if Tanzania is a country that following a democratic system of many parties, Zanzibar did not be avoided, not only in this election but since 1995.
There is one of the people who were supported with the results and also those who wanted to rule, they believe that their colleagues are not supposed to rule because it's not many revolutionaries like Zanzibar.
There is clear that the politicians of one side have been saying the government they had received in stopping.
This view is in hand in hand with the acts of misunderstanding between the disabled community of Zanzibar, discrimination, and sometimes take a chapter of color (like the way we saw the day before yesterday) on a poster for the Revolutionary Party, and sometimes it takes a chapter of the origin of the people who intervene.
Sponsors and donations.
It has been normal for many opposition parties to ban the fifth term government that it will loose the donations for failing to do justice in the issue of Zanzibar and therefore failing to reach its goals, the government can benefit them but the government can benefit.
But if the pressure to take advantage of Tanzania donations is the right way to make African countries do justice and let us know if we are told the sponsors who would have no need for donations.
Claiming that the country will go into the appellant or because of lack of funds for sponsors, it means that if Tanzania will be able to run without donations then the issue of Zanzibar can be covered by a life of abort.
Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad and his CUF team have been going on to conduct an agreement outside the country for great success and this time we have written the letter up by Pope Francis, the truth is that even sponsors are not able to ensure that the primary problem of Zanzibar will not leave.
CCM will not accept to believe that they are only who's supposed to give the president because of the pressure for sponsors, CCM can do friendly matches so that they can lead them but they continued with their daily plans.
In his inch width, the issue of moving to sponsors for the solution through the leaders is the continuation of African countries to cater for us continue to intervene in our internal affairs, today they have intervened in a good issue, rights, but tomorrow they will not tolerate any money until you are not allowed me!
Also, CUF is expecting to see that this fight to use sponsors are very easy and it's difficult and CCM can also play.
We remember the article that was written by the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana, during a campaign meeting in one popular magazine that is outside the United Republic and Directors of Ukawa through their presidential candidate promised to leave that promise.
In the same article with the news reporter, "Tanzania will be aired on to be the Ambassador of Women Entrepreneurs (CHAUMA)," Kinana says that it is a group of those whom they had been sent away from terrorism in the islands including illegal immigrants, tourists and other visitors in addition, Kinana claimed that they have a relationship with a terrorist group, including Boko Haram of Nigeria.
