And after the match.
That is the lawyer.
And a child in the streets can do something that we are not successful but because it is your truth but because it is yours, we should agree with who wanted to do what come up with some of the players at the conflict of conflicts before the match.
The news media, the newspapers that will change the radio stations are concerned with a very big part and causing a lot of weapons here to the team of Yanga and Simba because it is the first of Mtibwa and Yanga who have not been close to Yanga and Yanga did not be close to Yanga, maybe he and his meaning.
Or Simba maybe and the Mtibwa are trying to have a big stations for which a search for which a search for these two weeks because?
Get responsible for giving out how I have tried to study in a lot of newspapers?
The criteria of the child and the last time Yanga was defeated by Simba was five goals before the day before yesterday taken place, they make these leaders of Yanga to make sure that women are doing so that many people can't give them a victory.
It was very delicious with them is the best way more than one man I wrote the mwanaspoti newspapers that Yanga has a good level.
To ensure that they can do?
This news reports were behind here between Simba and Yanga but they have said it's also possible for Simba in a good state.
We believe there isn't lack of controversy after I think it is Bunda and there he will cause a reason the conflict the day before yesterday there was a situation that made the people of Simba and they were looking for human beings.
If you look at another big thing that can cause a lot of weapons he will be presented in this.
Leaders of the government.
Are responsible for these teams.
Big leaders will see.
All the honorable women have to invest this money, the accused wanted to show.
In which way to be able to benefit.
But if you look at these leaders, we want to give and then Yanga and scored by Yanga or to be defeated by Yanga but the light of another team is what they have been doing so that I am happy because I have been doing a long time.
I don't know.
