

In this article that allows you to quote this debate of today social sciences as a result of my main debate, I have gone to him and he is talking about the two main concept of development that we have been impressed by the thoughts of visitors.
The first concept is to say that the community may be in step and the last step is the one to reach a certain step of development, and these steps are not seen and that we are forced to look for those steps which are not seen.
And the second concept is that in Europe that are the only community for example development, the President of Tanzania to go Society, and if we are not involved like Europe, then we have not continued.
When I look at the construction system of coughing, system of construction of roads and investment is funded by the whites, Chinese or Japan, is in implementing this period in which some of them will be able to pass the cervix.
Yes, I asked yourself if he is Mgalula, as the national chairperson of ACT-Wazalendo, if it is true to build flyover, it is true the problem of the foundation is due to the roads that can make many vehicles at a time or there is another source?
I don't think that I can answer all the questions, flyover is being built and this is something to take place, where there is a central railway station which for several years now, its performance is not acceptable and have been caught in different crimes and failure to pay their cargo on vehicles and destruction of our roads.
But we believe that, at the end of the railway and if they were found in line with the strengthening of economic activities along the railway itself, we would be able to improve the lives of citizens by giving them criteria for transporting products, business, markets, their farms for agriculture and so more easily.
TAZARA, now it has been a spirit what is white, that is just a terrorist attack.
Tanzania, as it is in many African countries who have been caught in bad qualities to witness the development projects that was started in 1970, apart from many as if we continue to check up without any other, new projects for example that example is being started.
Niche is little, I asked himself if the truth of our development is not getting to the Europe where it reached. I was told that the four camera in Kigamboni bridge had already lost a short time after the National Stadium was opened.
I am surprised to see that because my reason is a sign of a poor life of citizens and the life of evil deeds if they see anything they are being able to sell their income, get married, they get married, to get better ways to register themselves.
