
Mobile company and good houses in Tanzania.
October 6, 2016.

In order to deal with the challenges of lack of residential houses for public servants, the National Housing Company (WHC) company, has started implementing the first phase of the construction projects of better, modern and affordable prices for the purpose of public servants in different areas in the country.

Among the areas that company has started implementing those projects include the Magomeni area in Dar es Salaam city (88), Bunju B Primary School (64), Kigamboni Geology (58) and other areas include Morogoro town, Kisuma area (50).

According to the report that was released by the company's relations officer, Jean Ping has said that there are three types of houses in the BRT project, which is one house for sleeping, two houses belonging to 300 houses and modern houses belonging to small houses and modern houses.

Mobile houses have been built on areas where important social services are available including road infrastructure, water, health, shops and so on the low price of houses being only 27 million shillings, while the high price is 76 million shillings.

The important criterion to get a housing project is a must that you be a public servant in the local government, local governments, public organizations, and other institutions, which will be closed because the number of funds will be completed as a result of the funds to take place equivalent to the houses that are in that project.

Mobile company in support the plan of the fifth term government of President John Magufuli, has organized itself to build 500 houses in the Dodoma Provincial Hospital which is expected to start of 100 houses in the first phase in Njoku has been expected to start this year's financial year and is expected to start approximately 30 million dollars with different needs of the workers.

In ensuring that it will help the public servants to own better homes and to evade a huge success in different provinces in the country including Dar es Salaam, Namtumbo, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza, Mwanza, Tanga, Mwanza and Kahama town.

Other achievements are being received well in our services in the community that causes a lot of request for the purchase of our houses which are more than the number of houses, we are participating in our projects.

Every success has already been a lot of challenges, in ensuring that their goals are faced with various challenges like lack of enough understanding to the citizens about the purchase of houses through loans from the bank but company, they will give education to the citizens so as to know the benefits of buying houses through the loans system from the bank.

Another challenge is the increase in the value-added tax (VAT) which is making a high price to be high, for example the cost of a housing project is big, something that is estimated to buy public servants having a huge number of public servants to be unable to buy houses.

I will end.
