Getting into the world of globalization, it has brought about a lot of positive changes and calm, including, affecting the traditional foods and a shortage that resulted in the whole issue of running the community.
The changes that are seen in these era have been seen in the previous percent have a direction of caring about more needs of people who come to the purpose of the needs of the deceased.
Normally in life of a human being has three primary schools, the first one being the birth of the second child and the third one being death.
However, the way to carry out many times due to depending on the environment that depends on the environment that depends on if it is happy or sadness.
On that basis, the birth ceremony and the normal marriage is dominated by joy by the involved, family, brothers, relatives and friends.
But contrary to the celebration, a large percentage of the bereaved will they agree that the situation they have got "the celebration of death" because one of the death is dominated by sadness and grief and this is the truth.
But in addition to the fact, these days of science and technology is normal to witness the burial is dominated by joy, music, drinking alcohol in place and thus the body and alcohol business people.
They do the whole event to have the concept of the ones that we were used to in the presence of the funeral.
These changes are not involved in our African Community, but also in the western countries and Asia where without doubt that it is dain.
In those nations it started in the past different from the meaning of the funeral, if they go back to the mourners.
Those are nine, ten in the nations, especially Asia, there are different types of leases of entertainment groups, especially with dancing with black spectacles, which have no difference between those two clubs that have nominated them in the western countries.
They see those fans who sell their clothes at the way they usually have the aim of attracting a crowd who will participate in the funeral as well as what they were claiming to cater for the pitch or to give him a last wedding heading to the new world.
Most of her dancers as usual are young people of female children, who do not lie without stopping the clothes starting but I don't understand the clothes they were born in the funeral.
As part of the service to pray for the deceased, the funeral of the deceased in the world, many times you put in singing with his skill of celebrating that incident, even if they see the acts of posting his clothes at the end of the past.
In the country Taichako said that the explosion was diminishing, experts with the burial, so as to help inform our families, especially when their brothers get or when they received a problem to attend the funeral.
The purpose of looking at these are not only to attract the crowd but also to reduce the wall that has a problem together and entertaining the deceased the last time in the world.
That comes from the time of dancing what happens, it can be involved a car accident and broke down, system of voice, musicians, and even each type of color do not meet with each type of fights.
