
Members of parliament listening to the procedure of registering immediately.
Sharon SCE will not recognize the Citizen Who Lives Matandiko and Yuksekdag.
Koke member of parliament, Khatibu Said Haji, asking for guidance of the speaker about members of parliament to sign more than one time.
In Dodoma, the members of parliament have refused the new procedure of registering two times by using the electronic system (non-communicable diseases) through the toes.
While asking for direction by using 68 percent of 68 percent (7), member of parliament for Konde Village, Khatib Said Haji (CUF).
He said that since the last meeting, parliament has been getting to various advertisements that wanted some of the delegates of the committee to meet after 781 hours in the afternoon at the parliamentary grounds.
He said that if the members of parliament at another time do parliamentary work outside the parliament hall up to the evening. "The deputy speaker said my problem or direction I give me this issue, which began the members of parliament to register twice in the morning and in the evening," said Khatibu.
He said another time the members of parliament are going to parliament at 769 o'clock in the afternoon, they are required to meet at the parliamentary committee to address various issues up to 107,00 Tanzanian shillings in the evening and sometimes up to 12,010,00 Tanzanian shillings.
"The member of parliament is using his term of time and the one is required to come at the evening session, to work harder," said Khatibu and added that the decision is wrong, "said Khatibu and added that the decision is dangerous to members of parliament but I urge members of parliament to support him in this issue."
He said before presenting that issue in parliament, he made research on some of the public offices including the Central Bank, who have a procedure like that, but they have not registered themselves by using the toes.
"Due to the weight of that issue, I request to give advice to members of parliament to support him," he said and to make the members of parliament of all the two classes who had the ministers not to stand up and start voting.
Responding to the guide, Deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, said because that issue has been vied for twice, parliament will look at afresh.
"The aim of that procedure is not to make the members of parliament to prepare themselves as students," said Ackson.
The statement brought to rumors that in that hall that transported the deputy speaker and requested them to stop rumors that they are marrying.
He said the aim of the procedure is to know that the members of parliament are inside the parliament.
"The procedure being used here for registration are different from offices because those in the office entering them, they can get out of them, so that I be known today and from how many times," said the deputy speaker.
He said the procedure of parliament did not take any person from how many hours.
Furthermore, he urged some members of parliament to go to the parliamentary offices to check if the reports of their registration by using that system is same as instructions.
He mentioned the members of parliament to be, Ali Salum, Amina Makandege (nominated member of parliament), Beny Mshenga (nominated member of parliament) and Doctor David Mathew David (Same District).
Others are Lucy Mayele (nominated member of parliament), Mary Massay (Korogwe Town - CCM), Maqbool Sula (nominated member of CCM) and Philipo Nyandugulu (Songwe-CCM).
"These leaders look for a way they signed with their toes," said Ackson.
Before the start of the third meeting of parliament, the parliamentary secretary, Doctor Thomas Kashililah said the procedure aims at improving security inside the agency for making laws by knowing people who are inside and stop the procedure of counting the parliamentarians immediately they need votes.
