The research of Judge Warioba, UKAWA.
Autoworks and 29, 2014.

Many citizens of Tanzania are supporting the second draft of the constitution of Tanzania, although they are supporting members of parliament who continue with the parliament in Dodoma, a new research has shown.
Recently, the head of Dar es Salaam that took place in June this year has shown that many of the citizens of Dar es Salaam city would like to vote for the second draft of the constitution, an answer that was supported by the citizens of Tanzania Mainland and Tanzania Islands who were interviewed in another different research that took place in February this year.
That research was listening to Dar es Salaam has shown that every six people out of ten people were interviewed (equivalent to 60 percent of all people) said they could be able to vote yes to the draft of the commission on constitutional changes, if the voting process was done at that time.
In that research, which for the first time in Africa is taking place through an interview with mobile phones and the citizens, a total of 334 households in Dar es Salaam was questioned.
The answers of the research have shown that 52 percent of the residents of Dar es Salaam were supporting members of parliament who are continuing with BMK-27 percent while supporting delegates who were outside the parliament.
Research has shown that 15 percent of those who were interviewed said they did not support any group while six percent saying they don't know.
In the research of the citizens of the citizens that took place in February this year, and question the households of Tanzania Mainland and the one to be told the people of Zanzibar that took place at the time when talking to the households of Zanzibar, the answers were to be taken by this and listen to Dar es Salaam.
In research that took place in February, 65 percent of the citizens of Tanzania Mainland showed up to the draft constitution, while on the side of Zanzibar, 62 percent of the citizens saying they could not play for them.
However, that research in Dar es Salaam has also shown that his citizens could be leading in making votes against no by comparing with their colleagues in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
In this research, the congestion of Dar es Salaam, showed that if they could have taken two months ago, 23 percent of its citizens could be able to vote 'no that the number is little compared to their colleagues who were interviewed earlier.
For example, while the research of the citizens of the citizens and Sunnis with the citizens of Zanzibar that took place in February, 20 percent of the citizens of Mainland said they could be able to vote 'no 19 percent of the people of Zanzibar said they could have taken that vote.
Also, the research of listening to Dar es Salaam's research has shown that 17 percent of the citizens of Dar es Salaam did not have sure if they were able to vote yes or no, while 19 percent on the side of Zanzibar and 15 percent on the side of Zanzibar and the answers were not available in the research that took place on February.
The research is done by this newspaper of Mke Mwema, which is the only thing that makes this research kind among all the media stations in Africa.
In another step, the citizens of Dar es Salaam have shown that they are supporting members of the special constitutional parliament (SCA) who continue with the session after their colleagues to boycott the April this year.
The members of parliament of the Union of Constitution of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), have written in the sessions of BMK on information that it has discuss the constitution of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and not the ones that was given by the commission of Judge Joseph Warioba.
All the three researches in the mainland, Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam takes place through an interview with phone where people from the households (family) different from are asked questions concerning various issues.
The media to listen to Dar es Salaam is the project that is being implemented by this newspaper of Mke Mwema, by partnering with the Social Welfare Institute (TASWE Saccos), and Investment Center.
In the previous days, this research had been done by EXIM Bank of Dar es Salaam which is still holds research between the citizens and the people of Zanzibar.
These research are the first African Continent to be done by using mobile phones.
