
The register of masturbation.
A mosquito of poor households are not supposed to get married and it comes back to July 14th during the registration of registration of the police force.
The claims that the police officers, politicians, and high-level leaders in the government were set aside for 2000 positions out of the 10,000 shillings, under registration of police officers that took place two weeks ago, it reaches the heart.
It is possible that youths who came out to try to try out their luck in the morning and early, those who were removed from tribalism and lack of money to give a warning.
At the same time, it's worried that some of the people that me benefited from those jobs were taken to the registration centers night, though those who passed away were unsuccessful.
These allegations have cautioned against police services that are required to consider ethics.
Likewise, it is clear that the changes were expected to be held in police services will not be found soon.
Apart from being the responsibility of the development, corruption has reduced the poor more than preparing for young people from no income without their income.
The report that was given by the Freedom International organization in October, the registration of the police force.
2013 showed that the police services led due to the cases of corruption by 70 percent.
According to that report, police officers are believed that they should be given permission to make the suspect.
The commission of ethics and control of corruption (EPOC) last year also gave out an equivalent report with that where he listed the police officers to be among the government institutions where corruption has been banned.
However, some of the officers from the ministry of security mentioned the report of EPOC by saying that it was aimed at hiding the reputation of the police service which has been caused by claims of corruption.
The famous actor that is popular in the world Oprah Winfrey has met one day he said that, "the true ethics is to make sure that it has come without caring if people will know that it has no good or not" every time the police officers by giving them various topics.
A person who has been given the responsibilities of protecting the law can't take the law on the excuse of getting a sharp teeth.
Corruption are diseases that have been a continuation of the registration of wild life, with special committee that was invented to investigate those allegations and investigation.
The government is also important to make sure that T and other public departments are not satisfied without favoring some of the basis of when they get employees.
If corruption will not be controlled in the public institutions, there will be no need for poor children to school because their certificates will be a need to help them to improve their lives.
Many youths who have graduated in universities in the country and proud to go in the streets without the work coming from poor families which were to get to educate their child with hope that they could have come out from the threats of poverty.
In this nation, there are also the officers that get a salary of hundreds of money that are involved in corruption.
The police services officer (NCAA), is holding the results of the whole activity and announced.
