The managing director of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority, the Big Results Now "has said that stern legal action will be taken as well as removing the license to the media, we will live in a high level of ethics here in the country.
That director has said that in a session of the permanent parliamentary committee of community development that is in Mwanza town and there is a reason that allows them to make sure that the legal action will be taken against the media regarding the ethics of the broadcasting ethics.
Permanent parliamentary committee of community development arrived in Mwanza province to visit various development activities that took place in the province every year to be announced and check the school and security.
If you are seen, that committee I received him in my house to welcome him in the same house, Engineer Evarist Ndikilo, who was revealed to be involved with the ministers he knows with the disabled people, there are special groups that according to the procedure they have seen that they contribute to the killing of disabled people.
Small miners.
They are inspiring.
A witch doctors.
What are believed to have been among the short group in one day and then was surprised by his club for some of the media that were in Mwanza province, but my fears are and we have been directed to our province.
But there are some.
And especially some of the radio that we are going to have.
It is to save Christian?
They are expecting to prevent Christians to have black spectacles.
And he has said all of them.
It is a radio that is not with glasses and it is heard but one.
Maybe through that committee you can also be?
We cannot be safe until now it is the most director from the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has explained the steps that will be taken against you of broadcasting ethics in the step where our mother will take the first I'm in.
He said if he has done a mistake and the second itself they should work but the third one is that he can take a stern action, it was together with using it, I don't know his license.
For sure that is contrary to the procedure and regulations of distribution to the child, the hyena tried to take action against them.
And we have been so many times, we were not speaking with them in the radio and close to others from BoT and to make actions of this way thus it is not true.
It takes action that the committee is in Mwanza town to visit various development projects that do not know including industries, mines, and some of the radio stations to compose-branding.
