
We should strive to stop the killings?
Rehema Nchimbi.
The killing of swords in Geita province has been the norm in the pockets of the citizens of that province and seen it is normal for the residents of that province.
Despite the killings in other areas that an issue that is seen in the provinces of the lake region is equal to malaria infections and died.
It is something sad, to remind ourselves that does not depend on the community, the killing of swords and growing the picture of this province and building a bad image to the tribe of Kisukuru.
Many communities use abusive language, a device that gives various things, but in Geita province, they have been sold to be an weapon that affects many faith in witchcraft.
Statistics of the number of people of the year 2012 show that province has a total of 8711475 women, but these statistics may be reduced due to emerging the killing of that conflict against them.
The regions of that region including Geita were tested for the killing of people with skin disability, (albino).
There is no one who agree with the killing of swords and one of the government officials and the police force in a high court to look for medicine to eradicate this situation which is affecting many gold minerals.
Already the Provincial Commissioner of Geita, Major General Ezekiel Kyunga has instructed the leadership to rise up to the level of ten houses.
The great job of those delegates is to know the number of its people, to know the guest of honor who came in his area with the purpose of getting into that area so as to stop those events of murder.
In addition to the government's efforts to make sure the killing of swords, had been inserted into it is clear that it's not true that alone it can't affect the killings done by the great secret and bad luck.
Just you should be found together with misuse of these killings on all the strength each one being defeated and rebuke this violence.
Religious leaders, non-governmental organizations, politicians, journalists and the community as a whole, we should cooperate to oppose these killings because it did not allow someone to sign his mother on claims of witchcraft or property.
Religious leaders who are in various towns that do not lie in the district and villages of Geita province, follow your application, will help people have the fear of God because many mentioned not having a religion that is also dangerous.
It is something sad to the district of Geita for a period of three months more than 19 people have been killed by swords and many of these women are only one of the district and five districts for these statistics show openly the situation is bad.
These killings are not allowed anywhere in the world for someone to give a life of his colleague if he gets to the chicken, and there is no one who are being arrested, even when the arrest of these killings done by big secret within the community.
There are many that would be mentioned to contribute to the killing of swords as well as being involved with faith, witchcraft, and property to revenge and the most of this period of the bus.
Something sad, the killers that have been involved after being given a little amount of money in order to implement the killing, there is a rumor that is given to a small amount of 50,000 shillings to shillings.
Our union is our strength together, we should strive to resolve the killing of swords and we have written the good image of Geita province caused by a big amount of gold.
Rehema Madusa has said that the Citizen writer in Geita province, 4755,731.
