
Today is wheat flour, impressed me.
Then, Mister those are the reports of the former rapper of Ilala, Bongo, Chidi Benz to be the guest of the rapper's album, Chidi Benz to be the arbitrator.
The day before yesterday, for the first time, showed up on television together with me, the truth about the fact that, that is his name of inheritance that is owned up, if you see him, a lot of drugs that was discovered, they should leave it, it's deeply grieved.
Most of the relatives have no health, that shivered and lost strength and have to get instructions while his head is seen to be big and in general their body has been forced to pay for a period of 2-2 goals.
I request that you be able to understand the truth, what tries to understand here is why we failed here is the full report of the current appearance of Chidi Benz, Haazu taking the truth, it is enough to sign me.
It has taken me so much to see that, one dangerous person with talent and who went to help his fellow artists do good music despite the ones who wanted to help each other than time to time, but not the issues of the deceased, or not them?
October 24, 2014, Chidi Mapenzi was admitted at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam city as he was heading to Mbeya City because of a show having a lot of marijuana together with sharp teeth.
These are very dangerous medicine to an extent that even the devil of himself will not fear using them not to mention the human being.
He was taken to the court and after his case being treated, he was set aside for a period but later he was set free after paying bond at this time he was still a health center but when he comes from Clouds TV time to talk about him, Chidi Benz, but on the second one, I do not see me.
Chidi Benz about the death of the drugs, they have attacked them and health and also his music.
He is not a very new, to go and even himself, he doesn't understand.
At the show, what did his fans living a lot, most of them want to get the help, Chidi Mapenzi and said that the pressure and the life of the entrepreneur had contributed to them when he found it in the course of drugs that I am seen to be a reporter of death.
Chidi Benz, and he asked him and asked him to ask for forgiveness for all he made during the mistake, he was understood and I am sure that Chidi Mapenzi.
I thank you for the reports that I think of the truth is that they have already got the help and it is taken to Fuoni Health Center in Bagamoyo, Dar es Salaam, those reports are very attractive.
But my present is not present there, but in a question I think this is when these artists will learn from the lives of their fellow artists, Mister though they see those who are doing good music, this problem of climate change appears to be very disturbing.
Truly, Chidi Mapenzi was a whole person with her mind and when he is still on the charts when Ray C got injured after getting married and he would end up with treatment.
I don't see President Jakaya Kikwete taking the responsibility of helping Ray C for asking him to ask him in his mind, it does not show this and that it can also be found?
This Chidi Benz when he was at Mr Blue affects the problem of drinking alcohol, Mr Blue, was his close person until he was found after seeing that he was affected, why do not learn if there are many Tanzanian artists who did not learn?
Chidi answered, when he did not see if he did not see the desire of not wanting to hear and those results are like that they will be unable to hear and know that if they do to live with chicken 'that are not intelligent.
