Government makes a new report of the website.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The government has directed all public institutions to implement its website, the main aim of the government to receive and answer the issues of citizens in the website of citizens so as to give them better services.

The government spokesman, Hassan Abbas has given that directive yesterday when he was speaking with journalists.
"Many government website have a challenge of not having new information and to ensure communication officers and ICT experts start immediately to implement the website and important reports that are supposed to be used in those websites for citizens to see them, something that will bring transparency," he said.
Abbas is the director of the department of information (details).
He said that for now the internet service is easy to reach citizens and give information on social networks are part of accountability and transparency in the government so that until the end of this month, it is a must that they have reduced and put information.
"When the end of the month, we will have an official inspection in the implementation and those who did not implement we will announce the action of taking those who will fail to implement the directive," he said.
He has urged the communication officers in those institutions to implement their information on the government's website that requires you to send information to the website and at the end of this month who will fail to be announced public and other legal action will be taken.
He has said, the government by seeing the importance of citizens was to open the website of citizens, who use them to ask questions and give complaints, but some of the officers don't know the complaints that are made therefore, they will be forced to solve the names of the ministry and institutions that will fail to solve the problems of citizens.
He said the government has 498 institutions, but up to now, more than 200 website, therefore, they have started a strategy to help in 93 councils to make the website and he has called for institutions that need to get involved in the website.
Information Officer of the government's information officer, Suzan Mshakangoto said that there has been a big challenge in many website not to follow the procedure and guidelines of the website, others use English and Swahili language together, but the government advised the website to have two languages according to the country while Tanzania continues to kill in Swahili and outside Tanzania.
