
Doctor Osaka doesn't know more than 3 years to be used to revive us.

A resident of Dar es Salaam, world Salomon Kalou has been popular by the name Doctor Osaka or man, has been sentenced to three years in prison together with paying a compensation of 10 million shillings after being found guilty of getting money from 6 million shillings in a way of cheating.

Manyema's man is alleged to have given that amount of money known as' Sura Surambi ', as a payment of work to open up his late brother, Modest who died in several years ago.

While giving that judgment yesterday, resident magistrate of Ilala district, Dar es Salaam, Flora Haule, said that the suspect has been confirmed as an act that was presented by the side of the charges needed.

"The Court gives judgment by accused of serving a period of three years in prison and pay a compensation of 10 million shillings after completing their imprisonment to be a lesson to others with such behaviors," said Judge Flora.

The charges of the charges had four witnesses who brought up to the court about the accused of getting that amount of money through cheating.

Previously, the government running mate, EKyoma, told the court that there is no recent mistakes against the defendant and therefore wanted to give a stern warning to be a lesson to all those with such behaviors.

In the previous information, it was claimed that the suspect made up the amount of money from shivered if the payment of the incident of wanting them to open her husband's brother.

It was explained that the suspect received those funds in two different phase whereby earlier on May 2007, in Dar es Salaam, he was given an amount of money that was not allowed.

On the first of May, the year 2008, the suspect received another amount of money as payments for the purpose of finishing his work of putting up the late who is a strong man, something that was unable to fulfill it.

Manyema's man or has talked about great popularity in many areas in the country, because they could not have the ability to treat yourself wherever they are in hand with his style of removing the blood of that spread in his air activities.

In an event that is swelled by many residents of Dar es Salaam, Manyema man is alleged to have gotten her as a threat to residents of Manzese Midizini, where it was claimed that he had a huge fear to residents of Manzese Midizini in which it was claimed that he had gone down people under mysterious circumstances.

It is believed that after being called, Doctor Manyema's man or he was able to send his girlfriend and seen it publicly about an incident that is not seen.
