Tanzania taking six employment opportunities of tourism.
Sei 16, 2016.

Tanzania has taken the sixth position between all the countries in Africa because of many employment opportunities in the tourism sector.

Statistics show that Tanzania has a total of one million and a half million employment in the tourism sector, which is the official employment and the ones that are not official.

According to the African Development Bank (AfDB), Egypt is leading in having 29 million employment opportunities followed by Ethiopia with a total of 22 million employment.

Egypt is leading by having a large number of employment as a result of an increase in tourists with great speed in the year 2014 compared to the year 2013, the country has caused by more than 9 million tourists in a year.

Morocco which has taken the second position has reached the total of ten million tourists up to the year 2014, a step that prompted employment especially not to be officially due to the increase of tourists services especially the period of the tourists.

According to that report, Morocco now is leading in the African continent for having a large number of tourists despite their neighbors in Egypt who are still holding the first position by having a large number of employment in that sector.

The AfDB report has shown that Nigeria is leading the third position by having 21 million shillings, followed by Morocco with 17 million employment.

South Africa is leading the fifth position for having a large number of employment in the sector, because until the year 2014 it had 1 million employment opportunities.

In the East African region, Uganda is leading the second position from Tanzania, and has taken the ten million employment opportunities for the year 2014.

It has been reported that in the year 2014, the African continent got an amount of 90 billion US dollars (approximately 90 trillion shillings) due to tourism and local tourists they are participating in the 8 percent of the gross domestic product of the African continent.

Statistics show that, the African continent has approximately 20 million people employed in the tourism sector even so that this number is the number of employment and not official.

In those jobs.

AfDB is saying that there has been a great growth in the tourism sector in the country like Mauritania together with Guinea on going through the increase of investment in the tourism sector.

However, the challenges of infrastructure and services have been explained that facing the economic growth of the tourism sector in Africa.

The plan of the African Development Program (ACIB) launched the tourism visa in the year 2004 with the aim of making the sector to be sustainable.

This step was to come after signing a new contract in the world that they used to play acou 'asked the African countries to open their farms for growing competition in the air transport sector.

However, until now, most of the countries still have open doors including Tanzania because they are doing so in order to protect their foreign agencies.
