70 percent of minerals the small mines live.
Brightiles 18, 2016.

A total of 70 percent of minerals that are found in small mines as it was discovered in the country was lost by unknown people, South Sudan.

The loss of minerals has caused the government to lose revenue due to many owners of small-scale miners not in the mining of mining and instead of getting into their areas by getting an official contracts with other people.

The laws of minerals number 14 of the year 2010 wants their own licenses to employ miners so that they should narrate to the mining activities in accordance with the mining law including protecting the environment and safety of employees, to provide care of production so that benefits which are believed to be accountable.

The chief executive officer of the agency of geology (GST), Professor Abdul Razaq told his fellow citizens at the end of the week that what is taking place at the mines is that those licenses are not contagious has been able to employ employees, instead they enter the contracts and different people who call themselves with holes.

He clarified that those holes are sick in contracts with different groups on an agreement of buying gold which will be available on a half of stones will be taken by holes.

Those groups that are not official have been leaving with planting trees in gold and went up to each other and the government cannot follow up on how to stop taxes because they will not be identified.

According to Professor Mshana, those who don't have licenses are not unknown and the government has been unable to oppose being found and with the license thus the little amount of minerals desires for what will be paid for taxes.

"70 percent of minerals are taken by people who did not be accountable because they are not in the register of the government," says Professor Mshana.

However, the government has no need to improve the system of management of small-scale miners so as to avoid procedures that can put up for now so that finally they can be responsible to run the mining by using legal employees and to be able to pay taxes paid for the government.

According to acting resident officer of Minerals in Dodoma Region, Edward Lowassa, more than 200 licenses of small miners who failed in developing their areas and pay fees can be removed.

In addition to steps that he wanted to be taken to remove small-scale miners in the period of January to July, this year the income of gold to small miners according to their production made a lot of income of 5,000,000 shillings and 20 million shillings for a year.

In the construction of construction, the government has been having an income of an average of 25 million shillings per month by yalties.

Speaking about the invasion of small miners in the gold accident which has been discovered recently in Nthepheya area, Bugarama Ward, Professor Godius Kahyarara has explained that GST) completing the research in the area of the year 2015, but suddenly in the area has been attacked by small miners and running the mining activities.

The research of minerals at the area located in South District has taken approximately 10 years and two months but even so, the citizens have risen up to the concerned area and started the haphazard use of unplanned settlements while some of them were doing an effort to be forced to areas.

The area has been revealed to have gold prices with a high level that is worth 56 percent of one tons.

According to wake up, the average of gold prices on the gold mines is a three hundred thousand tons in one tons, being more than 20 acres of uncountable as well as lack of other minerals.

In addition to that high level, but his belts is not involved in line with more than 10 kilometers, having the sure of its presence at a long distance.

Speaking with this newspaper, the Secretary of the small-scale miners in the village of Navi Japhet Kasibu, who does his mining activities under the license of another person explaining that currently the mine has more than 120 shillings.

He explains that in the mining of minerals there are three groups that involve the licenses, the members who had explained in the home and that 20 percent of stones are found to be paid for licenses, 30 percent and 50 percent contribute to the members.

When he was asked why the license gets a small amount when he is the owner and the taxpayer tax in the government, he said that she has no work he will do in production thus he is given as a gift, while he is the biggest buyer.

He said the area of Navi has 22 licenses for small miners with a size of 44 seconds but it is used to be eight licenses until now.
