
The prime minister to launch the union of journalists and investment of Tanzania (ZATI).

Rashid Mkonga.

The prime minister of the United Republic of Tanzania Honorable Kassim Majaliwa is expected to launch the association of journalists of tourism and investment in Tanzania (ZATI), August 8.
2016.

While giving those reports in the national offices today morning, the head of Mbeya Region, Amos Makalla said that he is impressed by the goals of the party because it will contribute to promoting tourism and investment in the country and to be the launch of that party will be conducted by the prime minister of the United Republic.

"We are expecting the Prime Minister for August 8, during the agricultural exhibition exhibition of the southern highland region, one of the first work to start, that day is to launch the association of journalists of tourism and investment in Tanzania (Nakheel)," he said.

Honorable Makalla, who used that opportunity to get acquainted with the internet, he said that the party has a great opportunity to bring together tourism and investment of the country and urged them to cooperate with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Technology, Ministry of Natural Resources and Technology, Ministry of Natural Resources and Technology.

"I have collaborated well with those ministries and its institutions and those institutions, they will ensure that there are sure that we have sure tourism and investment will increase in the country," he explained.

So as to market itself more inside and outside the country, Honorable Makalla urged the people who will open the website (website) which will help to announce various activities that are being done by the internet and its benefit to the nation.

Moreover, he has explained that one of the activities that were given by Prime Minister, when he arrived in Mbeya province on 8 / 8 / 2016, to be the official launch of the party.

On his part, the Chairperson of the National Bureau of Rubondo National Park, said that the party has done the internal and outside the country with an aim of raising and announcing opportunities of tourism and investment in the country, thus the coming of the Prime Minister will give you a great opportunity in following the opportunities of tourism and investment in the country.

At the same time, Honorable Makalla has urged the councils of 7 provinces of the southern highland regions, participants of the Nane Nane exhibition, citizens and different stakeholders to ensure the exhibition of this year have a capacity to be followed in the other regions of the other regions.

Speaking at the last session of the preparations of the exhibitions that are of 7 provinces of Mbeya, Iringa, Njombe, Songwe, Ruvuma, Rukwa and Katavi, Honorable Makalla said the exhibition will be launched by the minister of agriculture, livestock, and fisheries.
Charles Tizeba has been scored by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa.

On his part, the head of Iringa Region, Amina Masenza said that the Southern Highlands regions are the vision of agriculture and food for other provinces in the country, therefore, he is expecting the exhibition to be for example in other regions of the type of exhibition this year.
