
Officers are reduce the claims about the issue of contraception?
There are a lot of cases of the corruption that was reported in relation to the effects that were chosen by the one who was chosen following the exercise being conducted recently in the country.
The government has asked officials who will maintain the current crisis that is needed for this exercise so as to look like the provision of bribes and without stopping.
Most of the youths who came to work and decided to volunteer in order to get an opportunity to work through this exercise, then it will not be better for the one who contributed to lack of because there is one who has contributed a little thing in order to get that job easily.
It is very close to see how many youths have been given, how this activity is run by different officers including the heads of police all over the country.
These cases have ever happened every time while government tried to deal with these requirements easily as it is expected to have many Kenyans.
It is a lot that many people have been married and the bad thing that will not be removed in the field, it is happy that this issue should be dealt with before this situation can be dealt with before this situation can be dealt with to where the Holy Quran of Kenya.
By Benedict Liwenga.
In order to change the electricity project it is important among them especially the same as required, or else they can cause effects on the community and even to the family.
There are several things that evade the tablets or obey them so as to prevent any electricity destruction.
We take this responsibility of using electricity equipment as required so as to resolve the effects that can arise from not using it as required.
We should have a lot of time that you will use so that we should not stop complaining and later on.
Listen to me, we need to thank you so much when we are using water to make sure there are electricity.
Kenya is Dahi Ward, University of Mount Kenya.
Alcohol mean that the government has a responsibility to make sure that this disaster is an outcome due to the illegal drugs is completely eradicated, it is true that the government has been forced to stop any legal action so that it doesn't take any legal action.
He said when she gets into the country without stopping? I will be unable to say without stopping or fear that the government is concerned about this disaster.
I urge my Kenyans have to be careful.
We should know that when it is a second and a second is enough to prove out that someone who can be baptized do when David K. Nyerere.
The opposition has a responsibility of Cornell universities and it has the freedom of improving the opposition in a certain way but not by making responsibility for the government.
It does responsibility for the government instead of bringing up the current way, there is no benefit to the ordinary citizen.
Clay has the responsibility of educating the government and give it the right time instead of developing poor politics that have no benefits.
When the government comes out, the opposition party has a responsibility of giving the spider plant but it is not to use that opportunity to pay it and take responsibility for it.
James Müller and Galatasaray.
Until now, and the hand, I support the first position that will be able to cater for the debts of students whose professions have been stopped by not paying for fees.
First, the government is to make those money, the head teachers to be able to pay the debts that are required by the money that the students are reported.
The government also helps them to pay those products that are used in that school, the head teachers should not be charged by the government we are using it as usual it can say anything but to implement them is very difficult, therefore, without paying for the teachers to avoid those certificates.
Samuel Eto'o, Kitavi.
The government turned against corruption that many of us have been blocked and told the promises that he had died and seen that politicians have an illusion. They are promised to see the hearts of the Kenyans so that they should be given votes.
Since the time you want to take over it is here in the country from employment, a disaster of hunger, the security who won the police to maintain the whole disease in the whole country.
Corruption has also been crossing the state of life for many Kenyans who have the low level people has been causing a dilemma because most of them were affected by a bad leadership from he said from the main government.
We take this opportunity to protect themselves in life like the ordinary citizens and we do not recognize them because brotherhood are strength.
Still getting pregnant in Nairobi.
