
Most of those researchers are not supposed to be engaged to.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published in October, 2016.

There has been an error in the behavior that seems to take advantage of many areas in the country for the citizens to take advantage of this law and it has been as usual for you to hear the citizens of some areas, they have boycotted those laws and killing many people due to lack of mistakes or allegations that are not yet confirmed.

This behavior is not true that they don't read the brutal act, but also thank the community including brothers, relatives, friends and it's not possible that the victims of that scandal, an example of those events is this one day, which involved three people.
Including two researchers and the driver of the agricultural research center of Selina (MARI) in Arusha town.
This matter is surprising and to remind me, which has been the talk because of bringing about many questions that have no answers, it has been able to fear among the community members even experts of various issues, who many times have been doing their activities in the villages.
In the event that were arrested have been mentioned as the former driver of a car model of Toyota Rahabu Lubago, which is the registration number SJ 9570's property, Nwankwo Kanu and researchers, Teddy Mapunda, Jaffari Matundu.
The event like this and others when the successes he had with it, should be expected to continue with all people because they have been understanding of people who are not guilty and reduce the strength of the nation.
On the real situation of the incident, that shows how more education is needed for the society and what should be done when they are oppressed, instead of taking action against the law without taking action against the law.
There is still a group of people with a car, again having a government number that can be infected with the citizens, or maybe the situation resulted from the citizens having a little understanding because of their culture or faith that there are preventing blood in their areas?
We are told that the researchers want the support to one woman after being beaten, but later the mother had noise from asking for donations to indicate that the dangerous state is where the pastor of the church of Christian family, Patrick Mgaka (46) when he decided to find him in the village through the grave of the church that had been attacked.
It is said that after those reports, the spread of those reports have been attacked by motorbike riders, that's when the villagers go down in that vehicle and shivered and then shivered to those people.
When we are supposed to ask you, how can I get reports of the suspect, without any investigation, and start praising himself or taking action against the judgment?
These researchers have openly stated that they have been death by the citizens of Iringa village, without even having their charges to be heard.
I am saying that because I believe it would have been given an opportunity to explain themselves after being arrested, they would have shown their work identity cards and they would have been understood, but because of what they used, it seems to be open without being given the opportunity to explain or defending himself.
These researchers have had a good intention on researching that is good for agriculture, which has also benefited from those villagers, their dreams have been taken by some people who have been seen to have thrown that act.
Those villagers are together with the leader of the church, I think they were supposed to have patience and because they arrested those involved, they would follow the suspects in legal procedures and if the action they had decided to make sure the law can take action against the law.
If you have what those villagers know what is expected and we request the concerned authorities to be able to make quick investigation and take stern legal action so as to stop such actions, which they have been using life and lives of people.
We know that when there are things like that, it's not only that it does not bring back the development of the concerned institution and the country by losing work, but the family usually get important people.
