

By Bakari Kimwana from Dar es Salaam.
The use of American dollars against the Tanzanian shillings have already been fast in Dar es Salaam.
According to the research that was done by the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), has revealed that the cost of dollars in Dar es Salaam has reached 3 percent of 3, being different from other provinces.
Despite that situation, some of the leaders and citizens for a long time have been encouraging about the use of shillings in all big areas including business areas.
That research that took place in the provinces of Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Dodoma, Mbeya, Morogoro, and Mwanza, together with three provinces of Zanzibar Islands.
As a result of that situation, it has been noted that a businessman or service provider in those areas were not ready to accept the payment of Tanzanian money while he wanted to pay for the payment of American dollars because of their customers to be the tourism visitors.
"This was especially the case and the position of the main entrance fee in some areas especially in Masaki, Mikocheni, Uvinza and Mbweni in Dar es Salaam city and in Arusha province, together with roads that are going to the tourists areas," explained that research.

The purchase of products.
According to the research of the bank of Tanzania (BoT), it is said that normally the purchase of products and services will enable you have a culture of carry foreign money in their pouch and if it would have been able to do the activities using internal funds.
That situation is giving some evidence that the amount of foreign funds are used as it is not important.
In an effort to provide information about that, the researchers wanted to recognize the money that business people in Tanzania are continuing to receive as payments for products and services.
"If this exercise was done in large numbers in the big shops, the results show that the use of dollars for internal activities are not important.
8 percent of one of the participants wanted the payment of dollars while on the side of Zanzibar, they had already agreed to payments for Tanzanian funds, even if the price mentioned in a level of American dollars.
"31 percent of the participants in the mainland and 45 percent of Zanzibar were ready to accept the payment of 3 or Tanzanian shillings, while 9675% of participants (mainland) and 955 percent (Zanzibar) is continuing to pay for the Tanzanian shillings," it explained the part of the report of that research.
