If it's like this evening, I haven't come out, is that this training is going on so that our citizens can continue getting education on many entrepreneurs not knowing entrepreneurship, what is not our people able to take the low level of business and then it is something.
At other times you are not only a thought and it is not true that even you can't fear but you cannot go to the business that is currently a government.
I see and follow up on issues of tax.
I don't know that anyone who had a income can be able to make taxes to know his government involved.
If the issue of tax will be correct for someone he is getting.
I think the laws in the whole world are saying that every person who is not income is that is being found alone at Mtwara province, will be only one year from only.
You can register themselves in which they failed to be in today's future.
But we will remember that even if you do not know you, this service will I look for because the child even if it is a phone.
It's not even if you start a 'Machinga' and later it will be the procedures if it will be a big business person because it is a must you will be responsible.
To come out in order to separate yourself from torrents to know that there is no doubt that don't come out, but when you start Tanga with a large extent that your income has no one hundred thousand business people.
If a needle has no fear that not knowing more, you do not know more, they do not give you a long time, then we will walk there in the streets we will look for me if we will see if we thank you.
In view, I live with his contribution in this work so that he can get a habit.
In one hundred and twenty thousand, the time it was enough to start the process.
We must have a registration of people.
To pay tax payment.
I want to know.
After the plain truth, different meanings associated with.
That payment of one hundred and two hundred thousand, had an Sawazisha '.
But it's not a solution that it takes the chest because different from Adam and his shame captain continued the level of tax.
Now it has revealed two hundred and ten thousand.
I explained to me two days and two sides, there have been a great importance in the required situation and even if it was to be seven, the citizen is supposed to contribute a lot or the government is not ready to look more than the government, so that we have more better fields here in the country.
But until we know how they had paid taxes like ten thousand.
Citizens, but the difference of, you find you.
Some of the entrepreneurs died from that plan started with small capital and later decided to register their businesses so as to get permits for businesses together to pay taxes, but the big challenge is seen to come out one hour so that they can be able to increase capital and stop poverty.
