
Doctor Magufuli has been advised not to leave the appointment of ministers for the launch.

The appointed President of the fifth term in the United Republic of Tanzania, Dombeni with John Pombe Magufuli, has been advised to be keen on the arrest of his cabinet of ministers by avoiding issues of bringing up or serving the blood for some of the politicians who don't have personal interests.

Speaking to our journalist yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the retired lecturer of the leadership issues at Mzumbe University, Morogoro, Doctor Alfred Chengula, said the big problem of the leaders of Tanzania is not having the ability to recognize people who do the ones that are supposed to appoint them to help the country.

He added that many leaders who have succeeded are those with great ability to plan for correct national team.

Doctor Chimela, said Doctor Magufuli can be a good leader but fear currently seems to be surrounded by a big group of politicians especially those who believe that they have made a great contribution to them when he is and therefore wanted to get a lot of positions for leadership because of their close relatives and even their children.

"It is possible that Magufuli is a good leader, but if you are seen it is like he has already been directed by some of the politicians who know what would have done that action by their strength.

He said apart from that, if you look at the political environment that surround him, if there is a group of veteran politicians inside the CCM that believes that it has been extended to him for various steps including electing the cabinet of ministers.

"He was supposed to be in the trap where he will have made a big offence in his leadership," said the expert and added.

"There are many politicians who use them directly for Magufuli and not to help the country alone, but they have special goals to make sure benefit from his leadership for brothers, relatives and even their children to be given a high court."

He said in this period, Doctor Magufuli is supposed to be careful so as to avoid his government to lose faith in front of praising what is was known as politics to play and be taken as a way of paying it.

He said Doctor Magufuli is supposed to recognize that he is a president of our country and not the president or a friend of the family or a certain group of people, therefore, should be able to select ministers and other directors on a criterion of ability.

"Magufuli did not be careful, the first complaints from citizens will come just after announcing his cabinet of ministers, if it will be seen to carry people on the basis of taking them and to stop the concerned authorities so as to make sure it is wrong.

"Whoever doesn't know the council on the basis of this one is my friend or a child or a person or a person, no one should not be heard," he said.

He has also advised that to be keen to avoid all the directors that are in one way or another they were involved in various scandal in the past government.

"During the campaign Magufuli has touched a lot about the word change, these changes should not be given to say that the citizens are waiting to know that the changes from the people who will be appointed to do with clean ministers.

"You should be careful with each person to use the philosophy of the wife of the Kauzela with all those who passed away from the past government even if they came to as a clean leader and a person to make sure you get faith and he will succeed," he said.

He emphasized that Magufuli is supposed to be keen to avoid evil deeds, the friendship with the family that he said it is seen to have a great problem in the issues of leadership here in the country.

He said the only criterion for someone to be appointed to be the minister or leader of any position, is working for.
