I started looking at the delay of football, I commend him who will be responsible for you with the youth.
Where today's day we have been talking.
The fee is good, what should they do to help them?
So as to be able to leave that work I will be thankful to Power.
Hayatou, I think that the source of the fees is good is a difficulty of life.
This is when they were with them in the difficulty of life that causes us to do?
It comes back to get a difficult state of life, another causes people to be careful, that he becomes the lack of education in a situation that this work is possible to cause the effects.
Having education to cook with.
It should be a very important to have to know three knowledge, think of supporting them, another person can stay with lack of all two parents who can sit down and do so that it is difficult to get training and its parents to ask for those things is not good.
That situation can cause this one to be a person to join.
It is really terrifying.
We are not known as a girl already because this work is bad and this work is good and we are doing so that they can be able to go back to the front and good people like us, that is why we have education to be given to the youth.
Starting from a very small age like five years and continuing before a girl she is unable to understand.
How to live in life is fighting against poverty.
If a person will be demolished since the small loss of poverty.
That will cause us the fear of things and work hard.
He is not signed to ensure employment are available.
For children's children.
Also the girl is alleged.
Maybe if you can watch the problem, you will give us the greetings of transporting people from promoting himself in promoting and in the group, when he is giving the fees to have a reason for evil deeds that you can be avoided.
A poor state of poor income you find the person, maybe he had gone to village fees, that is life in the villages.
He mentioned someone he went to again.
In his town, we will make the work in educating you.
You know the person will agree due to the accusations that we used we must have his expectations.
He will be remembered without even when he was required it will be required when all of them are work, then the results did not give a person that they took and took him to those business so that he would not be able to meet your life and he will leave you.
You do not agree with the problem among them?
Other reason is sexual excitement and I have talked to me now sitting in a group and in making a song called 'Imebaki Story.'
My name is called my name that I have written about because, her sister is good, it is difficult for a woman to kill a woman if you don't like to get married but if you feel it is good for you to get a woman whether you can't know if you know your name that you decided to work.
So as to get other income and tourism is a big job that sometimes I would like I see it is difficult to do so to see that we believe that we were not doing the end of the day life.
Hayatou, is called to finish women and my colleagues, he says my shortage of life is good because there are others in groups of giving birth to me, even if another person becomes hard and even if someone can work with him and he can work with him and he can do his work as seen in the office.
Or where he will place its different projects of developing life?
Therefore, they wish you that there's no girl I see.
The easy way to get that money can't meet his life and when this sister is good, the money is good, but not a good way it's a good way.
Sometimes, I would say it is groups that we can get diseases because if you see someone who is in the same way to help them what you can get sexually transmitted diseases, what should they do so as to help them to help them, you give them a place and you put up a place and put it up.
You feel it is a must that you need to change.
In this community like a sister who has not return to me when he went to him and after that, she didn't help us to create a donation in teaching like entrepreneurship.
After taking me what you want to do so, Jimmy as a joke.
.
Many people read the way to register it.
If it is true that you are not present is the work you want.
He asked the time so much and then they can be a very good teachers, that their fees is good.
.
All of them have been taxed.
Commenting on their problems.
And what should they do?
Therefore, preventing one of the areas that it had a fiancé.
Hayatou, and his fees are good, if they would have come up well and the work to sell your bodies?
To sell the body is not the source of success but it's not aware that there is a lot of activities of doing or they can do small businesses to get their income and I see it will help by giving them others the chicken to avoid such behaviors.
I have talked about that we give education the education that is given right now.
In relation to the whole issue and diseases in general it is not education that wants the girl child that he does not understand.
It depends with other things in the city he dies, I met this.
To stop it mean that she is not unable to do or do so that we can be able to help each other, I think it should be able to help each other or even if you feel it is yours.
Your brothers you do not mean?
The life of life because you can enjoy yourself what did not tell ourselves what's just the first without considering that if you go and do that if you get our advice you want to go for people do not have their own phones.
It is no problem.
You know that there are other families living too much, we are meeting.
He knows his thing that someone is doing to say that his sentence is.
He has people living with people who even want to come up with many people that we love the mother alone, when that mother was asked if they put her stories in a situation.
What is it?
His parents close to your parents know you and.
In the northern regions.
Hayatou, I advise that if it is a student, you did not understand that, he will liberate them to get employment and also the sun should be well because there are sometimes while reading it.
This second work is to take me your soul to save life or not being found so that it is a great way to make sure you have good work hard, we do not know her life, whoever doesn't know what he doesn't know.
Ways of using that disease with diseases which he didn't just know for example this situation will not come in fighting for using it.
He is going back as you told that you are using the faith of her mother and also something that does not use it.
For you to understand.
This work contrary to it is not good because it can cause diseases such as the other day before yesterday, I will be able to take a lot of diseases to the community up to the listener or we are expected to end the end of our discussions on today's day where I was coming from.
Eyes, try to look for.
Which are the reasons which are there?
A girl or a sister being involved with their business.
To sell his body but they also gave out different advice that we can do?
So that we can be able to help them.
