I will use it's fast in the country, including people of all age, while many of them are youths.
For that Mwanza Province only, this industry has employed more than two thousand people who are divided among those who do work hard which are many and the few people they make for a long time.
Edward concluded that in this industry for more than five years he succeeded to act with the legendary artists in the country but also its work is in big film markets.
To bring a mistake without the poor to visit this youth who is the first in the quarter-finals, the way he is able to put it together with more than one hundred artists.
This industry which is very successful but many do not know here, I don't know here, I saw the concerned thing that gives him the whole issue and to have success in a few days.
Edward famous as from Nigeria, he knew the secret that makes the success of her film, when he entered the information.
Since the first head, I saw it possible that the first one is to look for.
Because without a good market and good work we cannot be able to arrive when we become the speaker looking for people who have a great ability because they get my work from the president and different things to try to do it.
After that, I also tried to put up with people who are in the market, there are big artists who can leave the Port I arrived in the event to be done after finishing doing so that I will look for me.
Where is it?
Because of so, we need work but you cannot change because of their skins?
And then you use your product to you cannot get any benefit.
For work, I got a little problem in the first training because it did not reach the freedom that is not correct.
Because I was surprised many exams of money, people have criticized the honesty, now I have lost their distributor in Africa what should I work with what I do in Africa film.
There is no film that is now there, there are all films that are called in Southern Africa has been using a company of my company.
In secret, here I was in a step in the many companies and saw it.
It is an employee of Christian women?
It is work.
A budget is out of last year is the fourth job but also.
I do not work with ray machine that his company knows this.
There is a film called!
I did not know what he did, but among the doing those companies-ray machine that it is something I want to do everything you want to help him in step.
I have done a video.
Later, it will be doing every wife.
I sat at a pose with the women that would release it yet been a group of a woman who has not been released but the expectations of our province in Mwanza province if being faced with the intention of doing good work.
With the quality that you are required by the camera I believe we will arrive.
Same to the big problem of our products.
The problem only is the relatives of the religion taking the thing that is.
There is a saying that the need of a Swahili says you don't know what they started as a girl?
However, we got in the world.
When I had a lot of pain, now I am unable to go and look at the Kaole soccer club why I saw it, as I was bad.
Something that do not other than when I am saying that you must know you so much again?
Before the education system that we have now are to learn by looking at how he knows my colleagues, Edward learning how we are doing?
To do the work that you do with us.
You do not learn a lot of lot well but you will be careful, I don't know the shoes, but there is another one to look for people's work, but also I urge you my colleagues that head then we can be in the necessary market for now, so that we can be in the necessary market for now, so that we can be in the necessary market for now.
Those issues do not be good because of work being good and to try to make sure that we cannot go to Mister to help them and see that everything doing something which is the foundation to use their voice.
