
Tanzania is available to 6 billion shillings in the year sector.
We should have a chance to remove the mockery that took place especially considering the wealth of minerals has remained as 80 percent.
Elias Msuya, The Citizen of not like @ mkito.
Tanzania is one of the rich countries in the world in the mining sector and gas.
The mining of minerals started to grow the country in the 1990s after allowing the investment of a company from outside the country, though the mining of cosmetics started before there.
Up to now the foreign companies and small miners have killed 20 percent of minerals that are in the country.
The wealth of minerals is together with the gold loss of 222 million tons of Tanzanite 1266, 38,909 million pounds, approximately 359 million pounds, which is in high-5 billion, whose level is in high level and Chapati.
Apart from the minerals there are a natural gas pipeline from 155 trillion shillings that is in dry land in Songosongo areas, Mnazi Mmoja, Mkuranga, who was in Northern Region and Nagigi.
There is a result of six major mines which include North Mara, (Tarime), Buzohera, the Bulyanhulu FC (Kahama) the audience listened to the African Baray Gold team, Geita Gold Mine (Geita).
When you play with Meek Mill.
We are going on in Biharamulo district when it is celebrating with African Baray Gold and will be handed over to Muhimbili National Hospital (Monbusho Scholarship), while the Nzega district that was signed by the Tanzania Limited Company, has been buried.
In addition to that wealth, Tanzania has continued to be poor and lost the income of minerals, that situation has caused many complaints from citizens, therefore the government conducted several steps including building the commission to follow the loss.
It continues on the 18th of May for example, there is a special committee that was set up so as to make a good system of solving conflicts between small-scale miners of the Tanzanite, Mirerani.
Other commission are Khajida Kopa of the year 2004 to improve the policies of minerals and through afresh the system of tax in the mining sector.
The Electoral Commission of 2006 that was created so as to review the contracts of minerals and the tax system of the year 2007 was created by John Bukuku the aim of implementing the recommendations of the commission.
Its implementation was as a result of tax standards in big minerals and ordered to pay 200,000 dollars per month to the district councils.
In the year 2007, the government made the commission of Judge Mark Bomani, that made opinions from within and outside the country to get ways to improve the mining sector in the year 2009 to the law of minerals of the year 2009 to the law of minerals of the year 2010.
If it is not enough in Tanzania to get into the strategy of the transparent service in the institutions of minerals, gas and oil (Eucharist).
With the aim of increasing transparency and accountability in the sector, the losses were started in February 11, 2011, the government gave the first report that those reports are able to open payments done by the big companies that produces gas and minerals to the government since July 1, 2008 up to the year 2012.
Up to now, they have given six reports that contribute to the reduction of loss of minerals.
Speaking at the launch of the fifth and six report recently in Dar es Salaam city, the chairperson of Ihenga town, Judge Bomani says that the government has lost 6 billion shillings every year in the mining income and even so, Judge Bomani says that amount has reduced from 66 billion shillings in the year 2009 to be released the first report of that committee.
The first deficit of the payments that have been said to have been made by the company and the funds that had been received by the government has continued to reduce the first report of the year 2009, showed a lot of 30 million American dollars (66 billion). This was a very surprising fact, "says Judge Bomani and added.
"At least the year 2014 deficit, it has reduced up to 6 billion shillings, a total of government revenue has increased from 128 billion to 1 trillion shillings, this is an increase in approximately 10 times."
However, he says that despite that increase, the income would have increased more if the action could be taken.
"For example until the year 2012, there are few percent of the gold companies was three percent.
He also added that the government carried out that advice and added that they are insufficient from three to four percent.
.
"The gold mineral companies in special contracts were allowed to invest outside their sales, contrary to the procedure of other companies that are supposed to return to their sales," he says.
He is saying that by bad luck the permission has been issued to the minerals law of the year 2010.
"This procedure has taken to Tanzania an opportunity to increase foreign funds, something that contribute to improving the value of shillings.
"I urge the government to follow the issue especially by knowing that it is 20 percent of the minerals that has been discovered, the truth is being mentioned until today, 80 percent have not been mentioned.
He also advised the government to expand the haphazard selling of minerals such as miners, which their income continue to reach 200 million shillings.
We should learn through her side, the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) retired, Ludovick Utouh has said that the government did a big offence of switching off the minerals companies in the country directly.
"We can get more income of minerals if we will look for ownership like me, if you say it was not correct for Botswana for example, the concept of saying that the government does not do business on behalf of its citizens and we are supposed to have our representatives in those companies, even in their board."
He says Ludovick Utouh.
He says that every Tanzanian has a responsibility to protect the resources of the country according to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. "The constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania." The constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Bomani and Ludovick Utouh have shown that there is a problem in the systems that is owned by managing the mining sector in the country.
All of them have shown that together with the efforts that were held up to now, we should not be able to improve the wealth of minerals in the country.
This situation shows that there is a need for the government, politicians and citizens to continue benefiting from this sector so that the nation can benefit from his legacy of the minerals that until now it has remained a lot of 80 percent.
