
Minister Sospeter Muhongo giving information about the economy of the economy in the sector of energy and minerals.
Minister of Energy and Minerals, Honorable Sospeter Muhongo has advised the council of workers of energy and minerals to discuss the direction of economic revolution by making Tanzania a country with industries.
Honorable Muhongo has said this today in Dar es Salaam city when he was opening a session of the council of workers in that ministry, where some issues which were discussed at that meeting are issues of transport to the workers of that ministry, and the shortage of office for workers.
Regarding the improvement of the positions, Honorable Muhongo said that he had already met with the Secretary General of the Ministry in order to see how the workers are getting into positions according to the education together with their ability, where he urged them to change the systems in which the previous positions are now.
During the short time, special seats and special positions are better and it is good to consider the youths that we have with them because there are many youths who have great ability to promote these youths, "said Muhongo.
Regarding the shortage of office positions, Honorable Muhongo explained that, most of the government offices are in the former system, therefore he has advised the council to see how they change the structure of office so that people should sit together in one area which is causing a shortage of that area which is causing a shortage of that area.
Furthermore, he urged the delegates of the council to discuss how to change the economic state from 7% up to 8% up to 10 percent so as to improve the economy of the country to eradicate poverty.
In the same way, the main responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals is to ensure that we improve the economy of the country by ensuring that there is a lot of electricity prices from 1400 megawatts by attaining 50 megawatts among them, he added Honorable Mhongo.
About the training issue to those workers, Honorable Muhongo has emphasized that there is no person that is supposed to be given training because of increasing education on a certain issue, but there is a procedure of going to study, whereby there is a procedure of going to study, whereby there is a procedure of going to study, whereby there is a procedure of going to study, where there is better for the country to have different experts in different sectors.
During the short time, the ministry needs people to read and be educated, therefore we need people to read and be experts in different areas of work, the aim being to bring development to the country, "said Honorable Muhongo.
He has touched on issues of budget in his ministry which he has clarified that more than 895 percent of the budget will be used in making development activities in the country.
With Benedict Liwenga.
