
President Magufuli launched the Southern By-Pickup, to thank China.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published by 2 percent of November.

President John Magufuli and President Uhuru Kenyatta, has launched the Southern By-Pass, which was built with the aim of reducing the congestion of vehicles in Nairobi city, Kenya.

According to the state house of Tanzania, the ceremony to launch the road with a length of 28 kilometers and that deals with various parts of Nairobi city, has taken place in Karuma area outside Nairobi city yesterday.
Speaking at that ceremony, President Magufuli has congratulated President Kenyatta and his government for building that road which is not only to help the citizens of Kenya, but also it will help citizens of East Africa that use roads in Nairobi.
President Magufuli has also thanked the government of China through his Barclays Bank, which has given a loan to build that road, by continuing to succeed in the East African countries and increasing loans which will help solve the implementation of the development projects including the construction of the road.
"Citizens need development and these are the development, this road will help to improve the economy and it will help in community issues," said President Magufuli.
Doctor Magufuli said that the East African leaders have decided to work hard to speed up development and improve the lives of citizens, and that so as to make sure that they are determined to implement different projects including the construction of the roads that include members and build health centers for providing services.
President Kenyatta said that the construction of that road can help reduce traffic congestion in Nairobi city and also to improve the development activities of citizens.
He thanked President Magufuli by joining with him to launch the road and said Kenya will increase efforts in implementing the project of construction of roads that include Kenya and Tanzania including Malindi, Bagamoyo, Tanzania and Vogue Bwanu - Arusha.
The ceremony to launch the Southern By-Pickup, was attended by the Deputy President of Kenya, William Ruto, before launching the road, President Magufuli visited a small factory of Eldoville dairies located in Karen, which was built by a farmer, James Karoli.
That family started a factory for production of the year 1985 to production of under 1000 shillings per day and now it has reached a production of 20,000 shillings per day and it is expecting to increase the production to 70,000 tons in the next year after increasing the second factory.
