
DC and the college of teaching.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published today, October 2016.

District commissioner of Kongwa in Dodoma Province, Deogratius Ndejembi has officially closed Nkrumah Teachers College located in Mkoka ordering the university leadership to stop all fees paid by the students to enable them to pay for other colleges.

He gave that order during a meeting with students together with the management of the university about the search of a conflict that started on September 16, this year.
That university was divided into four students with an aim of teaching teaching when they arrived to be told the studies of information and communication technology (ICT).
"Later he was told them to change their studies in community development, all of them have done because the university doesn't have a timely registration and no one is happening," said Ndejembi.
Ndejembi said that the decision to bid farewell to the university as a result of claims to hold the university exams for completing the academic year because college will not be released by the National Council of Technical Education (NACTE).
He said at the only university it is not enough to be able to return all the fees that were paid by students in the last academic year so as to help them to pay other colleges.
"
He mentioned those who are supposed to be taken against them as the university owner, Mathew Kisamba, the registrar of college, Yohana Michael, Mujahideen and Christopher Ole Sendeka.
Ndejembi said the reason for the beneficiaries are arrested, those college leaders are involved in participating in the cheating and has conned those students while getting what is happening.
In addition, he said that the government will help them in the procedure to get other colleges for those who are capable of joining universities in the course which they started to study.
He said that if it comes from the university it does not have money to return the students, their buildings as well as a bond of fees for colleges they will not received those students.
The president of the students of the students of that college, Mwageni has thanked the government for helping them to know the fate of fulfilling their education dreams.
