
First lady Mrs Asha Balozi of Bongo Movies has given birth to her husband of Ndeki.

Gladness Mallya and Gabriel Ng'amilo.
Disasters, a woman who identified himself as a wife of the family of relatives by the name Ally Msangi, Rosicky will have emerged with the heavy claims that Bongo movie star, Aisha Bui, has emerged with her husband.

Speaking on how the social network of WhatsApp is in Peru African continent, the woman said that Aisha Bui, has blamed her husband who has changed the two children and he does not make use.

He claimed that, he scored a marriage with Msangi, one of the citizenship of two countries, Tanzania and Peru the year 2007 where they have found two children but her husband changed and having a relationship with Aisha Bui, and decided to move to Tanzania and give them her.

"Bad luck, Aisha Bui, has been using a picture with my husband, he knew the right that I should stop waiting for themselves.
"It's very much because it's seven months now, my husband doesn't know what we got the children and his ability, but I don't know any use, because one child was sent, I don't have money to put it.

"My country is in danger of every day of gun to be heard, we cannot go outside to look for the needs and even the children are playing inside, Aisha Yesuu," said the woman.

Aisha Yesuu!
So as to get the news analysis of that news, non-communicable diseases have been forced to get married, "he said.
"I am happy that she was a wife to Msangi, he has already recorded their children as usual but he didn't know the truth, but I know that you are like the seat for the bus you get your partner."

A man opened up.
"The news is not true, that woman was my true wife but he himself is the one who had agreed to leave and right now he is looking for a divorce but I do not use money for use, even this week I have talked with him and I've sent a money.

"Aisha I have been with him after he told him about using the pictures of mocking the referee, the issue is not true," said Msangi.
