
The speed of digital changes in the world.
Technology makes these things, but users do not use due to the high price of goods?
Nuzulack Dausen, Citizen today, annamatinde @ mkito.
15 years ago to write a historical picture that they need to break up a picture at least four days especially in rural areas, the camera owners were very few and a big part of the ones who were studying.
But at the moment, things have been changed and technology has launched those services and the discovery of the digital camera, mobile phones and happiness that has made efforts to be easy.
In the rural areas, where there is no electricity, some of the bodies are also using the high speed of solar energy in the country when they have not been reached without a loss of some companies that make the camera lenses which have not been reached without a loss.
However, the future of those companies that use the camera in the camera and the ones that are still in doubt due to great use of digital services.
Many users have reduce the picture of normal documents so as to reduce the costs of the production of production and they use more better if it is due to the safety of caring for records.
Our writer is doing an interview with the director of marketing of the NMB on the central region of Central Africa, Central and Central Africa (NCCR-PID), Him to Vermont Bernie Sanders, to help small entrepreneurs in the country and not in general.
Maybe on the right is the Tanzania international company which is aged 80 years in the manufacturing of a modern camera, the colonizers of the hospital and the hospitals.
Verbania Italy is saying that there is an increase in pictures that are affected and preserved in the world through mobile phones that provide one trillion shillings for a year.
However, he says that those phones are giving the first step of the making of the pictures that are used in the issues of daily lives, but not in a very important issues that someone wants to have a special activity in memory.
"There are big events in life that you need to use a big and modern camera (MSG) if we offer is," says Verbania Italy.
"We are looking at such a big foundation of selling our camera, and it is not true because it is not good for all people to be satisfied with the quality of pictures that are affected by mobile phones."
He is also there that there is a great needs of a big and modern camera because of its ability to restore light and grow something even if it is.
