Politics from America will inform us to stop using change!
Dec 12, 2014.

President Barack Obama entered with great history in the year 2008 and put history of its kind in that country, there are some people inside and outside the United States who missed to be the end of the Republican Party or at the end of the left wing.

The victory of Obama was received with joy and hope of the millions of people believing that under Obama in America, it will be different from the Americans and they don't give him to power if he won the American Parliament that has two sides - the council of representatives and Senate.

There are some who believe in us that the politics of Kiliberali has been known as the left wing, who have been accepted by the United States and the Americans do not turn up again and the Americans do not agree with the speed and all his efforts to start on issues of reproductive health to all, the sex of the sex people's marriages.

He entered with the authority of finishing the war of Iraq he did so despite the opposition from Portugal on the sixth of his six years and has been able to implement many agenda of Kiliberali which has ever been popular by using his colleagues but the time they will get known for many Americans.

However, these are the policies which it has raised other Americans who did not know or they were not ready to agree with any restrictions that they did from Obama's party because he had not been forced to talk and discuss from him, but he believed that he had not been given the authority (the picture) in implementing its policies.

This small elections has sent him to his delegation that he cannot continue to reign in the remaining years, but it did not meet again for the remaining years, this is the benefits of their rights and they get well in power and the strength of their votes.

But also they have a very good system of election - together with its many problems, whom they believe you can give those winners well because of Tuesday, many people have come out to vote without doubt that many people were behind in the year 2008 where youths came out in large numbers and put up to Obama in power.

That is the great shape of American politics with a landslide victory of the fifth party, who have been opposition for this six years have been removed and gave them strength and the possibility of going back to the State House again in the 2016 general elections.

In the southern region for the first time since after the fight against the black driver of the opposition party, in parliament, a black woman is not supposed to support their policies and policies of every party, unholiness and the human rights including reducing taxes and strengthening security agencies in the world with security options.

Last Saturday in a repeat election in Louisiana town region, the final candidate of Demere County, who was Senator for more than 14 years, Mary Kazaula and he found himself carrying out a huge victory in the country's parliament up to reach the number that they were waiting for now after the second world war was known as' S. Fauzia Kullane.

That victory has been not only in the country's parliament but also in groups in the provinces where they have already participated in many regions more than Demere town and in some of the counties that are holding all the two sides of the State House together with the council of representatives.
