
Father, the father of the child.
It was rumored to be after losing his wife in buying drugs and another he will not accept after his lover went outside.
Our journalists, the Citizen's agent, annamatinde @ mkito.
Tabora / Mara province, two people have died in two different events, including her child Mariam Haule (2) by death by his father of the village, after releasing his mother and moved to them.
The police commander of Tabora province, Hamis Issa said yesterday that the event happened on May 2nd.
Issa said that the suspect was a resident of Useni Village, Kaliua District in that province before making those killings, told his wife, Kalala Malampaka Ward to buy drugs.
He said after his wife went to the shop, he got the loopholes to make those killings and to rage.
"We request all citizens to continue providing cooperation so that we can be able to arrest the suspect, to be discussed in the course of the law," said Issa.
That commander said that the army will ensure that the suspect was arrested and arraigned in court to answer the charges of murder.
The child's mother said he was sent by her husband's house to buy drugs, but he returned them, he found her heart which was supported by his lover.
He said they have not know the reasons for those killings and there was no complaints or claims from her husband concerning the child.
In the second event a resident of Rouge, Butiama District, Magesa Machera (46) has been found dead by death after being attacked by unknown people at his home.
The police commander of Mara Province, Ramadhan Ng'amilo source said that event happened on May 3, this year at nine o'clock at night.
He said it is alleged that the day of that incident, her lover, Remmy, (35).
He went outside to vote, but he returned them when he had died.
The barley farmer said that his lover who is the guest of honor in that village usually have a habit of going to greet them immediately and they were having drinking alcohol. "The investigation of those killings is going on by the police holding his lover," he said.
