
The constitution of the constitution, members of parliament are asking of the committee.

August 24, 2014.

The scandal of some members of the special Parliament of the Constitution wants the allowances that they were paid in 300,000 shillings in the day they will be included, now it has taken a new chapter by the chairman of the parliamentary committee, Mister Pandu, Honorable Kificho, yesterday made a new look for six people for the purpose of discussing that issue.
Bwamburakis said the names of the delegates of that committee yesterday in Dodoma town before the start of a seminar for delegates of the parliament about the law of constitutional changes, the constitutional change has reduced, the edition of the year 2014.
Those delegates are Mister William Lukuvi, Bwambara, Mohammed Gharib Mohammed, Bwambara, Mrs. Asha Bakari Makame and Miss Jenista Mhagama.
He said that committee will meet after the completion of the seminar led by him so as to look at the possibility of requesting the government to revise the request of the delegates.
"About the issue of controlling the life of here in Dodoma and the weight to the delegates of this parliament, still does not have answers for now," said Bwiru.
At the same time, the attorney general, Judge Fredrick Werema, has urged the delegates of that parliament to discuss the draft of a new constitution in which they want, but the poor capital city (the gift of the nation).
Judge Werema, he said this in Dodoma yesterday when he was giving a seminar to members of the Parliament about the law of constitutional changes called 83 households, the edition of 2014.
"Ask you to change the draft of a new constitution as you want, but there is no boundaries, you do not know the matter about the presence of the United Republic," said Judge Werema.
He mentioned the things that are in section 9 (2) of that law is the presence of the United Republic of Zanzibar, parliament and court, administrative system of Zanzibar and the presence of revolutionary government, peace and stability, presidential elections for time in special programs by considering the rights of all people with the reputation of voting.
Judge Werema, said that others are in helping and conservation of human rights, personality, equity, before the law and the trend of law, the presence of the United Republic that is not acceptable.
"It will not be correct for this foundation that the commission has been directed and it will agree with this constitutional parliament," said Judge Werema.
Judge Werema, he clarified on article 25 (1) after some of the members including Majano Tundu Lissu, alleged that it does not have a relationship with the parliament where that parliament will have the authority to discuss the requirements of the constitutional parliament, which will be very important, "he said.
He added that, those delegates are representatives of the citizens so they will do the work to improve on the draft and later will go back to the citizens because of the opinion polls claiming that in the estates there is a draft of alternative constitution is common.
The Constitutional Forum for another step, the Constitutional Forum (JUKATA) has condemned the action of delegates of the special constitutional assembly to claim the debts that they were paid is small compared to that they were paid by the information of the commission of constitutional changes.
The acting chairperson of the forum, Hehe said the agenda, made the statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday and added that, that situation has been contributed by the bad foundation of the law of constitutional changes, 'Sura Sirari.
He said that the members of parliament of the United Republic of the United Republic, have handed over their allowances for the law so that they can be able to pay a lot of money that they want.
He added that the money that they were paid is for now because of the work they are doing compared to the life of the parliament, "said Honorable Kificho that his party was given a chance to elect the delegates of the parliament," said Honorable Kificho that he had given the decision to elect the chairperson of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, "said Honorable Kificho to recognize that the decision made by the chairperson of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania," said Honorable Kificho that they were given a chance to elect the chairperson of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, "said Honorable Kificho to announce that the decision made by the chairperson of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania," said Honorable Kificho that they had given those views on how they will help the party members.
He added that yesterday, those delegates were supposed to discuss the issue of regulations that is the foundation because if it is bad even the constitution of the country will not have benefits to the economy.
"The allowances of 300,000 shillings they are paid now is not small, it gives a member of parliament to eat, sleep well and live without any worry, therefore, they are required to discuss primary issues.
"We have refused the party members of our party to discuss the whole issue of Tanzania constitution and that if we believe that the allowances that they were paid is very difficult," he said.
At the same time, some of the citizens gave their views about the cry for some members of parliament, they said that the action of claiming that their allowances is an indication that those delegates are in that parliament intended to get a new constitution but also some of them were appointed by President Kikwete by mistake.
