
When I heard an albino, Pendo has been found in Mwanza.

The Head of Mwanza Province, Magesa Mulongo.

The Provincial Commissioner of Mwanza, Magesa Mulongo has said that all people who were involved "stealing a child with skin disability (albino) Pendo Emmanuel (4) in Ndevu, Kwimba district, Mwanza, have been arrested.

While speaking during the new heads of the district of that province yesterday, I have risen up (Misungwi), Zainab Rajab (Sengerema) and second in Moshi (Kwimba), Mulongo said all people who were arrested have been arrested and right now they do not know if the child is alive or not.
"Most of the ones after stealing a child which they had brought him to one hotel in Mwanza town, then give them many people they were arrested, but all those who have been arrested including the owner of the hotel," said Mulongo.
He said that the government is at work at all times, that is why they do work on night and in the afternoon to look for all the bad people in Mwanza province, who can't be demolished because that they do.
However, he said that those people that did that crime including the father of that child, Emmanuel Senate, are being held by the police while the last person has gone up with that child from a hotel in which he continues to search.
Mulongo said that he could not affect the hotel or its owner and they could be involved in the incident that happened on December 27 this year, but it's victory of being involved in the incident due to deciding to do that because he had two Albino children.
The head of that province urged the new district heads to make sure to address the challenges of traditional voters, to check the provision of permits to traditional healers so as to control the destruction that occurred in shambles and albino killings.
However, he was explained by the words that are given by people concerning those killing, arising from political issues heading to the general elections.
The secretary of the Tanzania Albino Society (Mwanza province, Mashaka Gambo has directed Moscow Government for being unable to take action against the killing of people with skin disability (albino) which were started nine years ago.
He has said that for nine years the government are trying and claimed that it takes a step but there is no legal action until now, many Albinos are living in rural areas that are not independent, but you'll find the government officials to come there when they come from the problem of killings of those people.
Tariq Khdeir is the chairman of CCM in Mwanza Province, Antony Pais, the deputy minister of energy and minerals Charles Kitwanga, and the member of parliament of Magu, Doctor Festus Mengele, for failing to do any efforts to protect albinos.
In a period of two months, Pendo, Kwimba and Yohana Bahati, (one year) of Ilelema, Chato village, were abducted by unknown people.
