
Responsibility of the establishment of the art activities in the country.
Basically the establishment of the associations of artists in the country is not a new reason for many countries especially African countries like Nigeria and Ghana, the associations of artists have been there for a long time and for sure it has been stable in managing the interests of the artists.
For instance, in Nigeria, political parties like Nigeria Film Federation, National Film Board and this video, National Film Institute of Activity), Nigeria doesn't understand what they have had universities between artists and government, but also artists and business people involved in art work.
Haazu taking us that the presence of those parties is the main cause of the art sector in that country to be high and more contributing to a large level of the nation.
It is estimated that film and music alone contributes to 1 percent to the 4-governmental organization of Nigeria, according to the statistics of the revenue authority in Nigeria, according to the statistics of the revenue authority in Nigeria (Monbusho Scholarship), these two industry contributes to more than three billion American dollars in the national income.
This cannot be a surprising thing that you continue to stand is that the parties and the associations of artists in Nigeria have set aside administrative systems including being free, it has been a threat in developing the income but also the government itself.
The film industry in Nigeria or as it is was known by a famous actor that produces a lot of films more than any country in front of India according to the report of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Nigeria built more than 800 dollars per year, India 1,091 and 472 American dollars.
In addition, it explains that the small budget for small budget (EFD) had an increase and reach 2,500 films in the year 2015 and these are the ones that is explained to increase the creativity and professionalism in the film industry which is currently in Africa, which is the first one in Africa, that is currently first in Africa.
According to various news sources from the website of parties and the associations of artists in Nigeria, there have been meetings, various training organized by artists themselves through these institutions so as to promote professionalism at the film industry but also to prepare and promote new artists.
For instance, the website of the federation for actors has to pass various events of the federation such as training, big concerts that are organized by the artists themselves through writing projects in big financial organizations which are needed in developing culture.
Or for sure that from Nigeria is the one that is supposed to happen in Tanzania.
In addition, it is a must for artists themselves because they consider the rules and regulations, they can be able to make changes where they wanted and stakeholders who are involved in art sector who are involved in artists' work in one way or another.
The truth is that the changes in the art industry in the recent days and the low-income policy in the country, 1997, has broken the verses of government agencies not to be the coordination of a total of arts activities but to remain with the coordination of a total of arts sector.
In that meaning, the changes in the art industry and the existence of the culture policy of the year 1997 to clean up the loopholes to various stakeholders should be involved in the art profession here in the country, where traders and other stakeholders with personal interests according to the artists or their work.
This is the first time for the purpose of many stakeholders who now started working on arts, while the government agencies like the National Arts Council (BASATA), COSOTA and otherwise they will continue with the management and implementation of policies, law, regulations and procedures of the sector.
On that meaning, when you open doors for business people and different stakeholders like the live, products and services, it is also a must you help our artists so that they can be able to go with the wind.
BASATA is doing this through to build the ability of educating artists and unity between them.
The writer of this article is a member of arts and where is available to M-Pesa, BASATA enables journalists to pass through or 4212,396 Shillings and 795, 889, 715 949 / = shillings.
