
Pastor seems to give him a student.

The 29th September 2016

The pastor of one church in Shinyanga municipality (name withheld) is accused of making love with a form one pupil when he invented the request for the student alleged to get the pregnancy of the pastor, after doing her love.
The orphans who is 17 years (we have the name), was surprised by a resident of Kasele County, Shinyanga municipality, who has complained about the act that was done by the pastor.
While speaking to journalists yesterday at his home in relation to the incident, the guardian (we have the name), claimed that after the student discovered that she is pregnant, he went to school claiming he was sent and went to home and went to live in Mwanachile village where his friends.
The guardian said the source of the pastor having a romantic relationship with the student is after reuniting with his church so that he can be able to a surprise for his request.
The student agreed with a good intention, but his results decided to work with him and to kill a girl, I was followed up by that report, we decided to look for him and found that village, "said the guardian.
"We've asked the source of him to run away from home and the reasons for going to school, he said he cannot go to school because he is pregnant and who's the pastor, we were surprised by the news when he made a call when we made the police, where the pastor was arrested.
On his part, the student who confessed to have pregnant what he claimed was for the pastor who made him to do a love when he made a request and that the first day to work with a wedding act, has given an amount of shillings 5,000 shillings and told me he loves.
That act has been cut off by one of the servants of that organization of Agathon Routh (the Assistant Commissioner of Shinyanga province, Samuel Magula, which is running a project of fighting corruption and early marriages in Shinyanga district and Shipafu.
"The report of the student is given pregnant with a person who was supposed to be the pastor of Muslims and life have been informed, and we request the police force to make sure the truth and be taken to court to answer his charge without considering it," said Magula.
The police force in Shinyanga province has confirmed the arrest of the pastor and opened at the investigation incident that was not known as RB / 730 / 2016 and that the suspect will be presented in court after the investigation will be completed.
