
Boeing 777 to start for Abu Dhabi's journey.

October 24, 2016.

Starting from December, this year, a type of type Boeing 787 model of Etihad Airways will officially start its journey between Abu Dhabi and Naronyo Kicheere.
The plane with the first level, between the normal bridge taking the position that was left by Airbus A340, which for now were allocated to other different stations for every day.
Speaking about the plane, the Head of Planning and Creativity Projects in Etihad, Kevin Kocsis said that the plane's journey is an illustration of knowing the importance of the center of Japan, is also part of the implementation of the strategies that had been done by that organization.
He said the quality of services provided in that plane has increased the value of that organization in competition of the air services.
That officer said the plane of Boeing 787 model has a total of 235 bed seats and among those, eight are in the first level, 28 of between and 199.
"Special seats in the first bridge have been improved to be given enough opportunity, while preparing itself with an average of the fire outbreaks that can be used as treatment which can carry up to two people," he said.
He said other services in that bridge are television and food being administered in special order.
In the middle class, the customers are given an opportunity to choose three types of food.
Kraehenbuehl said the food workers and drinks are also providing advice to passengers about the food type together with special drinks as passengers at the bridge that have a special diploma of shoes together with a special box of producing private equipment.
He said the plane has also contributed to various entertainment equipment like Pickup, which has seven vehicles of television, video, sports and 4G LTE network including the system of APPT-Fi in every candidate.
"This new service includes employees from different countries including users of the Swahili language, the ones that are being found in every journey of type Boeing 787 model, so as to give a donation of upbringing," he said.
Etihad Airways started a journey to go to Japan in the year 2010 with an airplane of every week for Abu Dhabi and Nuzulack Dausen through Beijing.
