

By Florence Nakheel, Masasi.
Together with the implementation of the free education policy to continue working in urban and rural areas, the situation of infrastructure of the school is bad, it shows openly in the exercise of desks especially in the rural schools.
While the directive by the desks is going on to be implemented some of the community am surprised and questioned the legality of the desks made and taken to their schools which have a big part of classrooms and toilets while students reading through fear under trees.
The presence of that directive has been causing a lot of questions, especially in the villages where there are schools that have school offices and class one, a situation that causes children to study under trees while the availability of a large number after the implementation of the free education policy.
The challenges which are in large areas are in the villages, a situation that makes it forced to get the journey and it has enabled us to sell their primary school, Masasi District, Mtwara Province.
That school which has four classrooms while having a previous class to seven results shows the tension of the coming of desks which some of the classrooms and its activities under breast cancer.
Those environments have been associated with students because it affects the holiday especially during rains where they fail to study under trees and make them run away, to disrupt the education schedule in that school.
The head teacher of that school, Barwan, says that until now 60 students have no place to study especially in class one, five and third class and that they get out of trees.
He says that the school is facing a lot of challenges including the shortage of classrooms and teachers, a situation that makes the citizens to be "dirty" which is not normal in order to ensure those students get education.
He says that until now the school has four classrooms a situation that causes the previous students learning under a tree, says that the school has 380 students and has six teachers only.
However, he added that the school has had four pit latrines for the students while teachers do not have toilets, a situation that led to all 380 students and six teachers to come together and therefore endangering health of users of those toilets.
"He said the government will be able to play with another eye for another school, especially during this rainy season, time to time we find out with this environment that caused the students not to have enough understanding.
"The previous children need good learning environment but they don't have one class, something that is very dangerous because trees can leave or pest," says Makandege.
He says that one of the teachers believed to have 10 studies and a question that makes the teachers to do so that the child can be better than another.
One of the teachers of that school, Zenani and LSE's, says that the action of the students learning under trees has been causing a understanding of a child due to teaching being difficult especially when you need to help one child.
