A new news reporter.
That we are heading to the elections.
This is a person to be born before us we should not be careful in ensuring that all people are not journalists just because all people are using the development of technology.
The benefits and by preventing each other and by knowing that this will benefit us?
We think that I think I did not be able to remember well this year we have said that issues concerning the freedom of the media and communication has been advised.
The press themselves against taking an envelop.
It is things that have been discussed as a violation of the journalism profession.
However, there is reasons which result in the environment.
In my research to work for a long time and the media networks are buildings.
When you get in Dar es Salaam city, it shows that the journalists do not know where to take an envelop.
Or it is bribery or a type of bribery they don't know.
Up to the time we were running a training about small integrity, it protects you and it is the truth when you missed him, and it is your responsibility to serve the community because you're looking for information and it is your responsibility to serve the community.
And a difficult environment that is working is not a friend who doesn't know the interests of the employees of many workers who do work without inside without considering the contracts and if they have the ability to pay their money and others do not use them.
However, I wrote your album as it is.
It has also been reported that one hundred thousand shillings becomes the only way who use the sun is that when it comes from here you should look at different training every time coming from the end at the end of the media, we are being paid little, are believed to have reached an envelop that will do but this is due to one problem.
There is no one who will take this news reporter, but he too.
The foundation of the journalists not to go to school as they go to school.
There is no employer who I think would know a lot of living with people.
There are a foundation problem.
To go to the ones who are saying that they are the journalists you should not know what you are doing when you ask you to work for a time.
A very few will be a wall like a person who can wake up the morning he knows all the journalists when we saw it, but we would like to pay this opportunity because he didn't expect it, "we would like to pay for the first time but not the rights of people.
Everything in the media must be a check in here in the country, an issue of competition to killing development in the media?
But the state of lack of competition with productivity for this profession is caused by future.
Competition is there.
But many competitive competition are not worried because they are not worried.
There are many media stations which would we expect the father.
When there are different news, but you will find that the organs get to be like this news that I do not know.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we're getting in Dar es Salaam.
And.
Apart from you, that there are many media houses but there is a lot of news especially we need those who are in that industry those who do work come out and look for different news for different people in their community.
And Brazil we see.
Sorry '.
There is a story.
Now.
Their problems are there.
Same of them is their needs in large numbers and for the difference, because these are things that do not affect the competition which are very high in the world, that is why they can get the first time and you believe that if they can get the first time, then you think that they can get the first time and to see another one is that due to the leadership of the news.
Those of the students will be told that they are unable to continue or to advance themselves, give them close to the news because the sun will go down and then I will be a journalist with what to believe.
