
That order to improve the interests of the press.

It has been written by special writer, Zanzibar.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, has said that the government will do everything possible to ensure work environment together with the interests of the workers of the media stations have been completed so as to restore the status of those institutions.

Doctor Shein who visited the radio and the newspaper of Zanzibar today and doing a special interview with the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC), he said he is impressed by the performance of leaders and workers of Zanzibar (ZBC), he said he is impressed by the performance of leaders and workers of the media, who have been unable to work well, despite the challenges they face.
He said the government has intended to make great amendments to ZBC and all the media stations not only to improve the quality standards of workers, but also providing special awards to employees who will work well in order to improve the capacity of work.
In the previous steps of improving the government institutions of the government, he said the government has given the directive by the Ministry of Information, Culture, Tourism and Sports, to prepare a special seats for employees to work in difficult environments.
Speaking about some of the workers who had already left in the media stations due to poor interests and unpleasant environment, he said that many hope that many of them will come back in the coming days if they have been doing in different institutions.
The president of Zanzibar about Zanzibar, today said that the government has already bought new modern equipment of printing, which will also be used to move on the newspaper instead of being sworn in outside of Zanzibar, an issue that causes the congestion of debt for the cost of independence.
Last Saturday, the President of Zanzibar met with the leadership of the Ministry of Information, Culture, Tourism and Sports, the leadership of the Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) and the president of Zanzibar today, to talk about the strategy to help strengthen the radio stations and the Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC).
