The people of Zanzibar have died in the judgment.
May 22, 2014.

The system of many political parties started in Zanzibar for 1950, it was the first of the ones that affect the political parties in the islands.
Other political parties at the same time, Afrima-Evolution and Big Results Now (ASP) and Zanzibar, don't fight for freedom and is expecting that Zanzibar will be free and have a lot of power to its citizens will benefit.
Unfortunately, the competition of political parties had sharp edges.
The members and the followers of all the two political parties (ASP) were full of political parties, the supporters of the party and those of them were painful to the hostility seen and to make them truthful that it appears during the violence of June 19.
He sodomized that violence and it was during elections and violence started at the polling stations while the England ambassador announced that they are preventing the people to be released outside the night until 12 o'clock in the morning.
The colonial government has also hit the police together with the King of African Soccer, Charles (RTO) and Baton the sixth from Kenya to come to help the police in Zanzibar to protect peace.
Hostility between those parties continued to reach the peak of Zigamba has organized her husband to Zanzibar and Pemba the People's party (Zigamba) was launched and ASP on January 12th, 2014.
We missed the revolution day that had only one political party and we are at the moment there is a system of parties self-employed when we see that the division of the age of 1950, and 1960 has emerged again.
We see another fact that many youths who run the CCM camp and although they have not registered themselves directly and CUF is clear that in the next general elections of 2015, many youths will break their votes.
The system of many political parties has its advantages and disadvantages of its great benefits, that made the citizens to have political awakening and the participants in their national activities, the system that requested the citizens to move the freedom of their nation while making the fight against the net.
At the moment the system intends to help the citizens to have public awareness to fight for the Zanzibar High Court by partnering with Tanganyika in the type of unity that is like the United Republic of Europe.
A big loss of the system in the way you are in Zanzibar, especially among the activists of CCM and their party, it's true that your eyes should understand among them, the political party and the ordinary citizens in their country.
They are unable to recognize that the political party is as a community of the intention of people who agree about the thoughts and certain goals.
When we say that, political parties did not hesitate to live all citizens.
The importance of the political party is to look for a message of a citizen and the citizen is responsible so as to make sure that his country is the reason we have insisted that the slogan of "first country," that the country is important than a political party.
We focus on those with the real situation as it is today in Zanzibar Islands, by bad luck the government of the national union (SUK) of Zanzibar does not have one stand about the current process of giving the new constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, especially the issue of the structure of the union.
I remember that process since it started three years ago, he insisted to time for the importance of Zanzibar and his government to have one stand about the issue, the stand that is in line with the requirements of the people of Zanzibar and the aim of fulfilling the interests of the Zanzibar islands.
Because now the special Parliament of the constitution in Dodoma has been postponed until August 5, representatives of Zanzibar in that parliament have a good opportunity to prepare a strategy of the government.
First, they need to think and discuss with transparency about what happened in the first round and how can destroy the interests of Zanzibar's interests and not their personal interests or not their parties.
The biggest thing that they are supposed to remember it is that all parties are born and they are born but the country is not able to go against thousands of years and their political parties. The history of Zanzibar did not start there after the Revolutionary Party and it did not start of 1977 due to the party of CCM.
Zanzibar has a long history and for a total of people of Zanzibar, it is people who have a lot of patriotism and you will defend their country.
The delegates of CCM who represent Zanzibar in the constitutional parliament like the truth is patriotic have a great job of doing first time, are supposed to ask you and it's determined to have participated in the first round of the constitutional parliament.
