
Two sides that are involved in the south east of Ukraine got an agreement last week, a step that brought peace after stopping the fighting in a large area of that area.
The end of the fight is expected to bring a chance to deal with the big health challenges in that area which was not recognized by the workers of donations.
However, in the city of Immigration officers who had been surrounded by rebels who were supported by Russia, few events of the fights have been operated on due to the rebels in the area claiming that the agreements were reached in MONDE, Beliebers,.
Those agreements were arrived at between the rebels and Russia in one hand with the Ukraine government and the European Union (EU) on the other side.
If they left that, people who had been killed in some areas have been facing challenges of getting health services.
That situation doesn't affect the country in a big conflict of human conflict, something which could be used if an intentional efforts will be taken or if the fights will be taken or if the fights will be taken against them.
That conflict has affected more than five million people, with 14 million as explained by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the organizations for defending human rights that are faced with a big amount.
That is because they are forced to abandon their homes, lack of income and protect themselves in important services including health.
The fight together with the steps taken by the concerned sides in that conflict have caused the needs of drugs to help them in a large extent or a reduction.
Hospitals have been destroyed or deal with the problem of lack of water, electricity and the shortage of workers in health centers while health officers have condemned the fighting.
The lack of the termite there is an end of the explosions such as the disease of producing and the Quran.
There is worried that among the people that live with the danger of AIDS and tuberculosis in the university, while transportation of important medicine is completely eradicated.
According to the commission of the United Nations (UN) the number of people that was forced to fulfill their homes due to the east conflict of Ukraine is 70,089, that have now changed to be refugees inside their country.
That number is said it was increasing at 100,000 shillings every week while hundreds of thousands living in difficult conditions of giving up and clean environment that are not safe and therefore causing a health check.
That situation is also giving the loopholes of spread in speed of non-communicable diseases as tuberculosis.
There is no form of provision of health services in east of Ukraine due to lack of resources, some of the residents of that area are faced with extra restrictions to reach health services.
