

By Christian Bella.
To read it is not a easy behavior to build especially in our community that depends on the story and talks as a way to educate themselves.
We have been redeemed by the environment that we insisted on the importance of reading. Even so, to read it is a habit that doesn't know the ones that are not involved in this world that is capable of dealing with knowledge.
Likewise, the success of a professional child has a good relationship with the culture of learning and therefore, if we look for our children to have a habit of learning without considering that, we have a great responsibility to build that culture since they are still young.
To put a clean environment.
The working environment to develop themselves as well as making sure those books are available at home.
Being a example to read.
We cannot see the same child that we do not have if we want this child to read, we are advised that we should learn if you are doing so that when we are seen, we should be read once again, it is easy to see that.
In addition, it's not a must for you to read the books, it does not care with the aim of acting the culture of reading.
To sign him.
The child can't understand what she desires to see himself without seeing his father in his life as usual, small children like things that use their understanding and therefore, to see you of knowing more of books.
For example, there are many articles in the holy books we want to look for its books and attend to our children as well as helping our children so that he can be able to read these stories, "it will not work hard to be a good reader of books when he becomes the whole person.
To give him a mistake when you know.
For three things that we saw, it is easy for a child to follow the habit of reading immediately when he started showing you the books, we need to give birth to them so as to fulfill that behavior.
Likewise, instead of bringing to children a gift of 66 candies and other normal things, we can also bring books for stories they go and attend to.
For sure, together with its challenges, it is possible to build children that good readers be important in all of us because we are parents to see the importance of studying for being an example of reading the books we are in home.
The author is the psychology lecturer at the Catholic University of Mwenge (Uhuru CAT). It is available on skin rashes.
