National Identification Authority will be used.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

National identity cards will be already used in the next general elections of the president, members of parliament and councilors.

This was said yesterday by the acting head of the communication unit of the National Identification Authority (NIDA), Rose Mdami at an explanation to the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai at the Pius Msekwa Hall in town, in a ceremony to hand over the leader of his national identity cards.
Mdami said that the authority has taken the voters report from the National Electoral Commission (NEC) and cut off and there is a big possibility of national identity cards which have been already used in the next elections and enable them get affordable the commission to achieve the election of the president, members of parliament and councilors.
The identity cards we will make now have the sign of the concerned person, therefore, they will be used in that bank, we have collaborated with NEC who have given them and we are continuing with the procedures so as to be able to be used in the 2020 elections instead of the commission, "said Mdami.
While giving thanks, Ndugai congratulated the authority for having good plans, but he advised the government to appreciate the bank to protect someone to open an account without having the national identity cards.
The speaker also asked the reasons for Nida who has been selected to have national identity cards in the different time and went to by Mdami to be the first identity card for the second citizen of foreign citizens that lives in the country and the last one for the purpose of refugees.
"For now it is not easy for a refugee who mingled in the streets and get the national identity cards, we will partner with Tamisemi to ensure there is no cheating again. Someone who got into the form to be given the identity card is being required through 72 sections that are not easy to get married and not the native," said Mdami.
