Speaking at a meeting of the construction of talks between political parties from neighboring countries from Mozambique, Zimbabwe and the top of Uganda James Mbatia has said those councils are important in the construction of environmental degradation, a situation that allows them to give birth to hatred and hostility.
The Federation of political parties from other African countries has started today in Dar es Salaam city with the aim of exchange experiences where the chairperson of democracy of democracy in the country, James Mbatia addressing African countries by using classrooms with the process that they have proposed that it will not allow God to invest in peace.
It is bad luck.
To help us to see our colleagues in the community of my loan, it has begun to put on the stronghold of diseases.
Do not try to start looking for each other, there was also Father and the language we use and coldness, Honorable Speaker we are talking and we will be able to be able to make it.
Remember the month of January last year.
After the election elections?
.
Opening that meeting, the deputy minister of constitution and law Angellah Kairuki said the classrooms with the improvement of democracy is important for the purpose of strengthening democracy of many parties in Africa and warned that the councils should be used well after building hatred and distribution in the community.
The directive by starting the conflicts of talks is one thing but in the way or it should also be used to use such acts.
In a way which?
On the basis of it is accepted and not for another foundation.
The participants of that meeting that to talk about the importance of the councils of that kind with the aim of growing democracy and peace in the community.
Here we're continuing to try that, because they get married.
Although we are from Zimbabwe and his fans do not know how we can get your friend to the citizens.
Almighty God rest every day that the protests.
And place blood as well as other things, they will get an opportunity to visit political parties in the country and to see for himself the performance of the domain, we have been many and not a class.
