You want presidency as we attend the fight against corruption.
Jide 17, 2014.

I don't know if he will be a young man, an old man, a Muslim or a physically challenged, from Tanzania Mainland or in the Islands, rich or poor, UKAWA or CCM, "the subject is known as Kikwete or bad luck.

To me, those reputation are not easy and it is not important in looking for a good president next year.

In addition to a human being, we could make a small voice, look for primary and primary services that concern them, but still you need anything in those.

Baden Yunus, I need to deal with him so that I do not have the promise to fight against corruption.

It's not supposed to be used for road, or don't want improvements on primary services but I believe if we be able to stop corruption, it is a must that you pay Tanzania in all other areas, health, education, infrastructure and others.

Corruption, I also speak about it is in a broad way, including theft of government revenue for those who are believed to collect, misuse of public property, the appointment on a criterion to sell, misuse of power so as to benefit and so on.

In addition to corruption, I don't talk about corruption in all parts of the country including the court, parliament, and in different levels of government, it will ensure that you go through, and different sectors including health and education.

My faith that corruption is the main problem, primary and other problems is high to an extent that I am announcing that the candidate will play against corruption that the priority will involve him by campaigning for him, but also a big campaign.

But I will not be satisfied, we do not have promises to see me, but I want to hear the instructions that have been touched by showing that the candidate sees no problem of corruption.

There are five important awards for the fight against corruption I have peace to leave, so as to go to vote.

In the first half, the candidate has no problems that corruption has no great problem than all of our country and that the problem of corruption is the source of poverty, diabetes, and ignorance, and heads that were affected several decades ago during the leadership of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.

By saying that corruption has a great problem, the candidate will have admitted the presence of a problem, something that is the right time to deal with the problem.

The second second, is expecting that the leadership will complete his term in the year, the leadership of President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete has failed to fight against corruption and maybe a large extent in the increase of that problem.

In all the leadership positions, many cases of corruption have been destroyed, under the leadership of President Jakaya Kikwete, several accusations of corruption were unblocked after the retired president of the third term, Benjamin William Mkapa and a new some.

However, the problem is not there in the scandal, but it is the way the leadership of the country has been using yourself where many times the appropriate action was taken and when the steps were taken and there were not enough money or were taken against them.

It is important for a leader who would like to advise that the leadership failed so that we can't know the new hope among the citizens and there will be no story "we will continue with the efforts in last phase, the efforts were not there.

After acknowledging the presence of the problem and that the president who passed was unable to leave the third term President Nkurikiye was unable to give the intention as required and promised the nation that he will start a permanent fight against corruption and that the fight is a priority number one of his leadership.

In the fourth phase of the fight against corruption, I hope that she has to make sure that in the fight against corruption, it will be able to take difficult decisions that will not be touched by some people including the rich, politicians, and her friends.

This view in the fight against corruption is important because the strong and legal action against corruption in Tanzania is equal to cancer treatment, whereby one-fielder can be forced to have been forced to be used to protect their body.

Four times I had previously mentioned including acknowledging the problem, to recognize that those who were unable to deal with that problem while if you know the fight is the only war and it does not need strategies that are the fifth term and the last year.

In a fifth phase of the fight against corruption, the expertise is needed because there are some laws that will be advised, so as to improve various procedures in the provision of service delivery so that some institutions may be used for great changes.

This is my view on corruption and it is easy for the first number of development.
