
Serengeti Boys a lot of money that he used to support him.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

After the national team of Tanzania, Taifa Stars "to be released at the finals of the African Confederation Cup (AFCON) and the World Cup, we have remained with the national team of youths under the age of 17 years in Serengeti Boys.

This is a small team that has shown hope in his activities of looking for a chance to qualify for the African Cup competition to youths of that age after showing efforts in his previous matches.
Serengeti Boys is expected to play one last game to ensure the position of participating in the African Cup that will take place in Madagascar.
Tomorrow it will start the first game at home to qualify for the last stage against Congo witnessed, that will be played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
Before that game, there was a team that the youth have raised well the national flag after winning 3-0 goals against 1-0 away by 1-0 away by 1-0 goals by home by 2-0 goals.
In those results, for sure it was giving out someone to get into the third round which needs the strength of soccer fans in the country to support the support so as to continue doing well.
This team has been playing without having many fans on the field, different from how it played a big national team that has been unable to cater for now after being released in the competition.
For this team of youths to do well, we do not want to come out in large numbers in the field and supporting them as we believe that is the team that we have remained to reach far.
The fans should not be afraid by the Congo name witnessed because it has continued, in any football it is possible that the team has been putting efforts to its ability.
The coach of that team, Bakari Shime has said that many fans have not believe that they can do great entertainment because they are determined to give its own entertainment to ensure they receive the opponents at home ground.
Shime has said it has been difficult for fans to believe that there is a day they will believe that there is a day they will believe it and come up on the field and for sure the statement of Shime has a great meaning to Tanzanians, and all of us to help these youths by getting us to our field.
To arrive in large numbers at the field to identify the players, they will endeavor to show their quality, because everyone wants to make sure that each one for his position will be removed and to see the importance of this match to the nation since they play the importance of all Tanzanians and love soccer in the country.
