What does it mean to say God is true?
To lead the government in a easy way until the ministers.
They were a had a decision and the second part in every religious leader to be taken to the government becomes great to the religious leaders.
Religious institutions we said that we cannot be taken to the leaders.
Those at the moment it reached a place, I heard that there are people who were saying that there are people who are saying that there are religious leaders who seem to be.
I got to know that some of the politicians from another side, what is in opposition was to want you to use it as we not less.
It can't be found and they were affected by President Kikwete he will talk about the committee of consent and the peace of religious leaders.
Even I don't know the statement of the religious leader he said he is very disappointed with the coach for it because I think two?
Because it was you?
Similarly, it has been accepted, and the side you want to continue.
His organization even great use is true that there was two sides of a result of one side.
Its a problem, says if you use the word.
You can be because of state in the future of the same, it will reach even a day I said in this, I am mature until when we are going on.
The late?
We were.
No.
I don't agree with one of the problems.
That is where we can see that I will be able to finish with me, the retired center, I would like to discuss these issues but they decided to finish on how I would like that I would like to see these issues I would like that I would like to see that I would have seen if he would have been seen as a result of the prosecutor.
Let me miss.
Why do you play in newspapers and follow up the newspapers you are doing.
You can see himself the patient.
Why is it allowed to use the word to fear when you see the eyes.
Open fire between two sides.
Maybe what happens it is why we believe.
He is one among the thoughts that I was able to wait and follow through a service because the time for a long time you want to see, I think I am supposed to know what I would like, I think I don't know what I would like, I think I don't know what I would like, I think I would like to follow the word.
Wait, you were not a government that we know even I am a citizen themselves to get the word.
They have said it did not live but they did not say anything which he did not live as the government has said.
At the moment you come back again, maybe I did not show a problem because the president spoke about this issue of opinion polls and not to do.
Yes, it was at the first call, they're very close to when you know the son but now the government will leave you in there because we see him that I was going to listen to how many times, Pinda spoke.
Pinda was the chairperson because he has also been the chairperson because he didn't know that before the easy way to end the Friday, his death was under the WBC Label.
He has been a patient.
Additionally, Mgonja is supposed to be fast and to take away the government, he says that it is required to pay if it will be able to agree on the use of speaking even if it will solve.
His stove has been lucky enough on the date.
In the speech of President Kikwete, where it is easy to say that, you can have fallen from elections contrary to what they are doing and for the right time, when you get reports but there are still a report but there was the first time they were annoyed by the government and other government leaders, being prepared.
We have seen in parliament after the member of parliament of Ubungo John Mnyika have agreed to be discussed but also the statement of the prime minister's prime minister, Mizengo Pinda said the opinion polls are expected to be careful so that the patient can't know who or the testing of the government is a spokesperson for being used as well.
As he is expecting to speak about when you want this issue, they were required to citizens in the friendly match, they were finished, after the government's statement passed, I was very delicious with the permit.
