Simba, Yanga.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

Things were safe for Simba and Yanga yesterday, after winning their matches of the premier league that was played in two different stadiums.

The leaders of that league, Simba in the City of Mbeya that deals with a win of 2-0 goals against Mbeya City in a match that was played at the Sokoine stadium in that town.
The Simba victory has done on top with 20 points in its eight matches that it played at the heroes of Simba yesterday was Ibrahim Ajib by being the leading goal in the 6th minute, after winning football that was going directly on stage.
In the 33 minute, Wema Sepetu followed by Simba the second goal after hating defenders of Mbeya who were seen to be tired of the beginning of the game.
Simba would be able to get a third goal but his player Fredrick Blacks, bought a penalty kick off by Mbeya City club at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, the defending champions Yanga that poured with a win of 3-1 goals against Mtibwa Sugar.
The win enables Yanga to reach 14 points in the stand after playing seven matches with Yanga goals yesterday were scored by Obrey Chirwa, in the 45 minute when he scored the ball from Simon Msuva and defeated the ball.
Mtibwa Sugar broke the goal in the 63 minute through Haruna Chanongo, but only lasted for five minutes before Msuva had gone to Yanga the second goal in 68 minutes of Donald Ngoma to increase the third goal in the 79 minute.
At Kambarage Shinyanga stadium, Stand United continued to taste the fans of soccer after scoring 1-0 goals.
That victory makes Stand United to continue playing in the second position in the league standing with 19 points in nine matches that it has played.
At the CCM Kirumba stadium Mwanza, Toto Africans announced a beating of 3-1 goals from new teams in Mbao FC.
Mbao was the first to get a leading goal in that match in the 39 minutes through Dickson Pickup, before Minister Junior insisted on Toto Africans on the 41 minutes.
Mbao has started the second period in speed and in the 58 minutes, Hussein Pickup, to pay the second goal before Boniface Maganga went to the third goal in the 90th minute.
Another match was played yesterday at the Mabatini Stadium in Mlandizi where the hosts JKT Ruvu came out with Prisons.
