
Mboto is believed to have films although they are not seen.
Kalala Jamal, The Citizen of Gongo la Hoya.
If he is a lover of the film that will you know the actor, Salum Haji popularly known.
By looking for that name for the first time, Mboto is a comedian asked the many people especially the film fans from the competence of doing it when it comes to the whole issue of humor, when you talk about laughing.
Every time that is for that position she has accepted, is a fox which can't have a whole film to accumulating wealth so as to enjoy.
He likes acting to send himself so that they do not tire us from what they are already they are tired of the life of life.
Mboto says he likes acting film of Muslims more than another because of IT you need to be identified and they don't like each other and he does not want to do that because he does not want to do so because he does not recognize them because he didn't forget.
He explains that the life of stem cells are difficult and that there is no need to buy food and therefore they are using a lot of time to think that he will not be avoided, so as to at least make them lose their lives of life.
He is saying that actress who doesn't accept to all is Denys of Washington DC.
He likes to look at the American film because they have the fact that despite they were forced to come, different from what could be attracted a lot of time.
Most of them have gone into a great shape, they are talking like people with money and put on well with the work they are unknown, "says Mboto.
He says they don't know many of the films that he believes are there inside the guidelines, but they added so as to get good flavor he is doing so that she does not want to have faith, that is why he needs to have a lot in every day.
He says he is happy to look for his shame to look for football and film, together with the right in town, to take enough plots, la Mboto likes eating carbohydrates, and Mlapa.
He likes to look for football and film because there have learned a lot of things and how people get their brain and they look for how to give them others.
He likes the music artist Ally Kiba and Diamond Platnumz he likes to sing more than 1500 songs, but he does not like to be a musician because he does not have a chance to get success while there.
The artists or music artists of the new generation who love is Ally Kiba and Diamond Platnumz have been impressed by those artists each other for his good flavor while he has decided to sign his fellow musician from every time of singing with his performance.
Because he has discovered his security even when getting in the marriage, he says that many women love it according to the truth, but among those who he has not seen him who will not get married but his heart doesn't know him.
He also sees that the system of payment is because of a wall and he was satisfied with the income that he got because he has found the situation there.
The system that she used to pay film actors is going on until now and even when he is deciding to follow his dreams of being an actress of humor, it revealed that.
To listen to the system is a matter that needs a long time and what he did is to agree with them while looking at the way to return to her work which have a chance to discuss the system more than complaining.
When he disappeared from the film he wrote more than that he has written, and accepts the writer of film guidelines who is also an expert of humor, my friend, although he believes that she needs good guidance for good producers and good directors to make it more better.
He believes that it is not every thing that you came up and he can be your son of Mboto not to stay, he has one female child called Asia, while he is also getting a woman waiting to be his wife.
He is happy that father.
