
The minister did not pollute the markets of capital.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The government has requested the marketing and Communications Regulatory Authority (CMSA) in dealing with various challenges by improving its program of providing education to the public and more services to different groups in implementing its responsibility of developing capital markets in the country.

The Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, said this yesterday in Dar es Salaam city at the ceremony to hand over the gifts to winners of the international markets competition for students from universities, higher education institutions and providing certificates to the graduates of the course of executives in the capital city.
Doctor Ashatu said that for now, many citizens are not aware of the meaning of markets of capital and bail and its benefits, therefore the authority has a responsibility to ensure they have strategies and strategies to reach citizens.
He congratulated 7,300 students who came out to participate in that competition where the number of 2000 participants were expected to participate, therefore they exceeded the aim of participation at the 290 percent.
Earlier, the Executive Officer of CMSA, Nasir Massinda said the authority made the competition to universities and higher education institutions from July 4 to September 10 this year, the aim being to build and increase the understanding about the opportunities and benefits of participating and investing in capital markets.
Massinda said that after the primaries, 80 students who are 40 boys and 40 girls were selected after getting high points which is equivalent to one percent of all participants.
He said those winners have divided into two groups in which the first group is winners of Mali and the second group is winners of the questions.
However, the first winners in every competition to be awarded 1 million shillings, the second winner will be awarded 1200 million shillings, the third winner were awarded 500,000 shillings and other participants to be awarded 100,000 shillings together with certificates.
He also said 12 participants who had a high table are taking part of the training tour in Ghana where he will visit the marketing and marketing officer of Ghana and the five companies that are concerned with the provision of services in capital markets in that country.
