
It is a ban on the transportation of votes in the country, the commission depends on the results will be announced at the stations for the presidential forms to be held in that region and be announced.

The chairman of the National Electoral Commission (NEC), Retired Judge Damian Lubuva, has said that all the presidential votes, parliamentary and council members will be counted at the polling stations and all the results were announced there and it is banned for transporting those votes as it was in the past.

Judge Lubuva said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday at a meeting with representatives of the disabled to discuss how to participate in the general elections on October 25th this year.

He said that in the election of this year, it is banned to relocate the votes of votes because the polling stations will be taught, they will be centers to ask for votes after the casting of votes.

"All the presidential votes, parliamentary and councilors will be counted in every station and the results were written in the stations so I don't know that the votes will be rigged.

"After the results were written in every station that will be taken to the concerned wards to be dealt with and there will also be written.

"The councilor candidate will be announced there by the parliamentary and presidential candidates to be taken to the province where he will be presented by the parliamentary winner will be announced and given a certificate as the presidential candidate was taken to the headquarters of the commission.

"The presidential results will be written in every region and the form one results will be dealt with and goes directly at the headquarters of the commission through the national communication network instead of mobile phones as it was previously," said Lubuva.

He said that the way will help the results to reach quickly as required and after the commission receiving those results, it will be announced directly through television and radio.

Judge Lubuva said another way that has been organized for sending the results is because of God (don't know) where all councils in the country have lost the equipment that will enable them to fulfill those results.

He said the step by the commission to announce those results through television and radio will help citizens compared to the results that they will have and that will be announced by the commission.

As a result of that situation he urged political parties to abandon the statement of urging their followers to change, at the stations after voting because there are no votes that will be treated.

I don't see the need of the parties to say that they protect the votes because all the votes are to remain at the stations and they will be counted in the areas and in the past, they had been taken to the ward and visited to be distributed, "he said.

Judge Lubuva also urged the political parties to stop interfering with responsibilities of the commission including following the changes of directors that are being done inside that institution.

"Madee has advised political parties to abandon the responsibilities of the commission that were not supposed to sit and inform us when he put some departments here, what will they go through rights or not to be afraid," he said.

He made that statement a few days after the press led by the chairperson of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), saying the director of ICT in the commission, Swaliatu Msuya, was removed from that position while holding those changes and preparations of stealing votes.

However, NEC denied those reports saying that there was no one who was killed in all his department but those heads of the department should understand that their photos are the reason not being put in the list which is in the website of the commission.

Judge Lubuva said that the last exercise of the voters will be completed after two weeks until three months and voters will get an opportunity to use eight days before the election.
