And we will be satisfied by the army instead of increasing.
Dec 80, 2015.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
Lover Frank Mvungi.
Thank you very much my lover to hear that you come later this week I was to give me my life, I am not pleased by missing my lover with the house it has turned into the field of Kinondoni, although I am happy to change, and the river can benefit us.
No lover, you should not allow me to be infected with your head, this is the reason why I wish you even though I would like to see this week and even when I saw it appears to see that the prime minister was surprised.
"You are saying, it is not true that you are clean more than the Easter festivals, how can you be afraid of what?
"Mlenda, the mother of children, you don't know the first it is possible that they have a lot of pain without knowing."
"Where was it?
"We have left alone for these days every person becomes a spirit like what we are supposed to be accountable.
There is his boss at me when I click here.
"My condolences to the father, the world does not have justice and if we are all of us we are faced by the mistake of one person in the class."
Boss he gets easily.
"This is very different from Vaquina, there was a bad condition and there's a bad condition, they will give him a lot, they will give him a lot, they will give him a name so that they can be taught."
What's the meaning of the father?
"Give birth inside people, by the delay of time, we want people to be accountable and to have ever been silent, then the one who struck a Christmas holidays and when Christmas is coming back again there that Christmas is true?
"Or he knows her because they did not choose his party."
"It is not the yes or a good thing, I give him my hundred boss, I give him my hundred boss, in wanting them to change everything but he should know that it is a must to follow the course of the law."
"He is with his aides.
"Well, and that is why I don't know what does not tire you with free!"
MB 3 is a bit by BB and when I click here and we had to make me feel that she gets into the field so that they are seen.
"The father, I request to ask for a question."
"Engees Okoye.
"We have used to be used to do something, we are supposed to pray to him to vote and to fill in his decisions, why this journey is silent like people that were stolen.
His boss, laughing out anyway.
"Others have been cut off.
BB did not want to change the topic. "
"I thank the father's father, what is your choice, or he has insisted on the meaning of this way it has a long time."
"I don't know the others but my side, I have been surprised to see full direction and arrest people's policies or actions of here and there.
"Ah a father! But it is actions that most of them do not enjoy. I believe I'm proud of having a good president so."
"We are not known as usual you see politics is a easy game like you, people who have their interests here in the country.
"That is why I would like your party to support him, as he is not alone."
"Sanga, others have started as the heads of provinces."
"It is not correct if we are supposed to enter on the road and to cheer up him."
"Then does not use it."
Therefore, maybe the truth I will do so, but because you will not get him, I am surprised that even their opponents don't have so. "
"Why do that they do that, they have a agenda of corruption again.
"That is why this time is the right time to come out and thank your boss for implementing their manifesto."
"We are seen that a child has a fox.
"No the father of the manifesto of who put changes in front of who wanted to demolish the system before it does not get us."
His boss was silent.
"And after that, all opponents failed to come out and cut off the demonstration of demonstrations to support him in his war."
Although the boss he gets easily, he could not try to prevent me.
"Let us lose your worry because it is impossible because we are preventing.
"Reader said, the father did you vote?
Silent.
"I desire to see that day.
"Let me am saying that their opponents can't do that because they have a very high speed on the meaning of the opposition."
Even if you are other with the whole mind, their opponents having pain, are in danger of what we warned, policies and everything that we are supporting their policies and even to arrest their people themselves, that's when they will enable them to build their energy and they will be able to help in the lead in brackets to be able to help the lead in order to help them.
"Mmambe, Honorable I see you have been speaking with your small mother and the ideas of those poison."
"Each other than the father look at history, one person cannot change his system and even to fight for freedom, without the strength of many, it's possible that we are waiting for a chance to participate in us.
His boss was walking a little, then he decided to leave.
"Even at my home, they are continuing to go down and we have never done this person to sit with him, instead of his case."
You don't know that her lover?
And I think that she was happy and the cost of my own lover.
Hidaya.
