Ukawa have lost direction.
Sei 23, 2015.

The chairman of the former commission for constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba has said the Union of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) has lost direction and violating the basis of its establishment.
According to Judge Warioba, Ukawa which is holding the basis of the draft constitution which has reduced the power of the president and refused the ministers not to be members of parliament, now its direction in this period of the general elections has changed from.
Judge Warioba was responding to several questions of this newspaper, one of the questions is the foundation stone for a political partnership with four opposition parties (Ukawa), CUF and NCCR-Revolution) and not the second draft of the constitutional parliament under their union, Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa).
In his answer to the special question, Judge Warioba said Mrs Asha "talks after getting from the draft constitution that made me believe that opposition parties were supporting the recommendations of the commission.
"Some of the people explained to me told that Ukawa had big opposition parties because I was told that the opposition parties, especially the parliament are saying that the government has stolen his policies so as to get the reputation of bringing a new constitution.
"Therefore, their intention was to stop the process of preventing the constitution not to be taken up until when they stop power so that they should support the constitution that will benefit them even so I did not believe that they have been told, I believe that the opposition were supported with the recommendations of the commission.
"The situation I have seen now is different after the campaign started I see the stand of Ukawa is different from the major recommendations of the commission, there are those concerning the union, power, power and ethics.
"Ukawa have shown a different position with the previous position as CUF managed to announce that their stand about the union is a union of the contract and this position ended up publicly by Maalim Seif.
"The commission explained that the government's authority has been taken so much by ministers not to be members of parliament and he will promise the president he will leave the people who were sentenced to prison and he will leave the people who are in court.
"Ethics is a very big issue to the citizens and that is why the commission contributed a gift of the nation, foundation of leadership and lack of leaders to be directed to the constitutional law and lack of leaders to vie for power and now they have violated ethics.
"Ukawa has changed very much after receiving leaders from CCM who were in the commission of constitutional changes to eliminate the thoughts of these leaders, some of them we met with more than one hour and the cases they said are in a short time.
"Their thoughts are against the draft constitution in important areas, especially about ethics, lack of leaders, office of the president to separate power from government and parliament, and the union.
"The problem that was inside CCM now come to Ukawa and Ukawa are saying that you will change the thoughts of those leaders who came from CCM and I believe that Ukawa are still changed and they have already been seen as a procedure to select the presidential candidate is an example of statements on another campaign.
"Ukawa has been able to reduce the power of the president not again, it came in Ukawa's great authority to the president of Ukawa, ethics and lack of leaders who left Ukawa to separate power from the government and the parliament that has left Ukawa to remain in the parliament.
In short, the position that was inside the parliament has gone to Ukawa through more than the leaders who had a strong stand about the draft constitution left, that is Doctor Slaa and Professor Lipumba by saying that there is a contract between Ukawa and new leaders to change the policies of Ukawa and how the leaders should know them is to give an order.
"The debates that we have made enough education to show the weaknesses of the proposed constitution, together with running that debates, we are talking to various leaders, especially those who were in the draft.
"We were in the debate we invited political leaders.
In that step there was an agreement that there is still work of doing before the opinion polls of the proposed constitution, there are technical issues that must change before the opinion polls.
