CCM will arrive in Mwanza.
APR, 03 / 2015.

The forthcoming general election of general elections has banned political tensions among the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Mwanza province, while every part of the best weaknesses in the country and started to win a huge victory in nine constituencies that involve the province.
At the time CCM is planning to select candidates who are accepted by the citizens among other strategies to achieve the goal of the victory in that election, we will continue enjoying the weaknesses of that ruling party with the government in implementing duties of serving the society.
In a special interview with Raia Mwema, this week in Mwanza City, leaders of those parties have been depending on different times about accountability to the citizens that will be able to hold the last general elections of the president, members of parliament and councilors which are expected to take place in October this year.
His condolences to CCM.
The secretary of CCM Mwanza Region, Miraji Mtaturu, says that the implementation of the party's directive by reducing the various problems facing the citizens is the foundation that will enable them to achieve the goal of getting a landslide victory in the election.
"Our aim of heading to the next general elections is to win and so as to attain that goal, we are prepared to ensure we give them candidates who are accepted from the councilor seat, parliamentary and presidential positions," says Tabu.
"He also advised the CCM party manifesto to serve the citizens, through the government we will improve and we are continuing to improve more social services such as road and education, citizens see our efforts, we believe they will continue to support him in the next elections."
According to SHIWATA, CCM has a great opportunity to win the parliamentary seat in all nine constituencies in Mwanza province and those regions and parties that lead them in brackets as Nyamagana's headquarters, Sengerema (CCM), Misungwi (CCM), Misungwi (CCM), Buchosa County (CCM), Buchosa County (CCM).
Mselem stated that the victory of CCM in Mwanza province at the local government elections that took place last year, where the party was awarded more than 500 villages against parliamentarians that won more than 300 villages that the ruling party is needed more to the citizens more than other political parties in that province.
While responding to a question by the writer of this article who wanted to know if CCM does not fear the Constitution of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) that involves itself, Snura has encouraged the opposition parties saying they are preparing to hold the country's authority.
"The opposition parties have no primary policies that are facing citizens, in general they are preparing to lead the country for example, if you check the areas where their opponents are leading in the progress of development activities instead they are involved in demonstrations," says Tabu.
Regarding the lack of embezzlement of public property and misuse of power plants, some of the leaders of CCM and the government, that secretary said he does not know the reason of the party and the government to be blamed because those are a mistake that is being done by a few leaders by their private sector.
"He insisted that some of the leaders are being associated with corruption, but those are a mistake that is being done by few people, not CCM or the government in general, the issue of theft even at home, is not being sent by her family," he insists.
However, he says as a result of recognizing the effects of embezzlement of public property in the country, the government has continued to take various steps against the involved, being together having warned the power and take action against them.
We talk to you.
On his part, the Member of parliament of Mwanza Province, Engineer Mahangaiko Ngoroma has said the party has great hopes of getting into CCM at the election states in that province due to the power of the public (People's Day).
"CHADEMA in Mwanza Province are prepared to do well in the local government elections of December last year compared to the previous years," said Tizeba and continued.
"We're continuing to get a great opportunity and be supported by many citizens, we have good policies that concern CCM, we have great hopes of beating CCM because its leaders and the government have been unable to serve the citizens.
"Many services have been seen in the country, there are leaders not to be afraid of corruption but they increase the speed of theft of public property and abandoning their citizens."
Tizeba has mentioned a big offence of CCM that it is to be unable to supervise the government directors in implementing their responsibilities and to enable the country's resources to benefit citizens at low level.
"In CCM every person's taking place, some of the leaders do not have resources they have been unable to supervise the things that are required to the citizens, these are the signs of open that they have gotten tired.
