
News agencies will be removed and grow the union.
Since the former Prime Minister, Raila Odinga, returns from his three months tour from America, a country that has had peace, apart from the explosions in the country and the bombs, have been caught in another wave of politics and threats that they are headed to be a threat to Kenyans.
There has been a lot of times when there have been reports of transmitting news, threats of having a national meetings to discuss the future of our nation.
The political side of COMING, which is leading in opposition is making sure that so as to speed up important reforms of things that cause a nation because it should not be done immediately.
According to the truth, the issues of tribalism, corruption, security, economy and many others which are very important to the nation and a solution is good to be discussed and solutions looked for.
The problem is that Kenyans have been unable to understand how these important issues do not be dealt with in meetings that constitution do not have the authority.
The way we know is that previously the government showed that it's just one way to deal with the political tensions among the followers of the press at work.
It has reached a very high level and there was no benefits of refusing to try and remove the agreements for the two sides because the hen that would have used.
The advisers of the leaders of COMING and Diamond are happy to be very careful when they are leading their led to know that such things have been given a very bad name in outside and making our country's economy.
Our issues are good to be dealt with by members of parliament in our parliament, by doing so that we will be able to get decisions that will be taken against them, but these are able to get rid and misleading advice from some of the leaders outside the country, he used to fulfill our nation in destruction of great destruction.
It is why we know that currently, we have many enemies with a whole country that would like to make sure we get into the business, we are starting from the East Africa and leave the western part, we're close to us.
That is why the tourists who were removed from here in the country have been surprised if there are no other nations that are faced with terrorism in the world and it is also heading to the donations and loans we want to strengthen the nation's economy and security or not to make politics only.
If you put aside, annamatinde @ gmail.
