Yes, it is good.
There in Mangula.
Well you can be the winner.
Second and I was.
I would like each other.
It is called a terrorist?
I've witnessed parties?
At the end of the campaign usually is election.
For a political party, including a stable party that is not required.
I read the popularity of the voters because when a person knows in, he is doing a good work that is understood by the party after a time he gave me the corrupt people who participated in the revolutionary party with the ability to have citizens in public that is why the corrupt people have.
In the revolutionary party this afternoon, it is still being recognized by being a stable party which will lead Tanzanians to help all Tanzanians because he does not get a great party and we will continue to sit down, but we are requesting them to remain in one ministry so that all ministries are and we request that we are waiting for God to stop for us.
Even the father, then you want to make sure that you have the Tanzanians to work hard to make sure that a total of Tanzanians that started getting up with my name Dudumizi.
I'm in here in the leadership of Diamond Jubilee in order to know the celebration of being given a certificate of DOM-alcohol, I request that I am happy so much but I urge us to go back to our country when you go to our country when you talk to our country.
There is a situation that is found and caused many Tanzanians to come out and have many Tanzanians who registered themselves to vote for those who registered themselves so that many children who registered themselves are very few and among the children whose votes have shown their composure nor the most followers more than other parties.
But the biggest thing of the foundation is that the revolutionary party has been getting into this peace that is mentioned by many nations to see if we saw it, and eventually today they should listen to the books?
The revolutionary party of all, we will make sure you make sure that you take advantage of the short term and to make sure that next elections I will have twenty-thirds of it has been loss of parliament in a structure of the party.
My name is employment?
I'm in here.
Continue or celebrating victory.
John alcohol.
This is one of the things that we had been disappointed with great desire.
And I would like to see maybe first to give my advice.
What's the president.
The biggest thing that will be a nuisance to Tanzanians.
I have tried so much to look for.
Mandla claimed that it is taking time to time in the government especially directors of the district that was in place.
It is happy that we have found people that love us and leadership.
Another one that in the past years the father of the nation, Julius Kambarage Nyerere.
That one is one of that when he gave the citizens he found a fashion model in Ukonga, but the nation's father added several power we are praying to the president so that we can go to the president so that our party should be tough in that country so as to try to do so.
We have faith that people are mutilated in some people in the area that is called to get the leadership we have a good person, that is that I know that we are looking for those directors.
Therefore, it is not good.
It is something that has a small station keenly to our community of the United Republic?
A section is like it is good.
It's not good and for instance, but only some of the few leaders that are same as violating but he believes that he didn't know.
If you have been seen here I have to believe that this issue will not plan more to do better and check the ones that was put in, where there are two hundred and twenty thousand, it will be more than twenty thousand, and eventually the things are going well.
Peter's
The late?
