Close to the discussions here, already the daughter of her daughters who lives a child that is living with one parents, due to his parents separation is faced with challenges.
My name want to fail and let us start to hear their views.
I am called bison.
If a child comes with a mother alone, others are unable to pay as they are unable to pay.
As a parent and at least the father and the mother are required to cooperate in paying the child's fees because others are unable to live with one parent.
On my part, the challenges that they get a child who lives with each other.
It is a must.
For example, the woman can have all the money, the father can have an income to stop the act and give them all needs.
But the two are contribute to the right of the child educating mother and other than the Bible says Mister to release a working girl but they would have been all the mother to make me leave me.
He asked me in a way.
On the other side.
If a father is that, what is the meaning of a mother desire to stand for someone he can have a bad condition called when the field can't know the child living with her mother and he is the stakeholders that he will go, he did not get a lot of work.
As it is the father, the preparations will go or a small or a sister.
This is the late God who does not have time to sit down in a lot of life in a man, what did you do anything?
In the tournament he is doing his activities to take him there at home when he is.
For you will find that the child has not found himself alone if he will go against him that he will go to the groups.
If they had gone down.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, there are a place where one of the child are spoiling the first and feet.
They have carrying me look for the desire for the Ambassador to remain or the authority.
My father could also be safe.
When he was interviewed and the child is in bad groups with the name known as' Views', a bag belonging to another side, the problems that he can't accept a girl who lives with a strong man, then he is wrong, he has been found but he has been with a full child.
There was surprised if he has heard of Doe.
It becomes a very difficult time to get a father to get a important thing in their work.
Someone to ask you like that.
For example, maybe I don't say that if a girls can be careful not to tell me the father is not something like that one is a good thing and he is still a good challenge but if he is still a good challenge, but there is still a lot of challenges that you do now in order to solve the challenges facing him.
The reason is what I understood by a parent.
If he said here, Suzan said that if you failed to ask for your seven, maybe if you are using your money if you do you have tried to wear if you do not give her the father to pray for.
Therefore, if he is happy to tell me that I will not wait until you shouldn't jump and he didn't want to be like the same.
To be at least having the courage, if he cannot announce that word like pads, maybe and she knows the father and what should I do something, then he is in hand to buy.
To return to my side, the person is good to say that I will go.
For his brothers, because the father was played for a small town.
It was not that, a woman cannot say his brother as I see your eyes as they insisted.
You know that we live with my brothers, it should be a president if it is building because she comes back in life, and my brothers, I know you, that is you like you like you.
You know that they see and do good things but they feel that they are marrying.
I will be back recently, that is why there is things because someone has to kill someone and they do not have been successful.
That is a must that will look for your brother to live in your brother and with your eyes too.
That is why we can get you?
But those with me is a human being?
How can you know if you are married or you have.
If the father would have been a bad behavior that we come and will lead in as usual.
It is not right.
That is Adam and I thank him to say.
These children live with one person and a mother or father?
You mean that you need to do very close to his child and end this child.
And this is like Safina.
That points after going to sit with the brother, the child was going to sit and remember in line with the brother.
That brothers and her children have to be able to serve the children and its children that show that, that is the other hours you find it.
That is his brother, maybe so very big and to the child.
You can realize that there are things that don't know or your mother do not give the person the same as you feel like, you do not see your friend because he used to fight.
?
A girl who live with one woman is supposed to build a close relationship with this lady who lives a lot and if a wife can go back to other people from the country and even if a wife is there, there is a place that there is a place there is a place there is nothing to give advice from one kind or another.
There is one that he talked about the issue of someone affected us, she desires to stay with the father, said here I would have my mother trying to see her daughter when he called her mother.
Another time I met with a mother who love me, I would have the father to see the daughter as he is happy with his father and now we see these challenges are there due to their parents saying that I will be able to finish, maybe he is in the decision of parents.
For example, the past was living with a mother alone.
Currently, if a person sees far, he writes.
How is his friend?
My day my day I told me he's her father and I am happy that we have other parents equal to women.
They decided to get married to other women?
So that you can be a child do not have a good voice but it is a good voice.
There are some women who listen to him and the people meet your children, maybe they will be born with the child, then the mother who comes from inside, then the danger will do not have its own children.
When I think about my thoughts, maybe if a love you missed in the field but although not all they are doing.
Therefore, parents do not like.
You can decide whether to get married or get married.
The same to that the child does not feel good.
If you play your children, that is the one that love for a child, maybe the husband may stop completely.
It is that you are required to help their opponents I want it to ensure that those who will be someone who will be or seen.
He should have a love for him and because you can be the parents but you're with Makamba but there are others who are doing good things that you're being infected with the mother or a mother, who is also happy and think that this is the father or mother, who is not her biological mother or her child who is not married.
Until today, I don't have a extra time in the discussion and my thing is the cost.
How does it mean?
