It is not bad when we start with Serengeti Boys this Sunday.
Kristen 25, 2016 by our correspondent.

The athlete Alphonce Chandu (right) and Saidi Mahalangu (second right), participating in the 42 kilometers race for men during the Olympic championships that ended in Brazil recently.
This week has started well in Tanzania in games of Europe, striker Mbwana Samatta has put the record for being the first Tanzanian to be the head of the goals in one of the Mainland Premier League in the previous steps.

Samatta has scored three goals in the Belgium Premier League through his club's club from Genk in collaboration with Falcke Mhami (JNIA) and Jerru Silaa (left) with three goals each one.

For Samatta, the wedding comes like drinking water or eating food and it's a matter of her origin as a history in this soccer.

He had gone to join Genk from TP Mazembe of DR Congo, as the best scorer in the African Champions League last season.

When he was surprised by Kimbira Bambucha of their home in Mbagala, African Lyon and Simba has scored a lot of goals that he has been infected with Samatta today?

The wedding is like part of its current procedure in every day that he will go back in the morning, he will go keenly, he will go into the training, he will go back, "he said she will end it.

In the level of local athletes Samatta, he has already gotten with Haazu taking hand with written time after time.

At the end of last week there were two major events in games in the country.

On the first of our athlete Alphonce Chandeka, held the 5 position in the Marathon race in Brazil, at the Olympic championships.

Second is the national soccer team of Tanzania "Serengeti Boys" from South Africa "Areas" and lost them in a good position to qualify for youth finals in Madagascar.

Recently, although it is not thanking you, although it is not true, because the goal of Serengeti Boys "has not yet been able to qualify for that position which Tanzania has never happened since the year 1995.

Serengeti Boys in the last time to reach this step and measure it was the coach Abdallah 'King "Kibadeni in the year 2002, which had many stars that play for now and a big Manchester United.

Since Serengeti Boys Boys, there is no one that was done even in the quarter finals of Serengeti Boys "Kibadeni.

Serengeti Boys in a lot of come up and left, but there was no certain language in front.

It is not good when we start here, we start in Mwanacht and Serengeti Boys this week for a few years later, we need to speak fruits of our success from here.

By Kimbira, let us start looking for a 1, 2,3 times, that is currently the fifth position in our country.

What I will not have a meaning like in the Olympic championships that is to come up to 2020, we will go through that position and lack of even three best or the first position.

It will not have a meaning if we are going to the 2020 elections, we will start looking for 7 days, 8 or 10.

Finally, the end of the Olympic championships is the beginning of the competitions for another Olympic championships this year, is a saying that when the game between four and four years from now, it is not many years ago on the issue of preparations.

As a country, we have been unable to prepare well since they receive the former forms of Selemani Semunyu (1980), Filbert Mponzi (1974), it is not true when we start here with Simbacht.

It will be grateful for several years when we meet again, we met again here to talk and Simbacht, that once again held the fifth position in the Marathon 2016, Rwasa in Brazil, while we failed to produce those donations that will fly on our international flag.

Today's world, sports is employment and today's sports is not part of putting the bodies in a good state again.

If the 'Bayoyo' team, Nyambui who won a long time and sports was supposed to come out to prepare youths who will come to give success to the country and to them?

On the right is the minister of the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Nape Nnauye and the Athletics president in the country Anthony Mtaka, who is also the Provincial Commissioner Simiyu, to view afresh the issue of opportunities available in sports.

Madenge doesn't jump and there is no country or the player who succeeded to be supported by the government behind him.

Even today, the government if they decided to Tanzania, it will participate in the World Cup tournament for 2022 in Qatar, we will participate only, believe it.

The government's strength are needed in sports and you can be able to ask Jamal Mshilili (soccer), Mtaka (athletics) and other games and to fail to manage sports in their areas, but if there is no support of the government, follow up with water into the machine.

As it comes from Serengeti Boys this Friday, Bakari Shime has said it has not succeeded in Madagascar, players will be used well because after three years from now, it will be the national team for youths under 20 years "Ngorongoro,"
