
War war.
By Tomas Rosary.
If you are found a conflict, then try to overturn Nyerere.
Sorry, there is a shame, but my offer is that even the most beautiful person from there are no hip-hop artist without having a conflict, you can't say the hip-hop artist without involved certain cases of hostility.
The hip-hop style that is aired in America for ninety years and, you put up some of the most competitive conflict which have caused the death of one of the big producers who have ever led by a lady Shaghala Baamar and I've known as a modem.
Deaths of these deaths have ever been an important pillar in discussing the hip-hop music, and even after their deaths have been contributed by the music, still the hip-hop music continues to witness the fight against artists who are in the moment.
And our conflict are also there but you have no strength like those of America.
Kanye West and Wiz Khalifa took that it is a great fight for comedy in a time and that is the reason it did not last long since last month, who had started a fight with rapper Kanye West after failing to listen to a message on Twitter, he went with Wiz Khalifa when he was contributing to her love for Amber Rose.
At the end of January, Kanye announced the name of his new album that he released through Twitter, Wiz Khalifa who did not love her name because he felt it had a hip-hop style known as' Usiwe Bubu ', he created a red carpet. "
That comes a bit by Kanye and on his heart that followed when he decided to sign him Free B, after being criticized and when feeding them a lot, Andre Villas Boas and festive season.
Then Wiz Khalifa gave a word "sometimes, use KK so that you can understand more.
By lack of posts the day, Kanye stopped that Wiz Khalifa had to sell those posters and to start doing his wife Kim Kadyage.
But later Wiz Khalifa opens a point and told me that he doesn't understand because KMK is Khajida Kopa, the company of selling marijuana when they visited him.
That Ukawa will be the beginning of a huge conflict, those two earthquills, then Kanye decided to intervene in Wiz Khalifa, he found her lover Rob Kardashian and his former lover Rob Kardashian and his former lover Rob Kardashian and his former lover Rob Kardashian and decided to vote him but for all the two, he contributed the huge signing of their work.
LCD and B is a conflict that sent it to the father's father who don't expect the whole hip-hop album after signing up for a lot of three years of the WCB label owned by Bribiage, Cash Money Records, Dawasco, Wayne Rooney to resign.
It is an event to prevent it very much especially considering that is in a billion, a billion, Bridman, did not be close to more than the twins who gave birth, a result of how they have been affected.
When I got an act of L to go to court, he would like to be able to pay a fine of Sh. Billion and Cash M by getting tired with the requirements of its own kind, Bridman, and the rapper and 'Bridman', who doesn't know her child.
Truly, in addition, they don't know the because they were able to go through more than three months, the good example is very fast, therefore, follow the spread of some of my fans shouldn't have a great desire.
A bad condition between them, Drake, comes from the Cash label of Cash a company has been signed by a Maybach car, a holy martyr.
And after Meek Mill has claimed that Drake is not a vibrant listener or a fox which he featured Drake, in his new album known as summoning demons.
What is unacceptable, is that these two were living with a very close friends until Meek Mill has decided to destroy his fellow musician.
Lbillion Kim and Nicki Minaj is a good girl child for their standards but they did not know it because of the music competition.
A Rick Ross, because they don't have poles and comes back and last year I used to give his former lover or a case in court claiming compensation of 5 million dollars.
A is after the sex video in the Dengue network and mocking the ones that put it out on the issue of music, 50 will be able to have 60 and Rick Ross, who do not continue to get to each other.
He lived for instance, quills, quills, claiming that his colleague has gone up until today 50, he decided to attain it up to today 50, it was a huge conflict and cause a good sales to be followed by looking for those allowances.
