The Minister for Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi today has launched a modern machine for investigation at the J J hospital in Dar es Salaam city and said the competition is big in this health sector and will help to deal with the challenges facing the treatment price while speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city.
After the launch, Ramadhan Mwinyi has said that if many hospitals work of modern equipment will help in Beijing the reduction in many hospitals in the country as part of information is giving them more.
.
The occasion to launch a new modern machine at the Mchwaa hospital in Dar es Salaam city is poor because of the investigation of a human body of the human being of Zanzibar that is supposed to be used in the stage.
The gold mine in Southern Africa like yesterday the machine up to x-ray machine.
Speaking at that event, the female director of Tabora town should know that.
He has said that their responsibility is to provide better health services to Tanzanians where they have continued to have the responsibility for more than twenty-three months ago.
Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi was the guest of honor.
He said the government will continue with the government's health in its services and talk about the challenges of the prices facing the sector we believe that competitors can reduce.
Therefore, every hospital has continued to bring this machines without doubt, the prices will arise when the prices will face, what we have did in the past two countries here?
Therefore you have never been found.
Prevent them into that market and competition, therefore, it is our hope that for now, there are many hope that there are many reasons.
Together with the strength of the government to set aside this machines in the main hospital of the government.
Then without doubt, the price we shall involve citizens to be able to sustain the costs of the machines.
Doctor Mwinyi has also added that he has agreed to be treated well in getting an international certificate as an entrepreneur that gives better health services in the country.
The delegates are following.
