This is war against health of the residents of Dar es Salaam.
APR the year 2015.

Now, it is clear that there is war started against the health of the residents of Dar es Salaam city, by bad luck, the war has been started by the city officers whose great work is to ensure the safety of the residents of those residents.
Many countries in the world are struggling with the problem of increasing citizens suffering from diseases such as blood pressure, diabetes, cancer and other diseases for heart experts say that this is caused by a style of life where many people in the world which is coughnuts.
At the same time, people were able to benefit traditional foods with safe food and with building better health, these days people are forced to get foods that were sent well but with bad diet, sugar, and fuel with effects on health.
The mix of poor infrastructure associated with smoking, drinking alcohol in plenty, air crafts and not exercises, has caused the world to find themselves in various health problems.
After knowing the size of the problem, the World Health Organization (WHO) has announced the existence of great changes in the policies that look at food issues, agriculture and planning of prices of those products as well as increasing the provision of education about that issue.
Dar es Salaam has no difference with other areas in the world and it is faced with the same challenges that are facing other cities in the world by explaining this challenge, I urge you to give an example of Hamisi who does work to sell the shop in the city.
His recent food was released by Mzee Juma, who plays for maize and Erasto who plays for another employee who does not get another employee who does not be supported by another employee who does not play with cassava leaves by Benedict Liwenga.
Shabani, an artist, she is eating pregnant mothers, a lady, Diana Edward, where he is continuing with rice, rice, and vegetables as well as Alfred Tibaigana, bananas and coldness.
As the time you are going, all of them have started getting problems of getting food they need and all those who sell their things are supposed to be expelled from the city.
Their food performed well and others have ended up and others have been shot dead and they were stolen from their results, Hamisi Kisuke, from the shop that is in the neighborhood.
James now has to be a cake, "she gets a cake, when she gets a ring on him and snacks, can't jump and get good foods that if they get small salaries and therefore cannot be able to go to eat at the hotel in the city.
As it is not enough, the cities of towns have decided to deal with youths they are working hard to avoid fruits, vegetables, color, and beans.
This is the result of the behavior of natural resources that are not stable and instead of the officers to sit down and look at how to improve the health of their citizens as WHO is said, they are able to make sure they are heading to the health sector.
They have been admitted and a limited view of making the city should be clean, they use abusive language that is the solution to all problems.
In times they give and destruction of property that happened, it's about the existence of human rights but I think officers who are forced and the ones that are required to be arraigned in court.
The expectations that people will also go in a few markets, big and that apart from the only way to look for food they have no basic and the person is supposed to be the neighbor and the buyer.
That is why the issue of people doing business by holding back, being beaten and chased away from the business areas where it will help me today, there are illegal foods that are not supposed to be affected by drug abuse.
It is just a lot of ways to start in this problem, for example, the district authorities can be able to decide to build small industries in special parts of the areas with many residents, what can you see in different buses in the city of Dar es Salaam.
The district can decide maybe that there have been five cases recently in one area and one is sell fruits, there is another one that comes up or potatoes, according to vegetables and continuing.
Foods that were abolished, soda, and juice or traditional foods to be allowed to be sold in the environment, therefore the sales person will be given a six months contract whereby he has said open the type of business he wants to make it.
