
Those involved in evil deeds will be avoided.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
The building passed away, Nairobi in December 2014.
Those involved in disasters arising from illegal immigrants in urban areas, it is a must be emphasized.
In a period of three weeks ago, more than 10 Kenyans have lost their lives while several others were injured after falling on the bad buildings in the streets of Makanya, Nairobi city.
Those deaths have been caused by prominent people who want to get personal interests by getting quick funds, while endangering the lives of their colleagues.
Corruption are among the main reasons that cause the increase in construction of buildings that do not meet their standards.
Poor eyesight have risen up by using fake equipment that are not allowed.
According to the law, before the building of residential houses, they have been noted that it should be discriminated against the approval of the experts in many towns in the country, there are hundreds of livestock which have been built without following the law.
Who has been using these poor buildings that have been unable to destroy the lives of Kenyans who are not guilty, it is a must to give priority to the lives of its citizens by preventing deaths of this kind that can be avoided.
Instead of waiting to take them to court, the owners that have dropped, the government does not have a great strategies that will expand the challenges that will expand the problems.
The step by President Uhuru Kenyatta wants the ministry of land, housing and Capital Development in partnership with the local government from Nairobi to inspect all buildings in Nairobi city.
Coughing which will be found have been built without considering the standards that have been put in place, after completing that inspection, it is a must to be released and even those involved will be arraigned in court to answer the charges to try to endanger the lives of people.
Engineers and regulations have also been involved in order to realize those who have been growing, coughing, not being taxed.
The officers of that kind are being evicted and even taken against legal action.
The national board of registering engineers and shivered to verify business and the authority of construction in the country is supposed to deal with engineers who are responsible for the construction of poor buildings.
