
Investors from outside.
Petit 30, 2016.

Investors from outside country have continued to rule buying of shares in the stock market of Dar es Salaam (DSE) compared to local investors.
According to the report of that market, the big number of shares and the sales that are found is now due to the great participation of foreign investors.
Reports of the market shows that from April 22 this year, an amount of 79 billion shillings have been obtained from the shares of shares, while investors from outside the market have more than 90 billion shillings in the market, which is more than 90 percent.
A big increase in the number of investors from outside is a result of the ones that will be taken to the conditions of those investors, which previously had an end.
In the previous procedure before changes, investors from outside countries tried to buy shares to 60 percent of the companies that were listed in market, but currently the end has been removed from the new procedure.
In this situation, there is a big possibility of the Dar es Salaam Dar es Salaam city to be held by investors from outside, because most of them do not buy shares and to sit for a long time different from what we use it from time to time.
In the second quarter year of last year, a total of 284 billion shillings were found from the shares of the shares and investors from outside donated a total of 2447 billion shillings.
In April 22, this year, 659 billion shillings of local investors have bought the shares in the market, while investors from outside buy shares by 9341 percent.
For the second quarter year of last year (April-June), procurement of shares to local investors were 99 percent, while the number of procurement of shares to foreign investors has approximately 8689 percent.
That report shows that during the second quarter year of this year, 21 billion and 5 billion shillings were found due to the selling of shares of foreign investors while investors from local investors have lost their shares worth 2767 billion shillings.
The number of selling shares to local investors has increased from 5890,536 percent in the second quarter of last year up to 7275 in the second quarter of this year.
However, the sales of that market for the second quarter of the year that takes place tomorrow will end compared to the second quarter of last year.
Reports show that sales of the shares in the market decreased by 10 billion shillings for the second quarter of this year from 2845 billion that were found in the second quarter of last year.
In the first quarter of this year the sales of that market had reduced by 57 percent up to 50 billion shillings compared to the fourth quarter of the year whereby the sales of the shares was 1 billion shillings.
The drop in the participation of local investors was not seen in the quarter finals of last year (October to December) compared to the first quarter of this year.
The market reports show that the sales number used by buying of shares to investors from outside the year 2011 to reach 9396 percent in the first quarter of this year from 8949 percent in the last quarter of last year.
However, an amount of sales that was done due to buying of shares to local investors has reduced from 1002 and 5 percent in the last quarter of last year up to 684 people in the first quarter of this year.
