Mayor looking for a bicycle project in the town.
Sei 22, 2016.

If I get to listen to RG, South Africa dies.

The new mayor of Johannesburg city in South Africa, Herman Masaudi, has canceled the project of construction of bicycle ways that aimed at reducing the congestion of vehicles in the city of that city.

The project was set aside for South Africa for 70 million shillings equivalent to approximately 107 billion shillings of Tanzania up to completion.

Despite aimed at reducing the congestion, that project will also be the source of revenue through illegal taxes to the users of those ways and more than that, to unite in health status, the citizens of that country because of bicycle use is same as an exercise.

The new mayor from the Democratic Party (DA), mentioned the ruling party (ANC) has confessed to be under the administration of that party, the city of the city will continue implementing issues that have benefits to every citizen.

That project of construction of bicycle ways was founded by the mayor who passed through Tau, from the African National Congress Party (ANC), who held the position starting from the year 2011 until this year, already he has to have to become a new time for the leadership has been implemented immediately after the election of this year and he claimed that it's for its project.

"All road accidents are there and then they have reduced those vehicles, then that is when the city's authority will begin to think how to implement this project of construction of bicycle ways," said Mgungusi.

That Mayor has also called for the inspection of the city workers so as to be satisfied with all, because of the work they provide.

I know that in the previous administration it was a season for leaders to be careful, given appointment on foundations of friendship with brotherhood, we must inspect them, "he said.

Since he came to power, the mayor has been doing many changes while insisting that the steps he is taking to in building that city is the same as a step that he got to take the first black president in that country, Nelson Mandela.

Masaudi, who is a businessman in last month did the appointment of delegates of the executive committee of the mayor saying he has prepared himself because of their ability and not with the criteria of their friendship.

When he was asked if those delegates of the committee explained that they had experience in those city's work, he answered that "the year 1994, Nelson Mandela was leading democratic, who have never been any experience before."

I will end.
