
Magufuli leads hundreds of bid farewell.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

President John Magufuli yesterday led hundreds of the residents of Dar es Salaam city in farewell to the body of the former mayor of Dar es Salaam city, Doctor Didas Massao who died on Thursday evening to the farm.

Doctor Magufuli swears in the mourners to give the last respect to the body of Doctor Massoud (56) at Karimjee stadium in Dar es Salaam city, and when he was given a chance to speak, he emphasized the family of the deceased to live with excitement.
"I request I request my family to go together, the devil of God, will ask God, the father who love me," said Doctor Magufuli who said that she does not know the late he has left four to five children and more than 20 children.
While reading the biography of the late brother, Makabe Doctor Didas Masaburi when he was born in Serengeti, Mara province with the 10 child in the family of John Massao.
He said Doctor Massoud, Kivukoni ward and the mayor of Dar es Salaam city, from 2010 to 2015 and is also the chairman of the East African Legislative Assembly (NECTA), the Member of Parliament of East African Legislative Assembly (NECTA), the Member of Parliament for East African Community and until his death, he was the director and Chairperson of his Tanzania Civil Aviation College located in Chanika.
He said that the late has left widows, children, that I heard several things and that he scored the marriage with Janeth Massao who is the former nominated member of parliament.
Doctor Magufuli said that Doctor Massoud, Revolutionary Party (CCM) and a lot that he did when he was the mayor of Dar es Salaam city and added that his history cannot be heard in politics of Tanzania.
The event of farewell was attended by various national leaders and gave the last respect including retired President Jakaya Kikwete and the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa.
Other leaders are the chief secretary general, Ambassador John Kijazi, the Vice President of the fourth term, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, Mrs Salma Kikwete, leaders of Dar es Salaam Province, various ministers, members of parliament of the United Republic and members of parliament of the East African Parliament.
Speaking on behalf of the board of directors of the community of parents, Doctor Charles Tizeba said they have lost friend, brothers and a person that they went on more on the running of the community.
He called for a family that the death of that death was not a source of conflict and conflicts and that they should be strengthen.
Family spokesperson, Otieno.
He said he stopped the words of words that when he dies, he went to his town in Chanika, outskirts of Dar es Salaam city, and that he did not follow the Luo tribe.
After bidding farewell to the body of the late, it was taken to his city in Chanika for burial as he did in that politician.
