Here, until the independence of Mansour Yussuf Himid.
Kristen 14, 2014.

Mansour Yussuf Himid (47) is the main news of Zanzibar right now and even so, two years ago, a situation was different after being released on the report of a chosen committee of the council of representatives about land issues.
The committee revealed the huge corruption in the land sector in the country, with the name Kocha, together with the family of the retired president of Zanzibar, peace in Karume, that of us have risen up.
In addition to other things, the chosen committee revealed that while responding to the minister of land, Karume family got land in a good areas without following the law.
"There is an occurrence of the beaches and destruction of environment in the hotel that deals with the Tanzania Tourism Development College, Marusu, at the Ocean View Hotel's Hotel, Kilimani, Zanzibar and Serena Hotel which is in Ziba, Chake-Chake-Pemba.

"The committee has satisfied itself that Ramadhan Abdallah Sakali and Mama Fatma Karume participated in the cheating of the 10 contract that was scored between the government and Kidney.

Furthermore, the certificate of land use that was given to Karume by Mansour Yussuf Himid, (left) the Minister of Works, Energy and Land, has violated the legal procedures that read by the council of representatives and member of the Council, Omar Ali General.
Kidawa is standing instead of the name Juma Hamad Kidau who did that business with the late Mwalimu Karume (the child of the late Karume) without following the laws of the country.
Mtevu is in Karume's law for two because all of them have risen up.
Eight years before arriving was part of the attacks with a sharp object in Ali Kinduli (now the late), through the newspaper that was banned in the islands of Zanzibar, that was posting how the relationship between Karume's family and Tonya how the relationship between the family of Karume and Himid about fighting corruption in the islands.
The Immigration Department was a long period of members of the Civic United Front (CUF) and the leaders of that party, they used to be thrown in their attacks by Himid.

But one year after arriving from CCM from CCM and therefore lost his position as a member of the council of representatives of the council of Kiembesamaki, the politician is reported as a man and the people of Zanzibar.
On his Facebook page last week, the representative of Mkongwe town constituency through CUF, Ismail Jussa Ladhu said.
"Now it is our responsibility of Zanzibar to prepare well and not easily damaged by these trials, going on with the aim of wanting to be careful so that we protect themselves with the main aim of change in the year 2015.
"We did not turn back and together we will bring changes in the whole year under the heroes of Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad and Mansoor Yussuf Himid after they go!"
A penalty was arrested two weeks ago by the police force in Zanzibar on allegations of being found with a gun of Shangani areas with 112 bullets and ninety 95 points against 95 percent against the law of the country.

According to the assistant assistant commissioner of investigation in Zanzibar, Salum Msangi, it was legal, a person is allowed to own 50 bullets of Shangani areas and eight houses that are supposed to be 25.
Mansour's strength.
More than the brother-in-law of Karume, Mansour's strength in Zanzibar Islands because it is a child of Brigadier General, Yusuf Mwenda, who was the first head of that forces to legislate after the year 1995.
Therefore, if the Mansour and Amani Nje stadium have benefited and we are communicating with the two families that have been involved by the Zanzibar Revolution, "Masau boasted.
One of the ministers in the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, told Good Citizen this week that he spoke to peace in Karume, he has a huge wealth and huge influence in the people of Zanzibar and that made them by CUF is dangerous to CCM.
These are the efforts that you are seeing as CUF to prevent him because they know her weaknesses, but they know that by getting him in Karume, they will have succeeded to break the part of the stronghold of CCM.
"Mansour and Karume have a lot of money to the CCM Sixtus Mapunda, true that the revolution in the year 1995 there is impossible so that you cannot go ahead of their followers and said they did not depend on the revolution of the year there.

"This is the great benefits of CCM to CUF every time for elections and now it will be able to use against their rivals Maalim Seif who can change later but not before they get to power in Zanzibar," the source said that for now has refused to be mentioned his name.
Mansoor has also has the need among some of the founders of the revolutionary party of Zanzibar in the year 1995, the ones that did work with her father are very close to them.
