
Messi and Ronaldo will leave the reason for building?
Many years have ever been so much in soccer. Who once worked with Para, then Maradona is supposed to live with Robin van Persie, so that everyone did not make me, and every time he did, then obey them since he was the king.
That is why it's why he was Maradona from everything and the following day, "Ambassador Seif Maradona from Zanzibar should be fined."
We're following the generation that we saw the women, De Lungangira and forgetting the names known as BISON.
When they think that they broke the record for being forced to do and now the big award in the world of BallotD'Oreo 'and what was forced to listen to them as they feel it and in a way they need.
We have risen by Eden Hazard and there is no one that is forced to eat the Tunda Man which will remove it from each other, every time they pay is enough and every time they get into their lives, which does not need the importance in our life.
We have led the type of Antoine Griezmann with a man, Neymar, and the type of Eden Hazard seen as they leave.
These have distributed the world in two full parts and each one is the king of one piece while living outside him and the other stars do not have any opportunity, they do not be trusted and do not without keys to enter the room they had banned these human beings inside him.
The world that, Luis Suarez was not known for Lewandowski, Lewandowski will not be sold, and Zlatan Ibrahimovic is not involved in talks which is a very big world, this has caused a lot of failing to win everything.
This is a reason a baby is not allowed to leave during this period when he lacked the award for the best player in the world, Sneijder in January and was satisfied with it is no reason that seems to grow Real Madrid and Barcelona.
Other than these two human beings are the only one and they are not seen and there is no reason that wants to rest since it's like the thoughts that you need to come into the world though their legs is to thank God to see me in one period.
Mshanga said he does not know the reason why does it mean to be at a cost or own it in the world, another one being Bey, who likes the best to live in the neighborhood and lives of the most elegant person.
Two people who don't know the different people, who used to hear soccer fans in a place as well as a knee injury when we agree with a great talent in Manchester City, especially in this period when Lesse Bercy who is believed to be a great talent in Manchester City, Jichunge.'
But in addition to all the quality, the ones have not been infected with Neymar or Gareth Bale in one area, Neymar comes a lot from them but he also gave them education on a very high level, with him is the national team.
These don't have ever been the number of the jerseys which are produced up to Bernabeu and Camp Nou Camp. I had never been mentioned well for club when they started Christmas and did not have been set aside from God and who cared for the church.
