
The leaders are meeting for development projects.
For many years in our nation, we have witnessed conflicts with groups of our leaders, instead of giving them a lot of politicians they are doing so that they are supposed to be responsible, especially using the development of their ideas.
It is impossible to see the parliament from he said up to the national stadium, each other in the world, each other and it has been struggling in its sessions, an issue that causes the status of honor to the parliament.
Or the truth of the constitution is good if the leaders will agree with clean interest, but if the leaders in he said they will continue to use money that will be divided among human beings which do not expect to see more developments.
I tell you or the saying of eating poor eyesight when they do not take care!
Instead of serving the citizens, he made them the first time it was to urge the banks to give them big salaries.
As a strong desire, they started to travel from foreign countries on the excuse of switching off how to improve their areas!
Corruption are clear that the bills that have been done can bring effects that can resolve development or on another side can attract development and improve the lives of many.
But the reliable sources are that at the national parliament and sometimes the members of parliament are usually hanged so that they can destroy the certain bills, and all of them are corruption.
Instead of a member of parliament or the representative to study, understanding and attractive, if an entrepreneur will be an obstacle to the citizens, blindness caused by unknown people, as the flag usually builds the wind and forgetting their responsibility.
This year we had great hopes and progress, some games and conflicts between the Jubilee of Jubilee and that of Geology (opposition) will be played at the end, but how things have so as, "there is still a struggle."
After Correa scored to stop the sections of the police concerning the court, it is clear that another race in front of those unions have started.
Listen to you, phone calls from money is ready to evade the silence that was there and put the nation in times of the campaign.
Money, in a period of when you want to eat very delicious.
So, if a person cannot change the use of 100 shillings, it will be able to give them 500 shillings but if the more money is enough, it means more than it's better and accountability, then even I will give them right and ask for him a good money and not "a lot of money."
When we are not supposed to remind our leaders, they need the citizens they need for development and not of corruption, the representatives of parliament are not supposed to used their authority to arrest people from Islamic State.
Any political parties can destroy the nation a important thing is for everyone who was chosen by the citizens to be a member of the government or opposition to sit down and work.
They do not work together with serving, "ghost students, 'tax," with the aim of reducing the cargo of poverty, hunger and the diseases that are going to destroy the mountain.
It is a request for many people that this year we will hear politics and let them see development not near and fulfilling the phrase, "and URP" said and do.
