
President Magufuli received documents of ambassadors.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

President John Magufuli today has received documents of registration of four ambassadors who represent their country in the country.

The State House in Dar es Salaam city has said ambassadors who presented their identity cards are the President of South Sudan in the country, Honorable Ahmed Abaita, Democratic Republic of Ghana, Democratic Republic of Ghana, Assa Mwakilembe.
President Magufuli has spoken to the ambassadors at different times after receiving their identity cards, where they insisted on the importance of developing and strengthening the relationship and cooperation between Tanzania and the countries by focusing more in business and investment.
Honorable Ambassador, I know your country in Sudan has wealth of oil and it has managed to build its economy through oil, we will also understand the existence of oil and natural gas in the areas of areas where I would like to benefit from oil and gas, "said President Magufuli when he was speaking to our Sudan ambassador in the country.
President Magufuli has also called on business people and investors from Sudan, Sendo by Ghana, Ukraine and Ghana to come to invest here in the country in different sectors including oil and gas, agriculture, fishing, animals, minerals and livestock.
"Right now Tanzania is in the plan of construction of industries and it has also launched the second development program, therefore, and requested Honorable Ambassador to encourage people and investors of Ukraine to come to invest in industries because the reliable market market is" insisted Mrs Janeth Magufuli as he was speaking to Ukraine Ambassador here in the country Honorable Yuksekdag.
In addition, President Magufuli urged the ambassadors of Sinyati Enterprises, Ukraine and Ghana whose residence is in Nairobi city in Kenya to start their embassy in the country so as to strengthen more relations and cooperation in the issues of business and investment.
