
The musician Diamond Platnumz and Ommy Dimpoz will play in America, he will play in the semi-finals.

Love hurts me, that is how you can be able to say following two star of Bongo Fleva, Nasibu Abdul, "Diamond Platinumz" and Omary Nyenshile, Ommy Dimpoz "could be playing in America, shot him and has a full list.

Another source that witnessed the scandal which occurred recently in America when there was a ceremony to provide Afrima awards where Diamond won 3-1 while Liverpool lost 1, has been discovered that the two were playing with they want to enter in the conference organized for the provision of those awards.

"When they were studying in the hall Ommy Dimpoz has met with Diamond now, Diamond wants to say that Ommy Dimpoz went to speak about words of sarcasm, where he gets a half that she gets to.
"Every person knows the family, they will be able to send himself keenly, but there is no quick action if you want to reach the bad step," said the source.

The source of work.

When you continue, "you know what he refused to receive Diamond's greetings, he says that she is in eternal peace, claims that Diamond is doing a problem with Ommy Dimpoz, she's happy with him and that's why his colleague has gone down."

Wema Sepetu.

You continue to expand the conflict of those two bulls "stated that, the biggest reason for that conflict started a long time after Diamond claimed she was walking with Wema Sepetu" Madam "who was his lover for a long time, then he lost.

"Said Diamond has a chameleon and his colleague has lost with Wema but I think she still loves very few days after falling, suddenly I was seen in a draw without asking him as the truth or not," said the source and added.

"Since there, Diamond has been praising himself through his friends that he has ever told me because she didn't know her, you cannot believe in America, Diamond was the guest who passed it but he will receive him and then he gave him," he told him. "

It is asking for pneumonia.

That source which used to place itself is that, the action of those two believed to play in the hall while there are one place where those who live in the country who went to witness the provision of those awards, because they were waiting for two awards.

"Tanzanians are their colleagues in America, they don't know that while they are required to show their union.

Dimpoz has opened up.

After baptism to prevent it is that, our journalist has started looking for him so that he can give a clarification about what happened where he was found, he was going on.

"Thah! Who has given those information and I told me the truth, you know it is true we are doing with the relatives of Diamond (Diamond) in America.

", but it is not know that if Diamond has not seen him again and I am not worried about someone who is living in pain, but I thank God we did not see me, but I thank God, we did not see me."

Diamond is a party.

The efforts of getting Diamond so that he can explain to him because his side did not have fruits after the existence of information that he was going on outside the country.

"The family is not easy to get a reason why he is in the country, maybe it is a check again later," said a close person to Diamond without mentioning that artist is heading to.

The name of Switzerland.
After Diamond entered with Wema at the end of last year, later on February this year, pictures spread on social media that he made him and Wema being in bed, a hotel in South Africa "
Some of the news agencies in the country have written that those two have a romantic relationship with it explained that, the relationship was there in a secret even when Wema being with Diamond.
Even so, later it was not only that, Wema and Dimpoz were in that country making a video of Ommy Dimpoz that is called Mwengi.
