Your work is to prevent us or increase bad luck?
Mr 25, 2015.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
My lover Frank Mvungi.
How your condition is a lover with you, when I was going back here, I am when I went to school today I did not get married but I don't jump and I don't jump and I don't want them to learn more and see you, otherwise we are looking at.
But I know you are a person, you are not known even little and without doubt, it is yours, but when I think the income decreased by our house, yes, it I believe that it came out for what they went through.
Therefore, in doing and wait for the customers, without doubt, he has got an opportunity to think about all the political issues of Bongo Flavor, however, he didn't know more than any kind, but he didn't know more than any kind, but he didn't know a lot of living without doubt but he didn't know her.
At the moment, how can it be every one who is my property, and my property, the area of putting good health services, the party's office after their opponents won't know my property, "the nation's property, and others who we do not want to say that we are still needed?
You have not been a lover as the ones that spread in mind, shivered and in the boss yesterday, the mother who has with his boss yesterday, the mother who has gone into and without wanting to know the condition of a person to play with his boss, who was going back to 11 o'clock.
"This is when you are the minister of Mwenge and shivered?
Boss was surprised.
What does it mean by in-law?
"I have talked to a question and you are the minister of Mwenge and shivered?
"You know I am a minister."
"And if the minister of forests have been taught, your work is to control the problem or protecting or even starting?
And his boss, he started falling, but SB was told that he did not know what to do?
"Our work is to prevent the hen."
"Why is many times there is no bad luck and a person who did not enter the meeting, or demonstrations or any activity can have peace and bad luck."
"Because of them, it is bad luck?
"Why should all these people who go to contest for someone who wants to vie for him so that he did not accept to contest.
"That is different from this is our colleague."
SB is a short time but how I saw a basketball player. "
What's the meaning of?
Boss Haruna Shamte.
"I was able to lead in-law of Doctor Tulia Ackson.
"I don't know what jokes is the truth, and I see all the countries are your property, therefore your colleague is very happy because you are people of the country but others doing something, your police will protect people."
"It is not so."
"That is how the office for your property even if they were affected by the citizens of land, your property, even if it was given a bail to the citizens of the state house, your property, their work to protect people.
"This went to be bad luck in the law.
"Yes, yes, I would like you to bid farewell to the your friend of snatching everything.
Boss, he has tried to entertain.
"Even I am happy about this mother, police did well and we must take action against them.
"Hance, stop false."
"It is not false with in-in-law but we must leave peace," it is impossible for everyone to understand it. "
