
A Tanzanian girl has been put in terrorism in Kenya, he was going to the training of self-shirts.

Security agencies in Kenya are holding three girls including a Tanzanian, for what is accused of joining the Al-Shabaab group in Somalia.
The report from the police commissioner of El Ciara and Somalia in Kenya and Somalia, Nelson Mandela has said that a Tanzanian who was arrested, explained that it's a student at the International University of Africa, Sudan.

That Tanzanian, Wiwa-Kifu (19), the host of Zanzibar has been reported to be the leader of that group that had planned to join Al-Shabaab.
Other girls who were arrested in collaboration with Dahi - Khajida Kopa, are Maryam Said Aboud and Khadija Abubakar Shekau, all the citizen of Kenya.

"These three girls are believed that they were going to Somalia to get a terrorist training and later to do a terrorist attack," said Commissioner Kova.
Speaking about that issue, the acting director of criminal Investigation, DCI), Athumani said we are following more stories that we have received more information of those. "
Commissioner Kova said the two citizen of Kenya, one is a student at the Mount Meru University located in Thika, Kicheere.

"The government has got information about people that collect people from East Africa so that they do not support the terrorism groups in Somalia, our security agents have got those reports and to make the arrest of those girls," said Mgatu.
Recently, the website of Al-Jazeera who had been arrested for the arrest of the videos of the video that showed the representative of the Islamic empire militia in Iraq and became a leader of Al-Shabaab provided it by making a terrorist attack in Mwanza and Dar es Salaam.

Commissioner Kova said even though the documents of all girls show that it is students, but it has not been pressed by questions about reasons that took place in Somalia.
He added more that the security source of security has explained that the documents of those girls showed that they were going to get married by the army of Al-Shabaab.
