
Magufuli looking for the allowances of Mwenge.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

President John Magufuli has ordered all government leaders, who were invited to attend the peak of the Uhuru National Park, which will be held tomorrow in Bariadi District, Simiyu province, not to attend the celebrations.

Also, he has urged those who already paid funds of allowances for their journey to fail to be restored.
The report that was given by the Director of Communication, State House yesterday was quoted the chief secretary Ambassador, John Kijazi, that it explained that President Magufuli has given those instructions, being the implementation of the fifth term government of the fifth phase of the fifth phase of using non-communicable diseases.
Due to leaders who were mentioned to have taken their trips to Bariadi City, all the heads of provinces, all the heads of districts, councils, and districts together with workers who are accompanied with the drivers and their aides which have a total of 1,500 kilometers.
"Because the end of the peak of the Uhuru Marathon race that is going on with the commemoration of the founder of the national founder and the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere who died on the 17 years ago, the directive has cautioned all leaders of provinces and districts to remain in their areas of work and caring for the way to improve on that day," he explained the State House.
He added that President Magufuli has ordered all the districts that performed well in development activities when they were in their areas to be announced as the guest of honor at the end of the peak of Mwenge race, that the gift will be channeled from involved in the procedure that will be directed by the authorities involved in giving those gifts.
However, Doctor Magufuli has explained that due to the importance of the torch of freedom to the nation, all the leaders of the province of Simiyu and his districts together with all the citizens of that province, to come out in large numbers to participate in the state celebrations.
In addition, it said that the guest of honor at the Uhuru torch celebrations will be the President of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.
Since he came to power, President Magufuli announced that his government will also use non-must use, including removing various allowances together with removing the journeys that are not within and outside the country, while makes a lot of money to serve the citizens.
The economist of honor speaking about that decision by President Magufuli, the economist from the University of Dar es Salaam, Lessly Kasibu, said that decision is correct, although there are a celebration of more money to bring in.
