
The government used to contribute to purchase of jobs.
Wina FGM?
The government is determined to start the process of announcing the students of class one more than 869,071 shillings under the digital training program from Friday.
Under the program being run by the Ministry of Technology and Communication, those equipment are supposed to be presented to public schools from July this year.
The plan that cost approximately 17 billion shillings had reduced in 2013 due to a rumor of a shame to buy products which involve Olive located in India while the controversy ended in court where the government was forced to start the process afresh.
The government documents that were seen by the nation today show that by Junction, this year involved in 49890,536 machines for students and 212,150 equipment for teachers will be presented to school.
According to the documents, 10 percent of those equipment will be released on September and November. "The equipment will be released in two budget programs by using the Fm / 2017 budget that will be listed in the ICT offices, the Telela Moto Ward, on Friday, January 4, 2016 at 4 o'clock in the morning.
The notice of the ICT director Victor Kyuga, to quote it.
Contrary to the previous announcement, the company that will win that contract is necessary to land in the country in the country to ensure that those equipment are located affected by electronic fiscal companies from China together with the University of Prisons who are listed among companies that were listed.
The Hebdo magazine that has also sent a request while the University of DJava Island will deal with Huawei Company which will partner with VFLMendes Hospital and insisted that the contract.
Cooperation from the University of Jomo Kenyatta collaborating with a company of Moivo has risen to Gogo while the center of MOI will join the JP SA company in the country.
The Nairobi University has been cooperating with the Huawei company, while Uhuru Kenyatta went with the University of Morocco.
Poor conditions of making sure that laws have been followed by the permanent equipment that have been found in the region and aspects of living, the contract involve internet banking services (SADC).
With digital equipment used by disabled students (SCA).
UDA-RT company insisted that the tender is supposed to prove out benefits of 1 billion shillings every year in a period of three years ago.
