
You can't know the road accident, have killed 949 people within one day.

At the time President Jakaya Kikwete meets and encourage the deaths of 19 people who were involved in an accident which occurred in Morogoro town, has been known as a lorry accident in Morogoro town which has reduced the lives of 969 people between January first and April 12 this year.

In addition, 2,500 people have been injured in that period, other people affected the permanent disabled from those accidents, this means that at an average, 10 people lost their lives in road accidents every day between January and April 12 this year, though the injured are an average of 25 people in a long time.

That was noted yesterday by the commander of the road safety squad in the country, Mohammed Mpinga who said that those results have happened at the approximately 224 road accidents between January and at the beginning of April.

He said 866 people have died and approximately 363 others being injured between January and March, while others have lost life and 138 injured out of March 11 and April 12 this year.

He said in all that accidents, the main source is the high speed by the drivers without considering the marks of road drawings and passengers to support a fast speed and it gives a driver when he did a mistake.

"The driver doing a mistake, being arrested for passengers, they are preparing to pay for a driver, an issue that is giving drivers," said Mpinga.

He added that on the other side, owners of the transport agencies are contribute to accidents because they have been controlling the road for their drivers to go fast and when he knows it, an issue that causes the occurrence of accidents caused by many people and to let others want to identify lives.

He said that the private behavior of drivers to run away from road safety when they meet small vehicles, the act said it is not correct that it can cause those accidents, it is good for each one to respect his colleague and to follow the law.

He also said another issue that makes an accident in road accidents are the use of drugs and drinking alcohol what makes him a driver, getting tired of its results in an accident.

Moreover, he urged drivers to be careful when they are running especially cases of rains, urging them to be careful, considering drawings and road accidents with the passengers to give reports of drivers going against the road laws by JK has released the statistics.

President Kikwete has sent condolences to the head of Morogoro Province, Doctor Rajabu Rutengwe, evil to the deaths of 19 people and 11 others who were injured in the accident where and the lorry that happened at the end of the week at Msepwa.

In his report to the press, he said Mrs Salma, have received with great disappointment about the deaths of 18 people due to bad road accidents that caused their bodies in a goalless draw.

This is a great funeral to the nation, therefore, I am using my condolences to my condolences, and through you, I request my condolences to my condolences and many condolences to the family, brothers, and relatives who agree with their loved ones in that accident.

I urge God to give the heart to be patient and patience, all people who agree with their brothers and relatives in the bad accident.

Likewise, I urge God to protect all the injured in that accident to recover quickly, so as to return to their normal state and join together with the family, brothers and their relatives, "added President Kikwete.
