But people did not love you but on your side?
With Mister Pengo of games, in our place, you have destroyed the work yesterday and he sees himself using the people while you know yesterday, he knows the Parliament.
Mine were happy, he didn't have only a lot of them only one hour, but I was surprised to know where I had not seen, I would not know where I was not a lot, "says there is not a lot, but there is no doubt if you have no longer.
It is not the Almighty God to do so that the challenges also are.
Mister and now?
Now there is no problem or not a system.
Now how is giving Mister the whole time, maybe I would do business that are expected to be something like nine o'clock in the evening, what should I know?
It was that teachers who came out, there should be a slave 'and when it comes from, Mister she was going, I have remained on this because he was a brother so but now.
You know there are you know where you know what I have heard, I have heard of us again again and there should be a movie by then there is why you know that which is good is good.
If you see God I'm with her husband, maybe it is not told that I told me that you should know that you are telling him and when you see that if you defend that match, where other games are there.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, I think that I think it was three.
However, the work and those are the first.
The first first were three.
First of the first were two, I took an agreement with one other day.
Ras Kiduku was not trying to do.
I don't know the fact, which one do you know that there will be a first day to come up with the third time to go hand with me and I remember that if they are not six, the third one is six and I will not meet it instead of entertain.
Now if you come to now, the late does not perform well and leave the drugs, I will show that they are and that.
Same, but you know why my brothers, you will know your friend with each other with each other, it does not know her and I am very happy and I'm in a solution again, the commissioner of a person brought a lot and down to you.
You miss.
But you know I was there.
Who is the one to look for?
He cannot have another punishment for another.
