NHIF is going round in the new price of treatment.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) has said that in ensuring the challenges that came out in the implementation of the new cost of medical services, they have put opinions from service providers and improve more so as to eliminate challenges that will come up during the implementation of the new price.

Moreover, he has given an explanation of reasons because it's not expected to be a member of the fund that resulted from cheating, that was happening and explained that parents still get that insurance.
That step was arrived after the complaints from some of the services offered by the fund to reduce its cost, an issue that made members of the fund to lack of tests and lack of various services.
The Acting General Director of the fund, Bernard Konga, said from July this year, the fund started to implement the use of new services for medical services to its services that are registered and provide services to members of the fund.
He said the improvement of medical prices is the normal procedure with an aim of improving the availability of better medical services to its members and to improve the challenges that came up in some of the price that are used to do.
He said those improvements have been made by considering various issues, including change in the cost of medical services in the country, the views of stakeholders including members and service providers, to change to the medical guidelines and use of new technology in the health sector.
Konga said by considering the concept of good administration and involvement of stakeholders, the process that brought together all important stakeholders including private service providers through their association of private services (APTA), who gave their contribution to the improvement of prices and services and providing them on its implementation.
He said those improvements benefited from the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children with bond of managing the fund.
He said the improvements that took place are required to increase the services that were paid by the fund like drugs, reagents, tests and services which were not there in the payment of some services.
In a large extent, the big part of the improvement of the price that is used currently, have resulted from advice and opinions from all stakeholders and at a big way they are supposed to increase financial ability and more than ninety percent, different from prices which were used earlier, "he said.
He emphasized that the improvements on services are not involved in itself with the contributing level but to ensure that the members get better services and service providers are getting enough payments.
Previously, the chief executive officer of APT, Doctor Samwel Wangwe, said the decision of the fund is making prices of health services including drugs and investigation, the necessary changes in all hospitals in the country.
He said before that decision, it was set aside six months to change his duties and the government in order to implement the new procedure that started in July, "said the part of the spider plant.
Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, the Acting Director of Marketing of NHIF, Angela Mziray said that it's not expected that those who know now are those who are used to the government, he said that action was made after the existence of cheating in some of the service providers and some of the members who added up to sell the membership of that insurance.
He said that they discovered that after realizing another time that you can be a member of Swahili, but in a difficult time it is with the Asia origin, an issue that made the fund being stolen.
He said the cheating were done, especially for patients with great diseases, such as kidney, where a patient uses more than one million shillings for a week to clean blood.
He said that parents and even the child of your brother, who is bringing up so that he can get that job, to give them the documents that show the origin of that child.
Previously, some of the patients complained about the fund by reducing some of the tests, if there will be a male children, an amount of testing and drug abuse.
One of the those patients Fatuma Mwassa, said that NHIF is getting married, I have been forced to pay for reproductive health services, but I have been forced to pay tests for reproductive health services and AIDS to achieve the cost of tests in some of the services.
That fund will not be paid an expert from 15,000 instead of 30,000 shillings as well as usual doctors will be paid 20,000 shillings instead of 10,000 shillings, NHIF has lowered the payment of medical services including surgery which had already costed 150 billion shillings.
