Do not fulfill the air conditioning and second-hand clothes.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

At the time Tanzania is partnering with the International Community to commemorate the International Trade Exhibition of Ozone, the government has urged the business people to avoid bringing in gas that were banned by gas equipment that were banned by gas equipment, such as refrigerators and air crafts have been already used (second hand).

He said the air crafts have fallen in posing with 11 years and R12, is not a friend for the environment that was made in this city yesterday by the Minister of State, Office of the Vice President (coalition and environment), January Makamba when speaking to the press and insisted that it is good for business people to be keen in order to protect the country's environment.
Speaking about the commemorations, January said that it will be held through the public awareness about the Ozone, its benefits, effects of getting married to the students and safe use of products with similar chemicals to Ozone.
He said it is good for the business people to enter the country in cosmetics and friend to Ozone as R22, Ranaldo and Rutihinda, Rankings, and insisted that the buying of products in the logo, says' Oreo ', "
"Know the meaning of Ozone" or "CFC - Free Africa" show it does not have been made by chemicals that involve me in the Ozone.
He urged the technicians of refrigerators and air conditioning to ensure they help them to use well in air conditioning and refrigeration where they get to them instead of getting a free expert who is in the sky.
In addition, the technicians will give education to their customers about an easy way to identify systems and air crafts have been made by the customs officers and the supervisors of the cyber crime and that until now Tanzania has reduced more than 216 tons equivalent to 86 percent of the use of those drugs.
While clarifying about those commemorations, he said that it is happening as a result of the directive by the United Nations general meeting in the end of number 49 / 114 on December 19 this year in memory of the signing of the Montreal Impact and Crdb Bank.
He explained that the dangers of getting married to students is together with contributing to allowing the radiation from "Ulyankulu B" to arrive at the end of the world and therefore causing the increase in diseases like cancer, destruction of heart "which is causing poverty, a deficit of the disease against diseases and fruits.
In addition, other effects are access to plants, especially the production of agriculture due to affected with the growth of the growth system and also some of the chemicals have been mentioned to increase in climate change in the world and therefore contribute to climate change.
