The killings and a fight.
Sei 12, 2014.

At 5 o'clock at night of January 2, in the year 1997, the special unit of the police force (England), it received a phone that was requested to be given a quick donation from the area that is praised in peace outside the village of Alonso minute, in England.
Police when they arrived at the area found the body of one boy who was known by the name Maverick, who was 25 years old, has been given out of the heart of a driver of his car, Shamsa Ford, Turnbull.
At the front he was standing on his fiancée Trachuma Andrew who was 27 years old, is confused, as a result of that incident, Tracos has also received blood, but he had not used a lot more than getting married to be in the near future.
Key, who was read in August 30th, was announced that he has been made in the scene area, but his fiancée was rushed to hospital for treatment where his lover was killed by people who want to know what he was involved in road accidents.
He said that he and his lover Rob Kardashian were going back home from the night walk where they went to the field of Alghanim and his lover who was passing through the vehicle when they tried to change the road, a vehicle that it has maintained the vehicle when they still continues at their home.
According to his explanation, Trachuma claimed that, Key wa Mitego came out on their vehicle and started paying up with his car, but when he went into the conflict, but when he was divided into that vehicle, but when he was divided into that vehicle, but he was divided into that vehicle and leaving with a fast rate.
The next day since the occurrence of those killings, Tracked, was allowed to come from the hospital while he was not seen to the hospital while he was required to speak to the press about the incident.
"It is true that I was not satisfied by the incident," said Tracked, then he continued, "I asked me," I talked and told him, how they were unable to listen and even so that he was not like to listen to the way to run a car. "
"I warned the one that the man gave himself, but I did not know what she gets into the vehicle so that I wish her lover, because I am not a woman to deal with him but he told him just after being attacked and asked him to sit down.
The investigation police who was accompanied with him in that meeting with the journalists Ian Ferrao who has said, "I believe some people have said the incident resulted from road accidents, but all of us are the murder."
He went to far apart from asking the driver of that vehicle of Sierra Leone who was involved in those killing to address the police as soon as possible.
Two days after speaking to the media, Tracou was rushed to hospital after losing her in his home.
