
Dayo applauding his son on behalf of the pelvic regions and then bid farewell.

A student of doctors of Chimala, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region, Vena Mtelela (27) (in the picture), is being held by the police force of Iringa province on the heavy claims of killing her child on the pelvic regions, he allowed me in Rambo 'fund to marry off his bed.

That incident that was written many, especially considering that the suspect knows the law because it knows it, this happening took place on August 21, this year, inside one house which is in Kijiweni in this town.

According to ask who lives with a house, a house that is claimed to take the killings (name), two weeks ago, the suspect arrived at that house from the college being pregnant.

"Two weeks ago, Vena happened to his friend, Joyce who had been charged in that house, Vena had a big pregnancy, after five days he gave birth," said the source.

We have added, "on the incident, Joyce Ndalichako who is the host, he was going to go to his activities, he didn't leave Vena in a room when I think she was buried and he did not know the girl child.

"It was in the morning, we have heard the noise from that room, all the noise which were not normal!

"We came to you keenly, the voice of the radio was added so as to make sure that you get out outside the country, but because we are people who know that inside what we were in the news reporter (these)," the source said.

Our reporter when it is found and we are forced about the existence of a mother who's tasted the child who gave birth, followed by police of gender desk.

Those police have previously been looking for the host of that suspect, that is Joyce who was in mind.
When he found he was striped of his mobile phone so that nobody would like to communicate with the suspect.

He was asked if he was a guest of his home, he confessed and was asked as the guest of honor who gave birth, he refuses to go to him at his home to follow the suspect.

Our reporter in the company of those officers arrived at the station and found Vena.

When he was asked if he has given birth, earlier, he refused to agree but after being held up and being taken out, he confessed to give birth and said that the child has sent him and say that the child has hurt them out of his bed.

Inside that room, anything there were blood that claimed to dodge the suspect when he gave birth to him!

Police who were seen in a room, they set up to check under her bed sheets and they started to see him is a fund's fund, they will accept to support him and to give the package that the child failed.

Apart from the body of that child, they can be able to have those clothes, he also contributed a salt from Kinyanyiko area where it was claimed that the suspect did so, so that the body does not get married which will expire in him.

Neighbors said the knowledge, the accused who made him because he knows how to save the body of a human being, for a woman who doesn't have skills that would not be able to do so.

There are claims that, the suspect told the police that he reached the decision of killing that child following a man who engaged her, who lives in Dar es Salaam to promise his marriage but he went into the net.

After the police listening to explanations of that suspect, they arrested him, his host Joyce and the owner of that house whose name did not be found immediately.

Police said the owner of that house was arrested because he violated the law of the city where he was supposed to give a report to receive the guest of honor to the local government but without considering that Joyce is alleged to recognize that his guest gave birth but he told them not to give birth.
The police commander of Iringa province, Ramadhan Mungi, has confirmed the occurrence of that incident.
