The community that promote female circumcision is taking them worried about the children.
The bad state that is facing a some of the Kenyans concerning the news of female circumcision that are ongoing in the Maasais'.
However, after getting married, both 20 years of 1920 and 1930, the society for NHO, Otieno.
The physically challenged women have claimed that, following their investigation, their girls who have not yet got married or given honor to their husbands in their estates.
All this is after getting the age of 16 years to ban the world after getting a lot of blood.
And even after the government and their leaders intervene in the middle, they have been thrown and claimed that, traditional and a bomb must be emphasized.
Male circumcision that involves being affected by a very important part of all female children or several girls have been forced to be forced to participate without consent, because many of them are forced to participate without interest in those foods or even they are forced to leave their studies.
Still close to Nairobi.
The system of education changes the meaning of education is to benefit students in their lives.
As it appears from this day it is that many students are just looking for their exams contrary to the main aim of taking children to the school.
These are supposed to become a modern system of 8-4-4 that allows him to oppress the students.
Those affected are students of primary schools and others in high school.
I call on the 8th system of 4-4 to be cleaned so that students can reduce their cargo.
Esther Wakati.
Corruption could destroy Kenya and breast that will destroy the country.
The deaths of more than 100 people were there in drinking alcohol that were brought and corruption not something.
However, drugs that cause big disaster in livestock is because of corruption.
It is even the meat conducted in some towns and corruption.
Many affected the government because of the status of commodities were affected by the quality of products.
But now the cause of all those are our officers in government to eat in a ward.
It is a very shameful matter to see the area of Chang'ombe Primary School which was buried and sold in public.
The investor in the area of Chato and politicians have decided to stop tribalism and surprising thing to see politicians led by the up of personal interests, as they make the lives of ordinary citizens to be more difficult.
The message that is in the national song has been forgotten completely.
Despite the nation's song to encourage us to live in peace, politicians are confirmed to move ahead and try to prevent the citizens on the foundation stone.
Ramsey Nouah has been sentenced to close bureaucracy, the president did not look for the first time I am taking this opportunity to oppose the announcement of president to join with Huawei Company to ensure security is there.
By doing so, it is like to add a fire accident at the injury time.
Safaricom, it has been trying to make a friendship with them is to see a politician,! You get fifty and seven million to send fifty shillings!
Then if we join us to be ready to be given the elephants' elephants because I have not allowed me.
To speak from this network until now it will cost five hundred thousand shillings per minutes, this is not gender?
It is unacceptable, and MRC is a threat to be launched again for the illegal groups of Mungele and the Republican Party (MRC) is a threat to the security of the country.
Even if they become these groups that have been banned by the government have been implementing its work.
A good example is the killing of people who were buried in Kitanzini ward. It is not something to understand that these groups continue to implement their daily work, to stop many and great effects.
These groups have a dirty history and we should not be accepted, if they should understand that, they should tell me that the Mombasa which is in Kenya.
Abdallah in Malindi.
