Mother's mother.
If the drivers of the passengers' buses in various areas in the country should avoid the major disruptions to those who are needed.
In the city of Dar es Salaam starting from early today morning, the residents of that town found himself in a difficult time after nations was being beaten in the country outside the country and buses that are going to get into this system when they are in Dar es Salaam.
The police force in that country we were forced to use bomb attacks against people who had gathered at the University of the buses that happened in Ubungo I will see a big challenge to citizens.
The hands of that drivers is reported in the southern provinces of the threats of Egypt together with other provinces in Morogoro have talked to the government to listen to their salaries as well as to pay their salaries as being employed.
The Secretary General of the drivers' party (EFD), has noted that basically the government's plan to use today for the purpose of the session that they requested the government to participate in order to solve the challenges they have been arrested yesterday by the police force, a step that made those drivers to fail to continue with their journey until when they see the fate of their leader.
What is happening is that we are waiting for leaders to be read.
Payments here in the city.
How are the top leaders, all the other steps to use all.
They want this matter.
As they were shocked that he has emerged as a result of that time.
It's talk about the drivers about the procedures and a good wife that I have sent it to the police.
It has been bad.
You don't know the meaning of the truth last year and that to go to you.
It is a must to go every after three years without causing it.
We want to maintain peace, then I know the top contracts that he has spoken for a long time.
So, when you see drivers who do not see the drivers, she does not have a lot of employment it's short periods and today you can move forward.
And the party's officer to defend the passengers when he was going, he has said the strike today or emerging with suddenly and there was enough time to the government and stakeholders to consider the solution of the issue without bringing the effects that are seen today.
That the authorities will be unable to take action, this problem can come out is a very important thing if we have leaders who we believe that they are supposed to discuss several weeks, but we are unable to discuss several hours and be able to discuss these things we have been able to come here because these hours we have ever been.
Returning the examinations today.
Then we have been prepared a lot of holidays that I've failed.
The dangers that there was peace in Morogoro province together with the Barcelona drivers in that province continued to have the normal qualifications to consider the head of security and security and the police force.
Dream?
A very big one.
In the province the threats of passengers do not take Newala problems together with the threats of Egypt who have been unable to travel today there are other areas including the ones that have been unable to travel because of the passengers' vehicles together with the motorcycle that provide services to provide services as a result of a strike.
We don't know if we have passed from where I had not found?
What are the people we are saying, there are sustainable systems that I've never heard.
The drivers that has finished later in the afternoon following the session between the management of the minister for work and employment Honorable Gaudentia Kabaka.
On behalf of the ministry.
There is a teaser?
He does not lie?
Died.
It is good in the streets to have.
The late?
