
Mtibwa, Kagera Sugar.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

Mtibwa Sugar team has said their match against Kagera Sugar will be more than Simba and Yanga soccer club in a game that will be played tomorrow evening in Morogoro.

Mtibwa Sugar has a disaster after his two goalkeepers, Said Mohamed and Abdallah Makaziwe who had a legs.
Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, Mtibwa Sugar spokesperson, Thobias Sedoyeko said that the match is more than Simba and Yanga soccer because of having coaches who have ever played for Mtibwa Sugar.
He talked about the example of Mtibwa Sugar coach, Salum Mayomba and the coach of Kagera Sugar, Mecky Maxime, that joined the team this season from Mtibwa Sugar they ever played for Mtibwa at different times.
"This match will not be easy like people it's happy because there are all two coaches who use Mtibwa Sugar and all they ever played, therefore, it will be a great opposition match," he said.
Also, he said the captain of Mtibwa Sugar, Shaban Nditi who has announced that team for 16 years is the pillar for the team thus he is expected to bring competition in that team.
He said that despite those teams they have known outside, but inside you cannot be a easy game because everyone wants the victory to be used more well in the stand.
A tanker said so much on their side they had lost the game against Simba last week, therefore they need to win against Mtibwa Sugar in four games with Ndanda FC 2-0 goals against Simba 2-0 goals against Simba 2-0.
About their goalkeepers, "said Mohamed he will go out for two weeks after getting a knee injury during the game against Ndanda and Makaziwe who lost her leg in the match against Simba.
The Mtibwa's spokesman said the goalkeeper that is expected to play with Mtibwa squad in the tomorrow's game with Benedict Liwenga. Tariq Khdeir, joined Mtibwa at a loan from Yanga where he joined the last season, while he joined the last season, while he had to get a chance to live even immediately due to competition number.
