CCM can do what to do with Lowassa.
May 27, 2015.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is in the problems of problems that is true then it is not seen to make it get into those problems and especially when it comes to the presidential position through the party. Lowassa has become a problem that is not easy to solve.
Bitterness for the resignation of Lowassa.
The decision by Lowassa to resign as the prime minister due to his being involved and involved in the process of the scandal of mobile phone company contrary to the law that they could use the position given by Speaker Samuel Sitta, to answer on behalf of the claims that were given by Speaker Samuel Sitta, to answer him on claims that were given by Speaker Samuel Sitta, to answer his views by the prime minister.
Lowassa did one of the mistakes that I believe he will be happy until today and maybe for all his life, it was a decision to fear and remove the leadership by explaining how many of us want to resign.
Friends of many lovers have been seen very much by his decision because they felt it was taken by people who are in state house or to ensure that Lowassa went to the State House "Asmara, it will be a blow once.
The silence of Lowassa.
After the resignation of Prime Minister in the state of storming and even contributing to the parliament, it is possible for a decision to sit on the front or it's possible that he did not want to go to parliament because he had decided to fly the first leg to answer the attacks against him.
When he was contributing to a speech on the budget of the office of the prime minister, Lowassa gave his popular speech to the "this disease of fear making any decisions, let me fear, we have been forced to make decisions by not releasing decisions, let me be able to give a decision more than not releasing a decision.
I don't know whether in his statement he says he is looking for the decisions that he has given him to intervene in the process of Richard or even anything as the silence for Lowassa's silence, followed him.
Lowassa and human rights to be the president.
If there is a person who is in the year 2015, it's like the right time is Lowassa and those who remember Lowassa and Kikwete is facing their cooperation in looking for the presidency after being put in 2005, sometimes he will be the prime minister and when he will be the prime minister and when he will be his return.
Following the resignation of Lowassa, 2008, it reaches a lot of that union and that they remember the decision by President Jakaya Kikwete to the elders of Dar es Salaam to explain what happened in Dodoma tried to explain that if Lowassa had been happy to say that Hillary Clinton is the first lady who was former President of America and Senator from New York.
