
Banks now get reports of debtors of the Higher Education Student Loans Board (HESLB).

The Higher Education Student Loans Board (HESLB) at the end of the week has signed a contract with credit company by Inflexionpoint Company Tanzania which will enable the reports of big higher education loans to be arraigned in Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).

Credit company, Inflexionpoint Company has a license that was given by the Central Bank of Tanzania for the purpose of doing that work.

Therefore, you have benefited from the higher education loans who will request for a loan from any financial institution here in the country, that institution will have the ability to verify if the applicant from higher education has the discipline of moving loans.

According to the contract, HESLB has presented the list of the debtors of higher education loans to credit company, Inflexionpoint Company which will ensure the reports of those who are found in all financial institutions including banks, so that the institutions should be satisfied before giving new loans to the beneficiaries of higher education loans.

"HESLB has joy to work with credit, Inflexionpoint Company as a new stakeholder, we urged the beneficiaries of higher education loans to start paying their debts so that they can have status of providing loans and financial institutions," said the Acting Executive Director of HESLB Mister Jerry Silaa, during a brief ceremony to sign the contract at the HESLB offices in Dar es Salaam over the weekend.

On his part, the chief executive officer of credit, Inflexionpoint Company Tanzania, Mister Kajubi Mukajanga has said that the aim of his company is to make sure the opportunity to increase the effects that increase and they get discipline for the loans they received.

The beneficiaries of higher education loans who have been forced will get a unique opportunity to discuss with financial institutions about interest rates because of the discipline they are claiming from their loans, "said Mister Edom Mwansansu said in that event that was attended by the manager of credit, Inflexionpoint Company, Mister Van Reekmans.

"We are determined to support HESLB in implementing its responsibilities especially those of revenue collection," added the executive director of credit, Inflexionpoint Company Tanzania Limited.

HESLB is the government institution that was started in the year 2004 and started working officially in the year 2005 so as to give loans to Tanzanians need and also collect tax loans which have been given by the government since the year 1994.

Up to now, more than 21 trillion Tanzanian shillings have been issued for the Tanzanians and, among them, approximately 258 billion shillings and therefore will be used to the beneficiaries.

The only amount of funds they were given in the students who are still continuing with studies and whose time to start paying them (12 months after completing their studies).

Loans by Inflexionpoint Company Tanzania Limited is part of the international company that is doing work in more than 20 countries in a bridge that deals with the management of the loans reports that were signed by the Central Bank of Tanzania in 2013.
