The ban from the market that are not allowed.

It has been written by I heard.

It has been reported, 31st October, 2016.

The government has said there will be no forgiveness for a business person or the producer who will lead to the market products that are not recognized because he would have broken the law.

While opening the exhibition of products of entrepreneurs that was organized by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (SIDO), Bagamoyo region, Coast Province, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage has said, those who sell products in the market without serving the market.
He has said that the government cannot identify these businessmen of that kind, because their aim is so much with the intention of moving back to the development of the country.
Mwijage said, Tanzania is in the process of bringing great economic changes in the production of industries, therefore, it needs business people and producers of services and products that are able to value the quality and not to produce their quality.
"We cannot reach the objectives of having a central economy being built by industries, if we will not accept to change and leave the haphazard production of products and services, that doesn't maintain quality standards and international standards," said Mwijage.
He has said, this is the time for entrepreneurs in the country to ensure they get the required procedures to confirm the quality of products that are producing, so that they are assured a safe environment for business while supporting the government to achieve his intention of making a revolution in industries.
The exhibition for the whole week that brought together Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), that was using the opportunity to provide education to entrepreneurs about the quality standards and its importance to the economy and business in the country.
In addition, small entrepreneurs have been reminded to take advantage of the opportunities that were given by the government to pay the cost of testing the quality of products because it has improved and get affordable licenses which are producing the market.
