TFF has signed a contract of cooperation.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The government's newspaper analysis, (TSN) that prints the newspapers reports today, Sunday, Daily News, Sunday News and Spohr, which has signed a partnership agreement between him and the Local Government of Tanzania (NECTA).

The agreement was signed at the headquarters of the newspapers in Dar es Salaam city at the end of the week where Doctor Jim Carrey who is the executive editor, has signed that contract on behalf of TSN.
That event took place with the adviser of the good council of the best council, Jews.
Speaking shortly after signing that contract, Doctor Yvonne Cole, said that it is for a long time and with great benefits, now it has creativity and has become business.
He congratulated the community in the cooperation so as to use the opportunities that are available in the business competition by uniting them in different issues.
Manyema said that the community for now has 185 members who are available in local governments, including five cities, 24 Municipality, 26 provinces and district councils.
He said that they will use the partnership to market themselves in the general meeting of 32 members of that community which will take place two weeks ago in Mara region in Musoma district, from September 22 to 24 this year.
According to Simpasa, the meeting will be opened by President John Magufuli on September 23, and in his evening, the president did an award for better councils that will be known to do well in different issues including tax collection.
The Head of Communication of that community, Seif Hassan speaking about the benefits of the contract, he said that both sides will benefit from the citizens getting reliable information about the local government without stopping.
He said different challenges that are facing citizens will be stopped also.
Speaking about the award, the adviser of Adnani said they are looking for a way how the council will serve the citizens in different issues including doing research on how they are involved in different plans.
