The business people in Kariakoo to oppose the idea of DC.

September 16, 2016.

By Bashir Yakub.
One day after the head of Ilala District, Dar es Salaam, Sophia Mjema, announced to prepare a procedure which will enable small business people "Machinga 'to do their businesses in three estates of Kariakoo market, business people in that market have said they don't agree with that order because of being forced to sit in front of the shops.
Because that step will be affected by causing customers to be unable to arrive directly in their businesses.
While speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, they said the directive has been released by the head of the district not to involve one of the other stakeholders instead they have received information through the mouth.
They said that they would have been given the opportunity if they received the small business people so that they can be able to give their views on the purpose of being unable to move ahead of their shops.
One of the clothes business people, Petro Kiango, said the directive has been released by the District Commissioner of Ilala, has encouraged them as business people of that market at the time of returning those businessmen.
He said the government would have put a good procedure and those with bring productivity and they had been seen and see you, it will be able to bring about the effects to the central traders and the ones who are not aware of them.
He said that the bringing up of them in front of our business will be able to bring great problems, because we have already paid various costs including tax, electricity, together with the cash money, something that can bring development to their interests, "said Kiango.
According to the business person from that market, Justine Massawe, said it is good for the government to sit together between the big business people and to discuss and discuss how they will run their activities.
Affecting the business of big business people.
We believe DC Chongolo has all the authority in his concerned area, but this he would be able to look at this issue because more than a long-inch width will be affected, "said Massawe.
And the secretary of the business community of Dar es Salaam Province, Abdallah Mwinyi, said that if they are forced to be given out in the estates, they will be able to affect the extent of the whole issue of business to big business people and to fail to run their businesses due to the challenges they met with.
"We are not happy about whether we started there, therefore, it is good if they would have been a good place where they will not be able.
Suffering from time to time and doing every business person to do his business in time, and in the environment that gave them a chance to each business person to do its activities well without any challenges, "he said.
