
Member of parliament opposed the killing of murder.
Dodoma Province, the Member of Parliament of Buchosa County (CCM), Kasibu, Bilago has appointed some of the politicians to participate in the killing of people with albinism so as to get victory during the election.
While contributing at the seminar for members of parliament to grow and strengthen security of people with disabilities that took place at Pius Msekwa Hall yesterday, Bilago said during the election, the albino has been getting problems.
"Politicians know that you are self-albino during the election, but it happens (elections) the disabled live safe and why the government don't understand these people who have been arrested," he said.
However, the deputy minister in the office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and physically challenged, Doctor Abdallah Possi said a primary issue is not to buy a great extent as it was in the previous elections, but that one does not need to learn about the albino killings but even a finger to that person will be effects, "he said.
He urged the members of parliament to provide education in the areas they came from so as to change the views of people.
He said that since the end of parliament, he has never seen a question about people with disabilities that were asked by members of parliament who are not disabled.
Also, other members of parliament wanted the office of the parliament to change his infrastructure so as to be a friend to the disabled and giving an example the administration of the fourth floor but there is no elevator thus, making the disabled members to fail to go to some of the offices to get services.
That situation said that it has been helping the members of parliament with disabilities to write a lot, to go and asked the people to sit down in offices they need the service.
2015 the year 2015 which includes the presidential elections, parliamentary and councilors.
The member of parliament of Mwibara, Kangi Lugola (CCM) wanted the parliament to put a friendly infrastructure for people with disabilities so as to enable them to get quick services.
"We start in parliament to put a friendly environment for the disabled, today, a disabled member of parliament did not come back in the floor of the government's office to address its payments, why other things should be able to put as a system of putting a thumb inside the parliament," said Ligue.
The East African member of parliament (UVCCM), Nmrod Mkono has asked the parliamentary office to be unable to employ workers with disabilities.
