Stand United has left his coach.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

After the disagreements among the Stand United club and its head coach Patrick Liewig to abandon the club's leadership has decided to leave him.

Approximately two weeks, there were a sexually transmitted disease which is under the coach intends to deal with the club's leadership where the French suspect accused his assistant Athumani Bilal to partner with some of the players and leaders to boycott the team.
Stand United's information officer, Debwa, said the national leadership has given the team the coach who is not the head coach, "the head coach has left without farewell and the leadership is not otherwise he has decided to give him a assistant coach," he said.
However, last week, Coach Lieberum, told the newspaper that he left Shinyanga and come to Dar es Salaam to address his permit of working in the country since its time was finished and there was no leader who were seen to care.
I am not here in Dar es Salaam city, to address my permit for working which he has already joined but no leaders who is ready to solve this issue, "he said.
"I have decided to go up with the team so as to address procedures of getting a permit for living here in the country, the first one has shown an effort to help them get in this country but there are many things that have been doing especially after getting tired of the Acacia company," said Constantine.
That French man said that since the resignation of the sponsors of the team the Drilling and Fisheries Development Company, things have been done without a order to the team to an extent that the players and the technical bench failed to be paid the salaries and their allowances.
The coach went to far and accused his assistant Bilal that he has been seeing the team to do his match and that is starting last season so that he can make it better, the accusations that were contested by Bilal and said that it is not true but the coach is giving birth.
"There is no true truth about me to lure them so that they can be able to change the team, that the leadership does not understand the team together with the players and after knowing that, he has started talking about good things that are not true," said Bilali.
The report of Makaziwe said that Bilali is the head coach for now and he will be assisted by Aidan Baher said that they have decided to give him that opportunity because his ability and he has a license that can hold that position including the assistant coach for a long time in that club.
"We have called Bilali because we know that our long-term coach has all the qualifications to be the head coach of our club as well as he has been with a long time, we have never seen him," said Makomba.
About Lieberum, he said that coach followed by the team that went to Songea and Mbeya City, he did not return to Shinyanga and leave France without informing the leadership.
The "Tsehai said that the plane has risen up in Mwanza, the driver looking for the plane and failed to give information, we are going to Shinyanga," said Makaka and Stand United are in the second position in the premier league with 20 points behind the leaders Simba with 23 points behind the leaders, Simba with 23 points behind the leaders, Simba with 23 points.
