
The new emerges victorious with a woman who died.
Suzan Mwillo, Citizen Director, annamatinde @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, five days after one woman died in the earth, two men have showed up, one claiming it is her husband's husband and another one of her husband.
However, those men who came out in different times and different areas wanted to be given the body of the deceased, they had put later and did not take that body.
The attendant who defected from Bray, where he fears the mother, Kalaita Hamis, said one man arrived in removing that song on Monday at nine o'clock at night claiming that he is a citizen of the deceased.
The person said, that young man who did not give him a name, claimed that he saw the pictures of his son on social media, that he died in his skill.
The youth who said that him and his son are Chagas and asked about a man who had arrived with his son in the domain, "I told me, she is a short man, everyone is fat and a light of water."
After seeing the answer, the young man asked the person, "if you see you will give me what" Kalen got the answer. "
After the person told the answer, that the young man gave his phone from his pocket and got it a picture and asked me again, "flash disk" to me 'yes'.
The person said that a young man bought his phone in the pocket is happy, then he said, "the man was his fiancée who was in the preparation of getting married."
The young man told that person that his son and who claimed to be his fiancée who claimed to be his fiancée who was forced to save time after time because his brother had not arrived.
The youth wanted to ask for the body of the deceased where it is only reserved.
"He asked another question, he went on and I went back to sleep," he said and added, "there is no surprising thing until yesterday (the day before yesterday) police have come up here and said there is no good brother who visited the police to ask for that issue," said Kalege while asking him to ask that youth name or his phone number.
Another man at the youth while introducing himself as a mother of the deceased, another man arrived at Mwananyamala hospital the day before yesterday claiming he is the husband of the late and wanted to take that body.
Acting chief medical officer of that hospital, Doctor Merila Moshi said that the man was told, "this issue is under the police and they must ensure that it is the husband of the deceased."
However, he said until yesterday, that man was not back to the hospital.
Doctor Hagai said that if the relatives of the deceased, who are not yet confirmed by the police, will not be remembered within 14 days, the body of the deceased will be buried and the municipality.
"We are organizing the body of the late for 14 days only, that is the procedure of the hospital," he said.
The police commander of Kinondoni region, Christopher Timbuka, said yesterday that until now there is no good brother who had arrived to the police to give a report on that issue.
