
The Tigo Fiesta Concert has left the talk.

27th September, 2016

Entertainment of its kind led the end of the week at the Tigo Concert 2016 which was held at the Majengo grounds in Moshi municipality, where thousands of fans got an opportunity to get one thing, it wants from different upcoming artists, including Christian Bella, Lydia Moyo.
Others who got the hearts of their fans in the festival is Shetta, Manufacturing Company, Madee, Darassa, Darassa, Darcoboa, Ney wa Mitego, Makanya, Ney wa Mitego, Makabane.
The festival was attended by various senior officials of the Kilimanjaro Province enjoy a bag including the head of that province, Saidi Meck Sadiki and the head of Moshi Municipality, Boniface Jacob.
In another step in every Tanzanian, who likes to participate in the Fiesta Concert, the main sponsor of the event, Tigo Tanzania has given a ten percent reduction on the tickets that will involve Tigo Pesa in this season.
Different seasons for two seasons, all the participants from any network for the festival of this year will have a chance to receive their tickets through Tigo Pesa without extra charges.
Those tickets will enable the participants to attain it easy to be easy for that festival which has started officially on August 20 this year in Mwanza town.
The customers of Tigo which they will get the Fiesta Concert for Tigo Pesa, will also get a gift of a gift of shillings 20,000 shillings which includes the 400 minutes and 400 million shillings that will be used within seven days.
While welcoming Zanzibaris we will participate at the Fiesta Festival ', the director of Tigo in the northern region, George Sambali has advised the fans to buy their tickets early so as to avoid disruptions that would be able to come out in the last minutes for every region that happened.
The Tigo Concert 2016 is taking place in collaboration between Prime Time Promotions and Tigo Tanzania who are the main sponsor of the Kilimanjaro Province are collecting from Arusha on Saturday at the Sheikh Amri Abeid grounds.
