
Yanga, Azam to welcome him.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was heard (22 October, 2016

Six games of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League is expected to start today in different stadiums in the country.

Yanga will be at the Kaitaba Stadium against Kagera Sugar, Azam FC will be at the Azam Complex Stadium, Chamazi welcoming the officers of JKT Ruvu.
Yanga is looking for a chance to be close to the leaders of the league, Simba leading the top with 26 points as well as any reason, it needs to be close to them.
That team is in the third position in the position with 18 points behind Stand United with 20 points and Simba 26 points and the one leading is eight points, Yanga has already played nine matches, and lost one of the defending champions if they will win that match they will attain 21 points.
If you want to be beaten, then they will be on the possibility of getting into the third position, because that in the past, they receive them on Kagera Sugar and is not a team to be played for, because under Coach Mecky Maxime, has been putting efforts to do well.
Maybe it may be a difficult game because everyone will need good results in Kagera, wanting to win 11 matches, with Yanga, wanting to win 11 matches, got three matches and lost three points to hold the fourth position with 18 points equivalent to Yanga.
Another game is Azam FC against JKT Ruvu, this team has played 10 matches, has won four matches, has won four points after the beginning of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that plays against JKT Ruvu which is in danger of getting the bridge since it is also available.
JKT Ruvu has played 10 games, has won six matches, has won six matches, has won six points and attaining nine points, because all lack good results as a good place where Mtibwa Sugar will host Stand United at the Manungu Stadium, Morogoro Province.
Mtibwa Sugar after playing 11 games, has won four matches, 2 draws and attaining 16 points, Stand United are leading the second position with 20 points after playing 11 matches, has won five points and lost one draw.
Whoever will be the previous game for everyone, all of them is a good team and also Majimaji will host Ruvu Shooting.
That team which is still in the danger of getting the bridge has been putting efforts in the last games and to do well and have already won two games, in 11 o'clock and nine points to African Lyon will be the host Mbeya City.
If they will be unable to try to get the results it will continue getting away.
