
The growth of the nation's economy is aimed at each other to their benefit and not?
To improve the economy of the nation and remove poverty that is number one agenda in all the African countries, Tanzania being among them the Tanzanian economy is growing by 67 percent in the year 2020 and in this year, the great contribution is from the construction sector, minerals and communication.
The growth of economy is an increase in value of money, for services and products produced in the country for a special period.
The increase in the value of money for services and products is maintained in reducing the contribution of every sector in the relevant economy, the sector is like minerals, communication, agriculture, livestock, fishing, industries, industries and so on.
There are questions of asking, we want to hear and read this statistics of the growth of our nation's economy. First, because this growth of the nation is not seen in the life of every day for ordinary citizens?
Secondly, because the growth of the economy is not producing affordable prices to the citizens, why is the nation's economy, but still citizens in the villages have poor lives?
In order to grow the economy of our nation, we would recognize that every day of normal citizens is a must that it is being contributed to a large extent and economic activities that are being done by the ordinary citizens so as to make a lot of income.
For example, in order for small business people to be able to see and benefit from the growth of the nation's economy, it is a must the growth of the economy to be contributed to a large extent and activities done by small businesses.
In this, Tanzania statistics show that approximately 75 percent of its citizens are depending on agriculture as their main activity of economy and many of those citizens live in villages.
Because many citizens of Tanzania are depending on agriculture as their economic activities and because the contribution of the agricultural sector in the national income is small compared to other sectors like minerals, construction and communication is why the growth of the economy of Tanzania was not supposed to be aired directly in the life of ordinary citizens whose main activities are farming.
A citizen of that village is expecting to know that the nation's economy is growing at time, he has no money to buy drugs in the hospital, he does not have money to buy drugs in the hospital and he does not have money to pay for a good house and he does not have money to buy for a better life and he does not know any way in their daily lives.
If the agricultural sector will be done and eventually having a great contribution to the national income, then the farmer will benefit from the growth of the nation's economy and the growth of economic growth, construction and communication technology, the contribution of the agricultural sector in the national income is very little compared to other sectors.
What should be done in order to grow the growth of our nation's economy giving them the lives of normal citizens especially in the villages?
The answer is only one that it is a must that we are doing great changes in the agricultural sector so that agriculture can be a great contribution to the national income and the growth of the economy in general.
The agricultural sector needs a revolution in order to increase production of food production and businesses to make agriculture to be productive to all farmers.
Great revolution in the agricultural sector will help to be sustainable and productivity for citizens need to get education on modern farming.
The current plan for the government to build factories of industries can be used as a pillar for growing the agricultural sector in Tanzania.
This issue will be better if our industries will have a close relationship with the agricultural sector, industries that are near the agricultural sector as well as industrial industries, palaces, cooking oil and input handling.
So as to say with the courage, that our economy is growing, it is a must for the economic growth especially the citizens of rural areas contrary to that there will be growth of their economy and not our economy.
