
Four things that he said Chidi Benz, explaining it is not less than shivered and drugs.

It has become a number of 1 for the month of October 2014 that brings us the artist on the 'wasanii wa bongofleva' family that was written or reported with every kind of news media from TV, newspapers and even social media.
Chidi Benz, was arrested with drug trafficking as well as marijuana at the airport of Dar es Salaam heading to Mbeya at the show he is expected to make it tomorrow, but it was possible after being arrested by police, later he was out on bail.
When he was interviewed he said so as to be heard by Cloud SFM led by DJ FEST, this are six things that he has been addressing in where two consecutive times are her, Professor Jay and other four are an issue of being arrested.

About the life that he did by Professor Jay to stop the headlines, "it was good, we have risen up to Dodoma, Morogoro, and its neighborhoods, have done well and said that we are good, your health is good.
He told me by Ambassador Seif that I want it is going to grow and I see the things that you will know, we are going on all, we are not ready for the time to understand that, we are continuing with my life as usual.

About the arrest of drugs, Chidi Benz, he has said that if I get the headlines, I have told the police that I use the drugs that I have witnessed, I saw the drugs that I got in place and I am pleased with someone to know.
"Shetta has called me for Rsm Company so as to travel from Dar es Salaam for the plane up to Mbeya, I took it only with me, I don't have married, I don't have HIV or clothes at the left wing, I don't have HIV or clothes at the left wing.

"It is not something that I had planned, it is not something that I have done, I have written about me, I did not see me, I did not see me, I don't know what I saw it, but I don't know what I found himself and I don't know what I had given me.
"If I was written to you recently, I would like to ask for relatives, I thank Mister 'sorry' there is no time I met with me, so if I get married, I leave each bag and did not see another thing," Chidi Benz.
The case of Chidi Benz, has been planned again on November 11, 2014.
