The government continues cooperation with religion.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The government will continue to cooperate with various religious denominations to serve the citizens in health, education and entrepreneurship for the aim of bringing development.

That statement was said today by the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo on behalf of President John Magufuli, when he was opening the 50 year anniversary from the SELEKT program of Mount Meru in Arusha town.
President Magufuli in his speech said that his government will continue to cooperate with religious denominations to serve the citizens from recognizing the contribution of various denominations in the country.
He said that the government recognizes the contribution of those denominations including the Catholic church which is continuing to help the community in implementing development projects without discrimination of religious ideology, about tax payment, the provincial commissioner has emphasized that every citizen is supposed to pay taxes paid because without taxes, the country cannot continue with taxes, is the procedure of the whole world.
He also urged religious leaders to remind them to their believers that this is not the time of politics but to work for a period of campaign and the election planned.
Previously when reading messages, Pastor God William William, said the church of Java Island is blocking the acts of terrorism, crime, sex marriages, laziness of the violence that cause lack of peace and stop development.
He said that the commemorations that were started on August 28th, this year, the believers of the church donated blood, giving food to the elderly and the poor, donations of various things to the prisoners at the Masai Laugwa hall in this province.
The World's Church launched away from Kinyanyiko area in Arusha town at the Kigambini bridge, having eight people and now has believers in all the provinces of the northern region.
