
De Juffali, are being evicted and though they are not happy.
The coach who was sacked from AFC Leopards team, Kevin de Bruyne, has explained his disappointment saying that there is not worried about it is not a shame for a shame to make that club and that it needs a person to finish his conflicts.
The Dutch explained his punishment for the way he got married and was to be informed, while insisting that the sharp problem is not present in the coaching bench but it's the management.
"Truth and let it be said when I was surprised even without being informed and do not just think about that action is the end of their problems and their problems are based more in the management and leadership of the problems," De Jilima has said.
Even so that which was seen to give me a lot, the assistant coach who tried to marry off their wives outside without following up the procedure of expertise.
"This is where in this world you have ever heard the coach without the beginning of the beginning, if I am the problem it is good they have changed but I advise them to convince them to sit the bad leadership like that one," he added.
"What is Namibiem themselves is that they did not tell you about this plan, causing them to fulfill my holiday so as to start a squad and they had already done their agenda" he continued.
AFC Leopards's chairperson, Allan Kasibu, announced his work by De Jomo, last Sunday after the general meeting of every year's delegates (SCA).
De Jairo has lost his work after eight months in his contract of one year due to what was said to be a bad results in the last season.
That season AFC Academy has finished in the sixth position with the second one in the game that was born, together with failing to defend that crown of the World Diabetes Cup.
His position has already been directed by the former coach of the national team of the country, Dorian Marin also said the Romania and Romania who will be launched last week after finishing a contract with the club.
"We have been talking with him for several weeks now and what was happy to think about it is the interest, the interest has to have a broader interests of this game," one of the club who wanted to be quoted.
