It is violence in parliament or it's a political problem?
December 17, 2014.

The members of CCM and the members of that party are happy that the parliament 'assembly is evident, there is no discipline and members of parliament are inspiring.
These parliamentarians are heard of the opposition members of the opposition parties that they have.
When you go back to get inside this issue, "happens" because everyone with a sober mind said that if there is true "the parliament is in the way to pass anything that is" yes, without knowing the benefits and disadvantages of that thing for the interests of the nation.
"TOKIU" is a vote of "yes' and I wish you the party and the government." This is' vote ', "I got the chest with the nation's interests" is not "for the interests of the nation" signifies.
"Your" is to get to the parliament to eat with meat, "Masau boasted" is making many contracts that I had tried to destroy the nation, "anything" is to receive donations without working because every day we see many seats in parliament that are not open and many others like that.
If there is yours, "your heart" is one of the thinking that without being a member of CCM, you are not a Tanzanian! Is why there is a member of CCM, without considering the performance and the ability to my person.
There are many examples of the government officials who failed to do their work hard because those work they were given just because they are CCM party, that is why they are discussed and not to advise change.
Tanzania was done to special Parliament of one party and sometimes it was difficult to discuss the parliament and the party's meeting that is why our parliament for a long time was different from those in countries that surround us.
That is why people were shocked when they were shocked and not to agree with the parliamentary system of one party members of parliament who were feared, he bought it to the government because of their party and more that got the honor of their party.
And even we are starting the system of many political parties, the number of opposition members continued to be very little, to the extent that they had been made by a large number of members of parliament of the ruling party and the one that was sent out and closed for a long time to attend the parliamentary sessions.
This parliament is still ongoing at the moment, it has become the first to have a big number of parliamentarians in the opposition, and bad luck and good people who love change, the big number of parliamentarians in the opposition are youths and not only, they put it not good political parties but the interests of the nation.
The problem that comes up and bringing a picture of violence in parliament, is the youths of the opposition parties who want change to put the nation's interests on one side and many members of CCM who want to protect the former party on the other side.
These are two groups that are involved in parliament and the person to stand in the middle to ensure these groups work together with the aim of building a nation is the speaker.
The bad luck to the opposition party in the opposition, and bad luck to the CCM group, but the bad luck to the nation, is that the speaker comes from a CCM party with a lot of parliament that makes up the government and which is fighting the system that had gone down.
Another problem is when the CCM members of parliament who we think that they are good and they have more rights to the opposition members of parliament and bad luck, even the speaker believes that they are showing them openly to continue with the cause of members of parliament of the ruling party and ministers.
The youths of the opposition parties are to deal with the truth that all the members of parliament have the right time when in parliament, there is no reason for the minister or prime minister, all of them are members of parliament and they have the right time instead of having a lot of rights seen to be violence.
However, the special Parliament of the constitution has taken a new system of parliament and chairperson, who comes from CCM together with the mistakes of those of the CCM members, they think that they have more rights of others and they still want to continue with the system of one party.
A good example is the casting of vote and open his main aim is to ensure that every person could not agree with the ruling party's stand for open votes, "I told him on the first.
