Let us start and start a security week where the World Cup week has been recorded.
Where nationally, the launch has been held in Iringa province and will be used by the minister of internal affairs of the country, Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Who has said despite the efforts taken to deal with road accidents.
But the issue is still a problem.
However, while speaking to the launch that took place at the Mnazi Mmoja grounds and the citizens are required to consider and obey laws of road safety so as to avoid road accidents that can be avoided.
Esther who is there.
More information.
The protests have been taken by Kinondoni District Commissioner Jordan Rugimbana, on the roads to consider the road safety laws so as to avoid unnecessary deaths.
Again, a big one is taking place now because it is why you come and then if all drivers are not to go to the road without having a license.
To get a license.
He invented the patient with the chairman of the road safety committee in the city.
And the country and also are leading the stations.
It is not normal.
Education.
I hope.
According to the statistics of the military police force, special region in Dar es Salaam city, I have been involved more than five hundred thousand people living in the month of January up to June this year, in Dar es Salaam city, I have had more than five days that caused the deaths of two hundred and six months whereby many of those communities are involved with motorbike riders popularly known as stew.
It's not all drivers who are on the road and why do the motorcycle riders depend on traffic rules.
For example planting trees in one hundred thousand in one thousand.
There was a case of getting an accident.
Nationally, the commemoration of the road safety week has taken place in Iringa province where according to the report given by the ministry on issues inside the country, the minister of internal affairs of the country, Emmanuel Nchimbi has said that between two thousand and five hundred thousand people lost their lives due to road accidents, more than ten thousand and seven thousand shillings.
Minister Nchimbi has said that together with stakeholders continuing to be taken by stakeholders in preventing road accidents in the country, the biggest efforts are supposed to be added so as to reduce if it's not ending this problem which has become a great nuisance to the citizens.
Jaffari Mkomagu led the islands of Zanzibar.
