Ole Sendeka speaking to Morogoro Municipal Council in the city of Temeke in the city of Temeke in Dar es Salaam city when they visited the areas to demolish business stalls as they put in the road reserve in Mbagala areas as a continuation of cleanliness together and controlling the unplanned settlements in the official launch of our reporter, Suleiman he has prepared a report.
In addition, the council is taking business and it will benefit and continue doing business in those areas along the road that he will be presented in front of the law together with their properties.
How would I think to see I went?
You have been given only one person.
The exercise of controlling the stalls has begun at 6 o'clock in the afternoon under defense forces and even heading to revenge between him and Wednesday.
While talking to Janet, the supervisors of the exercise have said that the Municipal Council of Temeke has then the exercise will be permanent to avoid the huge destruction of road infrastructure together with the disturbance given the ways that are used in a situation which is used for a spirit of life in the municipality.
We have been able to accept these studies and look at them.
In areas of the outskirts of roads, the areas that have not pollute the environment if you will see tomorrow and the first to be able to demolish and take their property.
And we were told that this continues to be done.
Secondly, the second operation of these offer, we got the back and took them to court then we do not want someone to get policies and we do not want someone to get legal and even so some of them are great and therefore some of them are big and that exercise had a lot.
That is why they are depending on the business that has been buried.
Bring problems.
You know you again do the first work.
When you take a step of rumors that we have done business.
How will you and can be true for children small businesses I know our head because we do not have work, Mister we are looking for several hours when we come up to two o'clock and a half hours, but that's why people do not want them to thank you.
Lema through its channel, Dar es Salaam.
Now.
