
4 institutions in the dock have presented 1 billion shillings.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

The National Social Security Fund (NSSF) in Arusha province, has shown the best institutions in the Resident Magistrate's Court in Arusha, for being unable to submit the donations of employees in different programs which have been claimed to court that those institutions have not presented more than one billion shillings.

The senior lawyer of NSSF, Teacher Ntagale has told the court that those institutions have been unable to submit the payment of contributions for those employees in the fund despite being reminded to time for time.
He has claimed that the court that the contributions are the right of an employee but those companies have been passing through salaries and it did not have worked for those contributions thus NSSF is using laws by making it a court so that court can help to submit the contributions.
Among those companies are together with the company that protects the loans of money to the citizens of Jide Tanzania Limited, Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (TGDC) and Serena Hotel in the city of Arusha.
Ntwa Mitego has explained the court that the Jide Tanzania company, a total of 709 million shillings ready for the two days has paid 180 million shillings.
He has said the Sporah Show is claimed since last year, and that it has been late to implement the judgment that was given by the resident magistrate and therefore NSSF against the judgment.
He has said that if they will be unable to implement NSSF, it will request a permit for the court to enter that hotel through the auction so that they can be paid the arrears that is claimed.
The debts of those institutions are Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (1 million shillings), the Sporah Show (449) and bags of Health (approximately 7 million shillings).
He has said the debts are payment as a result of violating their employees' salaries that have not been presented to NSSF.
The senior lawyer Method Kimomogoro said that he is representing the Jide Tanzania company, he told him that the court that his customers will agree with that debt, and they will leave inside one month.
In another step, the court has given an arrest of the arrest of Health Insurance Fund which was not expected to arrive in the court while the Water Supply Company Limited has denied the claims by NSSF, claimed that it is not right.
The resident magistrate of the Resident Magistrates of Sumbawanga in the country, urged all debtors to pay their debts within one month since the case was postponed until November 4th this year.
