
The people of Zanzibar did not happen on, he released them.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published in September 2016.

A person of humor, so much, "this is a saying that doesn't know why you can be able to make jokes, but later they are making great effects.

I am saying that to support the statement of President John Magufuli who in his tour at Pemba Island has warned the citizens of Zanzibar in general to stop the habit of hatred and hostility seen to grow the islands.
Hatred and hostility in the islands have continued to take fast just after the repeat election which was held last year and being used by President Ali Mohamed Shein, but still some of the parties while holding the president and to attract hatred among the community.
As a result of those hatred, it has reached a step by the big leaders not as he was greeting with the citizens looking at the step of writing their property including the small industries, an issue that makes citizens affected well in development and increase their hatred.
It is clear that in accordance with the law of the country, the elections have already been banned for last year and now it is collaborating in building the country and as the president he said they will face all dealing with hostility.
It is good for the citizens of Zanzibar to leave the birth of us because it may not be hostile but they are supposed to compete with the issue and when one party is unable to run away and build a country together.
But if those actions will continue to be obvious that the economy of the citizens and Zanzibar in general will affect the income because the clove farmers will be filled with fire or reduce the issue that will make the citizens to stop completely.
Also investors who do not want to invest in various development activities will not happen since they believe that there is no peace, an issue that will do in Zanzibar which is commended.
It is very dangerous to go out of the country and announce a lot of home to you, something that can end with the aim of wanting investors to ensure that there is a problem and to stop investing.
It is good for the citizens not to be availed to the situation to join together in bringing development because the true politics that are going to have people living with development while they are building the country and stop inconsiderate it.
But it's also good to understand that in the past years, there was a period when the Island met in various challenges that were caused by political issues and people going to live in exile as well as required to be interfered.
Likewise, it is good to recognize that in any issue of humor, in peace, it is dangerous because now there has been a lot of hatred but continue being dangerous because they are continuing to grow in the community and later causing the collapse of peace.
But also those acts are dangerous for the future of the year due to the growth of the problems it is easy for them because he has been from a certain party because the children are supposed to do love and peace and not being infected with hatred.
It is good for the people of Zanzibar to deal with all those who destroy their hatred among them, the president and the state agencies they want to ensure the islands can have a permanent peace.
For sure on the speed of President Magufuli investors will invest in Zanzibar and help them employment for the purpose of improving the economy of one person and also a total economy will be, therefore doing politics with productivity.
