
TANESCO was right to give him electricity.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published on May 6th, 2016.

Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has said that it will implement the instructions of President John Magufuli of making sure that by December this year, they have given electricity a factory to process fruits that is under the food company, "Said Salim Bakhresa (Issa B) of Dar es Salaam.

The Executive Director of TANESCO, Felchesmi Mramba, said something he is saying, the president is a directive that it is a must to be implemented in any way, they will give enough electricity to the factory located in Mwandege, Mkuranga, Coast Province.
Mramba said that when he spoke to this newspaper if they have the ability to implement that order until December this year.
Without giving an explanation of what happened previously, they denied the power that the factory, Mramba said that in faith that they will ensure that they are realizing the directive by the president on time.
The lack of electricity in that factory, President Magufuli, as a spirit of stealing a child of her sister who is the manager of TANESCO in the Coastal Region, Martin Madata, due to that organization failing to provide electricity services at the factory as it takes place.
President Kikwete answering a point of one of the directors of Bakhresa Foods Company, Aboubakar Bakhresa, who requested the government to come in and help the company with two industries to process fruits and drinks in the Mkuranga area to get electricity.
President Magufuli said it is an important thing for TANESCO and the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in general, not to follow the development of construction of industries in the electricity area, an issue that had caused the factory to be built until its start without having reliable electricity.
"TANESCO Mkuranga, Coast Province and Dar es Salaam at the headquarters are there and they don't know here but they did not see the importance of selling their electricity at this factory and now I asked himself and the aim of selling electricity is or that is why they want to stop the efforts to start industries?" He asked.
While the president giving out those instructions, suddenly he said that in that event there is a representative of TANESCO, where he said that the manager is a child of her sister, but he has been a good history of work that he didn't know.
"I know that she has done well since Kagera, it comes in Tanga, there is now here and I advise you to work well so that we can be able to prevent them, even if there is someone who can prevent them," said Doctor Magufuli.
He said the act of TANESCO from getting that electricity factory is causing the cost of production using Bakhresa Foods Company to rise in a situation that caused the citizens to buy those products but also the employees of those companies because they will not be paid for good interests.
