
Kenya nine-best in the world as an attraction for tourists.
By Mathias Chikawe.

Mombasa.
Kenya has been listed in 10 best countries in the world that is difficult to benefit from the tourists this year.
The organization for printing news about journey from the United Kingdom, RNB, Guests who plays in Kenya as the best country of nine involved, tourists are continuing to tour this year.
On December last year, Kenya was sold as the best country on earth for the journey of tourists in the wildlife and World Travel Awards.
In the Rhema Trust, Kenya was chosen among the best 10 countries in the world due to having a famous park in the world, from the Indian Ocean that is pleasant and a culture of 42 shillings.
I have been listed like best countries in the world due to the risk of attracting more than the mountains in the forest that is wrong, rhinos and Wiz Khalifa.
Colombia, listed secondly, Cuba was third on Jordan National Team, Albania has five listed among six.
The El Salvador continent that were listed for seven, Wales soccer, Kenya came out of nine with the Lanham act that it has completed the list of the best 10.
The Rsm Company that fell in Kenya, has gone back to Kenya, a result of having the farm that is professionally known as stew, a man and Simba.
"After seeing yourself, he saw a man and Simba at the Kenya park, in the Indian Ocean, that is trusted and come up to the Coastal Union," the Race Guebuza.
"In Lake Turky, there is a big film market together with the world that is owned by the Sahara Desert."
The Rsm Company who explained that journalists from foreign countries have been getting to Kenya a bad reputation due to terror attacks that was implemented by Al Shabaab's terror group in Mombasa the year the day before yesterday and the terror attack in Mombasa University last year.
However, the network gives the tourists that the western countries tried to withdraw the transport equipment last year and that Kenya is safe for the tourists.
This network provides tourists, "visit Kenya now in order to support the tourism sector that will continue to help the tourism sector that will enable us to get married and that have received great popularity on the world."
The attraction sites for the association of natural resources of the services to transport tourists (Kato), Coast branch, Miss Monbusho Scholarship, said that the elected president of Kenya and the Rsm Company which owns many tourists in the country.
Miss Mfalila said that the reports of the journey of the tourists that were published by the organization is read by tourists all over the world.
The chief executive officer of the Hotel of Women and Hotel (Tadu), Mister has given priority, he said that it will be sold to Kenya for the benefit of tourists who have faith in the tourist attractions in the country.
"There is a need for the government and the local government, he shows that to save the animals and air conditioning in one way to improve the tourism sector," Mister Meng said.
