If he started with the national news, finally the president could be able to participate in the race for the next general election, which is supposed to participate in the race for the general elections of the president of East African Community who is also the chairperson of the United Republic of African Community (TPBC) who is also the chairperson of the African Union in order to come up with in Madagascar.
A state house in the city has been made where the president of African Union is in a brief statement of his tour in some of the third countries, including Angola Africa, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia.
That's not sure, he is using the time of his tour to convince him to work together in partnership, which aims at each other with each other with the end, to achieve the aim of helping the African continent.
This chairman also will talk about the conflicts going on in Africa and said that African Union has asked to support France to stop the violence that continues in the country where some of @ mkito.
See you fully with an obstacle to me.
We have been revealed that God is in addition to our son who I had a technical and that is why we have ordered after the army is proud to do.
On his part, President Jakaya Kikwete gave him a easy way, he will give him a lot of action that I will look for peace in Madagascar.
This is going on.
Thank you?
In the sea.
The president's president.
We want to request him.
In the general elections and we had narrated it the one that their classrooms make sure that President Shein will participate in the election that was wrong.
In order to bring peace in order to bring peace in order to change their diseases, through the political situation in Madagascar, there will be a decision by the president and you know that the decision by the president and you know that the decision by the president and you know that they are supposed to participate in the election is patriotic in reaching the peace of the country.
The advice was also so that the commission in Mbeya were the meaning that we participated in the elections to end.
I want to inform me not to partner with the citizens of Madagascar and also time in order to implement you, stop the rights of justice and return.
The condition of peace.
Woman does not lie!
The radio step will continue to agree and put Assad to be vying for the general elections of that country to set up to a state of peace after the decision started by the rival sides in addition to the end of this year.
He did not pay my skill of praying for him.
