
The CUF executive council was unable to return the Zanzibar elections!

The Executive Council of the Civic United Front (CUF), has met and insisted that they will not end the elections of Zanzibar.

The meeting was held yesterday in the city where they met the political leaders in the country and the efforts that are continuing to deal with that situation.

The deputy secretary general of CUF, Nassor Ahmed Mazrui, he was quoted saying after that meeting, "who are saying elections should sit down, we are in CUF there is no good news for now to announce election results as the winner will be announced and sworn in." He said.

Previously the acting national chairperson of CUF, Twaha Taslima and on the side of the leadership of the party, said there is need to continue looking for the rights of Zanzibar by urging the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) to announce the election results of October 25th this year, so that the winner is known and to be sworn in.

Pascal Shelutete said that the council did God bless Zanzibar presidential candidate through CUF being supported by Ukawa, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad for the solution of the red card after the chairperson of ZEC, Jecha Salim Jecha to suspend the election results in the islands, a step that was carried out of internal and international institutions.

Those efforts are together with the talks of Maalim Seif and diplomats, including various ambassadors who are in the country, that took place at the Canadian embassy, Chang'ombe and 50 years in Dar es Salaam city.

He added that, Maalim Seif also spoke with the privacy of one hour and retired President Jakaya Kikwete, at State House in Dar es Salaam.

In those efforts, Maalim Seif left the executive council on how he wanted the international community to make him work together with the truth, that his wife had been launched by democracy, therefore, wanting the citizens to be given their rights.

"We have spoken to witness the reports of nations to implement the government and even the new administration that was in power, in the United Republic that the decision by ZEC to announce the winner so that he can be sworn in," said Maalim Seif.

Maalim Seif who is also the first vice president of Zanzibar that is still there in the national structure of Zanzibar, he added that, "we are thankful to the whole world, it will support him in this matter."

Before that session that started at 811 o'clock in the afternoon by the national executive committee of CUF which was presented to the appointment of special seats in the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
