
I have written, let us use, APR the day.

After the cost of debts, South Africa come back.

Joseph Warioba, Dar es Salaam City.
Social welfare at different levels of life is the dream of any nation in the world, they leave and their tears of some of the leaders that do the virginity of their personal interests.
There are things that can stop the welfare, including the poverty that is caused by reasons like war, corruption, and bad supervision of the economy.
But also there is another reason that can be able to stop the nation to get out of poverty, despite a certain efforts, they are together with the burden of the debt that is not allowed.
A half of 600 million people who live in 40 more nations in the world, most of them were a big burden to debts that are already affected, and live under one dollar in a day.
Most of them early, they have at least use of schools and teachers and live in hunger and more than their colleagues in other nations are going on.
On that reason, the International Trade Organization (IMF) and the World Bank (WB) who came to have a plan to control debts from poor nations that have great debts that are not pictured).
In that plan it is determined by 38 countries with a huge level of debts, which it started the area that causes a special donation from those stations if they will be able to qualify.
The plan of the fifth phase started by IMF and WB in the year 1996, following stern legal measures conducted by non-governmental institutions and organizations otherwise.
He intended to give an affordable cost and the loans with favorable terms to control or reduce the debts from outside the highest level, meaning the countries can borrow for ways that are available on the near future.
That has also promised to help those nations to have freedom of using money that were supposed to get debts from other development issues and community.
The donation has the conditions and called on how the country don't know the standards of economy and success together with the economic and social welfare.
By January 2012, the fifth plan collected 39 nations, which 33 out of them are from the south of the Sub-Saharan African countries that he deserves to receive that debts.
Those countries like Tanzania including surgery for the whole debt or part of the debt.
However, an issue that is worried about now some of the nations, after one hour and to be forgiven, they are seen to go back to the city where he appears from, when it appears from a mistake.
Tanzania as well as seen, what we learned from the direction of its debt to grow the year up to the year 2005, missing from nations that were mentioned to be in a big threat to fail again in the big margin of debts that are mentioned.
Among the nations that are faced with a threat to the increase in their international standards include Burundi, Cameroon, United Republic of Central Africa (car), CIDA, Ghana and Mauritania, and Principe and Principe which were part of the 38 international nations.
