
Or read by asking for a mosquito.
By Mohamed Mgimwa.

The journey to get married after a man was accompanied by his friend for the purpose of those activities being injured just after being shot by the Kiyungi center located in Llongero area, Lamu Lugo Fashen.
Those three were given a fox from those officers even after receiving him and asked for a donation of displayed ways after disappearance.
Mister Godhas no one with Mister Boers, finally they were taken to Muhimbili National Hospital, in Malindi Province, after Mpumalanga hospital and told that they had a emergency treatment.
And Mister Stanislaus Magesa Mulongo was held at the Sunni police station together with the vehicle that he was in, Mister Goddoes not know the area well after its disappearance and wanted the help from the officers, the help that had been given by bad injuries, "said Mister Ahmed DfID, Mister Ahmed Dombeni.
Mister Dumu who was talking to those two in that hospital said even after being beaten by being beaten, three three of them ended up to the police station where they sat for several hours without receiving treatment.
"When I was called I was called I saw that we were required to be arrested with 5 million shillings, every one that we will take them and take them to treatment when we were going to do when they were standing for a long time without being treated," added Mister Deddy.
Mister Dimwa, added that the activity of going to receive different posts was postponed until when confirmed that incident, the police commander of the Coastal region, Francis Sendo led the officers by taking action without following the current procedure.
He said that it's something sad to the officers to make the citizens under guilty, and those who had gone through.
In addition, Mister Kimwana said that investigation will expire in those victims, they will be able to be taught.
"The one who has been suspended from police station is supposed to be heard and he can be able to present their detention against the law."
He said.
