
The construction of Salare expected to start in June this year - President Magufuli.

It has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The construction of the Salnero Hotel which will connect Coco beach at the Agha Khan area through the sea in Dar es Salaam, is expected to start on June this year, after the government of Tanzania completed the process of availability of funds from Barclays Bank, Korea.

President Doctor John Magufuli has said that today shortly after speaking to the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea Song Geum-Young, State House in Dar es Salaam.
He has said the construction of that bridge to have a length of 7 kilometers including 14 kilometers which will go in the sea, is expected to be completed in the year 2020 and the bridge will help reduce the congestion of vehicles in the city of Dar es Salaam.
"The process of building this bridge's bridge is going on well because at the end of the final stages and the tender is expected to be announced next month and it will be released next month and it will have already been taken by the Central Bank of Korea," said President Magufuli.
In another step, Doctor Magufuli has thanked the Retired President of the fourth term, Doctor Jakaya Kikwete for the efforts he made to be built in the referral hospital for the sponsorship of the Republic of Korea and that the hospital will be modern in the East African region.
He has said that the construction of that hospital is expected to be completed before the end of this year and that already the doctors and Experts of 100 who had received training in Korea and those with skills in how to use the technology being implemented in that hospital here in the country.
President Doctor Magufuli who has explained the intention of the government of Tanzania to open the office of the ambassador in the city of Seoul, Korea has added that his government has intended to continue and strengthen the relationship and good partnership that is between these countries with the aim of bringing benefits to the citizens including using technology and skills of the South Korea's construction.
On his part, the South Korean ambassador in the country, Honorable Korea Song Geum-Young has given his condolences to the earthquake disaster which took place in Kagera province and neighboring provinces, and he has promised that Korea will send a team of experts to come and see how to help them.
Ambassador Korea Song Geum-Young has also assured President Doctor Magufuli that South Korea will continue with strengthening its relationship with Tanzania and that it will give enough cooperation to make development projects which are implemented here in the country including the construction of Salomon Kalou, and others and others.
At the same time, President Doctor Magufuli has been talks with the ambassador of Russia in the country, Yvonne Cole, where those leaders have agreed to continue improving the relationship and historical partnership between those countries while being touched on in promoting business and investment.
Together with that, Ambassador Yomoto Band has commended and said that he is impressed by the action taken by President Doctor Magufuli in strengthening the economy while he believes that for these steps he believes that in this step he believes that in this step he believes that the agenda to build the economy of industries will be successful.
President Doctor Magufuli has also received information on the laboratory situation of the chief chemist of the government and in his talks with the government's chief chemist, Professor Samuel Manyele while he wants to continue improving the performance of the laboratory to increase the efficiency of its responsibilities which is to increase the guidelines of criminal offenses and control of criminal offenses.
