
Stella Manyanya added that the shivered.
The size of his name did not agree with his special report and the popularity of his work is also dye or completely with his own kind, is a young man whom she has done if you want him to listen to her creativity.
And this is the reason that contributed the birth of 'MC Pilipili showing his fans say that, her child is not only brave, but it reaches the name.
Speaking about his name, MC Pilipili showing that he was coming from his home in Dodoma for several years ago, in his head he urged them to attract more others especially when he is at work.
"I found himself as I am happy and I met yourself so that I am attending to the city, but also I wanted them to hear them," I wanted me to say that I am giving me then I will inform you like they are. "
Because many times when he went to use this type, it did not take a time when he did not get time, when he was coming from work even those who wanted to work with him, were passing by the name MC Pilipili.
"Today my name has been told me," explains MC Pilipili who is the father of one child.
Emerged from where?
Different from other artists, MC Pilipili showing the teachers in Dar es Salaam city just after finishing his work of teaching and one directly to the field he started since he was seven years old.
"I have done the teaching of teaching for seven years, I training the Swahili language, the Bible, history and other art studies," he explains and added.
"My love for comedy art, brings you to stop teaching and focus in that profession."
Until now he has already managed to evade more than 100 national and international standards, doing work with the elderly in that profession in East Africa like Anne Kilango is not registered by Eric Otieno.
MC Pilipili says that despite having the comedy talent, his journey started apart from a little since he started as a player player.
"My journey to be the convoy started in the year 1992 when I was small.
I was going to play music, something that made me be a famous artist in Dodoma and the central region in general, due to my mind, there are my fans who continued to send himself to track the ancient attack. "
"I remember in my opinion polls to play music, I met with musician Lovy (late), who I told him to convince the court to play in his band but it did not succeed after the mother refused.
Who allowed me to get into the comedy group?
The year 2002, while in the second form, already he was a comedian and the convoy of a big name in Dodoma province.
"I was supposed to be known as Domains, or MC Manufacturing Company, through that popularity I got an opportunity to be called on different celebrations." He explains.
When he was in Dodoma he was a lot, he was very happy with the MC George Urio, and especially the one who raised his thirst for being a big festival, but after arriving in Dar es Salaam, he met with MC Scholar who was also a dream of being a mother while he was a child.
On the comedy side, he says that they are many artists, but some of them get that is together with Joti, Mpoki and Masanja.
The witch doctors are those who attracted him is together with Erick Daniel, from Kenya and Carmel of Nigeria.
What is his view about the comedy in the country?
MC Pilipili is among the modern musicians who know the contribution of the old man.
In addition to believe that the art did not get here, if it is not a contribution for those who passed away, he says there is still things to work on them so that it can take the front of the art.
"Flash disk" is coming from Majuto, Miss Nyakahura and others and the one of acting and when it was received by the youth like us for the new art called Watoto Wetu, which is complaining and added.
"The film industry in the country comes in another era, we should not accept or we are supposed to do when I want to sit and put on skin disability and antation". "
