My request for Lowassa.
Sei 10, 2015 by Joseph Magula.

January the year 2007 when I arrived to Dar es Salaam, I have been caught close to the Catholic church of eternal peace (Saint Peter) on February 23, 2007, a way of the sign of the cross "said Saint Peter."
After the sign of the sign of the cross, "apart from the mother, her colleague was coming from the church I was told that he is the wife to the prime minister, Regina Lowassa.
Later in "
Moving to Dar es Salaam, it is close to "microcephaly" that was done by the disabled 'that is called' Foolish Age ', which was used to the end of the year 2007, they had been used to it.
In the year 2008, Bishop Meitinyiku, gave a book called "Cardinal Pengo," she told Bongo5.
In that picture, Edward Lowassa, although he was not mentioned, he seems to be far, all his clothes were not black.
On April 14th, 2009, his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, launched a book that was being supported by Regina Lowassa's called 'Walk It Off' in Israel and Ambassador of Zanzibar. "
I don't know if Regina Lowassa says that his book was teaching life of someone to write every day, "look at each other," do not know the importance of "save.
One day my friend I'm shocked, for you to get into the 'Don Bosco College, Kigango, but he refused to say that the guest of honor is Edward Lowassa who are going, because the days is called "Rich Mavoko."
The ones' Foolish Age 'that got a new shop's new shop is called "Wines, Boers and Media House" when she was close to me deserted me when they receive them as they get to that launch.
In the evening March 27, 2010, his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, led our convoy for all the invited guests to enter the factory, when he saw Edward Lowassa, standing three meters from when I was born.
Although they echoed all (Regina), I wish you very close to thank you, congratulations by giving a good book, "he told me," I have written, but I have no ability to write. "
Catholed who are his neighborhood, saw the efforts they were present "the Community Ndeki" with the wife of the Prime Minister.
April 13th, 2006 to April 5, 2007, it is "Thursday that his sudden death was the wife of the prime minister despite that position, Hillary Clinton made him in the night of" Thursday the premier league "said Saint Peter.
On the 19th of March, 2012 was the day of honor that are facing the bishop of Melisa, in Ifakara town where Regina Lowassa was invited as the guest of honor to the Catholic Archdiocese of Mahenge.
Being seen by the Retired President (Ali Hassan Mwinyi) and the retired prime minister in the event, an accident that was done in the provincial commissioner, Joel Bendera, as the presence of Edward Lowassa, without knowing that he is making an offense.
The mistake is that Lowassa was not expected to be announced as the guest of honor, he was removed from Dar es Salaam region, Mrs Regina Lowassa, but he mentioned by her husband's wife, Edward Lowassa being the top leader of March 30th, 2012, in the 4th minute, 2012.
That is how I will be able to inform you, who by his name the day before yesterday (September 07, 2015) by the Catholic church in the world, you remember his name, Miss Regina, the supervisor of the farmers especially the sheep.
It reaches a place where I started looking for him, recently even me Jose Mourinho, I am pleased with Lowassa's family because I have a short thought but when Edward Lowassa had gone into court?
Do not think this question, people have started looking for Lowassa when he joined CCM's newspaper on February 08, 2008, that is just one day after resigning from the third page that he wrote recently, "said Lowassa.
Lowassa when he resigned, parliament was continuing to use the "mystery" when he went to Richard Mwaikenda.
The Newspaper's newspaper on February 16, 2008, the first page said recently, "the government has a special team that will get all recommendations of the nominated parliamentary committee concerning the scandal of Richmond Development so as to give direction and how to be done in accordance with its requirements."
Now, if you want to be 'Usiwe Bubu', then when he completed it "she knows" I will remind you with any history when Lowassa has resigned until the day that was surprised by the implementation of those resolutions, that's where he gets a debate of "Richmond."
We have seen in the year 1985, Mrs Regina and Edward Lowassa have participated in the event to thank Lauren Bowman.
At that time even the Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, is the first he attains the year as the bishop of Nachingwea Ward where the reader was where?
I have ever refused, if the one of "Don Bosco's," because of Regina Lowassa was the guest of honor.
