
An investor gives 500 acres to the villagers.

It has been written by special writer, Handeni.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

An investor in the farm located in Bottling Company Limited has gotten 500 acres to the villagers of Bexhill, Handeni district in the availability of 200 acres that will be distributed to the residents of Bongwe district and 300 acres of animals.

This has been said at the tour of the district commissioner of Handeni district, Godwin Mutahangarwa in the villages followed by the defense and security committee, experts of the council and investors of the farm, MC Clay Limited.
Those leaders arrived at the area to explain the way to release the areas where those citizens have been forced to get out of the farm by doing their homes and growing permanent crops, a situation that caused the investor to continue with its activities.
Speaking to the citizens, the representative to the Executive Director of Mkwera, Fredrick Sospeter said that the farm is wealth of the MC ScholLTD and they bought the year 2002 after the CRDB Bank announced to sell the area in what is claimed to be the previous investor, surprisingly, they failed to return the money for the loan that he is alleged.
Fredrick said that the government managed to give 500 acres to the citizens who have reduced so that they can get the area to grow and stop the area of an investor to enable the investor to continue.
However, later the investor decided to carry out that bail and added that those who will be divided among them will be among the ones who have conflicts and to sit for a long time.
That share will be at the end of the village where it has done and that areas to grow will be in the concerned village.
The head of that district, Gondwe has told citizens that people who will be given that land are known as their list had been made in the previous days.
He also warned them that the citizens that school, health services and the clinic which have already improved will continue to be used without decay in any way.
The executive director of the council, William Ruto, explained to the citizens that they have arrived in those villages to give legal explanations about the legal ownership of the farm.
The leadership of Apex Group Company urged them to increase their crops being supported by other permanent crops to write a letter up to October 25 with an investor mentioned their names, encourage their crops on the period until they pass all.
