
Simba to test the police of DOM.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

The Simba soccer club in Dar es Salaam, is expected to play a friendly match by police in Dodoma in the contest that is expected to take place today at the Jamhuri Stadium in this province, while the team's coach Mganda Jackson Mayanja promised to use that game for the preparation of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.

The fans of this province have not seen Simba since the year 2011-2012, where it was the last game for those teams in the premier league of Tanzania Mainland.
The game that Simba will use it for the preparation of the premier league when the police officers will use it for the preparation of the first premier league which will take place on September 24 this year at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma province.
Speaking to journalists yesterday, here in the city, Mayanja said that he will use that game against all his players even those who are in the national team.
He mentioned the international players who will send to them to that game to be Vicent Bossou from Ivory Coast, Method Mwanjala from Zimbabwe and if they scored, Besala Boateng.
He said the players who are in the national team are Laudit Mavugo from Burundi, and Jichunge.'
Mayanja said that he will use that game to consider its new players together with making a good combination of their performance due to many new players.
The coach of Dodoma Police team, Paul Domonica Meena said the game has the status and they require their goals to play in the premier league of Tanzania Mainland, therefore they will use its team.
The secretary of the Football Association in Dodoma Province (CCK), Hamisi Kissasy and the aim of that game is to prepare a police team so that it can do well in its league games.
The permanent secretary said that the entrance to that game to be special people (VIP) will be 10,000 shillings on the high level it is 5,000.
The Vice President of the team, Godfrey Kaburu said that Simba has agreed to play a friendly match by police in Dodoma in order to support the government's efforts to move to Dodoma.
"Even so, we have the objectives of building investment in Dodoma province because we are going to change and the team will have money now because we should not participate in Dodoma.
"He said.
