In prison for 3 years by, it will use 50 million dollars.

It has been written by Abijan, Singida.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Singida District Court has sentenced a resident of Malangali village in Iringa province, Mario Sabas Mgaya (22) for three years imprisonment after being found guilty of getting 50 million shillings in a way of cheating.

After completing his sentence, the court has also allowed them to return that amount of money for the retired teachers, Welu Kitogo, a resident of Kiomboi in Iramba district, an accused alleged to had conned fake gold.
The prosecutor in the country, Michael Ng'walu (April 13, 2013, at 230 o'clock in the morning at the NMB Bank, Singida Branch, the defendant forced to sell 50 million shillings for the teacher Welu Kitavi after posting them a fake phone. "
Hamas Group claimed that on April 11, 2013, the retired teachers had been awarded a check of 57,43,000,00 shillings only by the Council of Iramba District being its own benefits.
He claimed that after the office of the council of Iramba district with a dummy check, he met with one person known as Toyama Mathias who made him to watch the office of the president of Chinese roads.
While continuing to speak, Rioba told the teachers that he had a huge value of the value, therefore, he put a letter to buy, so as to get a profit of more than 600,000 shillings.
Later, it is alleged that Rioba called Mchaga to inform me if he made him to ask for those minerals, the teachers urged them to go and go up to Singida town so as to give them money from his account.
He went to the bank and Riek and when they were handed over the whole amount of money, they will be able to take "gold," said the government's lawyer and that is when the attorney general and that is when the young man will be arrested.
While giving the judgment, Judge Ndonga said that the charges he has confirmed without stopping any doubt that the accused Mgaya was not guilty, he gave him a sentence of three years only.
