Security have been killed in Nairobi.
Marion Moore (25, 2015.

The chief leader of the Catholic church in the world, Holy Fransico Kimwana is expected to arrive here in the evening to start a two-day tour.
The invitation by the Holy father in Kenya was brought by the officers of that country during a work tour of bishops done every time after five years in Vatican which was held in April 2015.
This will be the first time for the father of Holy Spirit Tanzania to visit Africa since he was appointed as the leader of the Catholic church in March 2013.
As a result of that tour, the leader of the church with many people in Nairobi city and its neighborhoods have been destroyed so as to deal with any threat to the security of that leader and his convoy together with believers who will be attended to the holy mass.
Mke Mwema witnessed an General Manager Service Access Fund (GNP) doing well in all the areas of that town (CBB) together with its neighborhoods.
In addition to those police officers KIA 132 / R4C), Khajida Kopa, the police force of Kenya having a heavy weapons and modern equipment that have been passing through different areas to ensure the security situation will last.
Moreover, security has been distributed in the whole area of Nairobi University where the open stadium will be used for a service of a service that will be led by the father of eternal peace which will be faced by government leaders in the country led by President Uhuru Kenyatta.
Security has also been closed down at the Uhuru Park stadium that will be used to the believers and people who will fail to arrive at the Nairobi University grounds to follow up a service in a service through big televisions that were scored in that stadium.
The tour also commemorate the grace of small traders in Nairobi city and many were seen selling their products and pictures of the Holy father, Jesus, and Virgin Mary in the central areas between the city and Uhuru Stadium.
Those pictures were sold at a price of 100-500 shillings according to its importance and it is a lot of the Catholic church they were seen buying those pictures.
According to Nairobi resident magistrate Clatchy Otieno, the tour is important to the believers of the church but in the whole country of Kenya due to an important message of the Holy Father of wanting the citizens to maintain peace and national unity.
"I am no weeds, I saw the Holy father for two hands as we believe that his delegation of insisting on peace, love, hope will help so much to unite all citizens especially during this period we are facing a huge challenge of security," he said.
The head of the police force in Kenya, Joseph Boateng, told the journalists in the city I don't know that, his army has taken all the important steps on the issue of security of that leader together with the citizens they want to attend a service in service.
"All the ways that we have we have enough security, therefore I am sending to fear the believers and other citizens to participate without any fear," insisted that police commissioner.
On his part, the Spokesperson of the government of Kenya Maniza Essar said that the government will not make that day as a day of time thus other citizens will continue with their activities as usual.
"There are some roads that will be supported through that time we are urging employers to be patient while their workers will be delayed in the work areas," said the spokesperson.
"The tour will be historical about the relationship between Kenya and foreign nations, this year we have been able to receive many popular visitors," added the spokesperson of the State House, Mrs.
In that tour, Pope Francis will do talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Nairobi State House before meeting with officers of the United Nations Organization (UNEP).
According to the schedule released, the Almighty God will also meet a meeting with other leaders of other religious denominations, Muslims, traditional and traditional religion with the aim of spreading information of peace, hope and unity.
The tour in accordance with the records is the fourth round that is done by the leader of the Catholic church in Kenya, the first three that is being done by the late father John Paul II, May 1992 and September 1995.
In that first tour to the father of Holy Spirit, visiting the African Continent, apart from playing Kenya and Uganda, he will have a tour in the Central African Republic (car).
