It is an emergency time if there is any problem and electricity has come out in the center, so as to resolve the house there is any way to be able to do the trials so that they can try to do exercises until when the problem is there, there is a probability that becomes a probability that is a probability that is there.
It is good to direct the Tanzanians we have called on how you can be able to know that it is doing to know that it is working in a factory.
Likewise, we are trying to look for.
He got that solar eclipse.
Every area is required to see that you are looking at the environment it is here and even those are news that are very technical but we will try to see if you will not see if you will not have faith, but we will advise you to help us.
Many times you have written about our words.
It is not sprinkling for time to have a way and let him leave and let me think that, Jurgen I will be when I will be able to read, drinking and that the instructions will not be covered by deception.
When you click here in inside, there is something alone if they make them work.
Do you know these mountains in the world that his constitution is in a environment.
Similarly, it has been a long time.
We are looking at there.
I see you had a high level.
What happens, but by Pope as the reason to strengthen the constitution and therefore, you know that I have been in the chest and there is something called for now, we are not something.
Remember here we are bringing to you and there is a total of three and three.
Dodoma may be very important to me and enjoy football as we follow the second time I don't want to follow up on the theft because you can become a problem, and when I failed to do anything related to parliament, but you shouldn't forget them or do anything related to parliament.
Two the new health of the general meeting, I don't know where we should realize that they are doing a huge report to the contractors such as all the seventh commandment that you want to be taken to the high level in order to avoid the effects that can arise from the place of work.
Almighty God rest the top position for our customers but together with a customer in that area.
I look at the side of there and I see that there is another person who will be sitting on.
But on foot.
There are a bomb that has been put so much.
Which spread security because he was sitting in the legs it's taking it to you.
And those love the late?
I don't see if you are the one that goes on the air, it should be very fast on that time.
When the late God can download through a very big certificate, he started a certificate, because he himself is that he has the ability of this business can lose life, if I can start a fire but a bad thing.
These are many.
It is because he has bought many times the late God, then it is.
I have faith that every day of there is someone who are giving birth to you, you need here to welcome him tomorrow when he blew the second side.
In a certain time, which is a long time you get that you will find that there are other things that have been already said Mister would have faith that everything they are doing, I would like to use this opportunity.
If there is a place it will be complete.
When he will take.
There is a day they will get a problem to get a fine of electricity because the water is used by what I had met and there was a person that has electricity which has been from the way it does not have any effects on us.
