
The ethics of the child inside the family and the community is the responsibility of who?
In this article of life, today we focus on the whole issue of the collapsed building for the family ethics in the family and in the community.
Many times the community of Tanzania has been unable to find a lot of blame to a female child, that is the mother that he is the cause of the collapsed building for the family and the community as a whole.
This is because the mother are very close to the child since the child is born, until when it's time to talk about the steps, it's a great effort done by the mother, but also when she was born is a section of the parents and not the mother alone.
The father is supposed to cooperate with the mother to bring up a child in all the important steps of its growth by giving them enough services like food, food, education and treatment.
The lack of participation of the father in the upbringing of the child is doing that the child has done a working environment for mother care because the father will not build a special time to sit and talk to the child so as to know the needs, behavior of the child.
Let it be known that the child continues to learn ethics from the family level, that is from the parents or guardians because those are those who sell their close closer and then later continue to learn ethics from different places like in school and at the service of the service.
Therefore, if a mother or a guardian will be doing things that are contrary to the human values in the family or the community like drinking alcohol and the presence of a family conflict until now, she has to understand that the child can abstain from his child.
That's the first to keep away with the ethics of the child inside the family and in the community.
Therefore, the community to reach a place where it will be able to change his opinion polls to bid farewell to one of the family, that is the father or mother to be the chief player in the collapsed building for family planning and the community.
For parents or guardians they have the responsibility of bringing up a child and give care to the security and good upbringing for its security so as to build a community with good ethics.
The behavior of this child is due to the upbringing she was given from parents or guardians since he is born until he becomes a whole person, being a parent or guardian, then he will continue with that behavior up to the same time and finally old age.
The community needs training and enough education about the upbringing of the child, where training and this education is determined from various institutions in the country and in different ways to example this unique article.
In the opinion and advice, the sponsors of the phone number 116, which is special for the child services in the country, this service will not give payments from all networks in the country and this service will not give payments from all social networks in the country so that you can give them through our Facebook page of SEMA Tanzania through Twitter, annamatinde @ mkito.
