Why should I be released by the late?
August 8, 2014.

The appointment of the police commissioner (IGP), Ernest Mangu, as the new head of the police force (IGP), has resulted from a big reason for five, our citizens has been told.
In an interview that this newspaper has done by different people that are close to Mangu together with the authorities involved with his appointment since he was announced the day before yesterday, the five reason that have been restored.
Mangu, who was announced by the State House this evening to be the new coach taking the position of Said Mwema, she had all times given the second position to take that position behind by the head of administration of police, Commissioner Thobias Andengeye.
"The first reason that has been made by people who talked with this newspaper are culture, this newspaper has been told that there is a culture that we have built in that army and all its heads that have died from the Moshi Police School (CCM).
"Among the people who were being mentioned to get that position including Andengeye, all of them did not have passed through P-Square, he has a great meaning as a police has brought up of P.
"Its meaning is that when I knows the actual problem of the high-level officers, he knows their needs and he knew the army from top to down.
"It is different from the police like Thobias Andengenye in which they started from one office directly and therefore the art, will have a lot of pass," explained the source which is one of the retired senior officials of the police force.
The second issue that made him to get a lot of points in getting that position is how she is was known by its management of the police regulations (vice-General Ozzy, Para).
As the police commander in various provinces in the country, Mangu, has been named as a person who was doing well in the implementation of Pickup, which is its meaning especially in the management of the police ethics.
"In the current generation, ethics of the police have been removed and it is the only one that is seen to make sure that discipline and the police ethics have come back because it has been rushing for this for a long time before they have not been appointed," explained another source of this newspaper.
Another qualifications to be mentioned is to do his work as the police force for a long time, the profession that is claimed to be important to the chairmanship.
A good thing is explained at the charts in the past years while in the army and there are those who are claiming that the best chairmanship have ever happened in the country, he succeeded in order to make up the reasons that they believe in the country.
Mke Mwema should be told that for now, the police who had great ability in the police force is currently, Hussein Laizer, who is in the department of criminal Investigation (Corefa) but due to the health problems, he cannot be given the position of chairmanship or greed.
"You know that it is very disturbing and when they are doing their work well because they are doing everything before the decision of the chairmanship, Omar Mjenga, even so his decision was the first squad (FFU), now even his decisions were of therefore," this newspaper has been told.
The fourth reason has been explained is the truth that if Thobias Andengenye in that position, it means that Mbeya Region could have two people at the high level of state agencies.
The Head of Defense of Defense, General Davis Mwamunyange is coming from Mbeya province with the authority's authority seen it would have been better for one province (tribe) to give two leaders of the army in the country.
The last reason that is claimed to give me an opportunity compared to its competitors, it has been explained that it's a habit of President Jakaya Kikwete not to get out in the secret of his appointment.
The reports of Thobias Andengenye that the chairmanship will continue to get into the last month and as usual, Kikwete or administration system don't like looking at the report.
It will be remembered that in the previous years, there is the commander that made it better after they been informed earlier that he will be the chairmanship of information that was not known today at State House in order to discuss the decision and they should be elected at the time.
"There is a report we had heard that there are people who have ever been given information by the State House about being given a chance to them, if you want him to change his decision before the announcement," said the newspaper source that is inside the State House.
The appointment of me make you make sure that the arrest of nine in the history of Tanzania who kidnapped the late Elba Lobo, Hamza Johari, Samson Puntland, Omar Liunda, Harbinder Singh Sethi.
