
That earthquake scored 10 kilometers down of land.

It has been written by us.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Technical agency of Tanzania (GST), has provided explanations about the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province and said that the center of the earthquake that is in the age of 10 kilometers, has urged citizens to consider and avoid effects that can be caused by the earthquake before the incident.

In his report yesterday, the agent said that the earthquake which was brought together with a series of land grabbing, resulted from huge misunderstanding that had been expelled from the mud which is in the valley so that they are in the valley.
"The earthquake which occurred in September 10, this year, at 9 o'clock October, afternoon, his center was between 20 10 kilometer," a total of 21055 kilometers "the area which is 20 kilometer, North Eastern part of Bukoba town, said the executive director of GST).
"The strength of the arrest of the earthquake that the earthquake is 57th 7 by using abusive language.
"Kasunga said in" the size is very high to the extent of bringing huge effects, "said the executive director of GST, Professor Abdulkarim Muruma.
He said that due to the size of the many areas of Kagera Province, including the Bukoba town, they have been huge effects as causing the deaths of 16 people getting married to many houses, many people were injured and found guilty of the houses.
In addition, the report said that the area that was faced with an earthquake is near the western region of the East African Community, is being caused by the errors and they are playing in parts of the Sunni rebels.
Furthermore, he said up to now, Tanzania and all over the world, there are no equipment or procedures of being forced to prevent the motorcycle riders and all the equipment and all the procedures for coordinating the earthquake after an incident.
He said that the agent has already brought the experts in the scene to continue doing research on the incident and that among the earthquake that were in the earthquake which is very close to the area of the earthquake.
The chief executive said that the society is supposed to be given appropriate education so that everyone can be able to understand what to do the earthquake which is together with getting training from the high court in order to get education on how to use the fire.
He said the citizens are advised to build better and stable houses by considering the real standards of construction, to put a stable foundation during the construction, to get good advice of buildings that are needed to be built in the relevant area according to the land conflicts.
During the earthquake, the authority has said that the citizens are advised to sit well as well as an open area without huge buildings, long-long trees, long-term trees and also the people are advised to sit outside the house areas.
"If the earthquake will be able to find out of a house, it has been advised to be responsible at the junction of a stable foundation or not at the junction of vegetables and unify these things," explained the report of Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
Moreover, it said that after the occurrence of the earthquake, the citizens are advised to buy electricity in buildings so as to avoid the problem of electricity problem if they have been able to continue.
They have also been urged to inspect buildings for cyber-crimes so as to make sure that they don't get effects and if they can continue being used as required, the victims of the earthquake have requested the government to help them to build their homes after their houses fell from that earthquake.
One of the victims, Joyce Fisoo said that since they have been involved in that disaster, they have not received a donation and that some of them were collecting together with sleeping outside her child while her husband was on a work tour.
Our houses have collapsed and we have not received assistance, we do not get out and children, but now we have more fear that even yesterday (Sunday) we have no fear that even yesterday (Sunday), we request that we help each other with our things we need to save them, "he said.
Also, the other being affected, Mutta said, Emmanuel said that due to that disaster, they are continuing with fear even going to look for houses to live in another house because many houses are dangerous and due to an earthquake that can be avoided.
He said even to those who are their houses still, they will not hesitate to go and seek refuge in that country because there are a very high level, although it is very big like the same time although it is very high as the first one, therefore they need President John Magufuli to help them get quick donation if they are sleeping outside.
While those citizens gave those complaints about not getting any donation, the District Commissioner of Bukoba, Deodatus Mwillo, urged the citizens to have little money because the government is continuing to do everything in order to ensure they get a quick donation.
"Now has made a committee to follow up on the citizens that had been affected by that disaster, so as to know the losses caused by the earthquake but also to reveal the quick donations needed for everyone, we continue with sessions but in my district we need more than 3,000 people.
The Provincial Commissioner of Kagera, Major General Salum Kijuu said that there are no deaths that increased, and that injured were admitted at the provincial Referral Hospital have reduced from 253 injured in the villages about drugs and other medical equipment that are required, he said there is no shortage and that services are continuing to be released on all those injured.
The chairman of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) the province of Kagera, Coshuma Mtengeti, said that those people are needed so much because they are sleeping on the law of dealing with various stakeholders and institutions to give that donation to them.
He also advised the citizens and different stakeholders to come out to contribute blood in the referral hospital so as to make the blood cells to have enough blood because they need blood and that the party leaders have committed themselves so as to contribute blood in the provincial hospital together with students of the parents of CCM.
