This is a great intention of Mister Blue, in Dar es Salaam to give a taxpayer identification from.
We have the village where we are expecting to make approximately several people, we have met.
We want to invest in agriculture, business is not only agriculture in business, we have called agriculture that the preparations should be able to increase the income it gives.
Therefore, we have joined several people that had not been getting seen as one place going to Kisarawe.
The ones that are not neighbors we will benefit from.
Every time I am not only with this position of viewers, there is still a chance there are several minutes as there are people who will need to build a lot if you want to increase their people.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam, I would like to assure you that I believe it is good to do something different from what you are doing something to get a good report, where you are not supposed to come and not every report then I will give you information that should never tell ourselves as investing in the country.
It is a step that I took the time I began to get information to check on the person's seminar, but we want me to come and I have learned this today, we have information about enough information now, the commission for we are making you.
Right now we took us from the commission which we have already started the purchase of those areas.
We know that we are in the process of also being taught, "Landscrona" is expected to start making a plan, "we will meet in order to implement the plan for the current plan to take part of what to take.
To take place.
I have said that we will loose my joy and I know my know what they know.
But it is not people who try to try today what you are doing to take them?
I would like to stay, then when we are doing an evaluation that after a short time after getting a day after getting a day, we will increase because I will have another business and we thank this income to see me.
You will not hesitate to leave each other on the same, Edward Lowassa decided to do a lot of joy and be able to do so, I have not given you a lot and even if I have decided to do so, I have not given you a lot and good knowledge in the seminar of not knowing if I advise you.
Do not care free for free!
You came here at the seminar of someone he was doing and we are done when they are in the province of Dodoma.
In a new report.
Only, it does not pay a spirit you will meet with your fellow people.
They are doing that activities.
If you don't have given you the right time and sometimes the needs do not have friends that they get in, if your day here is here, I would be used to remind me of the theft on that seminar.
New report make sure you look for a book and make sure that they get religious, they will give you the strength and ability to take care here that you help them easily in the process, we have received enough information.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, there will be a ring on Sunday.
For the purpose of making a program.
If it did, we will take action against what will be paid, after several months, our bank will be the biggest of the commission and decided to change because we know the ability to change while in our country.
When I was shocked that, the explosions have changed the ability to change our lives and your impatient, where we are and where our country we have decided to do.
To take the ability and use one hundred percent of the ways and regulations.
I want to teach me I advise you to advise you!
At the other times.
It's not easy to think that I have made you for example two years in a cry like it will face the video for the time he is looking for the video for the video.
And I think that they will be able to buy themselves from the first time listening to the second time listening to three times, they are saying that they did not want to give them the same thing the rains are few hours, therefore, small and friends.
How do we live in mind to increase?
Part of ensuring that part of the thinking?
Change, these changes are taking different steps and I believe that you made you.
Open changes have been found to be found.
