I told me.
Today we saw a bit when we see if we become human witnesses like a song if you are attracted a song here below, because it has become a very big number.
And when the children talk to see you got sponsorship because all my reasons can rule, only all until the end, so that you can be able to put more much more about what he is going to open the church.
Close to these hours when I have a group here that if you get this, it's just some time when we were shocked, but when they receive a lot of people every kind of music and those who don't know if they are forced to ask for a lot of songs and those who don't know it causing a solution to lack of reading.
Those costs can't know close to them.
And long journey, I know Navio has come up to here.
Thailand.
I request that it will be a lesson every person is as a result of in bed and it is the leader of the convoy.
The people who came out to be born, in Uganda to see if it was not good of the union which is the secretary of the union.
Our group of a group.
I was with all stakeholders to meet in Mwanza and is called life in all over the minutes to pray for Bariadi because it does not lose hope, there are no different names, there is no different from now about what we place it has been released.
And the activity is one.
There is some of us explained to you by touching the constituencies and you will take them with stones.
Christopher.
Simon with a name.
I was called a well in a laboratory.
Member of parliament.
?
In the morning there is the only squad of the only squad which is a union being dealt with as he did.
But on the side of leadership we thank Jane Mwakalebela as Mayunga Nalimi in Bariadi District.
Here when I was born is the chairman of the union, is still the headquarters to the headquarters?
This, we have met here is benefits during this period and Tanzanians see themselves or maybe this continent then a friend like the United Nations and the union of those studios, I decided to say it's why he has decided to say.
Almighty God decided to sign me!
Meaning, I have been able to take them and forget where I think people are coming here we have never been told, we are telling our time before it was told that there is a union of Green Warriors to protect its first.
Life that we want to ask for a life that we live in life, is a good body with joy, but when she was not guilty, how many people don't know if they were not guilty, how many people get married and we decided to form four people like the people of the country.
We have never met all when there were their own activities in the beginning to think about life in violence and it was a must.
One group in one barrel.
We have been able to forgive me less than eight hours at the end and agreed to stop for a very fast speed in order to implement the numbers to continue doing exercises once in Wednesday last week.
Joyce has a leader to mark the award which Mayunga Nalimi.
His wife Bariadi City is not the game that has been winning in the burial of the burial, when he got to talk a lot, he gave him a question and they should come to be with them for the first time.
To build a friendship with the problems of the union, the biggest squad of the union is still there and it is still unknown and that is why they are all the group.
The good thing is that tomorrow?
Buses which are in the province.
And he requested not to visit the provinces in Kigoma province when they ask him from his pocket, we were shocked that he went to the sea, we had a lot of our colleagues and many activities of the province Simiyu province.
Pascal Malesa said that her daughters are very big because in adults, he said that when they gave him, we will arrive and see him, in the force, there was a lot of time you know the groups because up to the coming years, I visited four years.
I was with another name to be careful, that issue is talking to the citizens that we are doing.
But when it reached.
Third time.
They decided that a couple did not lie on his meaning that he has heard every year in the year.
In the year the day before yesterday, I saw it comes back to toe.
You know we had a different goals and it can be so much and how it will be a saying that when I was done, I don't have faith here when I was given, I don't have faith here and why I have been able to vote and why his children should be dealt with.
