
The child takes a period for 4 years.

It has been written by John Nditi,.

I was heard of 16th October, 2016.

Child, Yang Falcao (4), lives with a big offence when he got in the age of five months after being left.

In addition to various affliction, life of TTB, has been done to sleep well in bed, this is its fourth year, due to being unable to sit.
TTB is living with his friend, Emma Noma, in the estate of Togo, Mahenge district, Morogoro Province, after his mother led by Emelda Mwamanga from getting married after giving birth to her child and asked him to be his wife.
Emma speaking to journalists today at his home in the area of Togo, he said he has been forced to take the responsibility of bringing up the child, who is the best to her mother, Lucia Gambalagi, after his mother refuses to remain in a ward just after giving birth.
His source explaining the tragedy that has planned for that child, Emma said, whom he was born on March 1st.
The year 2012 and when she attains the age of five, he was affected by doctors, he refused to get effects on the back and was forced to be admitted to the District Hospital of Ulanga that is in Mahenge district for treatment.
That doctors continued to fight for reproductive health, so that he can be able to return to good health, but those efforts tried to return to him, but when she was unable to sit down, he decided to sit down and said that she was unable to sit down and said that anything he was unable to sleep without any time.
He said that situation made doctors of the Mahenge hospital to write for tests to the CCBRT Hospital in Dar es Salaam city for investigation of investigations, being together with try to make exercises for human organs, to see if it can help to bring back to the normal health.
"We went to CCBRT, but due to a huge cost of tests, exercises and cost of living in Dar es Salaam, has been advised by the doctors to come back to Doctor Mahenge in order to continue with exercises for other organs and other treatment at the District Council of Ulanga," he said.
However, he said that the issue was made up by the challenge after it was revealed that the hospital was not involved in a special exercise of organs for children and also lack of equipment and experts of that union, a step that led to fail to get treatment that is expected.
"We have been able to take precaution to get treatment and do exercises, but this has taken place three times and now we have been unable to continue with it because of lack of money to withstand the cost of treatment that are there, our family does not have financial ability," said Emma.
Giving an example that it depends on the cost, the king said for instance, he has been forced to use 1200 shillings every week to set free and stop depending on their long time and being unable to sit and do anything.
As a result of the affliction of that child, the star asked the community and the government to help the family so that they can be able to take him to a big hospital for a huge inspection and get treatment, which will enable them to recover and get married if they have other children.
And Upendo Noma, who did not get his girlfriend, he said due to being left behind by the disease that supports him, when she got a period of eight months, together with being unable to sit, but his skills started in charge and failing to recover.
Speaking about the parent of mother of TTB, Upendo Nkone said just after giving birth, her mother, query and he started praising his child while the news made up, a step that made her boyfriend Emma Oriyo.
He said, TTB is faced with great affliction due to the diseases that are blocking him, while the ability of the family to save his life, by giving them his health by giving them treatment and exercises for human beings in a big hospital, being small.
Love he asked the community and the government to help the family in state and wealth, so as to get money to cater for more treatment to the child so that he can be able to go back to his normal state and to bring him a lot for all times more than 24 hours for seven days.
He said that if he will be given a treatment of jokes, they will leave you and affliction of failing to wake up and will be forced to be looked upon by a special person to look at and remove it, she gets a small need and to be given special needs every time.
The community is being requested to help the child through a phone number of 712 31864, popularly known as Emma Noma, who is the guardian of the child since he was born of five months until now, you can also submit your contribution through the editor of this newspaper on a phone number plate T 8338,667 same as BISON.
