If you go right to listen to the department of food services, there is under maintenance of discrimination.
This department has a responsibility to make sure that all patients have been tested for three times in a day, we have different types of food due to the one of a patient that goes for diabetes patients.
They are given food due to the type of disease.
And also we give food services.
Doctors who are in exercise is the same way together with students.
Hayatou, as a department is my responsibility to ensure that food and patients in a critical condition is clean, and food for patients have been prepared and reach food to patients and there is no patient who has done food to patients and there is no patient who has done food to patients.
And we have a challenge in our department which is the main to meet the requirements of every one patient like what?
We have heard of the end of one hundred thousand patients to nine hundred thousand in a day and in that artists is not the real name but that patient desires.
It does not have what we had, he wanted them to get but many times we want to do that patients get food.
Due to when I was given instructions by doctors and so as to meet their health.
The department of inspection and environment to coordinate and supervise all professional activities together with ensuring that the environment and buildings in Muhumbili National Hospital are in a clean and security situation at all times.
This department is under directors of the launching and quality of the civil servants, there are many workers who have separated even in accordance with the shillings and we are also following the training of nurses from part of the work they were quoted in one of the nurses from the areas of work, they are accused of getting training in fishing profession.
Normally, the relationship usually do and?
And after six months they have been unable to go back to Kim at three hours and be able to continue with the song that they got here and go to help their colleagues to get the late.
We are well with the performance of the work in this profession.
Also in that part of the ten part of addressing the mother and nurses, we receive the students of nurses from different universities in the union that take degree and diploma education.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will be able to contribute and be able to contribute to the concerned leaders they oversee the managers together.
Jay Z and leaders like terrorism.
Money but also.
You are not a result of another department for example every department of managing quality in the hospital, we have the relevant departments in another country, but it is to ensure that it is disrupting the blood.
And to ensure that discrimination in their areas of work are doing well according to the basis and the destruction.
And recently, we cooperate with ensuring that the department has cooperating well in all the other departments that we are doing work together with the purpose of improving.
Almighty God rest that in our union, our customers get good services and the police.
At the end of my department is related to very close to the office of nurses, Adam to ensure we have a great draft of nurses.
To reach that they are not afraid that their phones will be keen on because of the holiday or a day of time because our offices do work.
We receive a report from the disease, that report explains that many of the services in the world that she gets as there are all challenges that have happened at night then the department has a story that we are doing in the work that are inside our ability but challenges that are not know our ability have been lost by the director.
Director of separation with the Department of Social Welfare.
The department that is being involved in making sure that they are annoyed so that they do not have the ability and those who had been directed to get medical services.
We know the security officers are ten and five.
Those of the eighteen.
Have divided into different areas of service delivery in our hospitals.
One teacher is concerned with issues of workers because the problems that are from employees and his family and the employee of the employer.
The community development officer is involved with patients who have not seen in religion, that is what we are calling is foreign patients who are coming out to attend different stations in the Tottenham Hotspur.
Officers.
