
Ali Awadh the owner of Lake Tanganyika after being mentioned.
Sei 29, 2016.

To promote business up to the capital of one million dollars (two billion shillings), it is hard work to build a wealth of one million dollars, it is the greatest job at the same.

But if you will succeed to build business with a value of one million dollars in Africa with twenty years old, then need great congratulations.

In the year 2012, the Forbes magazine has been trying to look for entrepreneurs who are under the age of 39 years in Africa, who are not registered but the trend of their businesses shows that one day they will be seen.

On the side of Tanzania, this magazine has been named Mohammed Dewji (MO) who last year was announced to be among the rich people of the small age in Africa.

Apart from MO Blog, the newsletter has now started leading Ally Edusei for 33 years and the owner of various companies that do business in oil and transportation in various countries of East and Central Africa.

Awadh who is the founder and chief executive officer of the lake region has been reported to be one of the East African traders who is alleged to be very fast especially in the energy sector together with transportation.

Awadh who was launched the company being a young man aged 23 years in the year 2006 after getting a license of importation and selling fuel from the local market in Tanzania.

But after a short time, the success of Awadh has said more than at the moment Lake Victoria Group is one of the biggest companies that are concerned with the distribution of oil in the country together with Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, and DR Congo.

The company that has a clean water station in Kurasini, Dar es Salaam which has the ability to save 35 million dollars of oil.

Also, the business person who may recently come in the list of the rich people in the African continent and Forbes magazine has also bought another station of preventing oil in Mbeya region for the sake of the southern highland regions.

Apart from the oil business, Awadh has also bought Lake Victoria company, which has more than 500 billion shillings that produce oil distribution in various neighboring countries.

It has been reported that the Forbes magazine that three years ago, Lake Oil Company, was being built through a sales of 600 million dollars (1 trillion shillings) for a year.

On the sales of this year, it is expected that after several years coming, maybe Lake Group is among the big companies in Tanzania that will have spread in the market of East and Central Africa.

According to Forbes magazine, Lake Group is among the companies that are growing very fast in the East and Central Region especially in the energy and transportation sector.

Likewise, Awadh has caused the Lake gas company that is spreading gas to cooking, Southern Cement that produces cement and another known as African Tanzania International Container Terminal (711), which is involved in removing it from the port.

Awadh says that all the success is as a result of providing good services that are required by the customer together with doing business without tension.

Lake Group Company is to be an international company that gives the services of international standards and those services are safe, reliable and care of the value of the customer.
