
Politics have been put into the service delivery of Sinza Hospital.
Dar es Salaam being in a normal state, members of the cross-Mageuzi Party (Red Cross) yesterday caused conflicts in Palestina Hospital, after the guest of honor, the councilor of Sinza Ward, Godfrey Chikomo, heading to the hospital while accompanied by his party members, who were dressed in parliament.
Olemedei has happened at the White House when they participated in cleaning, giving gifts to patients and offloading blood in the hospital which is in Sinza district, Kinondoni District as part of the commemoration of the World Habitat Day.
The incident that occurred when those members were giving donations at the women's ward, three o'clock in the morning by the councilor wanted to join those members in the ward to give a gift.
They started suffering from below after seeing the followers of the councilor not in a draw of their party and later, rumors has that it was increasing and became a penalty and finally they started falling.
The Citizen's investigations revealed that many youths who joined Red Cross have happened in a bullet in a political parties.
One of the members of those members, Juma Said said the incident was not known as the party but they previously announced by the councilor of Sinza Ward, while accompanied by members of parliament who attended the draw of their party.
"The way I wish you easily annoyed if they are concerned with this event, we did not take them to us are party members of Red Cross, but also we have many reasons for political parties," said Juma.
The chairperson of TUGHE, Kinondoni District, Bro Mkomagu led his party members and requested him to apologize before starting the procedure of contributing blood.
However, that councilor said his objective was to participate by those party members if an invitation was unable to see if he was supposed to be accompanied by people who work with them.
I am a government leader, I have written here and I have been accompanied by people I do not have work and I don't see if it is no wonder, even President John Magufuli went to launch a Kigamboni bridge with the members of CCM who loves them.
Speaking about the commemorations, coordinator of Red Cross in Kinondoni district, Jonas Makunga said he is celebrated every year on May 8th, every year.
He said that they have decided to commemorate the Palestina Hospital because it is one of their main activities and help victims of various diseases, "the nation will be held tomorrow (today).
In Tanga City, today we visit the patients and gave various donations, "said Makusanya.
