Parliament don't know the call of "mystery, '.
Brightiles 20, 2015.

The previous parliament can be remembered for a lot, but for many of us, I remember it as a very common parliament where we witnessed the normal mind and stop behind the mental disabilities they think of over the 2015 elections than serving the citizens.
The previous parliament will be true because it was part of the administration problem of our country than being part of the solution.
It's as a result of this, some of us are looking at this next parliament and asking them if it will make the call on these days and it will have a lot of things that we have done by people who are not aware if they are people who don't know if they are people who are not aware if they are people who are not aware if they are people who are not aware if they are people.
As it is in the world of politics, Tanzania seems to change following the election of Doctor Magufuli as the fifth President of our country, Doctor Magufuli made a presidential campaign to sell the promise of running a famous song called "Matatizo ','," a few hours since he was sworn in Tanzania following the sudden tour of treasury at Muhimbili National Hospital.
Most of us seem to be even in line with the heart that it is possible, finally the discipline of work will go back especially in the public offices where many people have been forced to see that if the president can't know what they can be heard by people who do not know what they can be taught.
Most of us have already been waiting to see their hope that they can have any reason or not to find the name of the new Prime Minister in implementing the plans and responsibilities of the government. I can be surprised that many are waiting to see if Magufuli gets not only a person, but it's just a long time.
If you remove it that the Prime Minister has the great job that is being waited for in parliament to see who will be the speaker and his deputy minister, they will not wait if they will be like those who did not like, they did not like him in the 10th parliament.
The work of Speaker and the deputy minister will depend on a very high level if they will stand for members of parliament who will enable them to continue with political parties looking at the 2020 elections or which they have accepted the results of 2015 and therefore doing work which will enable them to make laws and sincerely standing by the government.
As our former members of parliament and new members - they will enter the parliament building with the feelings of the parliament, it doesn't have a huge difference with the previous parliament, it doesn't have a big difference with the previous parliament especially to opponents to boycott the president, from parliament and continue with political conflicts.
If these symptoms are that, it will be open that people will look for Magufuli to see if he will be able to be a catalyst to the parliament to members of parliament or he will end to do not less than any issues like when he used his trip to 2020.
If these parliamentarians think of now, they have got married "then it is clear that their mental checkup will be in making sure they are making good environment of going back again," there are many who participated in the first time and some of them were unable to go back again and there were people who fell in 2010.
Those who know what they are going to get married (huge stuff) and being called honorable president, then it is clear that this parliament cannot be different from the parliament and to make sure that those allowances were made so as to make sure that the speaker did not go back to parliament and to make sure that she will be able to attend the seat of parliament.
