
NIMR we need for natural medicine for AIDS to put in the Sokoni.

The National Institute for Human Diseases (NIMR), has made natural medicine that has been improved for treatment to various diseases including AIDS after inspecting research to identify the ability and security.

The Executive Director of that institution, Doctor Mwale, has said that is in the final stages of completing the registration of the 11 drugs in the market.

Other diseases that have been improved will be used for treatment is diabetes and to reduce the oil (HIV) in the body, male gland cancer for men and drugs that increase gender energy to men.

Doctor Mtwele said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday, when he was speaking to journalists about 35 years of research and health development and said research on natural treatment happened by the ability and security of those drugs used by various communities in the country.

"Moreover, the institution has done research by considering the ability and security to users and succeed to produce natural medicine for malaria diseases, AIDS and opportunistic infections, blood cells, blood pressure, blood pressure diseases," he said.

He emphasized, "the institution is in the final stages of completing the registration of natural gas so that they can be involved in the market."

Speaking about the problem of lack of male energy, he said it is seen it is big and even at the exhibition they are doing, drugs that affect the energy they are bought for more.

Moreover, he said there is need for stakeholders and the government to invest more energy in that institution to make research that will help them recognize the source and treatment of the problem of cyst causing a great shape of women with African descent.

About malaria disease, Doctor Mwageni said that research results shows a reduction in the northern regions, North of East, Central Region and the Lake Victoria because of the increase in mosquito nets and understanding of citizens on environmental protection.

He said the research on malaria drugs that was done in the Bagamoyo district and Korogwe has shown the great ability of the immunity in children.

He said that the institution continues to cooperate with the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, through the National Bureau of Malaria to follow up and evaluating the mosquito of mosquitoes against corruption used in surfing and butterfly in the houses.

He said the institution has continued to advise the government to identify the correct ways of fighting and downloading that of the effects of malaria drugs, it has also been a great ability to treat malaria diseases.

T.
