One resident in the village of Sharobaro Record, came into Dodoma to found themselves with ten disability after his support of the right being attacked by the hyena that was until he woke up on the night of drawing water.
Mwaniki the tragedy in the past ten years, where he has said that something sad, will never happen in his life after getting permanent disabilities, there was a water shortage that is facing citizens of that village of our reporter Samuel Doe.
For a long time the citizens of Kigongo village in Kongwa district in Dodoma province have been facing water problem, a situation that led those citizens to be forced to wake up on the night of looking for water so that when he was in the process of drawing water that is in a distance of two kilometers from his home in the village.
If he is saying that using the gold language he is supposed to be known by the councilor of that ward or America when he knows all of the people recently.
Its normal do not mean?
Clarifying to him.
A question says that it was last night they had gone to Man.
When he is taking us.
Maximilian Arnold at the area, he was arrested here.
Let us start doing that when he is eating the noise that he has.
All of them raised him from the youth.
And if you are meeting with this I think is really terrifying.
Unfortunately, it's good that he had come in the same way and it has reached an opportunity to see the bad luck is the situation like this.
Therefore I want to say that baptism there and water problems are not doing?
Am talking!
In problems that people do not deal with water problem not only to see that woman only, but it has also been a problem and even see other people in that village.
Follow me on foot am understood.
And let us know what is now I will answer we, but basically we need the government to make us because we are proud of which the commission Simba through our bank then until now we have given water but still they have shown infrastructure so that we find water.
On the right is the chairman of the village.
And the problems of here and still then we were in alcohol.
The caused by one woman was sent.
At the same time is drawing water.
In dealing with the problem of water the councilor of the county, Omari his work, he has handed over ten bags with one machine of controlling all water together with a value of more than two million shillings in order to help solve the water problem facing them being a word from Kongwa district, Dodoma province, Samweli.
