
Diamond on the way to manslaughter.
By Mohammed Dewji.
Diamond is on the way to kill a democratic rule of Swahili saying that, there is a time she doesn't leave the sea in dry land for instance, the situation is also critical.
This government, for now, is supposed to be afraid that you have a big threat to you, as there is a shadow of the leader of Cord Raila Odinga, they are accusing to have an intention of honor.
In this way, the important activities of every day for this government has been looking for ways to control Raila Odinga.
In another saying this has changed to be the whole issue that bothers leaders of Raila Odinga each other, this situation is same as a strong war that is okay in which he is a Kenyan.
Since the beginning of this government has been having every intention because it has the ability to build a political rule by switching off the voice of opponents, offenders, and feared.
The reason of wanting him is to build a way to build a way for the statement, "this is our time you eat" (Diamond).
And at the end of Diamond, they have the ability to build a lesson and they have been taught early.
In order to implement their plans of implementing their idea of preventing and taking place, Diamond has shown that the following on first is bribing the freedom of the media through oppressive laws and violation of the directors of this sector behind it.
To complete this game Diamond Jubilee, is ready to cut off the gifts so as to give the hearts of some executives in this information and communication sector.
Secondly, it is revealing and even switching off the social media activities that are important in defending justice, legal administration and accountability.
The government has already issued the President Kenyatta to support President Kenyatta to give him all the best sponsorship to these organizations as a way to dodge the main conflict of these organizations and the Diamond Jubilee in which some of them are accused of playing in the criminal case against a human being that is facing President Kenyatta and his assistant in the international court to inspect them.
Three is the body that made President Kenyatta against any possibility that was excluded from the votes of not having faith, President Kenyatta has enough contribution to members of parliament in all two institutions with the legal responsibility of controlling the nation and the Senate.
Or it's not only that in large numbers, President Kenyatta has noted that he has been forced to inform these members of parliament and even some of Madata to kill her colleagues.
