
Lowassa got the guest of honor to CHADEMA, when he was given a chance to be announced any time inside the week.

The plan of Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) to announce the candidate of Revolutionary Party (CCM), Edward Lowassa, joining the party that was expected to be implemented yesterday, they are still ongoing with international reports inside the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa).

Last week, this network wrote reports that parliamentarians went to announce Lowassa on Sunday night after finishing their talks, but that was no longer.

The reports from parliament are making sure that maybe that player whose future of CCM was introduced into mistakes after his name was asked for presidency, now it may be announced officially at any time this week.

"He said that he does not want that parliament is not good again, but the plan to announce today (yesterday) did not succeed as a result of the presence of different important meetings of two political parties within Ukawa, parliament and CUF," said our news headline.

Yesterday, we will organize a special meeting of the executive committee in Dar es Salaam city when CUF had a meeting of the Executive Council in Zanzibar, all of them on one issue to the presidency inside Ukawa.

Those sessions that have been caused by great importance was expected to end yesterday afternoon and then in the evening the chairpersons of Ukawa wanted to speak to the media editors, but the meeting was postponed due to the completion of those sessions.

Speaking to this network yesterday, the director of information of CUF, Abdul Razaq Badru, said in short time that was being discussed by that party will be put up publicly today, while the deputy chairperson of parliament of Zanzibar, Said Issa Mohamed also said, "we will inform us of the meeting discussed after the end of the session."

Close people with CUF claim that the top leadership of that party especially the chairman Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, until yesterday he was not going on with the arrival of Lowassa's arrival.

"I don't know what it will be but if the Professor's stand continues, I don't see how CUF will continue to be in Ukawa. First, the votes he got in the presidency are very important because of helping the party to get grants.

"Now if he will not contest again, maybe he went for Lowassa through Ukawa through Ukawa, then the issue of grant will bring success since the CUF party is dangerous to Ukawa's life heading to the general elections in October this year.

On the parliament's side, this network revealed that they are not worried with the arrival of Lowassa, they are preparing a environment of writing him in front of the citizens on claims that what made him pass is a system inside CCM and not him as Lowassa.

Although it's on the existence of claims that family members of Lowassa and his few friends have been advised not to leave CCM, but Lowassa is the last decision and that one of his big friend and famous businessman in the country has never been heard since he was unable to convince his friend to remain in CCM.
