500 workers are claiming to claim the benefit of.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been published, 08 November, 2016.

Who had the employees of approximately 500 season of solar energy company which is in Morogoro province, have protested in the office of the pension fund of PPF in the East region to ensure they get explanations about their own benefit after the contracts of work and the employer to reach on October 31.
2016.

That action is to demonstrate to the PPF Pension Fund, the Eastern region started after failing to get forms of filling up the benefit of the benefits due to a letter given to PPF / 1000 / Escrow / 1000 / 11 / 11 / 11.
2016 to go to the service manager of the TPL Board that was given by PPF.
That letter was signed by the PPF manager for East Africa, Michael Christian Bella that it explained that, the board of directors of PPF fund has barred the payment of benefit from members from May 12, 2016.
However, when he was asked by the journalists who arrived at his office so as to speak about that scandal, Christian claimed that he is not the spokesperson, except that the spokesperson is the executive director of the fund, despite him to write a letter to the Public Service Manager of the TPL Board about the benefit of power.
Arising from that blood, the leadership of PPF Lake Region, requested them to control five representatives to go and work with the manager of that region.
While speaking at different times, outside the building of the PPF Pension Fund, Eastern region in this town, the workers have complained about the fund to fail to give forms of filling the benefit of the benefit.
Those who had been announced by the leadership of the fund presenting a letter to the Public Service Manager, that the board of directors has barred their payments, a thing that is going against the what they had been informed before joining the fund.
He claimed that PPF is doing different from other bags that has launched their own kind and they have used to send their wives who are already paid.
Paul Mr, said that due to the contribution of a company to reduce and therefore towards the end of the 2016 / 2017 season, the company made them to inform them that their contracts came to come to October 31.
2016.
He claimed that the company allowed us to be a rumor of their benefits, it will be made through news on November first this year, where it gave a procedure of getting forms of claims.
Those workers have requested the minister for bail and probably, the management of the National Social Security Fund (SSRA) to intervene in the issue so as to get their rights for the purpose of doing other economic activities and not to wait for attaining 60 years old.
Recently, the executive director of the Tanzania Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA), Irene Uwoya, said the renovations of the 5 law of the year 2012, where 74 matches have been listed in some sections of the community service.
