A good constitution or best Constitution of the table is Jakaya Kikwete.
Mr, 13, 2014.

I have met with the surprising truth about the attempt and the former member of parliament of Rwanda, General Faustine Bee, who lives in South Africa.
That news explained that six people have been expelled from the attempt and three out of them are stigmatizing and I went to I asked me, "after our Tanzania, we have risen up with drug trafficking, now we have moved to that system (transporting abroad) whom they benefited from that disease.
Later, I had talked about the debate about that issue in one network of the community (social media), and some of those who participated in the debate are worried about them if the three people who were arrested are true or they were using the documents of freedom of Tanzania.
Maybe it is early so much to know the real truth of this issue especially because the investigation is still ongoing, but basically the news is a continuation of "the qualifications that are not funny" that is following our country.
I have ever explained in my different articles about the behavior that I have made to start my day through different networks at home so as to know what is happening and just after finishing to read the news analysis, I met with a bad film, I agree with the news headlines, about the development of the parliamentary committee of the constitution.

I wrote a bad film because though the sessions of our parliament have been very big because they are still more than to talk about various issues that concern them about the Tanzanian, seems to be known as a constitutional parliament and could be able to compete with "the normal parliament" that is wrong.
And maybe when I saw a lot of words, it is good for I was happy to be if it is in the sessions of "the ordinary parliament," the main source of all the important things happening in the constitutional parliament is the ruling party of CCM to put first interests in front of the interests of the nation.
After the end, "flash disk" to a great debate about the allowances of the delegates of the Constitutional Assembly (claims that it was not an amount of 300,000 shillings per day it will not be enough, "the new issue is about the procedure of voting 'to be secret or open.
Private, I have supported the opinion polls because one of the don't know that the political environment of threats have been depending on the way the voter can be free using his rights to vote is by voting.
And the secret process has been in use in different levels, inside and outside of political parties, when we choose leaders in the universities, the votes are beaten in political or secondary schools, and when we choose leaders in the country, why should be an important issue of the new constitution to be open?
I have explained that the source of the problem is CCM and the biggest reason for the party to be the source of the problem that is happening inside the ruling party, in relation to the issue that made it to Mtanzania after the establishment of the process of collecting opinions about the constitutional changes (CCM) in relation to the exercise that makes a chance to identify the bad behavior of that party.
For CCM, the new constitution is supposed to be available according to the requirements of the party and so that the requirements will be used to make sure that every delegate from the party is fulfilling their stand that will make sure that every member of the party is not good but it is important to make sure that the position is not good.

But blaming CCM, a family of one person is not supposed to fight for those rights, that there are some of the delegates from that party and not by being pushed into consideration the rights and another person to make sure that they did not affect the laws of the country.
Therefore we can sign CCM from his union but inside you, there are other national exams instead of ideology.
But if there is someone who tried to be stopped from all the blame, then the national chairperson of the party, President Jakaya Kikwete, who for sure is if he is treated too.
