
The first plane of Magufuli shot.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

The first plane that was sent by the government for the purpose of being used by Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) has landed at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam (JNIA), from Canada was made.

That plane was killed at the Julius Nyerere International Airport, at 6 o'clock in the afternoon after landing in that plane, when it was given a special honor which is given by any new plane that is carried out by the army plane (KIA), and then went with and parked in the army planes.
Speaking after arriving at the plane, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Doctor Leonard Mao, said the second plane is expected to arrive after one week.
"After arriving at the second plane that will be held officially, that will be led by President Magufuli for the end of which will be announced later," said Chamwamba.
The previous report that was given by ATCL end at the end of the week explained that the plane has a capacity to carry 76 passengers having four pilots from Canada, started a journey to come to the country since two weeks ago while completing the process of being signed by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA).
"Because they will play with the registration of Canada, we will be forced to use two days to three to return to TCAA registration as well as completing other legal procedures so that they can get permission to do their journey here," he explained.
He added that the first journey of that plane is expected to take place on September 27 this year, to Mwanza City.
"We will also have two bridges, which is the level of economy (the class one) that will involve 70 passengers and the business bridge (Business level) that will involve six passengers for every plane," said Mbeya, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora,
Already the company has noted that the work squad that is in charge of various issues including the issue of training on various executives so as to deal with the requirements of the business, including the importance of President John Magufuli that he made just after getting into power, where through the budget of the ministry of construction, transport and communication has also contributed an amount of money for the sake of that purchase.
According to his minister, Professor Makame Mbarawa while reading the collection of revenue and use of the year 2016 / 17, the government is prepared to complete the purchase of two Bombardier Q400 type which will enable them to revive the journey of that company.
Until now ATCL has one type of Bombardier Q400 type, thus the coming of those planes make it a four plane that provide transport services in the country.
