
The victims of the earthquake.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The government has announced to give a previous donation of 20 iron sheets, five bags of cement, which were destroyed, due to an earthquake that has been destroyed due to an earthquake in Kagera province. However, they have been set aside for six months so that they can get a place to shelter themselves.

That was said in parliament yesterday by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa when he addressed the fourth meeting of the 11 parliament that took place for two weeks starting on September 6th, this year in this town.
The next parliament will be held starting on November first, this year, the prime minister also announced the construction of a period of school infrastructure like classrooms, toilets, toilets, especially in secondary schools in Ighombwe Village and Nyakato Primary School which were scored for a period of two weeks starting at the end of last week.
He said legal measures have been completed, the construction plan of permanent infrastructure will take place and preparations continue to get resources for the purpose.
In his speech, he spoke about the incident in details, he said that since the occurrence of the earthquake which is a strong desire to buy 57th and 7 this afternoon, the government in collaboration with stakeholders has taken several steps, including the efforts to restore peace among the victims.
In that earthquake that was heard in the provinces of the Lake Region, it affected the Kagera region where despite causing the deaths of 17 people, that has left Ruvuma and 253 households with houses, health centers, school houses and various infrastructure.
Apart from distributing food, providing treatment, the prime minister said that the government has given time to discuss and register themselves by citizens but failed to affect the residential areas due to the huge destruction that is facing their houses.
"The government has participated in educating the bereaved and also participating in the funeral by helping the coffin placed on transport, transport and set aside 20 million shillings to the bereaved that will be given to them for a long time since now the Prime Minister Majaliwa also said the government is prepared to ensure that public institutions including the army of defense and security and its resources are used to provide all important services to the victims of this period.
Also, the prime minister said that the government is continuing to work professionally through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the University of Dar es Salaam to identify the cause of the incident, an amount of effects that happened under the rocks of land, "he said.
He used that opportunity to thank the members of parliament for the way they participated in collaboration with the government to address that country's national market, ambassadors, representatives of public and international organizations who are in the country, leaders of political parties and the citizens in general for requesting the government to participate and help the government's efforts to help them that are affected by the earthquake.
In addition to urging citizens to continue helping those who are faced with that earthquake, he emphasized that the government will continue to implement all the contributions that will be offered by it to the beneficiaries not to try to get personal interests through that disaster.
At the same time, the Prime Minister yesterday received a donation of 1267 million so as to help citizens affected by the earthquake in Kagera region and the donation was given by various stakeholders including the Caspian Sea, which has handed 100 million shillings through the Caspian Sea, which has handed 100 million shillings through the Human Resources Company, OKaraegypti.
Others are the executive director of Bottling Company Limited, Who Lives Fores who has contributed to 20 million shillings from Mariam Kitogo who has contributed to 1 million Tanzanian shillings on behalf of the nurses who participated in the research training on the indicators of AIDS from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).
While receiving the donation at the Parliament grounds in the city, the Prime Minister thanked all the contributions for money and requested other citizens to come out in large numbers to help people affected by the earthquake which is big and they have never happened in the country.
From Bukoba, our writer, Angela Sebastian said that the provincial commissioner of Kagera, Major General Salum Kijuu said that the province has made a special committee for the purpose of distributing donations which had already been accepted.
Kijuu said that yesterday while receiving various donations from stakeholders who arrived in Bukoba town including a businessman Saidi Salim Bakhresa (Issa B) who has handed over various construction equipment valued at 100 million shillings which is iron sheets, cement, and mattresses.
He said the procedure was prepared well to hand over the donations which at the moment the committee has already started building with some of the citizens who drive out and distributing various equipment that were received including food, color, and mattresses from victims.
He advised the citizens to be patient since the donations will reach each other and that there is no doubt that will be held while saying that special groups like the elderly, the disabled, widows and those who lost their homes will be given priority.
At the same time, the provincial commissioner of Kagera has called for the fundraising for various stakeholders in that province including big business people, institutions and different organizations which have contributed an amount of 14 million shillings to pay 700 million shillings.
And Lucy Ngowi has said that the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), has carried out experts of electricity, electricity, the Houthi rebels in Kagera province to conduct an evaluation of giving advice and professional advice to the citizens who were affected by the floods.
Information officer in that college, Jackson Isidore has said that when he was speaking to this newspaper about the contribution of the college to citizens affected by the earthquake, he said those experts had already been removed and the others leaving today to Kagera province, and I will be seen to take the last month, other experts will also go.
