The late?
I have ever heard in Dar es Salaam at the famous market of Kariakoo where various streets are available on and from different regions of Kariakoo, in Dar es Salaam city, he has started a special operation known as Kariakoo of Dar es Salaam city, from being a big possibility of selling their products in the market because they are also a big fine that is charged with a total of shillings will give you one ball while also their products being taken.
I know if I use it, he will not take it on it.
We cannot go.
A very good thing is that if you have already started paying fifty thousand again and a place or return if someone can't be avoided if they are waiting for votes.
What does it be true if you do our business?
There is a shame and also have been taken and also there were those who do not want them to inform you, you know the trap while carrying a news reporter.
Why in the northern region?
Then it is being taken in that station and he could buy you just on the road.
Earlier it's just inside you don't try to buy a lot of money and why do you know that we take place in the same market.
We should not think about yourself and when they get married, it was still holding on the legs and those of Bongo movies will not sell for us instead of bribery.
Until the morning and again.
Due to the place like now he wanted those property to work.
Major Tulia Ackson, asked the government but that its procedures are poison because we do not affect in order for us to do and because there is no boundaries, but the other day I need to do God.
And the committee of Bongo movies and business people are capable of buying a girl, it will not have been taken to pay for the current government to check the market because of the environment itself they think this is unholiness and the market part of doing most many people they look for.
Do business in his environment, Zahra, I was good especially the results.
Hostage.
But we are not ready and request again if they get out of the business itself up to them, they bought it 3 percent of going to prison for that reason to do it.
When the right time comes like this one, the money was abducted in Twitter and I don't know it.
But we should have forgotten that apart from the government and the citizens love to speak, they know that they are there.
So we are in parliament there.
I have heard that you have never happened to me when I met me.
If we are using it, it comes up, then when they have lost.
How is it?
Where it will be just the purpose of building it and it's an accident of food shortages.
And when you came through, we can say that this afternoon you must use the name of a voice like all the lives, but if you follow up, we change you and do you meet with you in Dodoma town like the mother, I urge you to find you with you together with the big business products fined a ward.
According to the head of Dar es Salaam Province, together with the director of Mwanza town together with the director of Dar es Salaam province, he has released the director general of the city council, he has released the director to break up the price of products during this time when the residents of Dar es Salaam will continue to vie for the end of the next month of Ramadhan.
It will come out.
We are also used to hear and believe in now, not to make sure he does not love me in Tanzanian to continue because they are following an amount of long money.
We shall implement if I was asked within the hospital for eight hundred and one dollar, you are required to go down in the past five hundred thousand in the past five years.
I know even so in his business is the excuse of claiming that there has been a big erosion of tax together with the cost of transport and also the sugar industry that the business people get from the capital city.
Outside, they can be able to pay for you in very high table.
To watch him he has got a load in a car there to arrive in the list.
Those who will understand.
Blood is reported to have any property.
It is good.
A good thing in ure we are saying that, he is looking at looking at with him in the past, and even the certain farmer have taken place.
But if you know everything you will take the end, it took the end when you have a lot of things, what we want to use them to use in the market, but we had never got the tender we have never been completed.
If you like to eat, we thank you so that we think you can be like you are not a habit of eating if we become a habit of eating if we become a habit of looking for a person they will not have money through a person.
Women did not like.
For a loan to do that, I have talked about to marry off the government, a good thing that is good to me.
I would like we want.
It will meet to carry out a hundred percent.
Here we came to the headquarters.
The late?
The injured were two tons of Dar es Salaam, Dina Moris.
