
President does not understand what they complained in.
And the beneficiaries of the Permanent Committee.
The step by the Member of Parliament for Igurubi County, South Mihayo said the scandal of lack of faith with the Minister of Gongo la Mboto, Anne Semwenda, shows that they are not involved in Mount Kilimanjaro community in the Diamond Jubilee Hall.
That threat has left President Uhuru Kenyatta to be a bad state, an issue that appeared to be in the general meeting of the political union of Mount Kenya which is Walid Junction.
The political course of GNP has been one since the establishment of the political party system in the country of 1992.
For example in the year 1992, these society together were supported by the presidential candidate of Ford, Kenneth Matechi, who was in the second position in that election after the Retired President Daniel Sturridge.
That course was revealed in 1997 and 2007, those communities that supports Mister Mwaura should be the third president of the United Republic of Kenya.
The situation is now that maybe it may be for the first time in the political history of Mount Kenya, unity of those communities easily.
It is a surprising thing to see some of the members of parliament and from the Central region as he praised the President Kenyatta, about some of his stand, something that is difficult especially for leaders who deal with their leader even when they get married.
That contest was revealed for the first time, members of parliament and when they joined the opposition to oppose the stage of the president to pay 1 billion shillings to a company that is associated with a contract of Marie Antoinette.
And at this time, most of the members of that area have been seen to have made a call to the president of honor Mrs Salma Kikwete despite doing a special meeting with them in the State House where he urged them to identify that plan.
According to the fact, the main sign of cyber crime has narrated that if it will continue, we will have the president to consider the requirements of the members of parliament or else they can fall into politics.
Most of the members of CCM and who are not seen to be openly to defend President Kenyatta, but only the leader of men in the Senate.
Considering that, a community of if you want to learn from the political union of Glasgow, these points are supposed to be a warning to President Kenyatta to be careful.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
