
You have continued to implement big water projects.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The government has said it is prepared to implement big water projects for a short time so as to increase the water level in Dodoma Municipality.

That statement was issued yesterday by the Minister of Water, Gerson Lwenge, when he launched the seventh board of the clean water and environment project in Dodoma town (not pictured).
He said that the board has a responsibility to ensure it affects its energy to ensure the coming of government in the province did not give birth because of lack of water.
He said that you have thrown out a great job to ensure that the decision by the government to relocate to Dodoma does not be resolved by lack of water, Engineer Lwenge, said at this time the government is planning to relocate to Dodoma it is good that the authority intends to solve all challenges that can increase the government moving to the province.
He also urged that authority to control the shortage of water so that the users of those water can get.
"Mniko added that the amount of water production make sure that you will go hand in hand with exchange of infrastructure to be safe for water so as to cause all the water used to reach your customers," he said.
On his part, the Executive Director of Tamfi, David Pallidum, he said the project of producing clean water to small dam at Chemba district will be completed the authority will have the ability to serve one million people.
He said that in a clean amount of clean water which is currently available in the electronic wells, a lot of ability to serve people who will go to the city in the first day.
He said that for now the youth have refused the ability to produce a total of 400 meters worth 500 shillings that is enough to serve all residents of Dodoma town and more.
The chairman of the Local Governments Loans Board, Job Ndugai, said the challenge facing the authority is for now is to increase production at the agricultural dam so that it can serve the big number of people who will go to the city.
