On the front of the teachers of Kenya who were arrested.

October 4, 2016.

In a situation that is not normal, eight teachers who are alleged to be a citizen of neighboring countries of Kenya who were arrested in Simiyu province, due to their permits for working in the country ended, they had gone down.
Those teachers were arrested on 27th September this year by officers of the immigration office in the province and put baking paper, he has arrived in that office for some time.
The misunderstanding came after that office through the immigration officer of the province, Mwajacho Mbaga, called a meeting with the press in order to provide information to the teachers.
Before that meeting, the journalists who arrived in that office were required to wait, but suddenly he was called a journalist from ITV television station in that province, Bertrand Bailly in China and only to be postponed due to documents of criminal charges.
After that explanation, Mbaga urged the journalists to return to his second day saying the charges of the charges will be completed and the suspects were arraigned in court.
On the 29th of September this year, the journalists arrived at those offices as they are required but in the surprising state, he urged the journalists to wait and be unable to buy inside.
Those teachers whose names are not available immediately, they are teaching in a private school called "Bariadi West," which is in Bariadi District, in that province.
However, while the journalists waiting for that meeting, the leaders of that school entered the offices and started talks between them and the Immigration officers.
The meeting between the Immigration Department in the province and the journalists did not take place and will be required to leave instead they continue.
Talks between the leaders of that school and those officers.
Until yesterday, the journalists did not be informed about the presence of that meeting where the media sources from inside that office have said that issue has been abolished.
Those sources have added that, those teachers were charged a fine and after those reports, the journalists arrived at those offices so as to get the truth about that issue, but Mbaga refused to speak with journalists and directed the lawyer.
That action came out between the lawyer, Paul Mbambo and the journalists who wanted to meet John Mbaga, but the lawyer refused saying that the office's procedure is to see their great success before they meet him, therefore the journalists were forced to leave.
At night they looked for manager of that school, Nila Kakingo, who refused to talk about that issue saying he is in the immigration offices to address the issue.
