The speed of Magufuli to leave the 100 desks in Dodoma.
Dec 10, 2015.

The speed of performance of the fifth term government has continued in the normal areas to the secretary general of the prime minister's office, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), on Tuesday, to make an impromptu visit to Dodoma Municipality to identify the existence of limitations in the whole issue of environmental cleanliness.
He arrived at the Saba Saba market together with the main market of buildings and destruction of disciplinary action to be taken so as to resolve the citizens and diseases that can arise from the environment of those markets being dirty.
After his tour in the Majengo area, they wanted the directors of the council to fulfill their responsibilities, before their employment has not been put in doubt.
If he becomes a director of the council of Dodoma municipality to demolish some of the challenges in that market which are derailing the cleaning activities so that we can be able to pass and clean up.
The order by the Secretary General of Tamfi, has been mentioned by the director for business people in the market and explained the intention of wanting to break 100 desks for business people that are in the swamp by River alcohol so as to pave way for cleaning the whole issue.
Business people in that market for their union are forced to do a strike that doesn't come to an end if 100 desks will not be allowed to pave way for cleaning on the river that is along the border.
Business people who are in that area claim is not death but they are in that area since the year 1996 in accordance to the court's order.
The chairman of the union of business people of the Majengo area, Godson Rugarabamu, told Citizen newspaper that they have received with sadness (statement given to explain the intentions of the plane to leave that area without giving them that he will also go up because of those 100 people on for them.
The directors have started using the slogan of the fifth term President John Magufuli by wanting its efforts to bring change to the citizens of the poor.
Jomo, said that the slogan of "here's work" did not have a solution to killing those business people, it can be used if the project to affect the effects, and if it is true, the concept is that then they will comply with President Magufuli.
He said the action of the director of the Municipal Council to tell them that 100 desks will be removed without it will be taken where to announce the fight between the municipality and business people since they have been unable to pay taxes together with different taxes and they have been unable to do a cleanup.
He emphasized that the leadership of that market and the business people in general have received in disappointment the decision while saying that there is a conflict that came out to shine between the municipality and the Capital Development Authority (CDA).
"Statistics show that the council has been collecting revenue worth 450 million shillings per year through those 100 desks and they want to break up but there are 1000 people who are in our country, we will do it," said the chairperson.
He says that before the business people moving to that market, that in this happening was known as FGM, they were doing business at the High Court, which is currently known as Nyerere Square.
That chairman also added that after the market of the main market having been completed with the buildings' market to be completed, they were unable to identify themselves but they found themselves waiting for a chance after some of the business people were taken by some workers.
The situation was forced to come out to court to claim the right to do business in that area and that is when the year 1996, they managed to be allowed by the court and given a business operation in that area.
The conflict between Entebbe is between the Capital Development Authority (CDA) and the Municipal Council of Dodoma which is alleged to be an obstacle to the market area due to UDOM they are making plots because of construction but revenue have been collected from the council.
He said that the aim of demolishing the equipment is to enable you to pass the environment, those business people decided to raise them and bring a cleaning company for the purpose of cleaning the area on the swim and waiting for their fate of being demolished.
"The sixth commandment of the parliament is in a group because it is coming from the high level, we are doing a cleanup for the call of President Magufuli that the commemoration of Uhuru day that is being done by people to work," he says.
The acting director of the Municipal Council of Dodoma, Cleophance Maharage speaking with the business people of the market, he said the municipality has an intention to take them enough for some of the factors that hinder their activities so as to improve the market environment.
