This is the constitutional parliament?
Sei 22, 2016.

The fourth meeting of the 11th Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania has ended at the end of last week in a way that is contrary to the recent meetings by that institution that is very important for the development of our lives.

At the meeting that ended, especially the third time of parliament that ended in a way that was not allowed in our nation that ended up by opposition parties, the act that made the citizens the citizens.

Considering that our democracy will still be young compared to other nations in the world which have been able to build the culture of democracy for more than two weeks, we are still in the past.

In this parliament, members of parliament gave the contributions made in a way that is followed by there are issues that the ruling party and the opposition parties participated and there are different issues that were put aside for the interests of the nation.

We are using this opportunity to congratulate all the members of parliament together with the leadership of the Parliament of Tanzania on how they can do things that eventually, the end, can bring change to the attempt to kill politics here in Tanzania.

For natural resources, stem cells are not people who like violence and as such as actions, they had a bad behavior, not having dirty languages and make sure things that are not Tanzanian and they had not been received well in the streets.

Yes, we think that it has come for members of parliament and our parliament to view more better ways of improving the environment that was there in this fourth meeting of parliament because it is possible for this time and we believe it can be buried.

We will also be the last time to say that the parliament is a place for friends to meet drinking alcohol. In any country in the world, in parliament where the countries of the country are happening in the areas that are supposed to run the elections.

There will be happy to play against them and fight against your opponent, in front of the eyes of the citizens, but it would have been better that behavior that are related to our citizens are also needed inside the parliament.
