
South Korea's business people invest in the country.

It has been written by special writer, South Korea.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

Big business people from South Korea have been welcomed to invest in the country in the industries sector that will increase the value of agricultural products, livestock, crops and using natural resources that are available in Tanzania so as to provide employment and grow employment.

He made the statement was presented in the city of Seoul, the Director of Investment and Investment of the Tanzania Investment Center (TIC), John Mnishi, while presenting a topic about investment opportunities available in Tanzania, in a fifth meeting of the economic partnership between the South Korea and African countries (MARI).
Mniko said Tanzania has set a good investment environment including removing bureaucracy to the availability of permits for investing in land for the purpose of investment, so as to attract capital and technology from outside the boundaries.
He advised the investors to revive the industries that are not doing well in the country so that they can be able to produce products that will use natural resources that will be available in the country as well as using a big market that is in the East African Community and the American market.
On his part, the Head of Department of Natural Resources and Planning in Zanzibar and Tanzania in large in the agricultural sector, industries and fishing in the main market so that the residents of that country and investors can benefit from resources that are in the islands.
Machano has urged those investors to build modern hotel for the purpose of serving the tourism market, together with using the international film market in Zanzibar, which is a huge attraction for tourists after being announced by the international organization dealing with science and culture issues (UNESCO) to be a large town of inheritance of the world.
Some of the investors including Puma Energy Company which is involved in making production and distribution of vehicles, vehicles, together with the Marx-RT company which is involved in business production of products arising from the polling stations have shown intentions to invest in Tanzania after being impressed by the investment environment in the country.
