We are trying so much in this industry because it's the catalyst to the film market in this city with the shortage of diseases in art, there is a challenge that we had not been seen because of getting names, the name comes with you, my differences.
There are I see if we know the same, but you were not true.
But the?
Different of the artists are always.
In front of naked photos because you're blocking the lights.
If all should be the cook of a film to sit down.
If we stop words?
It is not very happy and we decided to listen to him alone at a.
That required is a must that Mwanza will give you only one but if we continue to do work which are bad to visit and ask you that, the possibility of there is very important to many who have great efforts in growing the industry and in the city right now when you're popular as Rock City.
People were found and that it must ensure my colleagues have?
Because I am pleased.
Club.
If you go to Grind.
The wife who has got into someone to protect Tanzanian shillings as a result of a good work he will make it be well but if you can't understand that a primary school can enjoy each other than to find out the things that we have no benefits by showing them.
If we are doing what is his phone, our province is more words than to sit and be called without losing the need, I have seen that it is my community.
We have met.
Others tried to play in the film hall so as to be better so that you can benefit the economy due to this industry in life, although I don't know your day to prepare themselves so that your country can be able to find out what they want.
If God will help that we can be able to reach ten film goals and two for a year, I became a film company that let me start.
Or the way you are not knowing they can be asked if others are the ones that maybe three goals do not be employment.
To think more on more.
Which will it be?
I will not tell him, I will help I get even one person who will take a life and get famous people, we believe that we are doing the best film and if we believe that we can be able to reach ten best films in the world, what does it win.
Or if he would be able to make Bongo movies, those other things I want to go and I have seen it will be.
They are meditating the day more than two hundred people.
Whom they will be muscle and perhaps you will help you get even one person, we will take care of we just like people, we will make sure that we use this industry although it is easy for work in breaking the film industry.
Because the Tanzanians have started that in good administration for the month of month and how to music I've heard of the current film, we have also seen more that Tanzanians have started not having problems.
There is a very important thing that we expect it will be sure that they continue to have a heart that is not acceptable.
Not to be dealt with.
Most of the music artists from soccer do not want to marry off the same way they did not see far because of fulfilling its hope, Tanzanians should be their loved ones.
But also, we are happy to do the Big Brother that is causing them to do that, because of us, you can also do so, you can't see her child their big work will have a lot of things to work or there should be a problem.
There is no one.
