When you go to the press you will give you the news room to write first.
What is a teaser of a human being?
His value of being fed.
To look for maybe a person told Yanga, the broadcaster of the presenter, maybe here is anything related to listen.
Why do I understand what I don't know if the readers look for us?
Dealing with the murderers, they are brought to.
A reporter is a big offence.
To say the human being of a human being is sold at a problem which has a very big offence has enabled us to know what I was released because the human being I am very happy to do so, I want me to send a lot of albino youth to find the writer.
I will be with those who are doing, if you get when you get married and after the truth when someone told him after being asked by saying that if a human being did, I am pleased with a very clear victory because there is no wonder because there is no wonder because there is no wonder because there is nothing else.
He has been put on that statement when I arrived, therefore, it is a very big offence that this has resulted in the community as a result of the condition and doing the very business.
That is one of the news that until today morning I have been silent because of us is something that is believed to be known which essentially has never been identified.
When we look at this period of other things that if it was previously, he has been released from many media stations in this week not about the court to raise us.
Where he said CHADEMA, the party of democracy and development in CHADEMA, then has sacked the member of parliament for Kigoma northern region, Zitto Kabwe, after the main court asked to oppose the case he gave birth to oppose any action against him because his party should not wait until his appeal that he was doing.
The Council.
Now, it was a good news in the city to realize that we are very little, they are the police force, the police force is the ones who want to discuss all over the whole.
Others have said that CHADEMA can be one of, baby is very disturbing but if it is not many of the leaders themselves but who made me ask you, we should wait but in people if it was in place.
Let me give her contribution in the case, the late Adam Zitto Zuberi Kabwe dressed in any events.
And I have tried to look through different types of events and another love you will find the network when you go to Dar es Salaam.
When you watch the phone for a long time, Chris Brown is coughing but later.
Those things are wrong.
The speed I will come to wed but if he saw him close to him, we will look for one that is given by the lawyer of CHADEMA and the end they did when I met.
That party members are that party.
CHADEMA was opening a case in court and he will be unable to remain in one case because of taking off the membership card is I will give it.
When I met me.
One of it means that Zitto is not a member saying that CHADEMA is supposed to follow CHADEMA party, that when it is not true, the court has already been paid and later they're suffering from Coastal Union to stop taking it the court.
At the moment one of the youths only is a member, but the second side of the White House, the late God created my president, the south of Dar es Salaam, a situation that does not turn back to this bridge, it's be available in the department of education sector.
The late?
NEC commission is saying that the late?
The member of parliament of African Parliament has said that in elections that a certain thing is that maybe died or do well or in one way to fail and then in the new region, it is not a member of parliament because this is not a member of parliament because it is not a member of parliament according to this news spokesperson.
You go to the parliament we did not have any information about this one and this one who I am saying this is why I am saying this because I am saying this is a speaker of parliament alone, but he was a lot of songs on her heart.
It is a great shape.
Thank you so much.
Without the news, come out.
Because we talked to him who is the right time the news has been commanded?
Now as it is.
While others have said.
In this first decisions, it is impossible.
The shivered.
His cargo is different between.
CHADEMA leaders, Zitto Kabwe.
And we saw it's true that the citizens are now in a hurry to meet in the region that he knows the region that he joins you in their development as it is in Rukwa province.
After the decision.
Who will be a commandment of joining the party?
But we want to end in the true election.
Here, that is why you can get the party of democracy and development CHADEMA from the decision.
But he said that it is why we do not pollute the whole way, he said that things are there.
Things like this.
If you go in accordance to the newspapers meaning, by checking the things you will be bullied.
It is that if you see you will give you a certain network that she was coming from.
The party's not the development officer but the attorney general of CHADEMA party in accordance with Lissu said as soon according to section one in accordance with the party's law to get a lady she is not a member of parliament.
The constitution is open but now there is one in the budget.
It is a must that without considering that, I will continue, they will be confirmed, it is first.
You have said that love is that CHADEMA is a party of UDP party, they do not see the electricity has gone contrary to the ethics of CHADEMA, it is a party to take a difficult decisions, but when we are searching for our contribution the thing he needs in, as one way you will come out of money.
Something he got a very big chance since he lost little wealth but at the beginning but there are many things that I was seen, but there are many things that we had seen, therefore if you look for some people going on well, but if you look for some people going on well and sometimes when you look for some people going on well and sometimes we were unable to investigate it.
It is believed that it is youths who are in doing the party and you are rushing for to the government.
After releasing a letter from CHADEMA, it seems that if it takes a decision to the government, it is a terrorist who has a primary contribution for now you will remain and go together.
Here there are future in different parts and we wish them in looking for a few days in the coming days we look at, what you know is now.
A report of BAVICHA asked him and we have succeeded to have died.
To win that executive, you can't know it and because there is true he is one to say.
The late God rest to know that when it reached it was a very good time for a week and every person is again was to put it, there is a news agency that the government is also bullied.
They will not vie, he says.
They also deals with normal and its activities as usual and that he has also left a statement so that he will have a statement so that he will go to Dar es Salaam to see the news media.
I think the election in France when I see a group.
The late God bless you and said that the citizens of seeing you are not in the country, do not forget the court that made judgment and therefore things like this, but the analysis has said.
The same as it is.
Media networks are there the other day the day before yesterday there should not be flag that let me be something that it has been right now.
Welcome him in the creation of the newspapers you have to have something that every event is the holy martyr.
Zitto Kabwe.
There are including a party.
Light weight as a public.
This is the news headlines for selling, but when you get inside you, it is still a place because it was out of the curriculum to save when I wanted completely.
Maybe, it's true that the late God is in good state, the whole process of Christ was tough to see some of the elderly people who are in power.
And later came to an interview with the ruling party, the late God bless us that for the whole time, you can't see the ruling party, in the whole time, you can make sure you know that the ruling party and more strength can't understand but they are supposed to do but they are supposed to do but they are required.
In the community to bring me that there is a probability that we have risen by technical or it is faced with it here but we are following up closely so that we've never been affected but also the war has never been affected but also the constitution has never been affected.
News has done a lot of events in crime and he was looking at that there are people who did work and go and even so the police force.
Our whom they were present will be careful not to give birth to fifty million shillings while it is God where to use it.
And this, if you hurt them, it has also identified himself as fox, a video director for the maize and it will also have an impromptu visit to our colleagues in doubt of the page.
Wake up for a long time to be calm, so we are usually written by the stomach, following the news from this time.
