
The elders will thank you to stop the protests.

It has been written by Katoma.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The council of elders of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) has given congratulations to the executive committee of the party to postpone the demonstrations and the meetings of the whole country known as a wall.

The protests which were planned to take place from September first, this year was postponed by the executive committee of the party on claims of being requested by senior leaders of the religious denominations.
Speaking at the headquarters of the party, the Secretary General of that council, Rodrigo Londono, said, the step of the committee postponed the demonstrations are important and shows how the party has a big leaders to be prosecuted.
"By recognizing the heart of the leadership that showed up with the commitment of serving our customers, we would like to thank our head leaders for this good decision and you want to inform the public that the party has a strong leaders," said Luten.
In addition, he said that they also thank all religious leaders, who together they ask and requested the leaders of CHADEMA in different sessions to contribute towards their leaders so as to urge them to talk about the demonstrations and their meetings.
He has said the step by religious leaders to make efforts to meet President John Magufuli for the purpose of looking for a permanent search for the political conflict in order to avoid violence which could be done during the launch of those demonstrations.
Lubuvu has added that groups and other institutions like the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute (LHRC), forum for Law and Human Rights Commission (LHRC), Constitutional Forum and Editors Forum (TEF) together with Mama Maria Nyerere, who showed the efforts to look for a goalless draw.
In another step, the council has said, it has noted that the presence of conspiracy happened against the party through the office of the registrar of political parties and the council of political parties in the country, showing off the party.
"The report shows that conspiracy is aiming to encourage the parliament to prepare a political trap so that finally they can be given recommendations that he removed from the list of political parties," said Luten.
He has said on August 15 this year, the registrar of political parties, Judge Francis Mutungi announced that the council of political parties could make the session on 29th and 30 to discuss various issues including discussing the system of democracy of many parties in the country.
He said before that date, the sitting was postponed and the moving forward after the demonstrations by the party, something that they felt it was as a plot for the session to give recommendations that he removed from that party.
