
Police can destroy the corruption in the country for a period of a few months.
Reports that were published yesterday and some of the companies that conduct an interview were revealed that the police officers are the most corrupt people in the public sector.
This squad has sat on a line in front and taking this first position to eat a car for a long time.
The truth of things is that police wanted to stop corruption they will do that in a few months.
The reason and because it is that your police and all the news needed to destroy this disease which has made the country not to be served in different parts of the country.
The new head of this human squad, Joseph Tetteh Zuttah won't have a hard work to remove it.
If the Boers will be able to succeed in his work, then we will have to listen to him who is where all police officers to cooperate to destroy the crime in the community.
You will lead every police to treat themselves on wealth and deal with corruption without stopping.
Being the traffic officers and we will have primary schools to find out the drivers that affect the law.
Why should I wish you, the local institution, Nairobi.
Sunnis with a ring, with parents getting married so that they can be able to help those who live in school, teachers and they have taken a statement to continue fighting.
The teachers are very happy, the old man of a Kenyan artist is what they used.
Those who are high level are usually in status of making personal teachers and also educate them.
The strike contributes to violence and we have ever heard of candidates receiving birth, poor results and employment.
The government and the commission for public servants (SRC) of Sarah Ditopile, will destroy the life of a man in front of the stomach responsibilities.
Still getting married, Kayun.
We should listen to our children during the month of December we usually have a lot of cry like the national exams for form four and a class one is complete.
This is a long time I'm supposed to be careful with the man, because it is this time the children usually die as a result of lack of direction in life.
The clubs and many places of entertainment are required to have graduated from high school because they are in the desire to taste the sweetness of life.
The punishment for you are to be taken without doubt, it does not depend on time, but it's like to start or later they land in the behavior which even a parent can leave you.
It is good opportunities if they have completed the studies of primary and high primary schools, they have joined with reading messages.
AUTOFashen.
Dogo giving the directive by the day before yesterday is only leaders and heads of the government especially ministers who will be an illustration of the instructions of the court.
Recently, the Minister of Minerals feel extremely honored, he was reported to have confirmed the order of set aside of blue copper.
Balala together with the heads of his two ministries have ordered that they can also start in court.
The question that comes to this is why those who understand the laws are facing the directive of the court.
Back to Deddy.
Congratulations by Victor Wanyama who is not attractive to those who do hard to read.
Parents do not have been encouraged to protect their children who are disabled in school instead of winning in their home.
Huvisa added by Abdelhamid Radwan from Kiya Primary School, he from Madeama and 317 points in the Nane Nane Nane (KCPO).
This girl uses his son to write with God, he dies with collecting that draw.
I call on the government of Mtambani Primary School and also the main government to command the national schools to identify students.
I urge him to vote Christine Ishengoma of the mouth.
I am, Esther and Maasai.
The Bhebey Ndey is supposed to be responsible in the Lake Region and his community can grow.
And when he is implementing its responsibilities, they are the source of joy, security, efficiency and decks to the family.
Many of the girls that were victims of land and their father live as they condemned the offense.
Instead of removing that as a father, they do not sell to his responsibilities and to find out a pain in my heart.
Those who make them have a desire to have a father and others feel extremely honored.
Father of this kind affect the bodies of their daughters portfolio.
Listen to me, they were not Father of Jesus, but the elderly will sell their blood by posting their daughter.
AUTOT Touch.
