
The group photograph of artists can benefit from the body.
Basically the establishment of the associations of artists in the country is not a new reason for many countries especially African countries like Nigeria and Ghana, the associations of artists have been there for a long time and for sure it has been stable in managing the interests of the artists.
For instance, in Nigeria, political parties like Nigeria Film Federation, National Film Board and this video, National Film Institute of Actors Association of Activity), Nigeria doesn't affect the market between artists and government but also artists and business people involved in art work.
Haazu taking us that the presence of political parties is the main cause of the art sector in that country to be high and more contributing to a large level of the nation.
It is estimated that film and music alone contributes to 1 percent to the 4-finals of the national income in Nigeria according to the statistics of the revenue authority in Nigeria (Monbusho Scholarship).
It is reported that two films contribute to more than three billion American dollars in the national income.
This cannot be a surprising thing that you continue to stand is that, parties and the associations of artists in Nigeria have been able to set aside administrative system that together with being free, it has been an effort in promoting the income but also the government itself.
The film industry in Nigeria or as it is was known by a famous actor that produces a lot of films more than any country in front of India according to the report of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Nigeria built more than 800 dollars per year while India has bought 91 percent.
Also, it explains that the small budget for a small budget (EFD) had an increase and reach 2,500 films in the year 2015 and these are the ones that is explained to increase the creativity and professionalism in the film industry which is currently in Africa, which is the first one in Africa, where it is in Africa that is in the country, which is the first one in Africa.
According to various news sources from the website of parties and the associations of artists in Nigeria, there have been meetings, various training organized by artists themselves through these institutions so as to promote professionalism at the film industry but also to prepare and promote new artists.
For instance, the website of the federation for actors has to pass various events of the federation like training, big concerts that are organized by the artists themselves through writing the projects in big financial organizations that are needed in developing culture.
Or for sure that from Nigeria is the one that is supposed to happen in Tanzania.
It is a must that artists themselves as well as regulations and regulations as required to make changes they are wanted and they are eager to make changes as they wanted the stakeholders in the art sector that are involved in the work of artists.
The truth is that the changes in the art industry in the recent days and the low quality policy in the country, 1997, has broken the verses of the government officials not to have one executives in the art activities but to remain with the coordination and general management.
In that meaning the changes in the arts industry and the existence of the policy on culture close to the loopholes to various stakeholders involved in this industry, this is where traders and other stakeholders with personal interests according to the artists or their work that are facing them.
This is a period of the opening of the doors of many stakeholders who now started getting into art work while the government agencies like the National Arts Council (BASATA), Chama cha Mapinduzi (BASATA), and otherwise they will continue with the management and implementation of policies, law, regulations and procedures of the sector.
On that meaning, when you open doors for business people and different stakeholders like the live, products and various services, it is also a must you ensure that they involve administrative artists so that they can go hand in hand with the wind.
BASATA has advised them to start the associations of artists so as to build their ability to relocate and stop the basis of where they want to go.
This article has been written from Basata, BASATA's Daily News, BASATA @ mkito, a bus or 4750,000 and 496 Shillings and 795, 889, 715 949 / = shillings.
