The war of swords, FEST has been taxed.
October 24, 2014.

Acts of crimes against the wildlife in the East and Central Africa is between things that consider the government officials, stakeholders of conservation and security agencies in those countries.

These actions have been made by leaders of the crime network that are in the country and outside the country, by using them even some of the citizens that live in the reserve areas and a high speed internet.

Statistics show that there is a type of animals, elephants and cold are in the danger of their disappearance during the next 25 years due to that it was very much by poachers.

Poachers should stop the animals from business with great benefits of animals (non-communicable diseases) of those animals which are sold to the markets of East African countries (Asia) especially China and Japan.
The countries that were affected by acts of crimes of the animals (elephants and cold) include Tanzania, Kenya, I believe in South Africa.
In addition to the efforts done to deal with acts of crimes, one of the biggest challenges is to the government authorities to fail to manage the case against poachers in the court.
Most of the challenges of criminal acts have been left free by the court because of lack of "true evidence" against them and the situation has been contributed by the shortage of modern technology when collecting the illustrations for building the foundation of building the court.
KWay will start a laboratory.
However, together with the challenges in Kenya, experts of the wildlife issues under the Tegeta Thermal Power Station (KDS) has started a new procedure of collecting samples of genes from which are in danger of their disappearance.
In an interview with Raia Mwema, that took place last week at the Nairobi National Park in that country, one of the instructions of KDS, department of animals (OPD), Doctor Mona Mwakalinga, explained that until now they have collected the genes from more than 600 megawatts that are in various park in the country.
"As usual in many African countries, samples of genes is taken to a human being because of different reasons and this step of collecting and protecting the genes from the animals that will not take them to the new technology," he said.
The genes from the animals are preserved in the modern laboratory that is located at the KDS organization in Nairobi National Park, which is in eight kilometers from that city.
In addition, he explains that the aim of collecting the genes from those animals is to help give an indication that the suspects who have been arrested were kidnapped by the animals who are inspiring.
"You know that before the start of this program, we have been able to run away the success of many cases of crimes in our courts, and many suspects were left to them due to us on the charges of failing to bring instructions in very important way.
"The main aim of collecting violence is together with other things is to help to put in the neighborhood of the animal and so they will be satisfied and they were arrested and those who were arrested are accused so that they do not be used in court when you do not be used in court.
However, he said that since the start of that program last year, already four suspects have been standardized as an offense after violence that were arrested are faced with the genes who are believed to have benefited from the laboratories being affected by directly.
"This technology will help so much to reduce the crimes of crimes together with elephants and we will also start collecting samples of genes from a period of two years from now," said the expert.
The way of collecting rubbish.
While explaining how to collect the samples of genes from the animals, the expert explained that the collection takes place for arrest the animals from professionally and then remove the blood for the purpose of getting samples (genes).
He said after the samples of being taken from the animal is reserved in a special tool and takes place in our laboratory for a period of eight hours and after being received in a special room for the laboratory, "he said.
According to the expert, modern laboratory has been closed down the modern equipment of security and it is difficult for any person to get a chance to get inside, where the scientists who were sponsored by the concerned authorities.
