
Domayo applauding Simba, Kipre Tchetche.
Dar es Salaam City, mid-fielder of Azam, Frank Domayo wants to be out of the field for two weeks due to sexual pain, but striker Kipre Tchetche is in playing with Simba today.
Domayo who is in the recent days has come back to his quality and lost her leg during the semi-finals of the Federation Cup (FA) against Mwadui that was played last week.
Azam coach, Stewart Hall said that he should not be Domayo applauding today as a result of those injured and he reminded Kipre who had gone for several games due to the death of his leg, he has returned and he is ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "Kipre is well and we are ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam." Kipre is well and we are ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "Kipre is well and we are ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam." Kipre is well and we are ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. "Kipre is well and we are supposed to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam." Kipre is well and we are ready to increase their strength in today's game against Simba at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam. "Kipre is well and we are happy to have
"Domayo applauding his condition and he will be out of the field for two weeks starting with treatment from our doctors and I believe after that time he joined his colleagues," said Hall.
Other players who are in the country have not found a certificate of being silent for today's game against Simba is Beki of Wiwa, striker, Allan Kijazi, Minister Salum and Langoni Area.
Mid-fielder Phillipe Corsaletti did not play the game as a result of continuing to serve the red card he had during the game against Mtibwa Sugar and already he lacked the last game against Majimaji of Songea, Azam won by 2-0 goals.
