
There was a big budget but there is a problem.
By Mohammed Dewji.
The Minister of Finance, Henry Rankings, last week presented the collection of revenue and use of government money for the year 2014 / 2015. In that budget, the government has planned to use 1200 million shillings to fund its development plans and other expenditure.
In a normal state, the expectations is that this budget will stimulate the growth of economy and give them an affordable cost of life, to make security and create employment opportunities.
A Kenyan have already been caught up by Christianity between the cost of life and bad qualities that are not price.
Kenyans were expected to continue implementing strategies and plans to travel to Christianity between this year, while the nation's security doesn't ensure that even so, Rassemblement have denied the heart of saving to deal with the real state of the nation and economy.
Or at the truth of the nation at this time it is faced with several challenges, first of the economy is unacceptable, in a volatile state of security, the nation has come in the way of economic growth and four nations, the nation has come into a high level of low-scale farmers, an increase in the government in a bad way.
The minister wanted to explain more about the cost of the budget which already has a deficit of the, 3226 shillings, which is 710 percent of the national income and therefore he didn't put strategies of financial management to reduce prices and control the price of it's needs.
On the other side, although the minister stopped the national policies for the purchase of public servants through the bill of expansion of the internet, he did not implement the ways of blocking the loopholes of theft in the government and statistics show that every year we are losing one-thirds of the budget in theft.
So as to save this budget, it is a must that the government has planned to increase taxes and to expand the scope of tax.
Or I don't see the way the tax authority will be able to attain its goals of collecting 1 trillion shillings without doing this or no other sources of revenue.
Therefore, it is a must that Kenyans have been ready to carry more cargo on products of products.
On my view, this budget will not be productive if the government will not put strategies of monitoring, evaluation and provision of data for the implementation of the budget itself from every ministry and departments.
It is also the government facing a probability of having a large number of funds that are set aside for development and then return to the high level at the end of the financial year.
