
DRC is pleased with the ability of Tanga city.

It has been written by special journalists, Tanga.

I was published today 27th October, 2016.

The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has explained their satisfaction with the ability of Tanga Port which will be used to receive fuel that will be transported with the oil pipeline from Hoya, in Uganda.

That has been confirmed during the session between the Minister of Energy and Minerals in Tanzania, Professor Sospeter Muhongo with the minister in charge of oil and gas of DRC, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, that took place in Tanga city and attended by experts from those two countries.
That minister and his delegation did a tour at that port after DRC to show the intention of transporting its oil for the pipeline that is from Uganda to Tanga, after knowing oil in Lake Victoria which will be in selling 30,000 up to 100,000 shillings per day.
Professor Muhongo has said that the message will bring Tanzania a good report to the government of their country.
He has said, DRC has promised to advise their business people to continue using the port of Tanga and Dar es Salaam in the activities of oil transportation.
Also, Muhongo has said that the message has got an opportunity to visit the Chinise area, where it is expected to be built in a dock, which will be used to buy crude oil in Finland after being attacked from Hoya in Uganda.
In addition, he visited the process of protecting the oil of a large screen and explained that, business people of Congo will continue to use the services of that company.
Apart from showing the intention of the use of Tanga port, the DRC delegation arrived in Tanga city with the aim of requesting for the two governments to cooperate in research and extraction of oil and gas in Lake Tanganyika.
In that sitting, those ministers have agreed to have two sides that are in charge of the sector to meet with the aim of considering the various reports of Lake Tanganyika about gas and oil resources.
Similarly, Professor Muhongo explained that, after the experts meeting, will follow the session of ministers of the concerned sector to put an agreement on how to continue with the implementation of the research activities and the mining of Lake Tanganyika.
