I would like to know for a child and it is faints that, Chege has no one o'clock and there is a lover with someone who will go for now, I want to look for him so that we can be very delicious with me.
You will fall down.
It was not seen because.
Research, my joy and screamed, the word is very happy, how did God bless you, why is why it is why?
We have not seen, but pairs of Bongo Fleva from the country.
Thousands of people.
Mwenye Cheupe bus that you shouldn't know what you want to go back, let me register myself, to commemorate the frog video.
Now it is the truth.
You're not safe for your Swahili, the Lord in very disturbing when it is dible to you, the late God and maybe very happy about people and the meaning the late does not told the there.
In the first before your son, Pinda said that the news of the journalists that spread and houses.
.
All the big man has left back and set up in knowing how long comes, the late Adam and Esther Matiko is the right to do a lot of money but it's a must.
It is a must that you go to the Mount Meru in this and it does not be an elder that is called a shame and it is a shame and it's a shame, it's a shame and he does not lie on the same platform.
Eyes, the Almighty God bless you, when they have contributed a lot of every corner, we will make sure that this child is unacceptable, and then it is unacceptable, the child is unacceptable, and he was unacceptable, and he was proud to have a former boss and a shame.
The father of Jesus.
That attracted him.
So much and that Chinese have been able to do.
Economy is wrong and do not praising the bonanza that is not present?
When the late God bless you, if you feel that, it is not true, it is not wrong, I request me to change the state of the state to end the field I will end.
All the people were David above and then I request only to miss.
Who has asked me to me and watch it?
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we should be given advice.
The late May, I will start like this to be known if you will not be used quickly, you will not be very fast quickly, the late does not be avoided or at the end of the ball to think you can't be careful.
Or if we are involved in TUGHE, TUGHE, school and Mpanda.
You can't understand what you will not know where we have forgotten in a short time, we have been encouraged.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we want to return my friend and then it's a wife then the school Yanga does not want you for you.
Hassan Hassan and his efforts to write this year, the wife of his skill of having a difficult time when his man will go to sleep here.
Condolences to this sister Mister Nito here the late God bless Swahili.
Bank is a woman who doesn't have a modem.
Lucy does not miss this season ley or this is a high level when I call him so much.
Most of you will go on the industry of the girl with black patches on the high level because of swim, who is important to know what you are still.
If the Lord God rest the Lord God or when he is five years, I will give you shortly to wake up.
Martin has a reason that we had like you and you want to go here to a grandfather's grandfather, she had conned Sergeant of Mshamba, I will make corrections, but also the south where he was beaten, I had not been sold to choose then alone.
Seven days of I will be like, when I am pregnant, I don't know what I will go down here, then I don't want to sit down here in Dar es Salaam and let me follow up so that I don't know where I will not go to which they are still going to which they are still going to which they are still going to Dodoma.
We make sure you run it is a resident magistrate, Cape Town, which is believed to see the Lord Jesus Christ, but he was to see for those five people, that is when I arrived in Dar es Salaam city not to use the Mfaume ', I request Liverpool.
Most of them as now whom I will not kill me, he led to using that day time owns the few voters in Nyambo have the right to be baptized as at the field.
It was very disturbing as the judges, scientists, who live in the country so that there will be a person with the country, even if a woman does not tire us in the country even if it is the late Adam Pascal Ngozi.
"Be Kidney.
Which will lead you only, the greetings is capable, to sell its obligations and fifty bags are in Sweden Ambassador of Tanzania.
The Almighty God have been asked including mathematics, now they are diggers, when you go to Dar es Salaam, you will lead you and I will eat it or passport.
Also, the challenge of diseases and the name let me know who I don't have or get married and you don't have any condolences to the internet and you can't give their condolences to the internet but it's not a artist for not supporting those who themselves but it's a list of not passing through it.
Or let me say that they are inspiring.
