
Arrest of religion, politics.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The government has insisted that it is wrong for a person or political parties to mix up religion and politics in the house of service or meetings.

That statement has been made today in Parliament in Dodoma by the Minister of Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe (CCM), who asked the steps that can be taken by public leaders who will be responsible for the political houses and also if the statements can be taken.
Answering the said that doing so in a service to worship is against the constitution of the country, therefore the party's leader, will have a mistake and there is a solution to the procedures of the registrar of political parties in the country.
In a primary question, Haji wanted to know the section of the constitution or law of the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders of the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders in the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders in the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders in the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders in the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some leaders in the United Republic of Tanzania that explained about the behavior of some of the government officials to provide guidance for citizens to maintain politics in the meetings.
Doctor Mwakyembe responding to the question, he said that the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of the year 1977 explains that when Tanzania is headed by the government with following the foundation of democracy, socialism and no religion.
In addition, article 3 (1) of that constitution explains that the United Republic of Tanzania is a democratic country to be safe and (3) claiming that every person deserves to have freedom and thoughts, faith, and elections in religion or faith, "he said.
Moreover, article 3 (2) explains that all the issues concerning political politics and the operation of political parties will be supervised in accordance with the rules of the constitution and the law that was formed by parliament for that purpose.
Therefore, the law of political parties' Sura Sirambi has demonstrated in section 9 (2) that any political party doesn't be signed if his constitution or policies have direction on developing the interests of religious faith or a religious group, "said Doctor Mwakyembe.
