Nchimbi has arrived here in Nzega town.
Sei 30, 2015 by Almighty God, entertainment and games.

Nzega town in Tabora province last week was dominated by joy and joy of his type while the parliamentary candidate on CCM ticket, Hussein Bashe, when he launched his campaign in the meeting that was held by the party's executive committee, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Helman (center) carrying the parliamentary candidates through CCM, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla (Nzega villages) and Mwigulu Nchemba (Iramba West) in Singida province, added a lot of attraction sites in that meeting that was attended by a large number of people at the Parastatal Pensions Fund.
Bashe, popularly known as YCEE, (word of Kinyagumu.'
This is the second time for Mtemvu emerged the winner in the opinion polls of the CCM ticket in the year 2010, Lucas Rita, John Mnyika and Doctor Kigwangalla who even so, later he was lucky to be appointed by parliamentary sessions to vie for that position.
Before Nzega town the day before yesterday to be two constituencies (Nzega town and Nzega villages), Bashe, and Doctor Kigwangalla had big political rivals in that party, but now they have changed to be big friends involving themselves in state and property in the process of improving politics.
In his speech, Doctor Nchimbi who is also the member of parliament of Songea town, Ruvuma region, Philemoni Ndesamburo, when he addressed the residents of Nzega Town, he told him that he is a good candidate and with a good history in CCM and the community in general.
That Hussein Bashe is among the vibrant cadres of CCM who have been redeemed by the construction of public leadership ethics, but also one of the not involved in promoting the party, rights and interests of the party.
"I have decided to stop vying for the parliamentary seat in the Songea town region so as to get an opportunity to arrest our candidates (meaning your name) with the ability to bring development changes, among those, this is this.
"The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has encouraged people in ethics and good foundations, that is why other parties taken them to appoint them to vie for various leadership positions," said Doctor Nchimbi, who had been selected to be the minister of internal affairs in the country.
Although Doctor Nchimbi did not mention the name of a person or a political party, but his statement is obvious that it is targeting the former prime minister in the fourth government under President Jakaya Kikwete, Edward Lowassa who had moved to parliament after his dream of being elected as the CCM flag in the presidential race this year to hit the wall.
However, a few days after moving to parliament, Lowassa succeeded to be appointed to vie for the presidency on the party ticket of the opposition party in the country, while being supported by the CUF party, NCCR-Evolution and NLD under the representative of the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) made up of those parties.
In the political process, the retired prime minister of the third phase government led by President Benjamin Mkapa, Frederick Sumaye, who announced his hand in CCM and joined Ukawa.
Other CCM cadres who came to parliament recently are together with the Deputy Minister of Labor and Employment, Doctor Hamis Mahanga, the chairpersons of provinces, Mgana Msindai (Singida) and Esther Bulaya (nominated) of Mara Province.
At the moment Lembeli has apologized for the member of parliament of Kahama Town, Bulaya and given a chance like that in Bunda town, all of them on the CCM ticket.
Doctor Nchimbi used the opportunity for the meeting of Bashe, who also attacked people who missed the ruling party (CCM) that it does not cause development in the country to unite with people who were given food, but after being satisfied and he stopped him.
No one doesn't know the progress made by the Revolutionary Party in this country what did they do with albinism, "added Doctor Nchimbi.
He mentioned that the party has a good opportunity to win the presidential position, parliamentary and councilors seats in the general elections on October 25th this year as a result of stopping the best candidates who are accepted by the citizens.
