In front of it is not the spokesperson for Zanzibar Islands, I would like to explain anything that it will have different visitors that when I was invited but there will also be an official guest to talk about fifty years of Zanzibar and the guest of honor is to be a good example, "said William Haule.
After one then, Mister I have to start them to talk about this issue but a revolution in commemoration of fifty years and one of the great revolution in Zanzibar he had gone to know which every day you talk about the revolution of Zanzibar today, six years to fill what is needed to do when you get to you.
Thank you, when we are in Dar es Salaam, I will be the first to win after I started with his history.
In six five years, I have discovered a great revolution that will take place on ten o'clock in the first body in the year 2014, I will be careful when it was released on Sunday.
.
While explaining the revolution in Zanzibar, he will die just after being no reason and that there is no reason.
Where there is a punishment to do with me in my photos and in those clubs and for a short time and for a long time.
If you start with reasons for a long time.
You'll find that there is things like?
Why is it?
You were affected by the suppression of that had been done by a few days after most of the people are very big, where we are very big because when we go to the moment there are political reasons in posing for a long time.
A bad thing of discrimination is very difficult to see.
Tomorrow there is a lot of discrimination in the whole issue of social services we can be able to see that the success and many Africans do not like it, they don't have the ability or not.
We will get anything?
And what is the meaning of what?
There are many social media houses.
By looking for a certain amount of money then you need to make the period being found under the way it makes him to see a certain amount of money and in one secret or it cares for Africans, I believe several revolution.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we have a prayer for African children or color.
The fight against Altay FK, it is ten percent.
You can get more.
But if you have made their bills to investigate and see that the children who attended, were more than twenty percent of all children were in the chest and under the ten percent of all people.
To know that there is no lot of discrimination but if we are going to be involved, there is also groups.
This is the first bridge in the bridge but not by checking.
It means that they are people who were participating in money that is big up to the community and those who were not knowing now to come.
For example, at home, they do not know the right now.
And as a bridge, then those who don't know, if I get black people, this was a set for these income and this was a lot of income when I was surprised when he was surprised.
In that, automatic, I would like to inform our health what I think is good.
There is only a different black person, it was also saying below is also and even the services they go to the hospital were also available.
Therefore, he was also there.
