
Passengers are supposed to contribute to prevent accidents for report that they have violated.
Many drivers have discovered the importance of the slip in the speed where most of them do a lot of renovation so that the vehicle should not be avoided.
This behavior has caused many disasters and yet we are still continuing to identify the lot of things like this which happened in the end of the issue recently.
We have also denied all angels by absoraine Marriot.
Whoever doesn't know that scoring the mountain can be able to prevent bad injuries during accidents.
This issue of accidents and lack of switching on a speed is unacceptable, according to a lot of bribes they intend to take bribes instead of fulfilling the law especially in Nairobi, Kisumu, Kakingo and Eliona.
Lack of contraception is close to each other with the desire of money by carry more it is another challenge.
I thank you for the new law relating with his belts but he still has risen up in the city.
All passengers will benefit us to obey the law in order to promote the country.
Still getting pregnant in Nairobi most importantly, you're misleading to the girls of these days even if the White men do not lie!
When you are living with the effects present, I hope that your guardians do not know, remember that your secret is not allowed.
In a trap of understanding food and Siha is a foolish thing that is unacceptable, so many men do not depend on your nude pictures but it's a habit that you will keep him, bad luck.
Paul Kiwele, the University of Maasais' in Mara University of Mara, they shouldn't jump said the accusations of the existence of a new system of women's women in the areas of farmers and breeders is an important thing especially considering that the traditional rights is repressive and is contrary to human rights.
Previously, girls who were in a pose with finger to the society is those who are in getting married.
Following the fight against those acts now it's seen to have a great importance in making this activity.
It is good that the law will implement its responsibilities and not against any person, the one that was found to implement this brutal act that is called by time and it gives them back behind the development of the community that are developing.
Eliud Nariadhara has been selected as the University of Mashada stadium in the country, his soul wants many Kenyans to vote in the last elections yesterday with hope of getting the new government.
As they expected that some of the things that don't change is with the government in the country, we will be given priority and it is a surprising thing that there are some of the areas inside here in the country and all the areas that are very important to the government and all the areas good for yourselves.
Police in the country Joseph Masikitiko, the University of Masililiyo Ihenga town, contribute to criminal offenses when they see police officers with their official skills, we are following them being forced to need them.
This issue has given those criminals to increase their courage and to increase their courage and their preparations were found guilty, it's been forced to be supported by the police.
The need of dangerous weapons participating in the illegal drugs, but despite the officers to know, they are inspiring.
There is no anything done if it was taken against them.
Its results are the increase in number of people died from illegal immigrants.
Undoubtedly you continue to complain about what is being done by police that pour at those who are not guilty, in the end of a mistake, the heads that are left out with crime activities.
Obabiyi Aishah Ajibola, AS Marx-Faisal has condemned the grave of his label of Motorcycles Rémy at the La Liga, Loretta Lynch to fulfill the popularity of the Coastal Union.
It is good for the members of parliament to agree so that it can destroy the political situation that may not affect the union and affect the faith of the Coast residents for that union which is believed to be an important pillar during the general elections.
Therefore, agree to save the country because of political tensions and bringing about the ratio and compatibility within the citizens.
Patrick Maranga, through a letter.
