

By Christina Kisenga, Dar es Salaam city.
The absence of law to lead the small sector of money has resulted in many conflicts while some that caused several financial institutions to be unable to operate.
The stakeholders of the funds here in the country see that there is a need to build a special tool to supervise those activities including the laws that will lead them.
The Federation of institutions and financial institutions in the country (Tamfi), will get new hope if the media bill and institutions that offer financial services to people who are doing small and medium activities will be presented to parliament and be presented to the law.
The chief executive officer of Tamfi, Winnie Terry, says for five years now its institution has been doing a big campaign to ensure that the law is growing, so as to place stable services of the small and medium sector especially in the villages.
Winnie says that institutions and financial institutions for young people have been offering that important service in addition to millions of borrowers without the existence of law and regulations of operation.
He says his institution has great hopes that if the government will approve the bill which they have contributed to its recommendations, the operations of the service will follow the regulations and therefore bring productivity to the citizens and the nation.
He says that after the research research, there is an increase of operations due to lack of law and regulations touching on the small and international sector.
He says Tamfi, they made recommendations of the bill on how to contribute to the government so as to be able to put in the government's process made by the law.
He says that they met with the step of the government to take their recommendations and to make sure that the institutions and institutions that provide financial services to people who do small businesses and between the year 2015.
Winnie says Tamfi in collaboration with the institution under the office of the Prime Minister that deals with the best business environment (Best-T) has been trying to improve the free education sector by the establishment of the rules and regulations that are faced with them to improve them.
"The need for the existence of this law came from the existence of financial policies for a small sector that was made 14 years ago which does not have laws that go with the growth of the sector that involves the rural economy and a little amount of people in the city," says Winnie.
He says that in order for that sector to grow and as required, there is need to have laws that will involve the sector in another step of its growth.
"We have been fighting for the law and its regulations will be productive so that the sector can grow and protect its customers, the absence of laws making investment activities in this sector to be doubt and so as to prevent them from investors to be free," he says.
He also says that the start of bank to serve the low and middle people in the sector has become a great challenge and this can be understood by the special system of killing water and capital.
Winnie says that in order to speed up the growth of that sector, there is need to have laws and regulations of running so as to increase the transparency in that service in the market.
He says 70 percent of ODL students do not have banking services, financial institutions because of the central people and below (MFIs) which are helping and that is why there is need of existence the system that surrounds the financial sector for the purpose of people with the poor.
He says that apart from AGOA, it is a way to invest and investing in the villages and some of the cities in urban areas are spreading without the existence of institutions and laws to check its trend.
"It is clear that the lack of the law has contributed to a large extent, there should be able to remove its operations, lack of system of operation which will enable the ability to continue benefiting from different sources," says Winnie.
He mentions the other challenges that are being caused by the absence of laws and regulations is to cause stakeholders that have a huge debts that is contributed by the market competition among the institutions.
He also says that some of the institutions are using the consent form as a bond of stakeholders while they were sitting for a small rate in the collection of revenue.
Together with those challenges, Winnie says Tamfi has hope that the fifth term government will enable the availability of laws due to its speed and especially in matters that involve the money.
"It is my hope that the new government will help you in putting better environment for operations in this small sector and therefore to reduce the fear of the loans and they give them," says Winnie.
