
Samia has ordered Dodoma to be clean.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan has visited the modern bridge of Chiwanga in Dodoma Municipality and wanted the executives to make sure that the city is clean and with status of the country's headquarters because it is enough for them.

He has said among the criterion of being a city is cleaning and that, Dodoma will not qualify for a headquarters without being a city.
The executive director of Dodoma Municipality, Godwin Mutahangarwa has said that it is a modern shop in the south of South Africa, like that is in South Africa alone.
Make sure he has said that according to the cost of operations it is 81 million shillings per month, it is a big challenge and will take place there will be the port of testing the vehicles that give them the services to be used according to the weight.
The Engineer Department of Environment and Licensing Agency, Dodoma Municipality, Baranaba has said the state of misuse of water in Dodoma Municipality is not good because it is taking place without considering the environment of the environment.
"The first division of the scene has been made during a period of 18 years, due to the increase of people, the government moving to Dodoma, the cause of people will be used for nine years to 10 years of making the area to be used for 20 to 21 years.
He has said that the cost of construction in the first phase was 29 billion shillings and the second phase will cost 387 billion shillings.
He has said that the water production at the moment in 21 wards in the town they get to them is 355 tons and sell 200 tons.
He said the main activities that will start on November 15th this year, the municipality will have the ability to eliminate 340 tons of vehicles and all the machines will be working on.
"He mentioned this issue that we are prepared to produce gas where the use of pipelines has been able to collect gas which will be harvested after being defeated in the ongoing rains," he said.
He also said that they will ensure that plastic bags are not registered in the scene, because there are 61 stations of monitoring themselves.
