It is at the moment there is Judge Warioba, Doctor Salim from CCM!
October 30th, 2014.

During the historical week of the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, I went to hear a incident on seeing some of the leaders with integrity who came out of his days while taking the good step of honoring him, but they did not want it.
Since Mwalimu Nyerere when he was able to restore the party's card as a result of events that are contrary to the ethics of his party and his stand, there is no another leader of the top level when he was no one with the control.
Many have spoken since Mwalimu Nyerere when he decided to listen to him that he is not like others inside CCM and they said that if the teacher could make his party public public, there is no one who had the Adam's rib, and his government decided to register him.
Therefore, this week to remember the teacher entered without even a veteran politician or the current in CCM, the government, and even members of parliament to take that step to be careful, I know that we have no leaders with stand of interests to many citizens.
I was expecting that, due to the political situation and corruption, it is now at least 10 best people nationally, provincially and in district would send CCM by saying they are expecting their cards! But it did not happen.
As a result of a new constitution that is expected to be done by the special constitutional assembly that is happening in the year 2010, due to the lack of the party's stand within the year 2010, due to the lack of the party's stand within the year 2010, due to the lack of the party's stand within the year 2010, due to the lack of the party's income, we must have people that would have shown the action against corruption in the hearts of their hearts.
That you would send their promise to return their CCM card on October 14.
Joseph Sinde Warioba, Salim Ahmed Salim and Joseph Butiku is among the famous people that did work with the teacher and who I had returned them, I would have returned their CCM membership card as he would have heard that, I would have heard his head - a sign of agreed with them!
I am talking about people like Ibrahim Ajib by many others who during the time when Nyerere speaking about the collapsed building and outside the party, they were happy and shook their news, it should be remembered that there is a difference between someone who depends on the head (to Ono d) and the one clapping as a difference between someone who decides to leave before them.
I understand why the retired presidents Benjamin Mkapa, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and those of Zanzibar would not be able to return CCM cards so as to be responsible for one way and the current situation in CCM and the government when they will end cards when some of the leaders without removing the ethics of the leaders without putting another kind of supporting leaders.
Friends, even the gift of the nation and ethics of leaders brought together with special constitutional parliament (which person with CCM) to remain in the constitutional constitution to oppose that act?
Recently, you will receive what again in addition to Judge Warioba, Doctor Salim Joseph Butiku, query and believe that at this CCM it is impossible to change and will never be CCM of the past, those of the teacher that respect lack of leadership ethics?
For sure, I did not understand why women Warioba, Salim Butiku, Kaduma and many others associated with politics and ethics that it is "Nyerere children" to be unable to return their cards when there is a tough stand inside CCM and the government as well as they see and listen to the words of drinking alcohol.
Nyerere did not slap back when he wanted to know something, and that is why citizens asked him if someone with the stand (the picture) due to his behavior of not self-driven and lack of ethics.
