
Pictures will follow up every corner.

It has been written by.

It has been published in September 2016.

This newspaper yesterday released a news with the news reporter, 'those who get money at home are changing the economy. "Those are opinions of various people who were interviewed by the media including scholars, elderly and business people.

Those opinions have come after the speech by President John Magufuli that he made this Thursday in Dar es Salaam city, he insisted that there are some people who will get money at their home and wanted them to give those funds and to return to our community in order to bring development in our community.
We we support the decision by President Magufuli, that our colleagues who will follow the money for their private reasons, will bring back to the circulation and contrary to its laws to be taken against them in accordance with the country's laws.
Senior lecturer of the growth of the economy of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Benson Bana who was interviewed about those acts of some people, he clarified on it completely that, people who giving money to the bank and follow it's home, they consider the economy.
Doctor Bhas clarified that during the life of any nation there is enough money in the community, in order to strengthen the value of money and that if the circulation is affected by an indication that it can cause a bad state of economy.
As a result of that fact, we are supporting those opinions and said openly that those who get money will make sure that they are doing so by fear being asked by the state agencies how they get that money.
If it is legal why you look for how to follow it and protect the funds they are required to get in every corner, because they want our nation in a bad state of economy and to make efforts to save the citizens in the threats of poverty.
As he said, the chairman of the business community in Tanzania, Johnson Minja said that money is not good for a private person's property, and it should be used to make corrections, it is good for state agencies to ensure that they go against the court to answer the allegations of violating the growth of the economy.
There's no objection that the value of the financial importance was to be there when it is in the circulation of various expenditure to get needs, for subsistence, providing development, construction of infrastructure such as roads, energy, to cater for education and various training, contrary to the money they were using that value.
When we want to know what we want to be held in every state, you pray to our money so that they can be able to get into this violence that have assessed the benefit.
We urge all Tanzanians to support him, President Magufuli in this fight against those laws by partnering with the media outlets so as to deal with this disaster which aims to reduce the economy by passing through the circulation of money.
If we want to cross over this bridge towards the economy of industries, we should know that we are good to see if the nation to face those hearts, without doubt, we will win and bring development to our development.
