
I was surprised by Wama, APR, 2016.

Their opponents when they are making a hole in the same minute.

This is the first time since I start to write this column in one point but not for a repeat, but it is a continuation of the topics that got it more than it was expected since the scandal was started.
If we are evident, what is happening in Brazil and the preparations for food then the opposition party will decide "to sign him" in different steps, they requested them to sign him, so as to give him a mistake that will enable them to stop the future of the political parties of the nation.
If it has started following up recently, the scandal is possible by bad attraction but it is now but when I wrote on the fire scandal, but previously when I wrote about the scandal of the president, musician, Luis Suarez appears' and is was known here at soccer like "wrote me," he gave him again. "
Its opponents including politicians that make his government including his vice president they joined as the defender of defenders, they bought a draw, surgery, and Rula where they intend to win the match by doing a surprise attack.
But after the previous parliament (Congress) to approve the voting process of being sentenced to Senate (constitutional parliament) so as to dismiss him from power, Flaviana Matata, has condemned the action against the Senate, but also wanting the action against the Senate, as compared to Revolution.
"If the ones that are also used to be involved, they did not be done by those leaders who were seen to be reached by a poster that is why I have been reached with a poster for a point which he has made President Magufuli to sign him in a period of affliction of British rule in that country to make it a solution to her as now.
As a procedure if councilor will vote and agree to run that process to dismiss him from power, he will be forced to sit down for six months while the allegations against him were reduced and that it is possible for the opening of the Olympic Games to be the president at that time.
But the few days now in that country have been in a great extent, due to those who want to go with Ang without tired of them being involved with allegations that concern them and they are accusing their president.
The speaker of the Constitutional Assembly who represented the votes of supporting the process of the process of preventing themselves in the same position, Eastleigh neighborhood, is accused of eating bribery thus it was using the opportunity to fill in the poster that is facing him.
