
Deputy Chairperson of the council of 3 years.

It has been written by Samson Chacha, Tarime.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The Deputy Chairperson of the Tarime District Council, Baller Alage (45) through the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), has been sentenced to three years.

He has been supported after being found guilty of the police force in Ruvuma province by fining two robbers and caused her severe pain and the owner of the NK Hotel, Wambura, when he arrived at the time of closing the campaigns of the general elections last year.
While reading the judgment on criminal case number 624 / 2015, that took four hours yesterday, the resident magistrate of Tarime District, Amon Manyama said he is impressed by the evidence that was given in that court and the prosecution's side without doubt, that had nine witnesses.
Previously, Executive Director of Police, Mwanri Mrisho claimed that on October 24, last year, at 4 o'clock in the morning at the Central town region, the main leader was there and his followers attacked them by shooting down the near future, where he had a lot of injuries and an eye and an eye for two attackers.
Part of the investigation led by Mrisho Kikwete brought a three witnesses who are between them, six that discovered the suspect who has left the police force in Ruvuma province, where some of the witnesses helped him to be given treatment at the health center of Sinyati Enterprises Center.
Forms from the doctor explains that injured were shot dead in the near future as a result of being shot dead in the near future, a situation that led to a lot of blood and went for treatment at the private hospital, where two robbers were seen in court when they were found.
Machage denied his reputation and he bought four witnesses who had a lot of effects, a situation that made Judge Damiani said that the suspect did not depend on the doctor's form, therefore the court opposed it and explained that the suspect did a great offense and to join with the charges of charges.
The lawyer and the young man will be able to reduce their court in order to reduce their sentence, claimed it is a patient and he has a bad state without giving certificates to the hospital.
Resident magistrate, Machage went to prison for three years to be a lesson to other leaders, who can use their positions to be with others.
He explained that the society will be supposed to be on the forefront to prevent crime and instead he has been on the front line to deal with other people.
