The court is being requested to buy a certificate of bail.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.


The side of the United Republic has requested the court to identify the oath of supporting him of the former managing director of the National Identification Authority (NIDA), Dickson Maimu and his colleagues in having legal action.

The senior lawyer of the government, Shedrack Kimaro being assisted with Thehabari.
That case was mentioned yesterday, but before beginning to be heard in those applications, Kimaro claimed that they have presented the objection because the oath has resolved.
While explaining those weaknesses, Kimaro claimed that in the third minute, his lawyer Michael Ngapa, on behalf of his fellow lawyer, Revocatus Malimi, says that he is holding the first request (details), he has also talked about the instructions that are in that oath.
He claimed that as a result of that oath, it doesn't make all the request and if it would have been knowing all of them then there are things that his lawyer was supposed to tell him from the certificate that was presented to court.
In addition, he added that together with his lawyer, he explained that they represents the first request but in another way, he explains the issues that concern them including events that came from the court.
However, those statements were kidnapped by a lawyer Nganga claiming that the issue of the government has no merit and because there are a shortage that did not affect the oath.
Furthermore, he claimed the applications in the court there have been following all legal procedures and if the court will see that there is a capacity of removing them, instead of removing all the oath.
"The weaknesses in the oath are small, can be removed without any problem in the oath, therefore we request the court to see the issues of the objection." He claimed.
Apart from OPMR, the other accused who presented their request is the acting director general of Nida, Benjamin Mughwira, and the Director of Nida Insurance Brokers, George Ntalazi, George Kivumbi, the Law Officer, Sabina Raymond and Xavery Malekela.
Those accused and the business manager of that authority, Avila Akwara, and director of information and communication technology (ICT), Joseph Makani, who are out on bail, are faced with a huge case facing economy and causing the government to loss of 12 billion shillings.
