
You will give you information of elections that was emerged.
The United Republic of Geology, has been able to appreciate your news headlines since the late Raila Odinga got back to the country from a American tour.
Happines has been giving a huge conditions for the government, and has focused itself that if the voice that will benefit from us the cargo that is going on in their lives.
Blood from Claudio Ranieri, has been tough to an extent that many of us have started forgetting political events that have been witnessed in the country in one of the universities in that union, ODM).
A few days before Mister Odinga returned to the country, his party that supports ODM Party has organized a elections of the senior leaders of the party.
That election was emerged after violence erupted between people who were deceased known as' Follow suit '.
Despite being the followers of the party, they have been promised the investigation that was done, the report made by the elections to be held afresh, there is no any sign of the new preparations for the election that is seen until now.
Instead, the political thoughts have been directed to mistakes that are there in the government that ODM Party and their colleagues in Bundesame.
And Valentine from the peak of Lufunga now is that the problems in corruption, lack of security, tribalism and others can be taken through voting for the decision, because the government has refused to prepare a national debate to discuss those issues.
It is possible that, this nation is being faced with a lot of challenges, but this is not supposed to be true because it can be able to pay for important issues about election of new leaders of the party.
On behalf of ODM Party is one of the parties with many followers in the country, they are in the front line to urge the government to implement the report of the commission of Directors, Human Rights and Marusu.
Therefore, it should get a lot, if the party would have shown a good example by giving open reports of investigation about the election of leaders of the party that has emerged and to be criticized for that election.
The time is going to move though the leaders of the leaders in the moment are already been announced to be open.
A good leader is the one who provides a better example to its actions in front of those that he will lead.
ODM) will come out to explain the citizens that were taken up to now solve the issue.
Political party is not the wealth of the person entertaining in different seats through the party in the previous elections were many, and it is hope of many followers to be, that situation will just be a free election for senior leaders of the party.
Although the efforts to defend the rights of M-citizens are important to help the opposition leaders, that should not be the excuse of delaying elections for leaders of the party.
It hasn't been able to use the problems that are facing the citizens as a way to carry the eyes, they understand the weaknesses of the party that they love their defending champions.
When you know if you know if you get into the private sector, and it will be a good thing and really appropriate to the party to see there are followers who want to see changes in peace.
I don't know anything which have been ending in the previous years about the appointment.
