
Those leaders have been denied for the poor law of Jesus.
By Mary Lugusi.
The leaders have condemned the citizens of the British government in order to discuss and stop the laws that are causing to work of the constitution.
The Spokesperson of the council of elders in the Rift Valley region, Doctor Gilbert Kadage said that in addition he said that there should form the bills which will be signed by the banks despite being violating the resolutions of the constitution.
Those elders said that it is important for the professionals of the law to assess the bills before being discussed in accordance to the law.
"MTVs have no legal experience and they need the lawyers in each other that he has claimed to help them to explain the bills that they have not seen," said Mister Kabage.
This is happening after the parliamentary seat he clarified that he violated the police of controlling the illegal alcohol that was signed by the governor.
Those elders said that the law is against the constitution because it has sections that are not easy to implement.
That law gives the government's responsibilities, he said that the responsibilities of the national government which is supposed to be implemented by the commissioner of he said, "he said.
My member of parliament for my constituency, Samuel Arafa, said that the issue of the parliament he claimed to pass the law "much" that can be taken by the existence of law of law in every corner, he says in order to advise the banks.
The lawyers "heads of law in every country, he said that they will help the representatives of Chumbuni Ward together with the governor to prevent laws that involve the residents without depending on their advice," said Mister Are.
Mister Are added that even after the heads of law to be appointed, the local government, he said that they will need several experts of law so as to help in many sections of the law that will be discussed by the governor.
"Lawyer who graduated together with several experts of legal issues, will help to pass the important laws and withdraw funds before being discussed," said Masinga, Kemm, an officer from Ency Mwaluko and Good Governance (CGG).
