
Journalists covering more challenges.
They have been getting away from Malaria.
Jesse Erasmo, The Citizen, popularly known as BISON.
Mwanza. Today is the commemoration of the media freedom day in the world, that industry is born with several challenges including difficult environment for information.
That day which is used to enable the nations to make friendly laws for media stations that can ensure the freedom of information in their country, nationally in the country is taking place in Mwanza Province today and tomorrow.
The guest of honor will be the chief justice, Mohamed Chande Othman.
The chairperson of the African Institute of Southern Africa (mass), Simon Sirro said yesterday that those commemorations are the only way to discuss and keep in mind the cost that private people pay for information.
"This is a day for allowing journalists, for the only way for them to give them good life and put in danger of their lives and put in danger of their freedom themselves so that we can get good news and to understand the truth," said Mwaya.
The planning officer of the Tanzania Media Fund (TMF), Raziah Ramadhani, said journalists have contributed to the national development at a large extent.
The secretary of the Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), Neville Meena said that there is still challenges that require solutions to get solutions.
Despite the president being highly commended for different measures which he made against some events, but his government has removed the newspaper, we are not ready for a period of five years we will be where we are not important in this government, "he said and added.
"Another thing that still needs wise is this issue of parliament to stop its own advertisements and instead we are coordinated, freedom of news here is where we request stakeholders to come out so as to discuss these issues in the only day of the commemoration."
The news officer of the United Nations (UN) in the country, Usia Lerner has said that they are able to appreciate the contribution of the media because they have caused many things that have been unable.
He said that are very delicious with the media, there are no development that can be affected by the peace of the concerned nation.
The commemorations will attended with various visitors from within and out of the country including the minister of information, culture, arts, and sports, Nape Nnauye.
