Sheikhs of Lowassa.
Mr 25, 2015.

The truth about those alleged to be religious leaders of Islam where he visited the Prime Minister, Edward Lowassa, in Dodoma last week, has been revealed.
Your citizen has been told to have its reliable sources that in people that are estimated to reach 50 that gave him at Lowassa in order to convince him to take the form to vie for the presidency in the general elections this year, who had a status of being called hundreds of people.
According to the religious faith of Islam, the word Sheikh means a whole person, an appropriate person and a leader according to the Supreme Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata), Sheikh is among the names used by religious leaders and ordinary people.
Yes, even the leader of Bakwata is also known as the chief Sheikh of Tanzania.
Just after the following up of Lowassa's news, I was surprised by "Sheikhs of people, our citizens, Raia Mwema, made investigation and discovered the truth about those leaders who had been announced in that event.
The tour is alleged to be organized by the member of parliament of Urambo West (CCM), Professor Juma Kapuya, who is alleged to visit Bagamoyo to plan that journey soon.
"Honorable Sitta was sent here in Bagamoyo for a recent days in a festival of meat and there's when he started his plans to prepare this journey of" Sheikhs. "
"A person who collaborated with her close to the work is Kassim Mambogo, who is one of the leaders of CCM here in Bagamoyo with his former President Jakaya Kikwete.
The people who went to Dodoma are not all the leaders of Bagamoyo and the Sheikh of Bagamoyo is Abdulhussein, for the purpose of not going to the incident and he did not have a report of that journey.
"Let me ask you to one question and at the right time you can leave you for the 50 leaders of the area like Bagamoyo to leave and go back to Dodoma without their biggest leaders (R4C) to know what we are needed to ask questions," said one of the leaders of CCM Bagamoyo, who talked with this newspaper with conditions of not being mentioned.
This newspaper has been told that when those people go to Dodoma, each one alleged to be given a sum of 100,000 shillings while they are expected to be given an amount of 400,000 shillings at Dodoma.
"When he left in Bagamoyo they were given one hundred thousand shillings each one and the reports were that they were going to Dodoma and maybe he was told the journey is to go to Dodoma and maybe that is the reason he added to and given four hundred thousand," explained the source.
Mchunga who has been mentioned in this report is the one politician who has ever been a famous cadre of the NCCR-Mageuzi Party and is mentioned to be one of the political leaders of Vunjo constituency, Augustine Mrema.
In the picture that were spread, one of the "leaders" were forced to give Lowassa a sum of 70,071 shillings being their contribution to help him in the race.
However, Raia Mwema has been told that who engaged to Lowassa the amount of money, Yusuf Simbakary, as the leader of Bakwata in Bagamoyo, but he was removed from that position four years ago because this newspaper did not place them open for now.
Also in a picture with Lowassa seems to have received the money, while he was accompanied by Kapuya, who was also another old man, Ally Choki who is also a leader of Muslims.
This is Mzee Nelson Mandela who was among the people with great financial ability here in Bagamoyo. But in recent years, he has been a bad state of financial and it is possible for the financial reasons that cause the journey.
According to Lowassa's people, they are saying that what he did is that what he did is for the presidential candidate in the year 2015 but then do not use a little knowledge of the other one was talking to the security officers of the district or provinces to know if he meets with correct people.
"Now Mister has ever been the prime minister of Tanzania and it is a must they play with these security officers who are only to agree and put aside from this period but why the Sheikhs of Bagamoyo have talked with this newspaper on Monday this week.
Reports of the investigation of this newspaper have revealed that in that convoy, they are going to Lowassa, they are the directors of Bakwata, Bagamoyo, who went, but they did so in secret and not the Sheikhs of any reason.
