
CUF to talk about their differences.
Sei 29, 2016.

The situation is not well in the Citizens Party (CUF). As it is now, there are all signs that things can be bad, today if legal action will be taken to end this conflict.

The conflict of CUF is an issue and you will see that it is a conflict that even if it is not required to be one of the signs of not causing democracy in our parties in Africa.

When it depends on the importance of any reason inside the opposition, especially the opposition parties, the answer to his answer is to find solutions to the problems of getting rid of any names that have happened by close to all parties here in the country.

But this is not a way that all parties can be able to build and be trusted by the citizens of Tanzania. If parties are unable to solve their conflicts in discussion that they are outside of power, how can I do that from power?

What happens, the conflict between CUF is that just happened in a period when there were signs of opposition parties to make a permanent unity through Ukawa - something that enables many people who love their opposition.

Statements and signs are coming out in the legs and the bodies of the opposition groups in the CUF conflict show that a big division even in the union of the coalition are already claiming that there is CUF mainland and CUF Zanzibar.

This conflict will not be able to be finished by one of the group against another, Haulipizwi 'will be finished by their dominion and statements that surround him or doesn't be finished because one side do you have any rights more than another.

The only way of solving you will start in this political situation is for the concerned parties to sit down and make talks together in all the political conflicts, talks can end a half of problems.

If the two sides that are on conflict will see that there is no need to continue being together, it is important for the solution to be found through illegal ways.

If a leader should not listen to party members, it is important to come from the meeting where all the sides will agree every step and then those with the party do a decision to end the problem.

But, to reach there, we need to meet first.
