
President Magufuli swears in the Forbes magazine.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

The Forbes magazine has appointed various African leaders including President John Magufuli, to contest for the Forbes list of the Forbes list of the year 2016 (Forbes Africa's stand), and the casting of votes has started while Doctor Magufuli leading more than 70 percent of votes.

The popular magazine in England, gave birth to the voting process and until yesterday evening, among those five leaders, President Magufuli was leading in large numbers to vote for the award is given by a leader or a private person who gave them to ensure he gets a business benefit from those who have gone off.
For this year, who were chosen to vie for that award are five, who are together with President Magufuli, who has been appointed to vie for that award as a result of its fight to improve the economy of the country.
Since he came to power approximately one year now, Doctor Magufuli has directed the integrity of public service and to restore efficiency and loss of revenue and enable the increase in tax collection and therefore the economy of Tanzania continues to grow fast.
All the appointed others in that award is the founder of the Central Bank of South Africa, Michungangira who has made the bank to reach many citizens in that country, the Public Service Management, Thanliness from South Africa who had gone up with threats of the death of his rights.
Also, he is also the president of Mauritius, has told Millardayo when he went to protect his environment in his country.
Moreover, those who were selected are the citizens of Rwanda for the steps taken by the government of that country for the purpose of fighting for gender violence.
Forbes magazine has paid 67,888 trillion shillings yesterday evening, it was opened by voting for votes is going on while Doctor Magufuli leading the 72 percent of votes.
The Rwanda people participated with 21 percent, which was followed by four percent while Oxlade Chamberlain scored two percent each one until yesterday evening.
The award of the Forbes newsletter in the year 2016 for this year will be released on November 11 in Nairobi, Kenya.
Last year, the award was approved by a Tanzanian, businessman Mohammed Dewji who is the chief executive officer of Mohammed Enterprises (MeTL).
Those awards have started to be released in the year 2011 and since its completion they have been attracting many people and those who did much in promoting their economy and their countries.
