Despite the construction of the main road in Morogoro to continue four people who are police force, in the country have survived, after their main bus station in the country they had survived, after the main bus station of the high-speed buses project in the country and our writer, Salum Telela.
The accident has taken place in the area of inspecting the security area in the city of Dar es Salaam to have risen up due to bomb attacks, according to the acting commissioner general of the army to understand the vehicle that was brought down to cross the fire place in Mbezi Beach Hotel in the city of Dar es Salaam or you know where four colleagues are the ones.
In the vehicle.
Others are injured.
It's not different from the body, there is a heart that has been shocked or on the thigh of the thigh of the club's chief player.
But they have given the information of that there.
They are complaining a lot inside here in another step, let us reduce by the chest and when I explained that there is a possibility of houses which are along the road and that the report has not yet to get any information from the road so that this time she is still getting information or we are going on.
Pneumonia.
No one as soon or those when they use them.
Because there are still close to this father and a new system that was prepared for research by eating.
At the end of the road, it was where it is still at the end, there is no place.
The road equipment that I received with maybe.
The guest of honor, he said.
There are some of the business people that are on the road on the proposed constitution to leave soon as cooks, the contractor to continue with its activities but our citizens of here in the residents of Manzese area in Manzese.
Residents of peace we pray for them because of the first road, we are not aware that the state of their road should not affect the roads, but the second one that depends on coughing up so that you are people who are unable to maintain peace because of them.
Today we are still explained that it will be a bus station.
But if you are asked to look at the accident that happened in rapper and I will follow me with the main squad that is estimated to have a high value.
But infrastructure depends on the behavior of Coast race before it was injured in a place and where it comes from.
Passing the mother to identify the number of roads.
Morogoro.
I am happy with.
Let me listen.
