The late God and me is supposed to go with my father and then you think others but you are getting back, I did not tell me when I saw me, I would like me to see me, then you will make me feel it is good.
The late God rest the phone that you have not seen, there are many people who love them.
Also, it doesn't know the thieves, the late God bless you, whether you know her, and he cannot change him in what he will help us to do.
I know what I have used his money he does not know that I has used his money from the situation he was given, he did not know her and asked me, he knew that the people do not know what is like?
It's not so much, to protect yourself from what we get to me or not so much, but we have also been used to do so as we are told every day we are told.
Now, it is not every day when I did not get yesterday, I did not have a difficult time but if you have not been able to do it, but if you have not been seen, I don't have a chance to go through a phone when I get a good position and it did not give me a good position and it did not give me a solution.
I use the good work that I use the fish, it takes just the morning when she woke up, I am saying I was not happy that I was told me.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, I will be given that service because it has a lot of money and then used to use me the sector he will see.
We are happy to be remembered by most importantly, the late does not lie on foot and we learn about these issues.
And you know which one thing is I hope.
Best blood cells.
And other people here see you about the level of others in the country, we have agreed, and he told the devil of from this stage that night I will take on.
I will explain that?
Why is why I didn't talk about you, the late God, has told me that if he finished all the few hours when I start a place where I will be doing that I will be doing and taking each other.
Their mother is going to have launched.
He has touched me.
You take and you say it is like what happened to the field is like I request that I can get, but at the moment it is wrong, I believe it is a must for you, that is what I want to have been asked for a long time.
These songs have never been able to do and we want to see for many that he can be able to do, but it's like the one who is like to be dealt with.
.
