To open those allegations, you look at asking for money in your general elections to ask you and your way to talk about here is the use of the money they get from again to talk about today with the very best way from the morning.
That is the one that knows my two on today's day which I start to be read directly and I wish him in different social issues that is very close to them.
But I think that I've ever since her sister thank us namo Jumatatu wakuu wa Afghanistan of various aspects of agricultural democracy in our country and a person who is for sure we're looking for ten thousand, you can also be signed on the ten and seven year starting from ten thousand shillings.
.
We can say that it was one of the laws that were prepared and they don't have the elderly in a certain state that showed themselves in life and intentions of controlling the bad use of money in the elections.
We remember a lot of him to him in the ten schools and we can look from there and different elections that I have raised from.
The grave of a small elections.
Local governments that took place last year, have removed ten body and four are for sure that we can take as an evaluation in up to the general elections of the year.
Together we ask for you a small question.
Also, the use of misuse of money in the elections, I believed to be the normal citizen who will vote?
If you check.
I have not heard this and the heavy things will be avoided, it will enable you to ask ourselves why they are saying the bad use of money.
Mshanga Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa arriving at the night of giving me the opportunity to address this issue and context of the use.
Election.
And my decision Pharrell Williams.
The view of the service.
The use of misuse of money.
He said the use of money which essentially has been forced to get a chance which he wanted to get a chance which he wanted.
Unfortunately, it is possible that the way you will inform you to a citizen who only friend because if there is a situation of the presence of those people.
So that's why they use them to use them and you ask for them, they wanted those who wanted them to get into a hour but we don't know how to get advice without using my ability and to speak with him who's a chance to choose the use then it will be in the first election.
But in that picture, because of the head in Oman, they are being satisfied and he woke up to election.
Those laws are based more on parole.
Mgambo the election.
The real meaning of the appointment.
The picture at the use of the expenditure in the period of election, but also he is' Imebaki Story.'
Now, I will take his first song which we have been from the general elections and here it's a very big problem, the elections have said, it has been used if the late people do not be open because people are not open because people are not open because people are not openly known because people do not be careful.
Now, it has been a problem because we have been taught and he has been talking about the face of the election as a party, when we agree on the second network and when I remember it was now, but inside the party I went to contest for my use, then I request to contest for me, "I request for me.
I have been a lot of time a rumor that you will not be required to be very required if I have received my message from that for the support of helping the candidate until this time it has been.
Mikumi is very delicious with the army in the record that some of the money raised for what I were not in which I took a card that made them but also to kill someone who decides to be distributed here in the city, "said Saada said they can be able to be distributed in any life of my opposition.
If you look at this time I was saying that we have been discussing what we come up until you come to have problems.
The general election is very difficult, a very difficult time because we us themselves in a period that we know you, hard issues for time to fight.
We have been encouraged to stand well.
To live due to reasons related to research that question like CHADEMA.
Being an award.
You are also the same human rights and this is a difficult time because they have been unable to find out inside here while having lived in eternal peace, so we can have hundred thousand shillings for a period we have said because there is a big problem of committing sin?
Here we started to look at eight that the women is a half time, there is a penalty that has made since the end of the primary school.
In the past election, there is a must to help the poor with great intentions of being able to control the meaning.
And the expenditure.
Thank you very much.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam city, we have been at a high level, but also the activists is a stakeholder in the issues of giving them a solution.
And I have lived in a large extent that you come out, Tausi Kida it is something to someone who came back to the day but this week I give you a question but I request me to explain a bit about you.
Why today has reached up until you can be able to supervise the elections.
I remember the weapons I have been from our nation.
For us to have a group, he said that Pinda wanted the ignorance of diseases that has never happened but today fifty years we are talking with her leg but bribery has been a problem.
We are increasing up to three up yesterday he was four of that, I wanted that so because of the size of the problem.
Most of the very big but we should not tell ourselves, the elections have ever released elections but from the year 2009, this year is the first year to pay but it's also a election.
In the past years.
He wanted the different environment that were of the college up to the leaders who will also go to the proposed constitution to take the constitution and law.
When we were in the past, the system of buying we will help them even their service should not be done?
.
Your responsibility because we have these things, we have the law that we have a very difficult answer to see the constitution and the law or at night, but yet it is an intention that we think how many people in the country have been directed to control their nurses and because of bad use again in the elections.
Kissava is saying my he said.
A private problem is not a goal of the desks.
Because of it?
I was not able to be a very good law for someone to be the launch and then make sure he could be able to cause the law because its implementation will be in a way, you can't have CHADEMA, to eat with one move ahead, then they also added that the park.
Furthermore, he thanked that at least he is at Clouds FM.
But if we go to the reality, we do not know how many do you know what you have happened to the elections.
The first child was a lawyer, but we have been from the general election of 18 and there are big use of teachers but for how many hours you have used a lot of money.
Only, but only brave.
Because it is a member of him that I saw him coming from the community but it is part of the major infrastructure and those in the money, maybe that I was starting with that if it is money.
Up to those pictures know their husbands.
The work here is not supposed to thank small businesses that they give them not using which the phone has.
Yes, you shouldn't care up until you use a lot of lot, but a Tanzanian he gave us something due to you, you will do a lot of money to do if you have talked about more and explain more that you have given these houses and we thank another five years while there is my house.
Speed we agree with you give you a bit when you ask someone is the city because it has died and he didn't know a person I'm in front.
But there is a giver who helped her to the right, maybe he sees it.
If you get the members of parliament who came with a guest of honor who had been caused by a system of giving diseases to the name 'let him ask for the reason he was sent by being stabbed with a fire with thirty points not to be clean and called.
I request for you.
It is not what I was found?
.
There are a lot of payments or from our pastor.
I have asked him, he promised that he will help them feel like this and I can be able to control until today, Jose we asked me.
I wish you a lot of money.
Therefore, do not depend on anything that I would like to come up because they used Pinda to get it.
Therefore, I have discovered that he knew that when the time comes, he does not buy again and even the moment it can use a leader who had not been given the authority together with my chairperson and my chairman and at the moment we can use this topic on my period in Mwanza town and one for the holiday.
It's a easy speech that he gave out the second church when he went to two hundred and five thousand in the city when he opened the republic of United Republic of Congo, he died.
It did not have begun and I have heard that it is good then here can be bought for money.
It is true that we must be careful so that our nation did not be for one day and stop using money so that there is just some person to enter.
