
Tanga will continue to take advantage of the opportunity.

It has been written by Anna Makange, Tanga.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

Tanga Provincial Commissioner, Martin Saanya has urged the citizens to prepare so as to make sure benefit economically and business opportunities through the oil business in the country in the port of Tanga.

He made that call while speaking to the directors of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) on the side of Tanga during his work tour that took place yesterday in that town.
He said that because the speed of the increase in oil cargo in Tanga has been increasing every day due to the improvement of a good environment of that business, there is an importance for the residents to continue benefiting from the problem.
"I have been able to hear here that an amount of oil being used in the port of Tanga is increasing day by day and even the number of cargo that are increasing this products is increasing, therefore we must make sure that Tanga can be a great station of business through these oil being used in the country," he said.
In addition, he said in ensuring that the plan is successful, TPA, and the stakeholders of oil in collaboration with the government's strategy of expanding the investment and oil business.
"There is an importance of having enough infrastructure for oil so that the business people from different companies are able to seek refuge here in Tanga because they sell it, different from now, which is only one company that is involved in that business that is at the oil industry," he said.
Previously the Provincial Commissioner of Tanga, Henry Arnautovic while reading the performance report of the port, he said from July 2015 the government allowed to be approved bags of petrol so as to serve the provinces of Tanga together with that of the northern region and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
"The amount of oil cargo that is used in managing is to increase from an average of 2,300 tons per month and also the number of that ship reached to reach the average of two planes every month," he said.
Speaking about the construction project of Mwambenja area which will be built to serve the countries in the Great Lakes region, he said that the work of not involved the country has already been completed and now the government is improving the process of getting the construction contractor who is the native so that he can do that job.
