
7 suspects of murder of journalists are expected.
Seven people are the same as a result of two brothers who are believed to have killed 12 people during the attack that was done against offices of the newspaper that brings information about diabetes, still a resident officer of the court said yesterday.
While confirming the previous statement by the Prime Minister Manuel Pellegrini has said that the officer who left to introduce himself, said that those people, men and women are believed to be the factory for those brother who are being questioned by police even so they did not mention the place where the seven were left.
At the same time, Vasco, he informed the radio station of Rassemblement have said those suspects are believed that until now they are believed to be known by the officers of the intelligence department and "had been accompanied even before that attack on Wednesday.
The people who were affected are disappointed while having a gun to close the office of the Charlie Hebdo magazine on Wednesday morning and killed journalists and two police.
They disappeared from using one personal car after implementing the brutal killings.
Police have given the arrest of the arrest of an artist if she lost her, 32, a red carpet of Jihadist group that was accused in the year 2008 for allegedly being a member of the network that will face the fighters in Iraq and it has gone to Said, 34.
Those two were born in Paris.
Thousands of police admitted in the city of Paris in searching for those killers as a big part of the city being placed under security, although those criminals have not been unable.
The attack in the office of the magazine has been accused by Islamic militants, that had been criticized for several nations in the world.
A result of that terror attack that caused demonstrations in many cities, including Moscow, Washington, London and Shinyanga.
More than 100,000 people participated in many cities in France and demonstrations to oppose that crime, while inviting posters that were written by "Nakula Ujana" (I get married).
The president of the country (France) Honorable Francois Hollande mentioned those murder like "act of violence" and "without doubt the terror attack" said the president who also commanded our country's flag to be played for half years for three days in the coming days.
In the year 2006, the Charlie Hebdo magazine has been condemned and Muslims did not sworn in King Mohammed Gharib Bilal, a situation that has been told to be approved, Prophet Mohammed, which was published yesterday at the Junction newspaper, the captain that was published in Denmark.
The killers of Wednesday was heard saying in the voice "we should have a modern on behalf of the Apostle, we have forgotten the Hebdo magazine, according to the charges.
It was started when the attackers were found in the office of that magazine that every week when journalists were in a meeting with the first and she got shot dead in the reception area.
