
The readers of the right is not seen in our column, we are continuing to explain the rights of children like the law of the child rights of the year 2009, he said.
In that law, there are responsibilities of parents, responsibility and responsibility of the parent and that the child will have the right to live, in status, honor, freedom, health, to rest and get education and accommodation from the parents.
The right to rest and freedom for child will depend on the instructions and the ability of parents, guardians or brothers.
Every mother has a responsibility and responsibilities to the child and responsibilities and responsibilities will be implemented, it should be used by the law or otherwise.
Responsibilities explains the responsibility of protecting the child against violence, they were seen, to be faced with violence, harassment and suffering from bad environment and ethics.
To give instructions, supervision, support, and reserve for the purpose of a child and sure of life and child development, to make sure that parents get far from the child, a child will get treatment from someone who has the ability to fulfill those responsibilities.
The responsibility and responsibilities have been called when parents have given responsibilities and responsibilities to another person.
To give responsibilities from the mother to another person to be done according to the law that was written or in the traditional program and a woman.
If the parents who stopped giving birth to the child have died, the responsibility of parents will go to the brother of the son or female children or guardian.
He will be given responsibility and responsibilities for the order of the court, or any plan that will be traditional.
A person is not allowed to marry off the child to own and use their properties.
The child's laws put aside that a child will have the right to give opinions and there is no one that is allowed to marry off the child with the ability to give their opinions, to be heard and participate in making decisions that will affect development.
Any person is not allowed to create a child in any activity that can have effects on health, education, mental health, body and ethics.
For example, work in sugar industries is causing dangers to the health of a child with the farm or 'Machinga' that enables a child to go to school which affects the education, mental and their body.
The work of human beings can affect the ethics of a child, anyone will not be allowed to make a child care of affliction, or bad luck, what should it be able to resolve the status.
This is as a result of any traditional stoves that destroy their daughter or child that cause the dangers of pain in the body or the brain of the child.
For example, girls do not affect the body, mind, and feelings of a female child, it is also an act that allows them.
There is no punishment for a child that is covered by a bomb that was forcing a sign or a level according to the age, body and mental disabilities.
There is no punishment that is known for the age of a child or otherwise because the child cannot understand the intention of that punishment.
The act of manslaughter, as how was used in this area has a reason a act that was done by a child with an intention of insulting each other their status.
For example, getting a child in front of his colleagues or front of the public, it is a act with intentions and mocking him.
The person asked the law as outlined in this section, is doing the mistake.
The executive director of those mistakes after being proven guilty of doing that offense, will be responsible to pay a fine that it has reached five million shillings or imprisonment for more than six months or all of them.
