
Standard Chartered Bank leading in the best service in the country.

June 2, 2016.

Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania has won an award for better service to customers that was given out to the bank that will provide better service to customers where that victory was announced during the food period in the evening a week in Nairobi, Kenya.
The awards for the African Bank "the Ambassador of Africa Bank Inike Bussemaker" has an aim to be noted and give awards to the bank that are doing well in banks services for every year whereby for this year, the award resulted from more than 2500 shillings that were scored by the community that provides banking services in the East African countries.
Speaking during receiving that award, the chief executive officer of that bank, Reagigi, said that the first is thankful to the customers and various stakeholders of that bank in East African countries to vote in helping the bank for better performance.
He added that the bank has its better energy to customers and some strategies have already been taken by explaining the employees of that bank in their meetings about the expectations of customers.
"Our workers have received various training on the Pepsi company to recognize that our investment in the training to improve service to customers has brought in positive results and capture the winners for providing better service to customers in Tanzania," said Makumbulu.
In addition, he noted that they will continue to provide better services to various bank services by continuing to invest more in social media networks by providing services because they have added these services through M-Pesa and Tigo Pesa in operations activities.
On his part, the executive director of Robin van Persie, said that they will ensure they are using the quality of good work and that they will involve their stakeholders to have the quality results by improving the economy in this East African region.
He said that the award for that award is being disturbed with the customers about the financial services sector in this region of East Africa and that victory can be the reputation for success who had made.
