
The government will use 3229 / 9 / 2017.

It has been written by Maulid Ahmed, Dodoma.

It has been published by 2 percent of November.

The government has planned to use 3946 trillion shillings in its 2017 / 2018 budget, has increased from 5 trillion shillings per year 2016 / 2017 and told the areas of priority as well as considering the projects to revive small industries.

In line with that, the government has noted its strategies of controlling the expenditure, where now it will ensure the contracts that he got in with the government and its institutions should be in Tanzanian shillings, except that the contracts involving international business.
About moving the activities of the government headquarters in Dodoma, the plans for construction of buildings and all government infrastructure to continue to be built in Dar es Salaam will be distributed to Dodoma.
While presenting the parliament yesterday the recommendations of the nation's development plan for the year 2017 / 2018, the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango said out of 32946 trillion shillings, 1949 will be built for normal use.
"Sh. 76 shillings is because of the salaries for government workers and public institutions and the public institutions have 949 billion, equivalent to 40 percent of all the budget where the internal funds are 949 trillion shillings equivalent to 76 percent.
This level is an increase of 1 trillion and 343 shillings compared to the year 2016 / 2017, "he explained.
He said that the internal revenue are expected to be 22050 shillings equivalent to 63 percent of all needs.
Among those revenue, the government is expecting to collect tax revenue of 185 trillion shillings equivalent to 87 percent of internal revenue.
However, he said that the amount is estimates on the previous results whereby the final results will be found after the completion of the semi-year budget that includes different stakeholders including the private sector and development partners.
Speaking about the way to control the expenditure of the government, Doctor Mpango said that the government will continue to reduce the cost of non-communicable diseases including sessions of sessions, printing of a sweater and a cap, bags from outside the country and the purchase of houses from outside.
Also giving priority to the public institutions and those that the government is owning the shares in buying services like insurance, financial services, transportation, cargo, cargo, food and transport.
Minister mentioned other strategies is to control the provision of loans to students from universities for making sure that the students who attended the loans were benefit from the loans and controlling the salaries for servants who are only only.
Likewise, using the procedure of buying houses for the procedure of paying for a phase especially for buildings' and representatives that are outside the country, instead of planning and controlling the journey outside the country and the size of the sun.
In order to achieve the revenue collection, the minister urged all the marketing officers in the country to put a conducive environment for making the contracts against it by the contractors and service providers who use the electronic fiscal machines (EFDs) to strengthen inspection and management of revenue collection like the port, border and road fields.
Doctor Mpango said those officers have also been directed to make the review of all the contracts given to tax exemptions so as to identify its benefits and planning afresh, where also they are not in the contracts that involves tax exemptions without approval by the Minister of Finance and Planning.
Some of the priorities in the 2017 / 2018 budget made by Doctor Mpango is the projects in developing industries and economy including the projects of Chausta, soda, and Watumishi Housing Corporation (SIDO) in Morogoro, Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Mwanza and Arusha.
Also the Dar es Salaam Port have a gas pipeline from Uganda to the port of Tanga together with coal projects and Mchuchuma project and the construction of the central railway from Dar es Salaam and Mchuchuma project in Kigoma province to have its branches.
