These ministers have forgotten the president to be accountable or not!
December 23, 2014.

There is a saying that Swahili people with him do not know a problem or one thing, instead of switching off or bake at each other and instead use many words at each other.

We should have learned that the great problem of the government's performance is for ministers and their ministers and that these results have been put because of the other time now we have gotten with a great desire to know "who will hold a great desire to see what I will hold the leadership of political parties in the country.

Because we have learned that "ministers" are the ones that supervise the implementation of the government's activities and that they are required to have answers of the shortage of their ministries, then we will not be accountable especially when we see what we started wanting the council of ministers.

Basically we have been doing what's said in this saying this saying, we are going to Mbuyu Twite as the first Secretary General, is not the prime minister or assistant secretary to be responsible in the performance of public service in Tanzania is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania.

Our current constitution is saying that "all of the performance of the government of the United Republic will be implemented by government workers on behalf of the president" (article 35), with other words that the government officials are doing so on behalf of the president and to give them the loopholes to intervene in the hands of the president.

If this is true, then it is clear that to look at it the prime minister like a person who does not have a load of carelessness of ministers or not the attorney general, although he is not the commander of the prime minister although he is not the prime minister but they are doing their consent to the president.

This means that we need us to have faith so that who are supposed to be accountable if the operation involved in these operations, the officers of the security agencies inform them, they believe in some of the videos involved, but if we want ministers are supposed to be accountable.

These changes that the president did not show his council think about one thing that President Kikwete does not know what is happening and if he knows how people with problems are ministers and people who are under him and he believes that people with problems are ministers and people who are under him and he believes that people with problems are ministers and people who are under him.

We have seen this starting from the energy scandal while others can say that the IPTL scandal to the attempt failed to remain in education and the increase of a human rights and the ones that we want to believe that she is supposed to call him and the one that he wanted to call him and the one appointed him to call him.

Now, the attempt to change the discussion of the cabinet, should be able to make us lose our eyes and to see what we have committed a finger to the president as he made a member of parliament of Ubungo John Mnyika when he made the reasons for the things we have done to them here. "
