
CHADEMA has warned CCM Dar es Salaam city.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has appointed the councilor of Ubungo, Isaya Charles to vie for the position of mayor in Dar es Salaam city and warned CCM that it will not accept to be buried in that election.

Moreover, CCM will officially announced the councilor of Ubungo, Boniface Jacob, to be the candidate for the mayor of Kinondoni and the councilor of Bonnele hotel, Charles Kuyeko, to contest for Ilala member of parliament.

That appointment was announced yesterday in Dar es Salaam city by the deputy secretary general of parliament (Zanzibar), Salim Mwalimu when he was speaking to journalists.

Those names were appointed for cooperation inside the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), he said.

Teacher said they are expecting to see the election happening in peace and harmony without the existence of results, because there is a dirty system that is being done by CCM now.

He said in the council of Ilala and Kinondoni, parliament is leading to have a lot of councilors but the surprising thing that CCM has not decided to give them those results and wanted them easily.

According to the procedures.

"A good example in Temeke District councilors are many of CCM, we have agreed that the victory because it is true they have not allowed.

"Kinondoni and Ilala do not listen to the mayor of parliament despite having many councilors and we cannot accept the open sores that are being done by CCM.
"And even the city council must get out of parliament because in Dar es Salaam province we are leading to have many councilors."

Teacher said he was surprised by the act of CCM to Zanzibar to take members of parliament for voting for votes.

He said the action of the members of parliament decided to accept this matter which is a shame to the community that surrounds them is same as summoning demons.

"You should agree that from being carried out in Zanzibar to come and vote for Kinondoni municipal for now, the chairperson of CCM party wants this openly that it cannot bring the army in Zanzibar," there is something that we want to bring the army in Zanzibar "

Also, the teacher has urged the National Electoral Commission (NEC) to ensure that it shows all the challenges that arose in special parliamentary seats.

"Before Kelvin De Bruyne won the 13 councilor seats and CCM have won 11 meetings in the special seats which will be given four seats and CCM has been five hours," he said.

Here we have urged NEC to inform you, but we have asked him to explain the director that he gets into the phone so as to confirm it is a person with many councilors.
