The conflict between Burundi.
May 13, 2015.

If everything will go as planned, the heads of countries of the East African Community (EAC) will meet in Dar es Salaam city today, for the purpose of discussing the issue of the conflict between Burundi who now seems to be open towards.
President Jakaya Kikwete told the journalists in New York city, America, last week, that he has called for that meeting with the aim of ensuring peace is back to Burundi and in the Great Lakes region in general.
The top leaders are required through the report that was organized by the special committee of ministers of foreign affairs of the EAC who went to Burundi at the end of last week with an aim of looking for the source of that conflict.
We believe by EAC has a great responsibility to make sure that peace and stability come from Burundi.
We are happy to be heads of the countries of EAC, they can make corrections on one of the leaders of the rival sides that will have a lesson to the citizens of that nation, a big work of those leaders will be to read reports and recommendations of the ministers and then give decisions.
Some of us have been following up politics from Burundi for more than 10 years now, these are the newspapers not like the past five years ago and Hussein Rajab who today are holding different positions in their country, while they are playing with them well.
Therefore, those are the ones who are following what is happening in their countries, we believe that EAC is the only community here in the world with responsibility and ability to stop these problems in Burundi.
Yes, in a unique way, Tanzania and EAC in general, are required to be on the front line to help Burundi as well as they have already met there, the leaders are required to know that the solution of conflicts in that country is political.
It is good for the leaders of EAC to know that the permanent solution to Burundi is being used to be used in peace and not the army or war because our leaders meet today are required to ensure that them to stop, without having a solution to the citizens of that nation.
We want to have done that session every good time.
