Therefore, the technology of production and distribution of the solar energy is enough to evade fire here in the country especially in the villages for support of the government through the energy agency.
In encouraging the growth of modern energy in the villages with an aim of improving services that are provided in schools in the clinic and other modern stations in the village, you will reach two hundred and ten thousand shillings and followed by the competition like this one thousand and ten thousand.
Money for grants donated by the energy agency in the villages to winners have helped improve services at the clinic and schools in different areas in the country including school and clinic in the province of Pwani.
For example secondary secondary schools in the district took place in a set aside for electricity prices.
Therefore for the past years, they had a great problem of electricity now he has wanted that there we know the water and a scholar in the purpose of following the students to study and teachers to prepare.
Therefore, in the past, he is using a car for the purpose of preventing water and taking them to study, especially of teachers to go for.
But it should be a very high cost of work.
What is a terrorist?
Therefore, two hundred and ten thousand.
We got a cake.
A donation of emergency electricity from today.
We will begin to follow up on the process of booking tickets for two hundred and ten thousand.
In the seventh month.
We have got their support to come out for medical equipment to the believers of those believers.
Therefore, it has been closed down.
Six classrooms.
Office of the teachers.
Together with houses for teachers.
Therefore, after my, for a long time to come up, now changed the first performance of students that were not learning while they are doing.
In history, he has touched me to check the cost of operations its causing themselves so that you recognize that we know for the purpose of preventing water but the issue of studying is electricity of solar energy and therefore as a result of it.
We see that the teaching of teachers I have been using the ability to get the late people with different ways of improving the internet, they are using for now on the computers even if we can use it, I can use it.
If it is using electricity, when the bus will get the problems, we saw the problems, we were unable to study for example during the night time when writing the mockery, it was destroyed by himself or if a person sees himself from them.
A scholar but since we have released today.
