
The forum for editors who condemned the incident of being beaten by Doctor Reginald Mengi and followers of CCM.

The Editors Forum (TEF) has condemned the action of being assaulted by the journalists from ITV, in the small office of the CCM headquarters, Dar es Salaam, October 30 this year.

Speaking with the journalists, the secretary of the forum, Neville Meena has said that the act is not for a period of being silent because of putting off their work performance and violating the death of those journalists in front of the community.

Meena has said that journalists and employees of the center were in those CCM offices, they bombed information about the reception area of Doctor John Magufuli after being handed the certificate of the presidential victory by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) in a ceremony that took place on that day at the Diamond Jubilee Hall.

"To be supported by the journalists at the CCM office is a continuation of what happened in Diamond Jubilee where followers of the Revolutionary Party CCM were seen as they were getting to the staff of ITV and later the executive chairman of IPP, Doctor Reginald Mengi, who is a guardian of the center," said Meena.

He has given a warning and urged those followers to stop those acts, saying that small research will be done by that forum about those actions be done by those followers being satisfied with the way the center doesn't report, events of other political parties.

He said that the center is among the media that did his work together, while dancing during campaigns of candidates for all parties in the whole country, Doctor Magufuli and his fellow contestant, Samia Suluhu had a member of the center among them is Emmanuel Kalobelo, where Tanzanians love to know what is happening at their campaign meetings.

Meena has added that, it is not the first event to be done by that party since the time of campaigns of the presidential candidate gave him from the convoy of Doctor Magufuli in Mbeya Province, the author of the Citizen newspaper, Peter Elias on claims of not having the news that he wrote about their candidate.

He has said that the activity is not satisfactory and they will not accept it to the old people of the old people, while journalists or media stations work, there are legal ways to address those mistakes together with making talks through the media institutions.

"We are taking this opportunity to pray for political parties as leaders, party members and their lovers to stop immediately in accordance to the journalists because any other reasons, they would like to reach it, to announce that events of some party are dangerous to the journalists," said Meena.

Meanwhile, we are taking this opportunity to address the political parties and private individuals who are organizing meetings that involve the journalists to ensure that journalists are safe when they attend to their meetings and take a step to resolve it.

"We are happy to listen to the silence of that party, he showed that they are tired of the incident from not releasing any statement," said Meena.
