Religious leaders denied the earthquake.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

Religious leaders in Kagera province have advised the government to involve the citizens in the whole process of evaluating the effects, as a result of an earthquake in that province because up to now some of the areas have not been reached and be responsible, while urging them to be dealt with.

They gave their statement yesterday while speaking to this newspaper in various areas of health houses, that were affected by the earthquake last week that caused the deaths of 17 people and left more than 200 houses to demolish more than 1000 houses.
The Assistant Director of the Catholic church in Bukoba town, Mela Hoya said they are supposed to do two evaluation, first, it is the same way and to also seek people to sleep such as tents, food and medicine.
The second part of evaluation of buildings and looking for ways to get construction equipment in order to build buildings or strong houses.
Kilufi the Bishop of KKKT, Felex Ngamlagosi said we are the religious leaders we have never seen people are coming out to do an evaluation in our streets that were affected, others do not benefit them without involving the community that will take long time while people continue affected, "said Bishop Ngalekumtwa.
"We have got a great loss due to this disaster, our church of Iyanja has been affected by the historical house which was built in 1940, we need to build a quick donation, we have also been destroyed, we need to build a quick donation," added Kilumbi.
He said that until now the existence of the two sides are sleeping on vehicles, but the quick efforts are taking place to build themselves when seeking a solution to building those two hours because the believers are still going outside and there is no person or institutions that came out to evaluate the problems that were given.
"For now, we have a committee who is involved with the officers' Council (TEC) to see what we are doing so as to help people of our other parts which have had a great mistake," said Kiliberali has requested the government, all sponsors for Kagera people who were affected by bringing quick donations especially with tents.
The bishop of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT), North West Diocese, Maasais.
"We cannot blame the government, this incident is a surprise, because every person led in addition, while seeing that they are able to help people who are annoyed so as to provide correct statistics since they are the victims," said Bishop Ngalekumtwa.
And the chairperson of Burkina Faso, Pastor Edward Saro, said that the earthquake has affected many cases but they have not completed the evaluation, although the first evaluation have revealed that racial segregation still have found a big offence.
The statement by General of General of Dar es Salaam Province, as Haruna Makabe mentioned the effects that they got from that earthquake which is three major mosques located in Bukoba Municipality, has risen up and caused by scoring and therefore many believers can be stolen, two other offices of Bakwata got a huge loss.
Northern Iraq has advised the evaluation of information without informing them or to view different institutions so as to make that job and help since they need high support.
At the same time, different stakeholders have continued to provide assistance, and the government of China has given various equipment including drugs, clothes, water and water equipment, the Kuwait Embassy has handed over 50 million shillings from the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of North West, giving food donation to those victims.
A total of 8555 members in Dodoma town, members of parliament have collected 890,536 billion shillings so as to help victims of the earthquake which occurred at the end of last week in Kagera province.
That contributions have been caused by the decision of members of parliament to contribute to their allowances for one day each day.
Those were confirmed to parliament yesterday by the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai when he was giving information on contributions to members of parliament who in general they are 389.
Those members of parliament were given one statement on Tuesday this week he was touched by giving of lack of allowances for a day, an amount of 220,000 shillings every year in order to help the victims of the earthquake that had caused the deaths of 17 people and injured more than 252 people.
Public organizations has given more than 800 million shillings to Dar es Salaam city, more than 800 million shillings have been removed from various public organizations and government institutions through a special fundraising for contributing to the victims of the earthquake which occurred recently in Kagera province.
In the fundraising, led by the registrar of treasury, Lawrence Mafuru, also some of the organizations had promised to give their contribution through mobile donations such as experts of construction issues, experts in Geology and Environment.
Speaking at a special meeting, that was organized by the treasury at the organizing committee of Dar es Salaam yesterday, Mafuru said that due to the huge disaster that was caused by the earthquake in Kagera province, it is the responsibility of enabling them to join and give support to the victims.
He encouraged the organizations to communicate with their senior secretaries through the ministry that are used to check the way to reduce their use and contribute to the victims of the earthquake.
In the contributions that was done more than 800 million shillings, Tanzania Standard Chartered Bank, (TSN), the newspaper analysis of Daily News, today Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday,
The Relations Manager of TSN, Badra Masoud who is representing the executive director of this company, Doctor Fauzia Kullane, said that the company, TSN.
The Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC), said that it has contributed an amount of five million shillings to provide free education about the disasters and to fly the fundraising meeting to contribute to the victims one directly.
Some of the companies, organizations and other public institutions that contributed to the fundraising is the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) (50 million), Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) (50 million), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TIB) (25 million).
The others mentioned is the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) (20 million), Tanzania National Parks Agency (TANAPA) (20 million), Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) (20 million), Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) (22 million) and the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), (10 million).
Moreover, institutions, organizations and other public companies that contributed to the fundraising is the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), (10 million), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TPB), Tanzania Airports Authority (TPB), Tanzania Geothermal Development Authority (10 million), Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (10 million).
Another that contributed to five million shillings is the office of the registrar of treasury, National Board of Accountants (DMI), College of Training and Environment (VETA), the University of Dar es Salaam, has been given a contribution to take its experts in Geology and Vocational College (DMI), MSD, Science and Environment (VETA) in Geita province, and will also launch Kagera province to follow up more than the attackers.
On the side of the medical services of Tanzania (MSD) it has promised to distribute drugs to those victims worth 30 million shillings, College of Technology promised to provide professional help in areas that are affected by the National Housing Corporation (JKT) and it will give his police for the purpose of construction.
Earlier this week, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has also stopped the fundraising for the business people for the purpose of contributing to the victims of the earthquake and a total of 14 billion shillings were promised to be released together with the donations of construction of various institutions including the schools that were affected.
In addition, the government said it took that issue to its size as it is the reason, President John Magufuli has postponed his work tour in Lusaka, Zambia to attend the swearing in ceremony of the president of that country, Edgar Lungu.
The occasion that was requested for equipment with the department of deaths in the office of the Prime Minister has requested industries that produce construction equipment, to give support of producing special equipment of Kagera Sugar and small prices, so that they can buy the victims of the earthquake to form their houses quickly.
While speaking yesterday in Arusha City, the director department of deaths in the office of the Prime Minister, Brigadier General, Mbiso during the two-day training for journalists, non-governmental organizations and public institutions to build their ability on disaster.
He said that if the iron sheets or bags of cement is good to be written in Kagera so that it does not be sold anywhere in the country to be small, but it's not only that all equipment for the construction of Kagera.
In addition, he said up to yesterday, patients who are in 53 wards out of 21 had already been charged by specialist doctors from China and some of them are still ongoing.
Mwinyi led the walk and retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi tomorrow they will lead the voluntary tour of five kilometers to raising money to help citizens affected by the earthquake which occurred at the end of last week in Kagera province.
The walk that was organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, will involve the community of diplomats, ministers, permanent secretaries and citizens.
The head of government communication unit and the spokesperson of the ministry of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation, Mindi Kasiga as he said the march will begin at 12 o'clock in the morning at the police officers' hall in Oysterbay.
Mgongo said that the entrance to the walk is 10,000 shillings, but the ordinary citizens are invited to get into any money they have.
He said that they are to mobilize the company, banks and different institutions to come out to contribute to the money that will be channeled in accounts opened by the Prime Minister.
It has been written by Angela Sebastian (Bukoba), Mhungula ward (Arusha), Eric Anthony (Dodoma) and Theopista Komba and Halima Kimwana (Dar).
