And we will know what?
Something and not when you are.
To hear the laboratory that we have been looking for now, Alfred so much in the killing is that about the right now or is good.
Thank you for the reason the presenter of the program is.
Among our colleague, we have been unable to tell me when I met with albino killings in the African continent?
It is that you are going to go for you, you want me to go up until the rice sees it is that the Mister has done a lot of problem from our problems, our issues they get to them.
Therefore, we believe that you should not get a clean and safe water from the cases it is with the idea, but when you meet the elders of Tanzania when you ask about issues of his phone of seventies and yet.
In addition, if you read Israel, African countries in the previous years, Rebecca Malope, have changed the albino scientists or someone with albinism in the continent.
A very truth and shivered.
I have not like the same one, but if you follow it, there have been a albino killings and I have for more years since last month it has no Swahili.
I think.
For a period of time, we see that you love you.
Press, it's like a true work and how can I have been in view.
One has been that without being a person with those cards, the second one in the second time has been on the same day.
Faith that it is true that it involves people who are in the continent, are people who feel living in a family have a lot of people we are responsible for many years because I'm in a family but two of those killings now was that in faith.
The level that will cause him has been connected to the Namfua stadium to kill him because their organs and phones from their cities are used in terms of bad people, but now we have already come up with section photos of these men such as a result of the infection.
Our country's economy will get money to sell their businesses, but if you check up on these things you have not noticed that Father Tanzanians should be told about what we are doing so that the parents and the day are among the parents and people with skin disability.
Miss Julietha Kabete has added that women were treated so much about what I believe is that among one hundred thousand people, the quarter-final activities are early today, the poor.
But Europe was saying that where in his office, an albino is also a must for you to be between ten things that America since it has already paid one of the albino but it is also ten thousand shillings in the world.
Therefore, we shall be the country where we are finishing up, you can't know how there is a technician from Zimbabwe but a big problem.
Those are many other source but we expect it is leading?
I thank you so much.
There, you are there at the same way, we are in Dar es Salaam to leave the country.
But this happens?
For now, we have entered into the White House with a lot of prayer, we were with the bodies of people who don't have a lot of motorbikes, giving him and Kagera.
Last week you have a look at home in the first levels starting from two thousand shillings to come today where he has been saying that the video makes it mean to get more than five and five years to protect them.
There are others who are inspiring.
We are not announcing that, I believe there is more albino children.
Most of the news look at but we eat with me, because it has shown our community because I have forgotten our community because it was a reason to bring about them or part of their towns by Azania in that level of albino killings in the world.
I made two other things and register themselves as Christopher December our culture, he was given enough to tell me the star and killing them.
Let me vote.
I was an albino killings in the local society and it was for a long time, when I got it, when I was born, I was told I have talked and that they will talk to them.
In the past years.
A person with albinism was not seen.
It is just that and Philip Mpango is a must for him to speak.
But we were given keenly, you know that they love their call.
Being a little of people to get a fox which was unable to do here where even me, therefore the solution is a solution, but it is said that the day you've reached, but it is a must that Rukwa died on a lot of things to have been done soon after the father.
And on the side of, there are a very important thing in close to a Swahili that has never been done?
Therefore, I don't have a phone with an albino or a skin disability, looking for me when he dies.
Now, what I'm saying I am saying that when there was a lot of weaknesses, if there were many effects on the scholars and I don't have these things now on how to get married and I don't know what I don't know.
Do not lie on the stomach, Esther?
That we did not agree that you had gone down.
If Tanzanians and that we were participating here or your father do not know your old man in the Note phone.
When I pray for the call was known because you know that that day does God bless you by writing people we have been directed.
And it's not people who participated in their days if there is no Tanzanian who does not think the genes which does not have a call to be the name.
I believe in order to get the finance to the doctors, are explaining that there are many have been used for many years in StarTimes, and will be able to see if you follow up if they have been able to take action against them?
It does not have violence.
Perhaps, I told me that only one thousand, two hundred thousand, then I have reached something to be very much and even you have not seen him in what he did not like pregnant women in the country.
What is in education?
It is not there.
It is same.
