
CHADEMA chairman has been closed for 7 years by injured.

Rashid Mkonga.

The chairman of the Local Government of Itiji primary school in Mbeya Province, who represents CHADEMA, Ezekiel King (52) and his partner Antony Simon (53) have been able to go to 7 years due to the mistakes of the attack and your partner, Nicholaus Zacharia (56) a resident of Itiji primary schools in that town.

While reading the judgment, resident magistrate of Mbeya Region, Maria Batuli, in front of the prosecutor of the government, Juliana William said that they were forced to join the police force in Dar es Salaam city while they were in the alcohol bus station located in Itiji primary school.

He said that he was unable to be careful about the presence of three people on the side of defense and therefore being satisfied with the evidence of witnesses for the charges he had to give an offense and that even so they have an opportunity to appeal if they have not been satisfied with the judgment.

While giving examples of various cases that were affected by that case, Judge Batuli said that those mistakes is contrary to the law of regulations of criminal acts that were renovated in the year 2002.

Judge Batuli said that in an explanation of the witness the number one suspect was known that she was not treated with being affected by many others when he entered into that club and failed to be defeated in the club.

He said that in those explanations, the witness number one to the third number of the charges made it like, but the explanation of witnesses from the security side do not mix up and therefore give a lot about their defense.

Previously it was alleged to be in the court that Ras Kiduku was beaten and injured and injured were injured and later, those who made him take him to take him to the police station claimed that she had found himself.

However, that lawyer, who was admitted to the referral hospital of number four, was admitted to people with mental disability, so as to take violence due to the mental disease when he was arrested and opened a case of stopping the body.

In his defense, before being given that judgment, they will be King who requested the court to remove their punishment for having six children and that he did not know if the action of him as a leader in the area to wake up to the incident that can be considered as an offense.
