
Poverty usually comes to residents who depend on the Lake Victoria.
Brightiles 18, 2016.

The residents who live in the outskirts of Lake Victoria are saying that poverty after the fishing sector that are the economic growth started dealing in shambles.

This lake which is the second largest in cold drinks in the world is expected to have more than 30 million residents in Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda for their economic activities.

The report that was released recently by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (UNDP) has shown that it is faced with a sharp object in that lake's safety of food and food for the residents who protect themselves economically.

According to the report, Lake Victoria is producing fish worth 722 million dollars (1 trillion shillings) every year, but the issue of illegal fishing, air conditioning and climate change has begun to affect the fish, and to make the fishing sector it has dropped.

According to the report, right now the residents who live in the Lake Region have started to look for alternative jobs because their houses have been affected due to the little of fish, a situation that has affected them.

Likewise, the increase in fish from outside the country especially China, which have already been spread in the markets of East African countries has affected the fish market that is produced from that lake.

Also, the lake region together with its sources together with 90 percent of electricity from Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi together with selling water from homes and industries in Mwanza, Kisumu, Kigali and Kampala.

The fish sector has benefited from about 3 million people and to produce an income that will cost 500 million American dollars (1 trillion shillings).

That report has also revealed that the increase in students in the lake region and the increase of water sources also increase the effects of health and economic to the residents living in Lake Region.

"Areas of the outskirts of Lake Region have been a series of agriculture, construction and minerals activities, a situation that gives the lives of Lake Region and citizens who are depending on the fishing," according to the plan of protecting the Lake Victoria (Lamu P).

It has been reported that August 1970, there were 50,000 fishermen who were carrying 50,000 fishing in Lake Victoria but now it is estimated to have 200,000 dollars and 60,000 fishing tools.

The United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (child) has said that even an offense, which is the reliable fish by the fishermen have reduced very fast.

According to the child, Operation Sangara who is believed to now are those with a weight of 10 kilograms compared to fish with 50 kilograms that were allocated to 80 percent.

"Due to that they are measurable in fish and increased prices, the market has been attacked by fish from China but Sato from China is sold at least 5 million dollars (1000 shillings) while the Lake Victoria is sold at 1 million dollars (2000)," according to child health.

"Destruction of the environment has changed the lake environment, a situation that has caused to have a central region and the weed appears on the use of water, a situation that causes the solar eclipse to fail in water," according to the researcher of the Lake Victoria.

It's been reported in the research that, the increase in industries and people in the towns that involve Lake Victoria has canceled the amount of dirty water from homes and industries which poured over the lake.

Reports have shown that 50 percent of a half, for the residents living in Lake Victoria Victoria live under 125 dollars per day (500 shillings).
