
RITA is looking for institutions.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The Registration and Licensing Agency (RITA) has praised the institution and handed them from the chief executive officer of the board after failing to defend him because it should not be dealt with.

According to information that was given by the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the board, Emmy Hudson, in Dar es Salaam city yesterday, those institutions were given a 30 days notice for the purpose of providing primary reasons because it is being dealt with as required by the rule of sponsors.
"To the authority that I saw the ones that I got the truth and to remove these institutions in the exercise of the chief supervisor of those sponsors, the sponsors of these institutions are supposed to return immediately the registration of the sponsorship of sponsorship," he insisted.
He said in accordance with the law, the sign of sponsors, all assets that are under the management of sponsors of those institutions, will be placed under the supervisor of the public sponsors from the office of RITA until sometimes you enter.
He mentioned the institutions that were sacked from the launch of that form of sponsors that it is good Trust Fund, Civil Aviation Authority, Union of Tabora (Memorial Stadium), Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Gambo to help Youth and PRocky.
Other institutions are Ambassador Foundation for Higher Education and Technology (AT), Education and Trust Fund (EAGI), sponsored by Tanzania Media Fund (EAGI) and the Ambassador of Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (MARI).
Moreover, other institutions are the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (TLB), Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (TLB), Women Development Trust, Women Development Trust, Institute of Upendo Social Development, Institute of Upendo Social Action Fund (NIMR) and Energy SA company.
The other is' Fulfill Your Trust Fund (KEC Company Trust Fund (KEC Company Trust Fund, Ciara and Trust Fund, Temeke District Trust Fund, Temeke District Trust Fund, Temeke District Trust Fund.
Other institutions mentioned by Bashir Yakub Investment Center, Tanzania Center for Rental Solutions and Development, Faraja Mnemba, Institute of Sports Club, Lugo Fashen.
Emmy Hudson also mentioned other institutions that it is not good to be good to Shangani region, the Institute of Msalika as the Institute of Women Club, Tanganyika Union, Tanganyika and Sports Club, Tanganyika Union, Social Security Fund.
Also other institutions that were mentioned are Kuguru Mendes Hospital in Morogoro town, Blue Pearl Hotel, Mbeya City club, Nelson Mandela Primary School, (IAGRI), the New York Post Bank, Mbezi Women Trust Fund, Mbezi Women Interfaith Network.
In addition, he mentioned the other institutions that include China- Trust Fund, the Ambassador of Iringa, Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Lindi Urban Development Fund, Al-Governmental Organization (SACA), Al-Governmental Organization (SACA), Al-Governmental Organization (SACA), Al-Governmental Organization (SACA), Al-Governmental Organization (SACA).
Other institutions are Ambassador Christian Financial Services, Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TASWE Saccos), Geita Education Link (430 kW), Geita Education Link (get married) and Ambassador Foundation for Women Entrepreneurs (TASWE Saccos), Geita Education Link (get money).
Other institutions which were sacked are Msasani Branch of Community Trust Fund (NCCR-T), Ambassador Health Center (RS), Rural Electrification Agency (RS), Mercy of Charity (Trust Fund), Mercy of Charity (Trust).
Others are Tanzania Sheikh of Al-Trust Fund, EngenderHealth Organization (TWTZ), Tanzania Markhiya, Ngara Education Link, Singida Development, Ambassador Seif Women in Cambodia, Singida Region.
In addition, other institutions that were canceled is to save the Tarime member of Tarime (SATF), Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency, Iringa Region, Arindam Chakwama, Lindi Club, Ariel Msuya of South Africa, Hindu Mandal Sinyati Enterprises, Shinyanga, Ruaha Education Link and Mbeya Club.
Other institutions are Kilimanjaro Hovind, Community, Iringa Club, the Ambassador of Tanga, Ambassador Leberata Mulamula, Coastal Union of Sweden, Andriy Lyombe, Tanganyika and Coastal Union, Isakemikali ward, Unguja South African Community.
Other are Mboni Club, Global Education Link (Tunduru district, Dar es Salaam city, the Ambassador of Kyela, Dar es Salaam, Shree Percent "is located in Kilosa, Percent", Shree Percent "in Ngara district and Masjid Sultan.
In addition, other institutions that were mentioned are Tanganyika and Sports Club, Francis Ntalazi, Cellphone Company, Miss Singinika Sinyati Enterprises, Morogoro Health Organization, Timbo Kalugira and Social Action Trust Fund, Thomas Mnonga and International Development Fund.
Other institutions are Child Health Insurance Fund (SELF), 'Petroleum Bulk Procurement Regulatory Authority (Cellphone Company), Doctor Maqbool Sama (Corefa), Doctor Maqbool Solo, and Social Action Trust Fund, Tanganyika Law Society, and Human Resource Mobilization.
In addition, Emmy Hudson mentioned other institutions to be the ambassador of server available, Trust Fund, Adult Education Trust Fund, Pindani Nyalile and Victoria Group Trust Fund, Mrs Sitti Mwinyi and Victoria Funding Board (poverty).
