
"Parliament should meet with emergency.
And learn from poverty.
And to learn from poverty, the member of honor, Francis Mistorius said that he wants the parliament to open an emergency meeting so as to discuss the strike of the teachers going on.
He said the strike of teachers in primary and high primary schools is a big national issue that does not benefit from the parliament.
He asked the speaker of parliament for the national parliament, to ask members of parliament to discuss this issue and get a lesson to that conflict, Mister Mistorius said that he was talking on his trap after giving a check of a check of 883 million students from high school students.
He urged teachers to be careful, to give an opportunity for discussions so as to maintain the interests of the students and their parents.
His statement was supported by his colleagues Moses Sethole (Gogo) and Francis Kvitova (Gogo) which everyone in the different event, requested leaders of parties for teachers to consider the problems they are doing as parents and their children.
The members of parliament said that the strike involves many students and parents and said that leaders of parties for teachers are supposed to agree on the table of talks with government officers.
"It is something to remind me that the Khajida Kopa, the senior officials have been on the in the meeting to speak with the commission to employ teachers (TSC).
This is a sign of an entrepreneur, Mashuri, "said Mister returning it through phone.
Mister Koba, on his part, he urged the teachers to stop raising the students of Kenya for the right to get education and he wanted the government to involve yourself in solving that conflict.
The secretary of the Khairi Health Center in Donge County, Mungai said that teachers will enter the day and remove their colleagues who will benefit the order of continuing with a strike that was announced by the main council of the party.
"We will bring him any colleague who could be accused of being accused of being accused of being silent," he said after managing the meeting of the executive committee of that branch, which was also attended by the chairperson, JB Province.
