
Nronga C of Kisanga.
The case of Saturday in the morning where police officers of administration (AP) were out with the ordinary citizen to arrest them, it shows that it is because the police force seems to be resolved by partnering with the security of citizens.
Speed at eight o'clock at the night before Saturday, police officers in partnership with officers of road safety committee (NTSA), they arrested the police commissioner of the Road Safety Council (NTSA), they arrested the police commissioner of the area of Literature in Nairobi, Mister Nicholas Turnbull.
That officer was said to have been said to be running a car while in the same way, those allegations are true or legal action will be presented before the court.
But it is said 24 police of the administration squad arrived at the place and brought together with seven private colleagues who had been running a operation to reduce the low-communicable diseases.
Those police from AP were a full draw and they were carrying the weapons and showing that they went to that place with an intention of bringing about violence like Mister Turnbull. He would be released.
It is alleged that they were prepared to run their votes so as to discuss their normal colleagues if they would have taken their directive.
That action of the police force is the cause of law and crime.
Like Mister Turner, when he was found running his personal car while he was supposed to be taken by other citizens of Kenya.
His life is important as a result of other people and we did not have a right to break the car while in that situation.
You want the security officers to make sure that they get the bad use of the authority which the police force commission (Nakula C) under Mister Johannesburg, the Ugandan Kavanagh refused to happen on.
NHO council was created by a citizen that bought taxes, equivalent to the time that was paid by the police force, together with a gun with the 24 officers used to prevent the benefits of the public.
Therefore, it is a stern action to be taken, as the chief inspector of police David Kimaiyo and the commission of Mister Rwegashora decided to help the citizens to have faith in those two police forces and hostility among those squads, he has done it difficult for the officers to implement their duties to protect citizens.
As Mister Turner, she does not want to be arrested by risking their lives and other people who use the road night, then he will make the law as he promised when they were unable to qualify for the police training.
In this time of bringing changes in the country, it means that there is a officer who use the authority that was given by the citizens of Kenya, making the authority through a way that is not recognized by hooligans.
