The danger of the challenges that are involved in UKAWA.
Jide 31, 2014 by Almighty God, elections.

It is clear that the next general elections of Tanzania is expected to be done on October 2015, it will be a big examination of the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
First, you cannot loose the legality of the opposition parties they will not be able to do not in any way that they promised to do if that election will be conducted in accordance with the current constitution.

Therefore many will depend on how the opposition parties will be playing in Karume, Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

Turki who is in the hands of opposition is a strategy of the universities to continue cooperating so as to cooperate with the citizens from power and those parties started to cooperate well after they were forced to make violence and even the sale of blood.

Those who have only one aim is to advise the nation to decide the recommendations of CCM about the new constitution, especially the proposal of wanting the structure of the union with two governments to continue.

Since the opposition parties to fully support the union of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) they have promised that during the next general elections, the parliamentary candidate of Zanzibar (Zanzibar) and the parliamentary seats of the local government.

If Ukawa will not kill that promise and if the union will decide to participate in elections then there is no doubt that CCM will be forced to participate in elections because CCM is believed to have every sign of getting tired.

Corruption, lack of patriotic ideologies and a deficit of its leadership is among other problems that are facing the party and those that are just some of the things that make all the two governments - the United Republic of Zanzibar - they are needed so.

That's why the opposition got it and would like to see that it is spread by CCM as a supporter of CCM as a member of parliament as a member of parliament and defeated the authority when Ambasia Mallya was not easy.

However, he said that CCM has gotten tired, even so, it has a huge number of humor and those as well as usual, they have been prepared to use that business so as to protect yourself to protect themselves.

CCM recognizes that they will be able to save it is fire or even the loopholes that are involved or even the loopholes that are in Ukawa.

The possibility of preventing themselves inside Ukawa are there and it can be two ways.

First, the loopholes that are in Ukawa can be a tough time when their source can be true, we are tired of power and are greedy to power among the opposition leaders.

The conflicts of that kind is not true that the opposition parties in the country with democracy that do not registered themselves as usual continue to hold the general election when it comes back.

Secondly, in Tanzania, the loopholes used to be caused by CCM or by announcing some of the opposition leaders or when they stopped it.

For now, there is a lot between CCM and Ukawa are determined to deal with the issue of new constitution and instead of finding a lasting solution to the process of changing the constitution, both sides are continuing to loose the mud at their public meetings and in the media.

If the opposition leaders will succeed to encourage the citizens to enter the road to demonstrate to the government, there is a danger of the government to shivered and to be able to do except to use the strength against the demonstrators.

The opposition leaders in the country may not depend on the government can be allowed, for example, it gives them an example that you missed him and sue them because they are derailing the violence.

As the steps they have been able to give birth to one of the two results, the first one is the government to put up itself with his grave for making the opponents for them to join the public, when the government comes to buy a public, when the government comes up to measure the government.

The second incident is an entrance to a division among the opposition leaders, especially if they face the blood of some of them, they went on with fear and they were not ready to decide the government and others they decided to continue to sit down.
