
Simba looking for Moro United, Yanga in Pemba Island.

September 28, 2016.

"Number of Actor 'is a word that can use it towards the competition of old rivals Simba and Yanga, that is expected to take place on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
That game of Vodacom Tanzania Mainland Premier League in the first round, which is being waited for desire by the soccer fans in the country due to those teams being old rivals.
Why are the sins that don't know if both teams have gone to camp outside Dar es Salaam city, Simba is in Kilimanjaro Province, while their rivals Yanga will go to Pemba Island have changed the game that will have great opposition.
Until now Simba is the ones leading in that league after losing 16 points, by playing six games while having scored 12 matches and allow their teams to be identified twice, they have won five games and from one draw.
Yanga, they are in the third position with 10 points, they have eight goals of scoring and one shot and lost one game and lost one draw.
However, Simba's coach Joseph Omog has said that they have decided to put him in his team in Morogoro province so as to accompany his players to play soccer at a high level towards their game and their rivals Yanga.
But also coach, Omog has been hurt by his label of Bambucha while being stolen, therefore in a few days he has decided to entertain its attackers as they get a lot of goals.
I have a good team to be able to get a lot of goals due to my body, I believe in Morogoro province in a few days the previous day of attacks will be unable to face our opponents Yanga, "he said.
In the sixth matches, Simba is seen its own kind of attacks to be just a result of lack of many goals, when they enter into the danger area.
And the coach of Yanga, Dutchman Hans Van Der Pluijm has told Simba in their Saturday's game as a result of a camp that he did in Zanzibar Island to be calm and peace in building its players.
Last weekend, Yanga lost its game in that league against Stand United 1-0, in the game that was played at Kambarage Shinyanga stadium.
However, losing to that game, Yanga has returned to camp in Pemba like a ogo who came out and therefore as a result of the preparations they are doing, they are doing the time they emerged with victory.
"It's true that most of the previous game has never been very much, therefore, we will not lose again this Saturday's game against our rivals Simba despite being seen that the game can be difficult," he said.
Pluijm said that in Pemba camp it will help them to increase the high level as a result of that place being calm, while considering the strong winds of not getting off.
Yanga has had a good success when it went up to Pemba Island, especially when I met with great rival sides, for the last season both teams emerged with a win of 2-0 goals, each one.
