The leadership is a sign of a person or his ability?
28th of 13, 2015.

What I remember in the time of the general elections of the year 2005, it's the reputation 'Sura Sirambi' and "last year" I don't have a problem with "last year" because my problem is' Sura Surambi '. "
At the time they said that the former presidential candidate through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), President Kikwete has a good work with the president of the country, it is important to have a good look for a good chapter, but maybe I will start with a question like the presidential candidate "what should be like me?
We are led by a chapter or we are led by mental disabilities, wisdom and wisdom, the president of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta, when he was asked to go back to his case at the International Criminal Court in the country of Ambassador Hjelmaker, he answered that there is Twitter.
We need to have a chance to use Twitter network or we need to look for a foundation of better administration, democracy and follow the constitution of the country?
It is my faith that that President Kikwete has been able to do not because he has a good shape and not a good chapter, but if he will be able to believe that any human being is compatible with their good deeds.
Teacher, he warned him about this issue and that someone has all the qualifications, but we believe now she is coming from the small tribe or what we believe now is very good and he does not have a good shape but because he has a good shape and he cannot be given a chance to lead?
During the days that the leadership was depending on the family and blood of a strong people, even if they could have the mental disability of Tanzania, without the birth of roasting or not to get the leadership positions.
But today's time of democracy, during many parties, at the time of taking them in power to the votes, someone sees his colleagues to talk about the shape on a good issue if the presidential position is in front or going back again?
These good deeds are in CCM where there are those who believe that and insisted that the country's president is a must to come from CCM because these are the meaning of corruption, even a child who was born today is wrong, therefore it is not a must to give examples.
If we stop seeing the problems of our nation, we agreed to see the challenges of the constitution, the challenge of our union, the challenge to follow and implementing the system of democracy in our nation, the challenge of removing poverty and challenges of fighting corruption and corruption, then we will end to me.
If we stop discussing the challenge of dealing with counterfeit products, the challenge of fighting drugs, the challenge of removing the saying "we will do wherever they are and get them before the law," we should know that our end will be bad.
We heard that according to Doctor Steven Ulyankulu, Absalom Kibanda was David Banda, Commander Liberatus Baranaba, bombs from Arusha, the killings of the father of Zanzibar and the whites who failed to protect themselves.
There is no one who is arrested and arraigned in front of the law, its sayings are not responsible! "We will give you anywhere they are and get them before the law."
Instead of fighting and not searching for another laziness in our nation, we will discuss the name 'Sura Sirambi', a step can deal with all the challenges there?
Leadership is the beauty competition is that someone before contesting for that he can make sure you feel like, to learn how to walk and talk to Madaha said, 'leadership depends on the meaning of someone?
That he should have a good chapter by saying that the opposition parties have no one with the presidential chapter, because there is no good chapter or wisdom, wisdom and wisdom but the leadership is a person to have a lot of joy or not to find the eyes too.
If Tanzania is currently in a trap and we look at the transition period as a time where we need a great leader, a good leader, a leader who has not succeeded in peace and religious faith, a leader who has not succeeded in peace and "couples" of political parties.
