
How do we benefit from public infrastructure.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

I was published (03 / 2016.

At the time the government is continuing with efforts to bring development to give development services including better infrastructure, health, sports and education, a situation that has been different for those who are supposed to reduce those services.

That situation has come out through several events of some citizens, destruction of public property without even knowing the efforts and costs used in making services and property, the truth, it has come out through different events of some citizens, an example of stealing bribes and property in the football fields and destruction of road accidents.
As it is not enough, it has also emerged as a habit of some students when they get to play or fail to reach the right time and the management of their school, they decided to control school infrastructure including buying schools, classrooms, offices and sometimes to go to the estates and without any public property they will meet.
In the situation, the citizens did not understand the whole issue of patriotism and that it has come out open the day before yesterday in the football competition between the old rivals Simba and Yanga, where due to normal football fanaticism, some of the viewers bought at that field, they started moving out of the field due to the reasons they have lost themselves.
The National Stadium for only a few minutes, been destroyed by those suspects who depend on without caring for the efforts of the government used to prepare among the tax payment of that nation, in serving the stadium for the purpose of those citizens.
On the previous evaluation that was done by the announcement by the minister of information, culture, arts, and sports, Nape Nnauye, those fans bought approximately 81 seats while evaluation of cost of destruction is going on.
We have already asked me that those effects are usually paid on the excuse of manslaughter, fanaticism or disappearance, because the government is making its efforts to ensure its citizens get good and quality education, better health and education services, they think about them and make sure they are making sure they are making sure.
Let it reach a place where we shall now start to put in patriotism and love their country, because of being the first to protect those property, because the government and security agencies are not for all areas to protect those property.
Public property, to be lights, reduce road accidents, read the reduction of water or seats of the football stadium, there are clear that, when these assets are paid or torched, the government starts afresh, to plan strategies and use of finances through the public funds, a situation that will return the efforts of the government.
Instead, the government has now started to think to improve another area for the interests of its citizens, it will come back again where they came from, to start or respect and to make a purchase of property that had already been bought by 80 percent.
It's a time now has come up to wake up and to recognize that, you are not able to give them those who do not have problems with the public property, so that every citizen can benefit all those who do not have a problem with the public property so that every citizen can benefit from them.
