CCM is competing with America to evade billions of shillings.

While the Chama Cha Mapinduzi has opposed the decision by the United States to stop the support of 15 million, due to the dismissal of the election results of Zanzibar, the Civic United Front (CUF) has supported the decision and requested the presidential candidate of Zanzibar to be announced and sworn in so as to eliminate the economic restrictions.

That stand was brought by the director of communications of the Citizens Party (CUF), Ismail Jussa Ladhu said yesterday when he spoke about the decision by America to prevent the funds of MCC up to the appropriate time of elections that will be resolved as well as removing the oppressive laws of the internet.

Jussa said there is no way to help Tanzania to increase economic restrictions including denying them more donations from the Zanzibar Electoral Commission and agreed to complete the elections on October 25th this year.

Moreover, he said that the decision by the United States to prevent the donation is a huge lesson to the non-infectious diseases to respect the dangers of benefiting from the MCC including protecting the foundation of democracy and good governance.

Jussa said that the election results of Zanzibar will be sacked by the chairman of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission after seeing CCM being in the danger of falling, but there is no constitution that gives the ability to give that ability.

He said the CUF's stand will continue to remain together and take place for the appropriate time of the elections, ZEC to return to work to verify and announce the results and the winner of the October 25th elections this year.

He said that there is a group of few people in Zanzibar are the ones who don't want to see changes located in Zanzibar despite CCM failing to reach the goals of the general elections this year.

"There is a group of people in Zanzibar doesn't urge him to see administrative changes for their private interests despite CCM defeated in the October 25th elections this year," said Jussa.

He said that the election case of Zanzibar has caused great effects including citizens to live in a bad environment as well as planting at the cost of living in the islands.

Jussa said there is no reason for leaders of CCM to be worried about losing the positions during the fifth constitution of Zanzibar, they have put a good system of building a government of together with them to benefit as CUF was forced to pray for after the general elections of the year 2010.

Furthermore, he said that CUF is not ready to see the general elections will be repeated in Zanzibar with the objectives of carrying CCM despite falling down in the previous elections in the islands.

The Deputy Secretary General of CCM Zanzibar Vuai Ali Vuai, said that it was not the right time for America to prevent the donation when the Zanzibar Electoral Commission had a foundation stone of removing the results of the general elections on October 25th this year.

He said that they will go back to October 25th this year, it lost the reputation of being a free and fair election after being blocked by the foundations of democracy and good governance.

He said that he is not worried with America that they have not received information and illustrations for getting married to the Zanzibar elections and if they will get those information that they will agree with the decision by ZEC to eliminate the results of the election.

He said the election was dominated by corruption, including the number of voters to continue supporting people who were registered in the book of permanent voters together with the destruction of parties being beaten and chased away from the health centers.

"A solution of conflicts is not to prevent donations because it encourages them until people who do not have guilty, the important way is to look for the right way to eliminate problems," said Vuai.
