My opinion about the minister?
All of them?
They do not continue because it gives better education about the use of electricity in the house.
For all residents.
They don't have anything related to them, they know you should leave what we have.
The preface to be one of the victims of the electricity problem when I'm in school.
If you don't want to create, I would like to be able to see that.
It is a must they prepare themselves in the whole country, be successful.
And more fear.
On the village stones?
Six types of solar energy have been among the big water sources in those houses, it is an important thing being used by deception.
Six is the meaning that I have found itself being this which has been beaten by those equipment and then it is going to action against your people in the electricity.
The drop in this electricity is dangerous and it doesn't cause a fire accident and a fire can be given.
Now, which comes from it is that when you go to Dar es Salaam, we have a lot of lot to students of secondary schools for children in the country.
Now.
You will find you.
Many people are in the students of universities for example.
You know the student is believed to be radio.
Now he has raised the water this evening back to the mouth.
Most of them don't know you, we should not know if you will not get married when you will not get rid of us so that there is a foolish thing that is swelled by each other, can be surprised what is there.
And on a house, it is my friend as I have been able to hear from what I have been able to do so that he can be safe and blood and the same time you will find that there is a series of fire inside the house, the late people have also been told if it is safe for what I stopped.
When he was not good even if it's not there, I will not play a plot and I will fall into power to protect security, I request it to let me eat it where I will follow me when I will welcome her with him where I will welcome her with her.
The customers of TANESCO are advised to involved all types of electricity equipment in drawings of electricity infrastructure in the house.
In order to avoid effects that can happen due to infrastructure, it's not good for our customers to go to ask for electricity services that I believe will get you in the last game that there will be an indication that there will be a story which I have used for.
By a structure, when you know that life is seen to be good or the late God is continuing to find out of the house he asked the equipment that you find him, she had no value to the location in which one house is found.
The late, you find you the meaning that plays is electricity in a house, it will put up what we like TANESCO.
Because I have used then inside the house, we come up with the actual event that has been good and those who concern them, we request our customers to make sure that you get your views so that they can make sure you get information just because Toto Africans are not seen to give your information just like Toto Kadi are in the diagram.
Will help our customers when a problem will be able to inform us.
It has reduced the habit, TANESCO is looking for you to know.
There's look at the first results but it was a must that you have faith that you are not at the same time, she was a must for you to give you a story which has not been seen to you.
In addition to having electricity.
