
Kikwete's tour has been killed.
Sep 25, 2014.

The long tour of President Jakaya Kikwete in the United States may meet with change in the council of ministers or private institutions of the government, Almighty God has been told.

President Kikwete left the last week for a two weeks tour in America, in a time when his government has been caused by heavy issues that need his decisions.
Those issues are the process of the constitution and investigation that was done by the office of the controller and auditor general (CAG) together with the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART) about funds that were suspended from Tegeta Escrow account, Tanzania Central Bank (IPTL).
The reports that this newspaper shows that some of the government officials have been mentioned to be involved in the issue that is mentioned to have the poor vision of corruption and maybe Kikwete is being baptized about the steps of taking.
These news are happy with the statement by the speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda, this week that if there would be no special constitutional parliament (SCA) and instead the report of the investigation of CAG was presented to the ordinary parliament, there are ministers not to see in this scandal.
Makinda made the statement during the handover ceremony to the retired CAG, Ludovick Utouh, who his office is where it has reduced the issue of that account that was affecting the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and Independent Power Tanzania (IPTL).

A total of 200 billion shillings are believed to have graduated from that account and to be paid by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP) in a environment where government agencies were taught.
"Makinda said that he said because he has seen that because he has seen that report and he knows that inside 1970, he knows it is one of the ministers not to say openly," said one of the ministers not to see him, "said one of the ministers not to see her names.

The sources of this newspaper in the government have explained that it has been a normal procedure of Kikwete to sit outside the country for a long period when he is in the issues that supports him in the head and he wanted to get a solution.
The first term tour of Kikwete abroad was in October the year 2007, a few weeks after the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), made a list of corruption in an event that took place on September 15 this year.
Close people and Kikwete have told the newspaper that "the president used that tour in Europe and America, to change the wind and reduce the reduction of thoughts because the issue was taken to great weight even with the international community."
Kikwete also was out of the country, this journey in South Africa, in the year 2011 when the Parliament had decided to take action against the former secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, David Jairo, who was in the scandal of wanting to unite members of parliament so as to prove the budget of his ministry.

It is in that time when he made changes that brought him by the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, William Ngeleja.
December 18, last year, Kikwete started a long tour in America and two days later on the resignation of four ministers in his cabinet of ministers due to the operation found.
Kikwete who left the country for what was claimed to go to America for being operated on his health, but when he came back to the ministers, Hamis Kagasheki, Emmanuel Nchimbi, two-thirds have been removed from the government.
Once again President Kikwete had gone to America for two weeks ago but it is not a normal tour and he has left after seeing the reports of CAG and those of Makinda, he said that there are ministers not like Doctor Kikwete who is what is following up, "said one of the ministers of ministers of the government of Kikwete.
