

Gigg relaxed on her child, on the right is the writer of this article.

A child called a child to put the same way instead of her.
By Pendo la battling, Mbeya.
There are many reasons and important evidence shows that, marriage is pregnant in the age of 18 years is dangerous to the health of mother and child.
Girls in this rainy season continue to grow and many times it is young and it is high to an extent that there is a lot of reproductive problems while giving birth through normal ways.
Many girls do not start giving birth or take a lot of pain before giving birth, this situation can cause the death of mother, child or all of them as an emergency medical camp doesn't happen.
Girls get pregnant and give birth to the age of many, they will also get a problem of people to come out and remove it by causing a small need or a lot of preventing themselves.
Another problem that is associated with pregnant in a small age is together with not having a lot of blood when the pregnancy is doughing, and which is transmitted by the bacteria in the generation and a length of pregnancy.
Small-scale girls give birth to children with light weight, children of this kind are every time faced with dangerous challenges together with many health challenges in the age of five years.
Most of the children get problems of brain disorders and this situation that happened to be paid by Emmanuel (19) with mental disabilities.
The biological mother to the youth known as Igurubi County, Mrara ward, Mbeya Region, says he was born in the year 1980 and in 1996 he was lucky to get married on the age of 16.
The entrance fee is the mother of four children where his first child gave birth to the year 1997 when it was 17 years old.
This mother gets great effects that has planned itself from giving birth to the age of age.
"Just when I was married by being handed over to my parents I defeated the pregnancy and succeed in the year 1997, the child will be sold to the parents' Hospital for a normal way.
"Doctors came to me to be surgery due to my pelvic regions, but I am my family we did not agree with that decision.
"We believe that the act will bring unending quarrels to the clan history, therefore I was supposed to give birth to a normal way, something that is currently allowed to give my soul in the afflictions of the afflictions of her dear friend," says her mother in bitterness.
