
The shares of the bank increased, apart from CRDB.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2016 by our writer, economy and business.

Three out of seven institutions that were listed in the stock market of Dar es Salaam (DSE) have got positive revenue in the third phase which was done in October this year, while the CRDB Bank got a loss of 83 households in every shares.

However, four banks including CRDB, DCB Bank has handed over to the teachers' bank (MCB) already have already announced their accounts to the third phase of the year until when it reached on Monday this week according to report of the market analysis that was given by Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited.

According to the report, which was not mentioned by NMB Bank Shule Yetu 'bank and CRDB Bank has handed over the shares of the teachers' shares that the one that led in between the banks followed on the analysis.

The shares of every shares of the Mwalimu (MCB) was nine million shillings in the third phase of the year, DCB got 365 shillings, while DCB Bank has handed over two billion shillings to shares.

The CRDB Bank, which is one of the companies that are doing well in the market by having a large number of the shares, its shares got a loss of 83 percent in the shares in that period.

In that period, the CRDB Bank got a loss of 1967 billion shillings, DCB got a profit of 246738 million shillings, DCB Bank has handed over benefits after more than 353 million shillings and the teacher got benefits after a tax of 547 million shillings.

The main level of the income of the bank being found from the loans interest in which CRDB is leading by getting 109 billion shillings, followed by DCB Bank with 43 billion shillings while handing over and a teacher got a 2 billion shillings per day.

The review report of the Tanzanian market has shown that during a period of last week, a sign of the shares of the bank's shares, financial and service (Mrs. DSE) equivalent to approximately 3921 compared to the week that happened on Monday, October 21, this year.

According to the market report, the bank's side is the one that led in the biggest number of the shares, although its income was small compared to the income that is available last week.

The number of shares of the bank in the market for a week that ended last Friday had 55 percent of all the shares affected and they were 3 percent of the value of the CRDB market is the one leading in the sales of many shares.

CRDB did a business of 42,080 shillings at a price of 250 million in a week that was carried out, followed by handing over his shares to 283,9062 shares were destroyed, where the price of the shares was 1000 shillings.

DCB one followed when 10,614 shares were modified and at a price of 20,000 shillings every shares, NMB will sell 4,162 shillings at a price of 2,300 shillings per shares and 10 shares of the regional bank were destroyed, at a price of 550 shillings in every shares.

However, 83 households have handed over, development and the financial institutions' financial services, it did not be sold and is bought for a period that was done to the analysis.

In that period of a week starting on October 21 to October 28, shares of DCB Bank has handed over to 2 percent while the shares of the shares of other six banks having no changes.

The market analyst, Maswi was noted that this week will witness a small number of investors due to the reduction of lack of capital and money.
