Citizens that spread from the premier league - 5.
Dec 10, 2015.

Up to date, the current step is to have a lot of rich leaders in our country, we have refused to pass through a very high speed at the year 1992 when you ask someone who has already received the name of any leader whom she had been sure that he should stop stuttering on them.
It was not easy to get a leader who has thrown out their properties as seen in the community because we lack the leadership of CCM that it does not give the loans.
Because leaders of the government were being satisfied with the coming of CCM, it is clear that it was not true that the government's leader whose leader was supposed to have a little money to find him that it's a leader inside the party or the government.
Without doubt, I said on this week, that's a system that has been set by the founders of this nation and the whole party, it was aimed at ensuring that there is no one person who will get an opportunity to sit on any seat for leadership and to start using that position and a bail was given by the citizens.
It is true that President John Pombe Magufuli is true that he is true that President Magufuli is true that President Magufuli is saying that if President Magufuli is, Tunda Man is true and believes that his position is bond and is not for the purpose of using her private or a small group of people.
That is the strength of President Magufuli's strength and he knows that it will help her to make sure that when he gets and evil things that have been going on here in the country since the cause of our nation's economy and to get a lot of money for the purpose of our community and get married.
It is very true that in order to bring about the truth of the truth, political and social media in our country, President Magufuli will meet a lot of restrictions that will not be correct to believe that he will not make sure that he will not make sure that he will make sure they will be big and even if it appears from outside.
It is clear that people who have gone to evade paying tax payment of the government and using those funds, they will try to use any efforts that will be done by President Magufuli and its people in bringing about true changes in our country.
We know that there are great efforts of asking them to succeed in his work with his intention of bringing about reforms that will be held inside CCM where it has not started done, efforts to make changes in the government and the aim being to bring changes in the government and the party.
That is called a system that some people with good intentions and Doctor Magufuli explains that they should not be true, because it is a official procedure and that is not official for relations in the party and in the government.
But it is true that those relations have been made with ways that are questioning the economy of the country and increase the number of corruption, nor bribery and skills which are supposed to be demolished quickly.
A trap of the official system and it has not been reported that the cause of corruption and the government was not involved and counted at the operations of party activities and the government.
