
One board of farmers is important at this time.
There has been a rumor that the government has a plan to have a board of farmers of all their crops, but this one is true then the government will have a decision that you change agriculture in a huge level so as to be a business hub.
The board is to be used for farmers of the crops and not the reserve board so as to ensure the farmer is the first level of development instead of developing their crops, it will be accepted, therefore, we have ceased to have a lot of days of having the crops instead of the board of farmers.
Small-scale farmers have been involved with the coalition government to protect themselves from danger of their differences or another not to do well in the season.
Farmers were trying to use business in business without knowing that there are many crops which have a great ability to contribute to the farmer's income but these crops are not in a business system.
For example, the farmer can sell the nuts for its own use but he is unable to realize that he is the first customer of its own market and the most crops that was done by the board is what's also known as business or for the purpose of industries.
The decision by the government to form the board of farmers of all crops, will enable the government to use a few resources for great success, for example the researchers and those who are under that board will have a lot to learn from everything in which there will be a lot to learn from each officer.
Another example is that a system to visit farmers will prevent farmers from various experts who can use transport, while one and meeting with farmers give them training together, an act that will reduce the cost of an increase in the amount of farmer and by doing so, give a great benefits.
In other reasons, farmers have been taught about the danger of effects that come from their products or not to do well in the market by not having a good production or not having a quality that is required by the market.
The increase in the increase of value of all crops is to reduce by a big amount of operations, processing and selling of medicine for example one thing that can be used by more than three crops on the project there is no effects that come from contributing to the effects of those crops.
Other times by changing some things on the machine, electronic machines can be used to process more than one hundred products that are produced by the farmer to increase the cost of buying more than one acre of products and not the farmers to increase the cost of development instead of the produce.
Likewise, the government is advised to increase the speed of making sure to change the whole issue of value that you should be careful, and the farmer is being implemented quickly so that we find great development now.
The board of farmers of the produce as the end of the increase in value, it will be a correct answer to the employment problem, Tanzania of industries and the solution of poverty.
