
The fund of the province to be read.
Almighty God prohibits us.
Since the making of the law of the parliamentary fund in the year 2009, there is no positive results directly and projects that are implemented through the millions of money that have been sent in the market.
However, before the announcement of that law, he was criticism that its start was increasing the power of members of parliament and the government because they were in the trap of managing those funds.
According to the law created by that fund, the member of parliament is the supervisor and the chairperson of the committee with the responsibility of discussing the use of those funds, with the strength of persuading him to be a member in his committee.
However, there is clear evidence that what is happening in the constituency under the management of parliament in every area, is not what is mentioned to the law and members of parliament who don't have strength to question about misuse of those funds because they are also responsible for management.
Article 12 of the law of the pension fund of the year 2009, is mentioned that the projects that will be implemented under that fund should be unblocked by the citizens of the region before starting to be implemented.
In addition to the legal requirements, the council of parliament has been as a private sector for parliamentarians and in many regions, there is no project that will be implemented in the area where the member of parliament has hostility.
However, a few projects being implemented on low level due to the funds of the fund, still the members of parliament are supposed to say the truth and instead tell them that it is a private money that does not want to have a problem with the development of citizens.
The law of the fund wants every ward to prepare projects that will be given priority and presented to the parliamentary committee of the province for being discussed and later on the implementation of the implementation.
However, the issue did not affect the position in the ward where the member of parliament did not support him or the councilor comes from different political party, and its results emerged with the complaints of projects being implemented by stopping.
Bad management of funds of the fund of parliament is also mentioned in the report of the controller and auditor general of the government, where in some of the districts, the funds of the fund were not a confirmation of its use.
The report says projects worth 19555 million that were implemented in the period of the year 2012 / 2013, was not evidence that they were unblocked by the citizens involved in six districts of Iramba, Chato, Handeni district, Lushoto and Tabora province.
The problem that was shown by the controller and auditor general of the government in Bariadi District is unable to use that amount of money while there are many projects that are standing by lack of money what happens in many districts in the country.
Because the delegates of the council of parliament are appointed by the member of parliament, when he removed the council's officer who is the secretary general, in many constituencies which are not working due to the reasons for the conflict of political interests.
Some of the members of parliament who are the chairpersons of those funds are not ready to wait and attend the sessions if they see the political interest 'and some of the members who started to buy.
Jean Marie Stopes (this is the Citizen writer in Kagera province is available on phone number + 767114605.
