Times you will be giving a lot about the close to you, I have attached his daughter 'if you get my daughter, because there are very close things every day and at the end, we should come with different people so that we do not know everything?
There is a person who is supposed to pay as a result of things that do not have.
Then close to the hearts, in the end, we will be able to carry out the fees who are beauties especially they ever participated in Miss Universe and also others to be lucky to be rich.
This am when I'm with three witch doctors, but we are not seen to know if they are a mother of two children or three three, you can't know how to see I am a list that he knows.
And give and then you can be put poison that you are but when you see you are who is participating in Miss Universe, a step that happened in Mwanza province, which is Miss Mwanza going to participate in which are the top five until now.
Where the winner was Nancy Kaizerege and another one that I will be with this one is not another.
I have been saying that, he is a must that he will be able to come out to several occasions, when you know the newspapers you will sell him, Kenneth Kaunda for the renovation.
He was a participant in the forest and they will also give them money and a victory to the contest for that contest for good Samaritans who had the same friend who had never been able to talk a lot, then I don't want me to talk about my friends.
Things are.
Close to a Bongo celebrity.
When I was to you with you.
I love you.
Let me be the one who is looking for now, its preparations have been done so much, but someone can know what you are, "I said but a person to choose a name is called Miss Universe 2015 every year, I hope you will talk more in a short time.
His lover, I am known as usual.
The father of the game is not saying, I will know I was born.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, there is an entrepreneur, we have a surprise of going to oil.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, I will give you a chance and I have given the name of Zouk Rumba.
Welcome very much in Ambassador Seif, a show is.
I believe you need Okwi directly to the mother?
If you find out your presidential candidate, this can you be true?
It does not understand.
The late God rest his.
It was found.
Seen you have said that where we went to one year, you missed to wake up I see if Jennifer Kotta will open up with high speed.
The late father or you are looking for now, when you say it is a good and it has told them that she has told the birth of the three hundred thousand children, the week was so good and participate in Miss Universe this week and there was a very difficult thing.
When we were in Dar es Salaam, I'll be able to sit down, I have participated in the two thousand year and five years.
Late Adam and remember I was completed and he has completed his journey.
The late?
That period was hit by Romelu Lukaku, I was in Mwanza town.
But if the woman did, he had the ability to me I have not been the same, the late God created him and planned to take it.
But I tell you where the first was very difficult, my father did not want to do very happy about when I told me what I went to school I would like to tell me what I want to go back to school but I believe I don't know what I want to go back to school but I want you to see if I think you are like the same way.
At the moment Miss Universe Tanzania has been closed down two years, to believe that if I be taken to those who have a dream of having Miss Universe there is a child that will be a penalty or the child will be a must.
If you play in the past, there have been a lot of challenges in this competition of Miss Universe.
The late God bless you like that, it has been said that there is no reason why does not know what happened in last year and we do not know that there is a good time and we do not take place so that we can be able to prepare themselves so that we can be better and prepare to look for how they have.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, you will be a shame to be on the same way, another prayer is for other beauties to be a girl whom I would like them to see here, am participating in Miss Universe.
You miss.
It's not true, I have loved this program.
Participating in Miss Universe, it is not something, everything we have entered into the past, we would like to go back to the province.
The late does not participate when it is not something, but look at the upbringing of a child who has emerged to the upbringing of how?
Fire is a lot of challenges.
At home I'll look at baptism but I will go to him but you will leave you.
No.
I want to believe that you have ever happened today is Andrew Chale.
Chenge, yesterday to sales.
The match is for God?
I don't know if you know that your union will start talking about these things we need.
I have risen up in that environment during the period up to think that we think this is to look for a environment so as to look at these children's things.
When I were in the time I had resolved to UDSM in life in the things that we are doing, there are many challenges that we want to see Miss Ikponwosa Ero and let me follow me when I think how we were involved with many hours when I think I am supposed to see Miss Ikponwosa Ero.
You need good thing to be able to achieve everything he is seen, there is also a line you said that the Swahili producer.
This will be a very much and as well as in what I want to see many people in the African continent is lifted.
It's a big way to go to each other and I would like to eat Miss Universe Tanzania only because there are things I want to do with their lives, but I believe I can do so that I can be able to work hard so that I do I have a lot of success.
I have done a lot of congratulations and that is why they want you, now it has reached an appropriate step and that I have seen to you more than Samsung, to know what everyone is supposed to destroy the ten years.
Miss Universe Tanzania, we are supposed to do this and the one with written in newspapers every day.
If the rules of VVU, you know it is Miss Universe which I don't know where I don't know what I don't know what those involved do not know where they do not know.
Why is a saying that it is not and asked the ball that is usually told, there is no worries at each other, I would like to say so when I think even when you get the knowledge in their life and Sweden is a very good thing.
I am a woman of which kind that has called me?
My son has shown.
Hayatou, I know the activists and the person that I would like?
You miss.
If someone who is a Swahili language about a very good life is good.
It comes from.
.
You know it is supposed to be careful.
Let us continue.
The late?
It has been given is the same way.
This is a river that I have been witnessed, while you say that we're very happy that we're getting in Dar es Salaam, I would like a person who is independent, I would like to be very much.
Can I said to meet with life?
A is a person who I would like to play with the family of the family.
A person is dependent on.
Paul I cannot get back to speak about that day, it is a reason for God coming from I was ready to marry off by God you know what we have organized God is giving you, I think it was wrong, I've said.
I cannot talk about now but it is in plans to say and your friends.
