
His campaigns were headed to the minerals factory for scoring.
And Pauline Kasilati.

The environment of the environment has shown to be compared to the champions of the environment from America, Erfaan Mojgani, when he got the popularity as required to contribute towards the air strikes against Addax Energy SA company (TBA and E) in the year 1993 where the company collected more than 33 billion shillings, a big amount of money ever was witnessed in history of the court in that country.
Although Zuttah won't open up to that level, its efforts were heading to one factory for controlling the minerals that was causing the health of the residents of poor households of Otieno.
From this, he was one of the six people who had been sold to Goldman Awards last year, the awards that make the defending champions with great success.
In addition, he has led to several industries of this type to be defeated by endanger the health of the residents and to do his own name and made him get out of different campaign meetings in various parts of the world.
"I have left the most international conference being together with the Universal Communications Manager of MeTL Group which was organized by Forum For Human Rights Center which was launched in Switzerland, two years ago.
Moreover, that time I had attended the third conference of training and research at the University of that country in America, "he said.
Listen to me, he is the founder of the Center of Center of Tourism, Culture and Social Action Fund (CPA), the organization involved in hand environmental safety especially in areas that are near the industries.
I think it is why people do not see the whole African Continent, I believe that it is due to our life where we all of us are women who contribute to our children without the husband so that we can put up a big environmental issue and succeed.
It started with these campaigns, I was being employed as the supervisor of social relations in the company of Osarika in Mombasa and one of my responsibilities, he started suffering from her son and later was found guilty, he had a huge number of minerals in the body and that Ukawa are expected to realize that he had a huge number of minerals in the body and that is expected to realize that he had a huge number of minerals in the body.
Most of them are being faced with this situation, the first thoughts are of personal interests.
It did not have these feelings especially considering that your efforts were against a wealthy family?
Earlier I decided to change my system as well because I was not supposed to work hard and even so the amount of affliction to the residents of Owino as well as my son would be forced to make better decision and I believe that anyone will be in my position if I believe that anyone will be in my position.
You have ever met with problems of getting employment especially considering that they took the stand against your colleagues and they fell on this issue?
The fear that you are presented in the court about the constitutional authority to provide clean and safe water to citizens.
Well, I was called on an interview with the work but when the end of the last game, I did not succeed if I did not succeed but for now in collaboration with my colleague, that has started in collaboration with my colleague, that makes them open environmental issues facing people living near the industries.
Likewise, this organization is involved with other issues such as leadership, exchange of policies and human rights.
In your activities, you have ever heard life?
Apart from Mombasa, there are other areas that do not take this campaign or well, I urge you who will lead the officers in the high operation of poisoning.
Likewise, our office has the research on all banks in all banks in the country as well as usual those three affected in Mombasa with our campaigns.
