The third wave of revolution has mentioned.
Petit 25, 2014.

The first wave of democratic changes in African countries is the fight for independence, 1950, the African countries who been dominated away by several decades ago and claimed to have the right to inspect their things themselves in their nations.
If the African Union came to come after their few hours walking on the world and participated in the world's premier league, first and the second one, and see the effects of the whites who want them not to understand and lead the fight against the colonialist.
Among them, and later they carried out and rule their country, there are some of their work was easy including Julius Nyerere because Tanganyika was appointed by the United Nations, "after failing to Germany in the first round of the world.
However, some of the African countries, including Kenya, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Mozambique and Angola the biggest work to be done in helping people in the fight including weapons and claimed freedom.
Many times the heavy rains came out in the country where the colonialists had great interests in the country and in nations that they were called until, some of them have been called "couples," they decided to relocate and build a permanent residence.
The Uhuru was found with African people with great hope that at last, it is not only free but the liberation of the economy will follow up in several countries, their hope in the first few years after freedom.
New leaders that were putting the killing of freedom, peace, development, economy, democracy, democracy, most of them have changed to the same way they had promised to an extent that it was seen as the colonialist.

Several years after independence the great law of controlling the opposition parties which were supported through an issue of building a union of the nation and every kind of argument.
It is this years that is where a great war has attained the pace between two big nations in the United States and Russia, each one out of those nations wanted to increase the biggest area in the world.
The time it comes, Africa witnessed the attorney general, Makabe, in different countries, the ruling party did not be permanent due to the army revolution.
By the years of 1980, a lot of cold is expected to reach the end while many countries continue to fall in the Western nations and their financial institutions for the purpose of supporting them economically.
At the same time, it is in the same years of 1980, groups of people and the institutions were affected and claimed that democracy of many parties like the ones in the western countries, have reduced the second risk of claiming the fight against the colonial history.
While the cold is dug in western countries, United States of America, France and other things were in good position to appeal and put conditions for economic, political and social welfare.
