
Bbillion / 1000 in order to build road.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published in 15th of September.

34 billion shillings have been built in the 2016 / 17 budget to be used in building a 71 kilometers level with tarmac roads along with a large percentage in the northern region of Unguja.

The deputy minister of communication, construction and transport of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, Mohammed Ahmada has said the construction of that road is part of the implementation of the Revolutionary Party's manifesto (CCM) in strengthening the infrastructure for road transportation in the villages and villages.
Amhad said that while speaking to the residents of Northern Unguja Province, Mkwajuni, in a tour to inspect the road construction projects where its implementation is expected to start this year.
"The Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication has set up its strategies in that budget as well as the implementation of the CCM manifesto of causing huge renovations on the Bububu road that will make and strengthen the transportation infrastructure," he said.
In addition, Ahmada has denied the habit of some citizens to build the periphery of roads, while the government wants to make the expansion of those roads to be forced to enter into a high cost of compensation.
He said the construction of various construction and 30 meters, are in which the main aim of putting it is to help road safety and different problems including destruction that was done by citizens and invasion of those areas.
The representative of Mkwajuni, Ussi Yahya has urged the ministry to conduct an evaluation of compensation to the citizens who will be affected by their buildings or agricultural crops being connected as a result of the construction of that road.
"We are the residents of Mkwajuni, which the road will be careful, we have been happy with the decision by the government to make major renovations, but we request for it to prepare well including making a compensation for compensation to those who were faced with the effects of the construction," he said.
The road in that road for an amount of tax has been causing huge disturbance to the citizens that use that road, while owners of big tourism hotel wanted the government a lot of holes at the moment the road has had a lot of holes for now.
