During the press (IPC), a situation that is also the government officials and its institutions in the district in collaboration with the coordinator of this project from the National Health Insurance Fund, he did to visit the village to village areas in the district.
To educate citizens about the importance of joining long and attractive, what is to remain so as to reduce if it is not to end the deaths of pregnant people and young children because of reproductive problems when giving birth.
We are prepared to join.
And your family's family behind you and that a total of six people have been forced to pay for ten thousand shillings every person is given a card for a year.
Every time you go to the hospital you want the doctor to ask for us to speak, the person wants to change the weather, so that you can be a lot of services that are provided in the concerned area then it will be easy because it will be easy because money will be easy because money will be available for education.
Still the concerned community have been surrounded by the ordinary citizens who appear to be a great help to pregnant women during the giving of this situation is because of a distance that is available at the health centers, a health center was unable to provide for that work.
The big problem that he was in here is a low quality education they have the witnesses hand in hand with the lack of better medical equipment, especially from health problems when giving birth.
District commissioner of Ileje district, don't want to get married.
He is leading the government officials in that district to educate citizens about the challenges that are in the use of the midwives.
I want you to tell you?
Those things are possible and it was easy for many years.
Women are not there to have a lot of things and problems in time.
And in these things, the things have been changed and they have been changed while our problems are often when they give you the problems that you have never met.
His results, a clean flour to live in home, if you know it is bad and things that he does not understand what he told him.
He took her to the father in what he found himself as a bad state, the preparations will go back to time.
Let me remember.
To see difficult things that they serve the hospital, he is tired of the hospital and he is saying that the hospital are people who died and I think it has been unable since the talk time.
But it is request for you.
The women getting pregnant during the clinic went to health centers in that hospital close to them so as to register this cards to be able to get these services that the government intends to improve it.
The emphasis on government and Tanzanian is famous for citizens about the importance of the new constitution is that now they are involved in getting health services for a whole year, by using ten thousand Tanzanian shillings, which will use six people in one household.
So, the locals have understood that about that project after being given education.
That is when I saw the development and my colleagues have benefit.
If today I could get services to listen, I came back recently, they can realize that you are getting a team of recording.
It is a very big profit because we were where coal was there and an outbreak of diseases because there are a family in six children, you find every time they are from now, how are the first time to pay a lot of shillings.
Three thousand shillings for now, we have every kind that virgin "is so much as we see that it is very great benefits at close to them.
He is happy that the poor because, that means that you will help them easily in getting drugs together with my family when the other time is that I have been forced to do a lot of money.
She believes that your soul will come to the leadership?
So, and the truth of the right time is the first priority.
Now the society has hypocrisy.
Those more citizens in Mbeya Region have encouraged them to see that project so as to bring them to them in accessing health services.
But nationally, there is a challenge of directors concerned to follow up keenly the funds that are made by the government to improve health services through that project.
He has set aside but we see him.
Then because there is no longer and again?
Currencies that we have, I will fight with it too.
That is those who will pay you, they will pay you to borrow for a rebellion like masturbation.
I say this is not good and up to now, they are lucky to be insane.
Because this energy is still there.
Previously.
