Wash your close.
A sister will begin directly on the fanaticism.
When you know it is like that we said at a celebration, it is wrong-old rivals and if you have great opposition, there is no great opposition, there is no one who decided to fail everyone at the estate when they pass it.
Then I will be able to wed by the disease, I will be given here to the benefits of viewers though I should not be with Simba and Yanga.
That it is a big match in the fourth hospital.
Through it is underway.
And first, it is not know that the south of African opponents are big and then we can be a terrorist?
Product products.
TP Mazembe, the late God is married by big opponents that are being stoned.
In the past, we have seen the big opposition that I have now is Simba and Yanga so, then look here to sign him because it is Simba and Yanga soccer club and it is also a day before yesterday and even when he was born in the day before yesterday after Simba won't leave each other.
With those criteria, it shows that the opposition is ready for preparations that are being done, I went back to preparations who went to work.
They have made big preparations that have bought tickets for the whole week which they will be at all the first matches to stop for that, it shows that they have invested for all the preparations which we got into the problem because it was one of the opposition to inform you, the opposition must be careful.
Then.
I want to record.
How the record used to look for here every team wants to set record.
We are looking at behind when we are going back, we are complaining and she has scored many times.
It is not only one that we are going back and he has scored several goals in one match we also also played for Yanga 2 goals that he has already lost back again.
Five and still have already paid those records which are supposed to do someone to look for the record continuing to be there.
And then, the late Almighty God is also a punishment for our leaders to work.
Promised that I will join Yanga as Haruna Chanongo who is not true and to put him in power if a skin and they have been doing.
That is the way it is the source that makes it.
To look for a lot of weapons we are not like we want to know that you come again, how come again you can be affected and even coaches are there, you can make sure that we have this great opposition and this time you enter here.
If a man will face me, I think this one was closed for then for the use of it.
