
22 children, teachers of higher education have been arrested by using.

It has been written by John Gwao.

It has been published today, October 2016.

Regional police in Pwani province is holding 22 children of a clean flour known as Arafa grounds, Mbarali District, Bagamoyo district for allegations of learning how to use those explosions.

Apart from joining those children, those who were arrested were unable to run away, among them 16, female and six female children because of more investigation on that event, the are also taking the teachers, a resident of Mabogini village, on suspicion of running a terrorist attack on children.
According to the report given to the press and the police commander of the province Bonna Mafwele, a resident of science teachers called Arafa, and was arrested during a surprise visit that was done by the army police.
Ngongi has said that the suspect was arrested on first April at nine o'clock in the afternoon due to the reports that have been issued by good citizens about the trend of those teachers' teachers.
He said after a big surprise, they found a bomb attack against 42020, which was known by TTCS in his residence.
"In the previous investigation, we have been able to identify that those houses are owned by Islamic Institute known as Jenipher Mtibua and Bagamoyo for the Coastal Region, but instead they have been used for training that is not fit for the children of that center," said Commander Ngongi.
In another event, unknown people have been arrested in the office of the government in Kimanzichana area, South Sudan and killing one person who has left the police force in Ruvuma province.
Commander Ngongi said that event is the day before yesterday at 11 o'clock in the morning at Mlele District, Mkuranga District, at the time he was filling up the loan forms from the Commercial Bank Bank (SUB), Bakar Said (45) a resident of Maasais.
"Two people suffered a surprise of suddenly they had two weapons and started falling with her mother, Bakari Bakari and their disappearance of a motorcycle," said Ngongi.
He said that the person was killed by being shot on the chest and on the right side and from the left wing, its body being reserved for Mkuranga District Hospital and was handed over to his brothers immediately after the investigation is completed.
Furthermore, in that event, Omary Ally (55), who is the executive officer of Kigongo village in South Africa, has been hurt by being shot dead in the left and he has been admitted to Mkuranga District Hospital for treatment.
"In the scene of the incident that was found out of two hundred thousand shillings being used to identify their security and that we will make sure we are fighting with all our security and all those who need to succeed in their plans they are determined," he said.
