The fate of who carried out money for Arusha through this week.
Autoworks and 11, 2016 by our writer in the northern region.

By Paul Ngalema, Arusha.

The fate of the Chama cha Mapinduzi of Arusha, Director of Saccos (SELF) and credit are Co-Square, which was accused of corruption and giving of loans of 618 million shillings without following the procedure that will be known on August 12 this year, after the registrar of political parties in Arusha province wants to take place in the general meeting of the party.

The reports of corruption and the provision of loans without considering the law and the procedure of political parties were canceled due to this newspaper in its edition of July 6 this year.

Directors of Saccos is made up with civil servants who are in the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, the office of the district commissioner and the Arusha Provincial Hospital in Mount Meru and is estimated to have more than 600 members.

The decision by the registrar called a general meeting of the party to discuss the scandal, came after being ordered by the administrative secretary of Arusha Province, Richard Miles, who has contributed 10 days to get a solution of that incident.

In a report given by the office of the head of August 2 this year, that ruling secretary advised the board of that party and requested the registrar's board to take legal action against them.

Those who were sacked are together with the chairman of that board, Doctor Freedom Makanya, Doctor Mwanaharaka Gwao, Harbinder Singh Sethi.

The report of the ruling secretary explained, "that step was arrived after a large number of members listening to the loans they ask for loans not to be brought back to those who contributed to them, loans to private institutions out of the procedure of members and financial institutions like CRDB, NSSF to claim that a lot of money to the SACCOs."

Speaking to Good Citizen the day before yesterday's registrar, Nunga Kyoma, confirmed to receive the instructions of the ruling secretary of Arusha and added that, after the law of political parties, the issue will be decided and the general meeting on August 12, this year.
According to the law of the district, the leaders have been employed by the party members, therefore, the employer who is the members of the decision and resolutions of the meeting and already we have written news about the meeting in all areas where members are doing work, "said the registrar.

In the news published by this newspaper after doing investigation, it was noted that the financial situation in that party is bad to the extent of affecting the loans to members together with the operations of the party activities.

In addition to that party being unable to restore loans from loans and interest from the members who were shown, the internal reports show that the party is rumored to have financial institutions to millions of money after taking loans from those institutions.

The party?

Among the reasons that are mentioned to be productive to the party in the provision of loans to the manager and the operator of Directors of the party, Christina Sumaye and a big possibility of the board members who had given loans to many foreign groups that are not for workers.

That manager and his board told me that the ones have been unable to manage that party and a lot of money that are estimated to reach 800 million is unknown.

Some of the members who spoke to Good Citizen is retired Anna Mwanga, who explained that she has invested 40 million shillings in that party after getting its own benefits from the year 2012.
"My agreement with a party is that they could have reached an amount of 800,000 American Dollars because after three months, I was forced to make my life, especially by considering that I am happy and is not a person that will be enough for me," explained the retired.

He said in the first months, leaders of that council made their promise but the situation started to change in the year 2013.
I don't go down, I am a patient and it is also a patient and I don't have a lot of looking for me when I arrived at the Mount Meru hospital but I need money and these have refused to give my money, "he said with great disappointment.

The inspection of.

The report of the inspection of the party's accounts that was done by the Head of Political Parties, Arusha, Luizio, has come up, they are giving weight to the claims by those members as a result of many factors that were discovered in that inspection.
