CRDB Bank will continue to improve agriculture.

October 12th, 2016.

The government has urged the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) to continue improving and improve the agricultural sector in order for agriculture to increase and grow the economy of the country.
Moreover, he has requested the board of directors of that bank to make sure that the cost of loans came as the requirements of the government to have a small interest or if possible farmers from getting interest in that bank.
The Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, said that yesterday when he launched the bank's board, the launch which was opened in hand with the bank giving a donation of five million shillings for the victims of the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province.
Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, said that TADB is expected by the nation so that the board is supposed to ensure it involves itself and improving the agricultural sector through great professionalism, he said that the agricultural sector is self-employed more than 70 percent of our country, therefore, that bank has a responsibility to reach many areas of the country.
The chairman of that bank's board, Rosary Kwiyukwa, said in the period of one year since it was started, the bank has given loans worth four billion shillings to small-scale farmers.
He said that bank requires small scale farmers but now it is in the race to expand the scope by reaching many people and that it is prepared to reach many areas.
Rosberg, said in addition to facing challenges of getting capital, but the board that happened its time enabled them to get capital, "said the aim of the bank is to reach many farmers here in the country, therefore he wanted the government to return the capital.
The executive director of that bank Thomas Samkyi while said that bank is in a good state thus he wanted the Ministry of Finance to continue supporting the government so that it can expand the scope.
And the registrar of treasury, Lurence Museru said that the bank has the responsibility of making the agricultural sector to be like another sector "he said it is good for the bank to be added capital that will get 500 billion shillings so that it can do better.
