
The way to prepare a natural gas without chemicals in a way?
Although it will take a long time, the input can bring good results in plants, especially in the poor areas with soil.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Farming is a type of agriculture that consider the use of natural gas due to lack of industries and go up on environmental protection for the purpose of benefit to the community, economic and health.
As a result of a long-term use, land comes back and failed to give better crops, therefore the farmer is forced to look for ways of contraception.
He said that the industries is expensive so that small-scale farmers are unable to cater for their tuition fees and they need to use even food.
If you are in Isere District, it is in Rancho Parrish which is known as a reduction of drought of the agricultural training center of Lowoko, that is in that area, has risen up with the responsibility of giving training to farmers especially pastoralists that are supposed to give revenue, without using a high cost.
"We thank farmers on how to produce small pieces of land, there were tested at a low cost," said the Nyamwezi who is one attendant who had the farming skills (Monte farming), he explains.
Mister Nyamwezi, explains that the easy way is farmers to follow the system of alternative treatments, which is due to the lack of natural resources, that comes from different types, remains of maize and coldness.
"Although it is difficult to do, it has great benefits to the farmer especially those who have a small farms and they can increase many crops," he said.
Mister Nyamgenda, explained the Akilimali.
According to the disease that can destroy the soil at a high cost, and it takes the ground for a long time.
First, you are using products that are available easily and you can be used to increase natural fertility so as to be used as medicine for manslaughter, pest, and also like Areas.
He doesn't increase and understand or build a program of contraception it does not make your weather on foot and helps to prevent water so as to prevent disability easily and therefore increasing the minerals that are supposed to have natural fertility.
This blogger does a gun to have a water or a man to moisture during drought.
"It is also reduced the diseases and pests of plants which are in charge, therefore, plants are usually high and health, this disease did not be filled with water catchment areas like the industries," Mister Geoffrey Adroph.
How to get punctuation marks are collecting things that can hold water for a long time (to have pain).
"Remember that, should not be able to have oil because it will go through the production of worms," says Mister Nyamwezi.
The location remains into small pieces, so that you can make sure that you get in small positions.
A divorce of a bad luck that have enough medicine.
At the moment, we are asked your knowledge of 'pombe yangu' which will enable them to send and read the water you read the way poverty, system, Minusma, many will do well and continue to form another and continue the same way.
However, he said that this disease is hard to make sure, it does not have effects of plants in soil and it does not require many money and this disease can be used to rise in every kind since they will take a short time to be already (three months), "said Mister.
If you have no ability to buy taxes, there are alternative ways that if we use that way, but at this time under a tree with a shadow of a tree and after one month, it will launch so as to enable climate change.
