For your news today, we have forgotten the Tanzanian from Bagamoyo as usual we see our first topics which we believe that farmers get the challenge to get and see their problems and the second meaning of the Bible say that is the creation of Bagamoyo who want to get clean and safe water.
However, you know your news today as usual, we are still in Bagamoyo to get and that we will be after your heart did not lie!
Most of us know that we don't know this, I don't know where I met my colleague in the Masai Warriors, your wealth, it has managed to look and get when we got a way that you can say a presenter in claims.
.
If an auspicious event is what does it mean to give me this saying.
Luseko did not want to know that maybe by me, the news reports that is done by Masai did not ask me if they are.
There is a period that is going on sister I request for me how what is going on here in Bagamoyo where it has caused a little of it.
Here, how to serve you stand for not like the car, we had small children who go to our colleagues in the country without giving them, it will destroy the same way or let me tell you about what you came about it.
I request our government why we are very happy about that the government of Japan is enough to think that I have seen it is not same as it is therefore, we continue with our first topic in this way.
We have back hope that most of you want to know how you want to know how we have here in Bagamoyo for the first time, he says after being allowed.
Farmers get the challenge at the time of releasing their crops.
Father's father.
The child gets to transport the mother to let me tell them when they get when they got in, he will be hours asking themselves.
In a problem what should I don't have?
Number 15678 and I say?
Therefore, and insisted.
Using what?
If you think I see those elders when they get to ask where?
The transport of come up with you will see home to come from their farms so that the government is concerned with all efforts to fight it because there is no need to give himself the transport if it doesn't have a normal number from other countries.
What I think about it is facing a hundred and five hundred thousand shillings.
Animals will start animals.
Because they are believed to have a lot, same as a clothes that does it mean?
What is the church?
They eat their crops here.
When he was heading to then, I was very happy so much for that another time you will be getting back home, I look at home, I thank all farmers again who are going back home in order to control the farmers again.
What is the disease.
And someone she told it depends on that ring.
Let me ask you to get that your efforts is for you to go home, you know that I ask God to go, because you can't have done a great job.
This is not a problem.
It is unacceptable, and you can see the thumb on a person in this they can be avoided, maybe the policies that has been of the government to control it.
If you say?
It is implementing.
Those challenges like to say that the leader said that they have fees paid when maybe if they are.
A strong desire for the private government to contribute to a human being the government can vote for tractors.
We don't know the job can you have since that village is in the village where all the two are contribute to maybe let me ask you that the money for the collection of tax.
I am happy to know why such as a result of the authority to collect revenue because if they do not tire you.
Advice.
That without reasons, I want to know what I have written with us and we will go through the respect of parliament, you know that it is not the mountain to do.
In Moshi the highest compared, the accused says that you started solving the problem of putting up as seen in the way, I saw your problem because there are some revenue that is like that, after and wait for the government yet I need me.
When you are taking the Christmas season that enables the Christmas and transit Camp for what the voter comes up and Mkapa putting up things like this, therefore, we started to go with the problem of water.
Maybe, it was not knowing that we will remember and still getting water.
Right now is the time of the past, we listen to him today, our expert is telling us.
The big challenge that has a challenge that has a great help the farmers talks about the poor.
These people are saying something that you are asking of the big problem is Karrima Carter?
Road infrastructure.
The infrastructure.
He has not arrived in the relevant area, that is like the farm where those are the ones who want to see if you get enough crops, maybe the road is for example of Bagamoyo and other people now get there and there are products that are found there was problems.
There is a long time for those who are happy to land to the cargo from here, maybe until it comes it's a long time which does it be a big challenge which becomes a big challenge to now, and if I wish him a long time now I did not have a person to the picture is a person.
When a person knows how to see if they see if you get the third quarter of the cargo, it has been lost and even the mental health of a phone has been buried and the biggest challenge is to meet the meat is very expensive.
He becomes a farmer who has said, he has already received a lot of problems, you know that it's a problem so that our farmers can grow, your farm has already paid taxes, but you do not depend on, and that you find you are the challenges that we have witnessed, I have never seen me.
If it is a government they could have done a procedure, you will allow you to fulfill what I went to up to some areas where I have no small-scale farmers.
