
Citizen gets a friendly factory for a environment.

It has been written by special writer, Tabora.

It has been reported, 31st October, 2016.

Minister of State, Office of the Vice President in charge of union and environment, January Makamba has congratulated the citizen Leonard Kazoba.
A factory that makes alternative energy in a environment.

While in Tabora Province, January got an opportunity to visit the factory and said that the government values the creativity and the launching of the environment.
"Come from, I am thanking you, there are your efforts through the television program and decide the whole issue and help you," said the Minister for January.
In appreciating the contribution of the factory, "Masau boasted and moved out," the office of the vice president has helped him to get the title deeds of that factory.
The director of FASDO, Totoo Zebingwa, has said that his factory has been given employment to 13 youths and create good technology for the environment.
That factory has reached out more than 50 youths in Tabora Municipality, Urambo District, Mlele, Katavi Region and taught the manufacturing of traditional stoves that have been caught the use of wood and charcoal a 50 percent.
He also praised the machine that has the capacity to produce 430 kilowatts electricity, for a period of five thousand shillings and to produce an average of 1,000 kilograms of charcoal a year.
That factory has shown a machine of drying tobacco using dry land or the remains of the produce as a reduction of diabetes, cooking oil and rice bran.
"The machine has provided good results in Kuala Lumpur to climb it because the average of the three hundred thousand use usually uses one acre of tobacco by using modern tires," he said.
He urged the minister, to help the company to get training on the best way to develop and continue the production of alternative energy especially in the countries that are doing well.
'Mwanakondoo 'was started officially in the year 2000 and got registration in 2013 and given documents (C) / 06 / 48).
