
To give birth to surgery, will stimulate light.
Fistula treatment is stolen from a patient being operated on and it is a service that it makes him a woman to return to his normal state.
Investigators in things have been announced by the increase in line with the problem of fistula treatment.
The statistics of fistula treatment in the country show that the increase in the provinces of Rukwa and Dar es Salaam, while many patients with those who underwent surgery.
The problem has been explained at the time of surgery and some of the doctors run urine from kidney heading to the bladder 'Undule.
And causing a woman to short call without knowing them.
"We start from bitterness for the objection, we are heading into surgery, a lot of money you got now arose from surgery," says the trainer and specialist doctor of dairy products from CCBRT Hospital, Doctor James Mdoe.
He says that compared to the objection that was the main source of reproductive health, right now they are receiving many patients who had received that problem when they were operated on.
The problem is saying it is treated through a surgery which is very big compared to the normal fistula treatment, "you will be you for you for this year up to you to give them the bladder while it takes a lot of time.
The representative of the United Nations Organization that is involved with the population in the world (UNFPA), Christine Ishengoma, says statistics show that are estimated to be 2 million girls living with water disease in the world.
He says that despite that treatment, there are 100,000 new patients every year and out of shillings only are the ones who receive treatment.
"Here in the country it is 3,000 patients who get fistula every year after giving birth as a result of various challenges and below it is 1000 women who are the ones who will be given treatment," says Teacher says every day women are enough for family.
However, he says many women and girls that get water disease have been chosen by the community while many were left with their husbands.
"We get good effects, economically, lack of residence and failing to entertain in the economic issues because they are involving development, equity and the economy," he says.
Giving the real statistics of that disease in the country, the Executive Manager of CCBRT Hospital, Clement Ndaichako said in 2012 the provinces that was leading in having many patients is Kagera, Dar es Salaam and Morogoro.
He said in the year 2013 was the Dodoma, Mtwara, Rukwa, Kigoma, and Arusha while in the year 2015 bought 61 patients from Rukwa, 50, Dar es Salaam, Mtwara, Kagera, Morogoro, and Dodoma.
He says that for a period of 12 years now, despite the size of its treatment services, it has been an obstacle to Tanzania and since the start of that service, they have succeeded to get women who attended the long period with that problem.
"The whole person who was stolen he had 55 years old, was living in a bad state and this is why many areas have not seen," he says.
A voter is what is in brand, he says there is a lot of kinds of pit which includes two major parts of the body that are open, like the cause of urine, a woman does not tire you because there is a mistake.
"It can be the pelvic regions are small than the size of the child, a mother and a good position, because it cannot get out, because there are bones presumed to get the back part, a child takes place so as to get out there.
"Because the head is difficult, that will identify themselves, now, when trouble comes from the effects between the bladder and a way anywhere, meat is dangerous and later it comes a hole," he says.
In brand, he says that a mother can have an unusual circumstance, but the child is in great weight, it is required to do a quick operation and when they see if they see when mother gets the objection.
He says that despite 51 percent are given birth to health professionals, while 49 percent have opened up to the ordinary citizens, where a big number of patients who receive fistula at the moment is being done in several hours when it makes a mother to get fistula treatment including radiation or cancer through radiation.
Signs and effects are in brand, he says that the biggest signs for water is to avoid urine, a great need without knowing yourself, sexual organs for having urine is wrong.
He says the smell of urine is the biggest way it makes her mother to participate in social services, economically, also they are very affected and the heart of them are born, others get married and was born.
"63 percent of these women with a fistula have been left with their husbands, many do not go and the big percentage are disabled," he says.
Prevent and driver, he says she gets into a fistula that is expensive so that we can be able to prevent it is good.
He says the family of the program, education is things that will help the mother to get a fistula, but the mother gets pregnant while the body is in different levels.
He says the issue of the immunity in the country is still, because of the recent statistics have shown that 27 percent only are the ones that use reproductive rights.
"In order to reduce the water problem, it is to start the clinic early after being pregnant, infrastructure and health centers, not getting services and the presence of correct treatment and enough medical equipment," he says.
Opinion or questions do not get health, Kalist Yachile and 77114889 percent.
