For Magufuli, the fight against corruption should be avoided.
Brightiles 11, 2015.

Names of me deserted me, a good star appears in the morning by the fifth President, John Magufuli seems to start with a good leg for standing on the side of many people and seen, through his campaigns that made him to power, that she is very disturbing and corruption.
It is true that bribery and corruption have a lot of number one that the public wants President Kikwete in power so that he is ready to fight against corruption, the public will be behind him in fighting corruption and corruption having their president.
President John Magufuli is doing well by starting with his government including executives and that he does not have any way instead, he says that he is complaining of bribery and corruption in order to start and form the government with integrity and corruption.
This will be a great revolution system that will remain in the history of growth of our country for the coming years.
And there's no one who succeeded to do a revolution in the system and they have succeeded to see the example of Singapore city it has been written, that Singapore is a very big area (five million shillings), which is not allowed to be a lot of diseases, discrimination, color or religion, which are not allowed to be infected by artists.
The Singapore city started as a village of few fishermen and 83 households of these mosquitoes in spreading malaria diseases from Dar es Salaam, which were involved in different parts living in Dar es Salaam city, which were working on a piece of argument and followed up with skin rashes.
Despite the bad qualities, Singapore was competed among in England and China due to their geographic division with an aim of making a place to do business and warehouses is a big market like drug trafficking under China.
Last year 1988 was formed under the United Republic of Malezi ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za simu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakalia of China were found with resources and the area to continue expansion of the small town of praying for dirty and safe water.
Further, it was requested for water and food from outside to help living in the country, although it was independent, fruits, fruits and cold drinks, equivalent to 14 percent compared to 14 percent.
Singapore was asked by heavy questions, where Singapore is living in a world of which state is in Singapore is out and it's heading to school so as to make a dream of better life to its citizens?
Singapore decided to develop themselves so as to protect themselves from each other, Majuto and she will start many years before 1960.
In order to control poverty and lack of good ethics, the government was forced to address the issue of fighting corruption and corruption so that they can be taken to reduce poverty, Singapore was forced to rise and build afresh the port and of the third phase, although the Singapore was found to be called so.
Today, Singapore is Dar es Salaam port which is high in all countries of Australia, New Zealand, and far East Africa, there is a very big business and it cannot be compared to the business that goes through Dar es Salaam to the neighboring countries.
