
And asked the sponsors of the vehicle.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published today 27th October, 2016.

The government's newspaper analysis (TFDA) that supports the Daily News newspaper, Sunday night, will be among the sponsors of the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TOFEST) this year, being the third season of the festival.

Speaking about the sponsorship yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the sales and marketing manager of TSN, being used in, Maganga said that they have sponsored them on the media and they have given enough information about that festival that will take place at Biafra grounds Kinondoni in Dar es Salaam city.
He said that in that festival that is expected to take place for three days from tomorrow, TSN will be showing its products including the newspapers in the past years that have risen up news with different history.
"We are just like the government's newspapers we will also show our news, we will show our newspapers and people will learn a lot from the past years including the war of Kagera and a case for instance, we can get many information and learn a lot," he said.
Earlier, the Executive coordinator of TOFEST has said the guest of honor at the opening of the festival is expected to be the minister of industry, trade, and investment, Charles Mwijage.
He said the festival will be making new vehicles, new issues of motorcycle riders, entertainment entertainment for the family.
He said that for now many people are unable to care well for their vehicles due to lack of education, therefore, that festival has been advised to continue bringing different types of products of fire equipment and services so that stakeholders can learn that they can make them feel.
He added that, apart from those shows, this year there will be a donation of blood.
He said there will also be different entertainment and skills of playing with fire equipment, and there will also be a special area for the purpose of children's games.
The entrance to that festival will be 10,000 shillings and Thomas V.
