Yanga defeated their second.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

The defending champions of Tanzania Mainland, Yanga will play against JKT Ruvu in the second game, that will be played at Uhuru Stadium.

This was a game that Yanga has managed to play in the beginning of the season, but he was unable to do that after the moving ahead of the international tournament.
The squad will arrive at the pitch without its head coach, Hans Pluijm, who resigned from his position the day before yesterday, and now the report from Yanga explained that the squad will be under the assistant coach Juma Mwambusi and manager Hafidh Salehe, to the leadership of that team you decide their fate.
Pluijm has resigned after the coming reports of the new coach of Zesco United coach George Lwandamina being scored in the city of talks with chairman Yusuf Manji as the purpose of taking him from Pluijm.
That is an important game for Yanga to win so as to continue doing the environment of being close to their opponents Simba, who have left out a difference of eight points.
Yanga has already played 10 games, has won three matches, and lost one draw, and lost 1 points and JKT Ruvu playing 11 matches, has won six matches and lost four points to hold the second position with nine points.
The JKT Ruvu team despite doing good registration, has still not been able to do well this season, because it continues to rise up to day.
Last season, Yanga was unable to retire from JKT Ruvu after winning all two matches against their opponents after winning 4-1 in the first game before getting to 4-0 in the repeat game at the National Stadium.
Despite JKT Ruvu doing badly, it's still not a team to be played for, that game may be difficult because of each one to be in an opportunity to allow victory.
In another step, after Pluijm to release that level the other day, yesterday there was a seminar to officially bid farewell to the players and his colleagues in the technical bench.
Pluijm has called for the players to continue being unable to defend the championship, good discipline, each other and put it in the interests of the team than personal interests.
On behalf of his colleagues, captain Arsene Wenger gave a vote of thanks to coach and promised to work his advice and all that he was teaching.
The recent days the leadership of Yanga was announcing the existence of changes in the technical bench and already it has employed the French Jerome Dongo to be the chief executive officer for a three-year contract.
According to Yanga's report yesterday on their website, Dumu has said that he will supervise the whole trend of the club together with the management of funds (plans and expenditure).
That French man will start his intention to start on November 19th this year.
