
"We will partner with the citizens to ensure that we protect the peace."

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published in September 2016.

The Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) has said that it has been extended to cooperate with the citizens because the partnership is important in order to protect and promote peace in the country.

That was said yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the commander of the East African region, Sharif Othman, during the commemoration of 52 years of the army.
The commemorations were going on hand in hand with the cleaning activities at the Lugalo Army Primary School, Othman, said the army is unable to depend on the citizens at the time of doing his work thus their partnership is an important thing.
"We are fish and the citizens are water, the fish cannot live without water because they depend on for your cooperation which is important in building our country and to make sure we are in peace that we have," said Othman.
He also congratulated the peace committee of Dar es Salaam Province, because they are partnering with the army to do a clean up by getting involved in various issues including praying for peace in Tanzania.
On his part, the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Paul Mkonga, thanked that army for attaining 52 years, being stable and of cooperation.
"52 years is not small, I know you have lost many soldiers to ensure that you protect peace, I urge you to see the army is stable for all the time, I urge you to continue to make sure the army is stable for all the time, I urge you to continue using our reason," said Makonda.
He said our army is an example to be followed because it has been able to bring peace in various countries. Makonda left the army and all the army to participate in my tree campaign which is expected to be launched on first October by planting trees.
The chairman of the peace committee of Dar es Salaam province, Alhad Mussa Salum, said that his committee has decided to support the army by participating in cleaning the aim being about the performance of his work.
He also said in ensuring that they have been supporting Makonda in his efforts to ensure the city is clean, the committee will participate in the campaign for planting trees of October first.
