The importation of livestock threat in the nation.
Petit 30, 2016.

The increase in importation of livestock in the National Reserve in Tanzania is a threat to land together with the increase of crimes against the wildlife that has been known.
Reports show that there has been an increase in importation of livestock in National Parks (TANAPA) especially in the North and western areas of the country.
Apart from within the country, information have shown that livestock has also reduced from neighboring countries including Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda, a situation that is a threat to the lives of livestock together with the wildlife conservation.
According to the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Professor Jumanne Maghembe, starting in the year 2010 to last year more than 2331 livestock has been removed in various national park.
Areas that were affected more according to Professor Maghembe at the location of the Serengeti National Park and Mikumi national park.
Big reasons that cause the increase in livestock in conservation of conservation, according to Professor Maghembe is looking for food areas together with water.
He said many areas in the North of the country, which have a large number of livestock has been faced with a situation that causes many farmers to come to Morogoro, Iringa and Katavi especially the areas of the national park.
"Shows that the policies of livestock which is able to put a environment for breeders so that they are not present fully," said Professor Maghembe.
Tanzania is estimated to have 21 million livestock by 1 percent and the number usually increased by 9 percent per year, livestock sector contributes up to 2 percent in the national income while tourism has contributed 54 percent of the national income.
Professor Maghembe said that as a result of not being followed by the policy of livestock, many farmers have been living a good life organized because many of them have no special areas for the purpose of getting their livestock.
That minister said he believes that the big problem of the increase in livestock in the reserve is caused by politics, where many politicians have been accused the farmers who have been arrested in the reserve and claimed that they are oppressed.
He said that if the government will organize a special program that will enable them to come out to livestock in various parts of the country, it will cause a reduction or be shown to the problem.
The effects of put in livestock in the reserve areas in accordance with the experts of wildlife issues is that the livestock are usually in danger because it can carry cancer diseases.
Tanzania is one of the countries that are leading in having high-quality attraction sites in the world and there are more than 50 areas like terrorism which are big attraction for local tourists.
Tourism sector contributes up to one million and a half million shillings and the government's plan is to increase the number to reach two million employment in the short time future.
Right now Tanzania is producing one million tourists to the year that involves two billion US dollars for a year as it was last year (four trillion shillings).
The government's plans according to Professor Maghembe is increasing the number to reach three million tourists in a year which they will pay an amount of 7 billion American dollars (7 trillion shillings) in the economy.
However, apart from the importation of livestock in national park, the issue of crimes especially of elephants, Titus, and Simba has become a great challenge in improving the conservation and developing the tourism sector.
