
Diamond Mchaga answered Yesuu!

A Tanzanian artist Nasibu Abdul, "Diamond Platinumz," found himself shot himself as a small child to his fans following his fans asking him to vote "when he went to her" her new song.

The event which has been found to open the mouth, this happening took place on Wednesday night (December 26th, 2015) inside "Dar es Salaam National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city where the star had decided to move on stage with the great show known as Funga.

A few minutes before Diamond has told the killing of his fans that he requested him to be happy "for the new song.

While singing when she was born, his fans found without holding back, she told me she sees it "because the song has every sign of him to end in Bongo Flavor music.

However, despite fans to sign him so, some of them started being touched by the new poems, a situation that led Diamond also starts the right and failed to continue doing that song.

Following that situation, her sister was on his father's side, Abdul Jumaa, the actor Abdul Diamond, "Queen Darleen" followed him on the stage and been able to release her as a sign of the national flag which also her sister was using him to marry off his brother.

Diamond was taken back on stage where if he saw the queen Darleen, his manager Hamis Talal, "Babu Tale" and also used an additional force to visit the star while asking him that he is giving him that fans.

Despite Babu Tale (wisdom of bad luck), Diamond continued to right, this journey with a lot of pain and even refusing to be asked or to be told any words that are seen "if they have no wisdom in her.

"You don't have a reason to continue with my brother because they do not produce or continue having wealth, it is no one who does not meet his colleague as God has not set it that," said Babu Tale and Diamond did not listen.

Diamond is against himself later following communication inside his skill of told him, "it has shown a lot, a youth that is enough for now.

That cry, made the show because Diamond did not return again on stage after failing to decide his songs and make her fans to put him that day in memory.
