
The cost of phones in the country are still ongoing in the country.

July 31, 2016.

In Tanzania together with reducing the cost of a mobile phone from 113 up to 34, still among the countries that get high prices of communication services compared to the income of the citizens in the country (TCRA-CCC) and efforts are needed to reduce those prices which are an obstacle to the economy of our country.
That statement was issued yesterday in Mwanza City by the Deputy Chairperson of TCB-CCC, Joseph Kessy, when he was welcoming the guest of honor at the seminar of giving education to the sponsors of the communication and broadcasting services, on the rights and their responsibilities as users.
He said the cost of a fake phones is big by TCB-CCC together with other stakeholders, including the Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) and the government.
Moreover, he claimed that together with the price that the number of customers has increased from 100,000 shillings to 25 million since 1995, he has said that those communication services do not have the ratio between the city and rural areas to be sold in town where 20 percent of Tanzanians are living.
He said that the growth of technology has been a lot of challenges because the communication sector some of the communication sector some of the use of services and causing conflicts in communication services as well as other stakeholders to know the rights, laws and responsibilities.
He said the law has given education to the public to priority and it has the ability to save a human being infected with ethics, therefore the council has a great job to develop and put strategies and strategies to improve education to the users of the communication sector.
Engineer Ndikilo claimed one of the achievements, Mister in the fields of the information and communication technology has been brought to the internet whose main foundation is the development of science and technology.
"The benefits of technology to the users of these services include, given an example of mobile phones, statistics show there is 25 million users compared to 100,000 users in the year 1995," he said.
