
Vodacom has given out an increase in revenue.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

Vodacom mobile phone company has said that the increase of income of 1 billion shillings has no standards and opening a new machine for coordinating the phone revenue or taxes which have not been paid in the previous years due to the new law of the year 2016.

Moreover, the official statistics.
The company was giving tax tax for funds that are sent in an average of 360 million shillings per month, but after the changes in July, this year has paid 1 billion shillings.
According to the Executive Director of Vodacom, Ian Ferrao who is alleged that the new law has increased the scope of taxes in the communication sector by increasing 10 percent of the tax collection by providing money on phone and not on it on transactions.
He said that due to many users being unable to sustain his costs and the income that increased, a situation that will not turn back, a situation that will bring back the efforts to enable us to be in the official system of financial use.
He said, the increase, which is far from the value-added tax (VAT) which is already paid the results of this increase, our payment of tax has increased to 16 billion shillings per month, "said Mwaya.
He said the company has been on the forefront to contribute to the government's income and to participate in community development and economic development through different levels.
He said in the period of the financial year that ended on March 2016, Vodacom Tanzania used more than 367 billion shillings in the collection of government tax.
The communication sector in Tanzania is the second by being taxed in the whole African continent, a situation that affects the challenges of investors in the sector especially in building better infrastructure.
New financial law of this year passed about misuse of tax in the fees of sending and receiving money in banks and phones has begun to bear fruit due to the increase of revenue from phone companies.
