
Caterpillar working in Dodoma that a special region.

It has been written by special writer, Dodoma.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The Manager of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) in Dodoma Province, Zakari Temu said that it is good for the province to be given a special region of special region so as to avoid challenges of the coming of the government in Dodoma.

He gave the request the day before yesterday when he was giving the performance report of TANESCO in Dodoma province before the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who arrived at the facility and denied the electricity prices, outside the city of Dodoma, to inspect the real needs of electricity compared to the coming of servants in that province, Temu said.
"We request our province of Dodoma which is the headquarters to be handled by an eye for an eye and given the status of special region as it is in Dar es Salaam where there are four provinces, TANESCO.
"Dar es Salaam has four provinces of Ilala, Kinondoni, Temeke and Mikocheni and our province are required to carry all the responsibilities of the government as they took place currently in Dar es Salaam city. Therefore, we urge you to be priority in human resources, transport and working tools," he said.
He said TANESCO needs to do very fast so as to sustain the wave of employees not to return to Dodoma while explaining about the improvement of the construction of 400 kilovolts electricity from Iringa to Shinyanga through Dodoma, it will improve the availability of electricity in Dodoma city.
"Electricity is available in a good work and it doesn't have a good work and it is now a problem of power blackout at a large extent, there is a probability of making maintenance at one way of electricity without considering the availability of electricity as it was previously," he said.
He said that the work that is going on now is to change the electricity pillar that were stolen, to change the amount of 85 percent to 781 tons in order to reduce the shortage of electricity and bring in those ways in municipality which have electricity through 11,070,00 shillings.
He said that apart from spreading electricity through the circulation of the city, they increase the big medical centers and denied the electricity infrastructure so as to enable some districts in the border areas to buy electricity from neighboring provinces during maintenance or electricity problem.
"We go to the district of the Gairo district to get electricity from Morogoro, Mpwapwa, especially areas of Chiponda village which is very close to Shinyanga, we want the district to get electricity from Dodoma instead of Babati as it is now," he said.
He advised the prime minister that the electricity generated from Tegeta Thermal Power Station, is enough for now and even later, since they are producing 48 megawatts while the high level is 25 megawatts and therefore be paid for more than 23 megawatts.
At the same time, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered the leaders of TANESCO in Dodoma province to ensure they take their electricity infrastructure in areas that are tested in plots so as to buy the service is ready.
