What happened this morning.
It will help the infrastructure which becomes the today's day and children have been trying to pass through the reserve fund for two thousand and eight years as usual we will begin to focus directly in this law and also two thousand shillings.
We look at this community service which we become a right to every Tanzanian who is depending on the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania Mainland, two hundred and eight hundred thousand in the world, only one hundred and eight hundred thousand in the world and three hundred thousand in the world.
One thousand only one hundred and eight hundred thousand, the law has been discovered that a Tanzanian has the right to have a pension fund in the community.
Why now it decided to be careful and will be used for a new and eight year policy, it means this was known by time or this was a lot of weaknesses and they decided to now be able to put a new year old law.
Basically we need to pray for the whole process of the park.
It is very much that when he gets to workers alone.
It is one hour that is looking at the community as a whole.
And is divided into the village, we are looking at all levels.
There are the first drug David, and those who do not want.
Where basically they don't have a work, it does not want it to talk about anything and he cannot do anything.
Therefore, if you go to you in a system that if a community must be able to see and protect themselves so that they can continue being arrogant.
There are not the second one who uses contributions for a must that even the workers are coming with a new song, he didn't know what they took.
In the period, there is also funds that has started and that this person has not received.
The foundation thing will not happen on how to go through what I don't have?
To bring a income because it's as the income to sell and go back further, I will find you despite the party so as to be able to be treated.
Now, so as to be able to put in the world's declaration of private rights so far, it will protect the concept of the whole world.
Why is it?
One of them told me that they put him in large numbers to prepare for workers.
Visitors looking at a community like he believed in the public, it will be put on opinion polls to be put but now to keep in mind that the environment is growing up until day and other things like them.
Almighty God rest before the presence of twenty-year policies.
From the Social Security Fund, but it was not a mid-fielder.
Every fund had even called me in competitions like the wards that are doing so.
But now later as to see.
If you go down, when you go to you, you will not understand why someone is with a person who is not seen.
The groom did God to forgive him who's work.
I became so that it's not only that here there are P-Square, P-Square, while all of us do not know what we are doing, but the supervisor of this fund that for now, the policies to discover other things that put it well as the supervisor of this fund.
The community reserve, but in addition to those, it's just to sit down the court then I was required to have administration and chicken in Grace or other things.
The community service sector as it is in Italy.
