Njombe did not want to change the economy of industries.
Hudugu Ng'amilo, 2016.

While the fifth term government emphasizing that Tanzania does not lie to be a economy of industries, some of the citizens and the development stakeholders of Njombe Province, they have proposed that those regions have also agreed.

This is because the province has a lot of resources that could enable it to become a small and small industries in the agricultural and forestry sector.

While speaking to Good Citizen on different times, some of the development stakeholders have said that if the government wants the sector of industries to have benefits to the whole nation, then the issue of industries being maintained in the province of Dar es Salaam and big cities, but also new provinces and the ones with a small economy.

Njombe Province which has resulted from the end of Iringa province has a lot of resources that could enable the start of big and small industries, and this step will be productive to the citizens especially the production of employment and growing income to the citizens.

"We have seen the great strength of the start of industries that have been directed in Dar es Salaam city and other big provinces in the country but we are supposed to be remembered because we have enough resources to be used since industries, not small and small businesses," said Pastor Junction.

While speaking in an interview with Raia Mwema, Luhwavi, who is also the farmer said that the province has a lot of resources including fruit juices.

"We have been with small scale industries that we have not meet the needs of farmers, a situation that has caused many production of agriculture and fruits leading in the internet, due to not being given value," said Pastor Maboya.

"We've heard that Tanzania is heading to be the country of industries but we have never seen any efforts in Njombe Province."

On the side of forests, the residents of Njombe Province are still saying that the sector is difficult because there is no reliable market for timber and they would like to sell the natural resources since the presence of industries would have been a solution.

They advise that, because the province is going for producing trees, especially for small-scale farmers, the government would have started a big market of forest products so as to do revenue generated from the whole period of value of that product to remain inside and benefit many people especially the youth.

However, together with having a lot of resources, the problem of infrastructure such as roads, electricity and water has been a challenge of non-scale farmers in agriculture and forests.

On the tea time, which is the main aim of the citizens of that province to get freedom, still the situation is not good because the price they are given due to selling that product does not help to run their lives.

The marketing officer of the District Council of Njombe Province, Rebecca Malope has said the biggest challenge is different producers to be unable to join the district, a step that would enable them to get business services.

The officer has mentioned other challenges as lack of misuse of agriculture with quality, a situation that causes the production of crops, especially food including maize, sunflower and beans.

Also, lack of education in business and business has also caused many producers to use a lot of energy in production and causing a little produce.

However, the cooperative party is continuing to provide education to big producers that province to join agriculture, because it is the solution to the challenges of markets and services of loans and access to better input.
