
And is a teaser of Lowassa to increase.

There are a new research about the professional that explains his validity.

And the aim of JK has been added strength and new research for PT.

As the intention of a member of the executive committee, Jerry Slaa gave the answers of Nape and January "our party is a must for the products needed in the market, that concern them and meet the need of you.

There are a lot of research about the strength of the opposition, Lowassa, and Membe, will be able to use the System of the whole issue when Lowassa will put aside a surprise of Lowassa for the public.

A non-governmental organization of the song 'Thriller' in Tanzania has given his research report about a politician who is well prepared by the citizens in the position of President Nyusi, Lowassa will lead with the 2 position that was led by Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa as Mwigulu Nchemba to shine as the youth that led it by winning number 3.

It is a list of the politicians who showed up to the best 10 and a percentage of the votes they got.

1 - Edward Lowassa amounting to 8 percent.
2 -.
3-1, Mwigulu Nchemba on 6 percent.
4 - Professor Ibrahim Lipumba 89.
5 - Doctor John Magufuli 68.
6 percent of Zitto Kabwe 67.
7 kilometers, Bernard Membe 59.
8-kilometer, Mizengo Pinda being 2 percent.
9th - January Makamba at 6 percent.
10 - of Mark Mwandosya (2).

These research has gone through the great and great lawyers, Edward Lowassa as the leader for community development of Tanzania because the percent group he got Lowassa is obvious that the elections is happening today then he has a great opportunity to win that election.

This is not different from the candidates inside CCM who will be prepared by the party, a party will have been forced to use great strength so as to get a victory and victory that you can be sold to one percent just after the repeat election, after a repeat of, after the first round, after a repeat of.

These research taking the statement by Honorable chairperson and the president of Geology, since he said, "it was coming from there is a person who was enough to let me ask him to vie for the presidency.

For these research, people will get answers after hundreds of Tanzanians are forced to convince Edward Lowassa to vie for, "said recently a member of the executive committee of brother Jerry Tegete and she is able to sign that ruling party," this statement was happy and told the party or not to leave the party.

This statement was opposed by statistics of research professionally as Lowassa is same as the fire which had already been stopped, he also said this statement was a answer to January Makamba after he was required to grow his political politics and get married and get legal justification.

He said mother Sophia Mjema, a member of the main committee to pray for me "if you believe my colleagues are supposed to get money so that when two people who use their cargo through the government through the government is supposed to ensure that two people who use their cargo through the government will be able to ensure different groups to support them.

Recently, there have been the presence of various groups that were given and receiving bribes from the ones that were given and receiving bribes from the mistake of using their freedom and their good intention to convince him to vie for the presidency.
