The fate of MV Victoria in a pose.
28th of 11, 2016 by eternal peace.

The renovation of MV Lake Victoria who previously was planned to be completed in July 2015, now, it is not expected to be completed and the completion of the money facing the Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL), has been known.
The government through the Ministry of Transport directed the ship to do a journey in Lake Victoria to December 2014 due to the long time that had caused a huge problem to time.
That step was done so as to avoid that ship and the danger of getting an accident and endanger the lives of passengers, but also giving it a chance to have a huge renovation.
According to the MSabatama, a problem that has been involved more on one engines, two engines of that ship, different meanings in the ship (high table), Maasais' (big one) and take over.
Mv Victoria made the year 1960 in Scotland with the ability to carry 1,200 passengers and 200 tons of goods, has been doing the journey between Mwanza and Bukoba Municipality in Kagera province for a period of 54 years ago on December 2014.
However, while the renovation of the ship were planned to start on January and completed in July last year at a cost of one billion shillings, it was explained that it was late for more than two years due to the government waiting for money to stop the activities.
Different from the previous decision, the plan that is there for now is to be able to review the ship for a special maintenance at every area like 521 billion and 4 billion shillings that were requested by the government.
"At the moment, this ship needs to be careful so as to undergo a huge renovations so as to go hand in hand with the market unable to go hand in hand with the market unable to go hand in hand with the market unable to go hand in hand with the market unable to go hand in hand with the market unable to go hand in hand with the market to withstand the competition in the day before yesterday.
Apart from the renovation of various equipment which will cost 54 billion shillings, the MSCL) is looking at the possibility of uprooting the engines of that ship and put a new cost of 12 billion shillings, whereby the recommendations of the cost is expected to be presented to the government's budget of the year 2016 / 2017.
Lugiko has emphasized that he is not sure that when the renovations of the ship will start, because they are still waiting for money and that it will be just immediately the office will get that amount of money and start the process of importation of concerned equipment from outside the country.
According to MSCL, the signing of the purchase of equipment for renovating the ship has already been announced officially by the government, where the Dietmar Beekeeping Association from South Korea has won the contract since the year 2012.
Mke Mwema have witnessed MV Victoria to continue languishing in the South Pemba Island to come from December the year 2014 to wait for renovation.
The senior officer of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) in the city of Mwanza, has requested not to be mentioned by the name because it is not the spokesperson of that authority, he has said that they are ready to allow that ship to be stopped at the port without any explanation that he didn't have already started maintenance.
The preparations were completed, the renovation of MV Victoria will be held under the management of the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA).
It will be remembered that a few days before that ship was constructed from doing their journey in December 2014, MSCL, entered into a scandal to endanger the safety of that agency and the lives of its passengers.
That resulted from the action of the leadership of that company to comply with the directive of SUMATRA he intends to stop the journey of that ship in order to be the first priority.
The MSCL) under the acting General Manager at that time, Fabian Masimba, decided to have the transport to go to Bukoba before the ban and getting a permit from SUMATRA.
The officer in charge of SUMATRA he is in Mwanza province at that time, Bahati a funeral, told BBC Mwema, he told BBC our leadership that made the procedures and put on any changes made by the authority.
"MSCL, who passed through 1949 in the evening a fine, 3348, will go to inspect that ship on December 16 this year in order to be satisfied with the problem that was there in Bukoba," said a funeral.
"He said few days later," added the funeral of our colleagues from Dar es Salaam, they follow the ship in Bukoba to inspect and identify that they still have problems in one engines and other areas.
"Therefore, the officers of SUMATRA they were forced to use one engines that has resulted to the transportation of the ship from Bukoba to Mwanza because of renovations, and they traveled with cargo without passengers."
