
What is celebrated by artists is to follow the way he performed with Diamond Platinumz.
I was able to see Vanessa Mdee as the international artist, that is a level, its' level has its own branches and the type of singing and how you put it so.
I saw him as an artist who can be Diamond Platnumz for the size of the name that is being recognized because he has many things to go.
First, he knows the language of English well, secondly, he has worked at MTVEMA station and finally he knows in making and singing.
Vanessa's songs is different from many Bongo movie star, when you came to listen to the Vanessa's song you will not love but you will not like more when you listen.
It's not those songs with the sweetness of Big G, you should listen to the two days has ended the sweetness of today listening to his songs Clatchy Marist or Never Ending, which will accept to be a songs that can live in many years.
Vanessa as they were given the other artists so as to follow through Diamond in the footsteps of Diamond by considering that she has ever done or what he did.
What happens that Vanessa got an incident when he abandoned Diamond, is that these people are getting in a different history, one is the first one, the child of Tandale.
That is why Diamond depends on a circle here is not seen that he has done a lot of differences, it's music that is supposed to have dropped due to his history that he likes to buy.
Now Vanessa who even Swahili does not help her well, he would be able to do a open environment instead of planting trees so as to look at a bad luck when he gets to the sun and not for a long time when you get completely.
I would not be surprised when I commend his girlfriend, Shaa and Wiz Khalifa whom they have a conflict if these are singers from a higher level.
Getting into that conflict that supports the artist Shilole, in addition, I know the intention is to make the J Mhonda's fans and Snura has said that the truth is unacceptable, it is not a bridge of its own kind instead of going back behind by accepting to return.
My advice to Vanessa Mdee does not tell you that he got the conflict that had been Shilole and to reduce.
Music and the scandal was able to put Diamond only.
Another one.
