Money to buy the votes are where?
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

It is not something to instill doubt again that the next general elections is dominated by money like another election ago, there is my friend living outside the country, he has plans to vie for a member of parliament in a certain region with a big veteran in the country.
I talked about if he has more than 500 million to come into the fight because we do not have a thirst for rights, better administration, development of the country, security of human resources but they have a thirst for money.
With the money you can buy rights, you can rule, you can destroy the national resources without being touched by the money you can buy examinations, buying certificates and living a better life, that youth has said he will collect money from Europe and come to fight with a big campaign of CCM.
.
The criterion is not a reputation and the ability to work, but it is money!
I personally, concerning the general elections, I'm suffering from two things, I don't know that you are suffering from several hazards and maybe no one does not lie!
Secondly, what does it mean to know what we are not covered and why do not be false to the politicians like 1995, a lot of promises that were issued, I failed to say that they are implemented because we are needed the noise from poverty.

Those promises were required to reduce the grace by the year 2000 and now it is almost 20 years to continue singing the poverty song! Is my faith that these things that you recognize him are inspiring.
Also, I cannot be surprised that there are believers that do not be touched by this fact that we have people living because they live.
It is not the aim of this article to discuss people living without a question and without having different goals, this is a long debate where I will discuss two things that make her soul in the general elections.
These are the money where why is why we are not able to see any symptoms before the elections are there people who are known for example, today if Reginald Mengi, decided to use his money to buy votes, no one will find the money they got.
We thank the IPP Limited that has made many employment opportunities for Tanzanians and it is continuing to produce other employment opportunities especially every time in the beginning of the year, Mzee Mengi, has condemned the disabled children, they sell and enjoy yourself, also they give different prizes to the disabled and money which are used to do all.
Many, he has been on the front line to help various people in our community, they will help the orphaned children, in the estates, he wants the youth who their families do not have the ability.
What I want to say it is that we know you are looking for money, and that money wants him to help him and help them to help the economy of our nation.
There are some of the others with industries and other business activities we should know, although others are difficult to know where they got capital, but they are doing things to use their money, you can't have many questions.
