
JPM intervene in the sexual violence.

It has been written by our journalists.

It has been published in October 2016.

It is clear that the fifth term government under President John Magufuli has begun to prove out acts that the debt of Tanzania outside the country is clear after starting to pay part of the debt, being under one year in power.

The statistics that were given at the end of the week by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu said that the growth of the economy continues with fast, a step that has enabled the government to start paying debts and implement big development plans.
While confirming the ability of the government to start paying the debt of outside the country, which has been made a lot of noise from members of parliament especially in the opposition camp that it did not meet their debts.
Governor Ndulu said that the day before yesterday that BoT has started paying all within and out of its local money where already it has already paid 40 billion American dollars, while it has already paid 90 million American dollars (equivalent to 190 billion shillings) of his foreign debt.
He said following the government to pay 96 billion shillings of the internal debt, the debt caused an amount of 920 trillion shillings while the international debt that is out of 620 million dollars from Stanbic Bank, are reduced by 90 million dollars.
Ndulu explained that citizens that, Tanzania's economy is stable, there are enough money for foreign funds that will reach 4 billion dollars, while continuing to use its financial money to run the country's activities without using loan from outside, despite that it is needed especially at an affordable price.
"There is no money even in the parts that we had used to pay great debts and I see that we still have a great extent, to say only now the government has run for its internal money," said Ndulu.
Improving by Revenue, speaking to the journalists this Thursday, the Executive Director of NBS, Doctor Albina Chuwa said during the second phase of this year, the national income has continued to grow fast on 79th percent compared to 59 percent of the second quarter year of last year.
Chuwa, said as a result of the speed of economy is going on now, it may be by December this year, in the third phase of the national income and added more.
He said according to the statistics that are there, the national income has opened a total of 11,07 trillion shillings compared to 109 trillion shillings in the same period of last year.
And Governor Ndulu speaking about the state of economy the day before yesterday, he said the growth of the National Identification Authority in the first half of the year January to June, has increased by 67 percent from 57th and 7 percent for the first half of the year 2015.
He said in the second quarter of the year 2016, the growth of the National Identification Authority is estimated to be increased by 79 percent compared to an increase of 55,731 compared to that period in the year 2015.
He said the activities that contribute to the growth of economic growth has a great amount to the first half of the year 2016, transport and conservation of 1665 percent, the construction of 107 percent and 157 percent.
Speaking about that success yesterday, the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Benson Bana, said that those are open signs and that now the government has a big financial ability than it was in the past.
If you check the statistics of economic growth and big projects that are happening, it is clear that the statement by President Magufuli that the government has the ability to pay debts but also to buy the plane and implement various development projects for local governments, it is possible, "said Bana.
