
MRC does not register their followers.
By Bashir Yakub.
The two sides in the village of Kilongo are reduced due to the news that is used to register members of the group that was banned by the Republican Party (MRC).
Police commissioner of Kilongawima area, Mister Joseph Kifu said yesterday that the police have got reliable information from the mud which is used in Magoza village, are used as stations for residents to join MRC.
"We met with two believers from the streets that they have decided to cooperate with us in our investigation, while the heavy rainfall has also got a long list of people who are expecting to be questioned, so as to give information about the cooperatives on the illegal group."
Said Mister Boers.
He was giving a speech when he was addressing his speech in Mkonkole area in Kilongawima area, where some of the believers and the party members of hunger are being questioned.
"The previous investigation shows that dates shows that in the afternoon, the truth is that they have joined the illegal group," he said.
Mister Khajida Kopa, there is a possibility that the group is just two times and there are those who drive registration of 100 shillings to someone who wants to be a member.
Moreover, he said that the group has started strategies of wanting the residents to take votes, an event that he said is very dangerous.
"There are areas where in the year 2015 which came to 300 votes only and one of the main reasons is the presence of that group," said Mister Boers.
However, one of the officers of MRC group, Hamza Randu, where he refuses the claims saying that the group did not allow the registration because it doesn't have the goal.
Moreover, he denied the reports of government to be RC.
"We have decided to follow the same way in solving our problems, but we don't know what people want it is faced with it, this is not justice," said Mister Randu.
Mister Boers said that the government has evidence that MRC were able to bring about violence.
Therefore, recently, death of 200 were bought at Tulo of swords and there was a group from the group in July last year, there are youths who tried to attack the police camp in July last year, "said Mister Boers.
"In the year 2014, one police officer was killed when she was attacked by that group in Isikizya area where there was a attempt to attack the military camp in Nyamiyaga hospital and this is the most signs of the group is continuing with its strategies," he explained.
A group of RC was banned by the government in the year 2010 on allegations of being involved in crime and later the court used to take action against the government in the year 2012.
However, later, the group was accepted again by the court in that year, after the government presented appeal.
Probably, this means is same as the one that is used by Al-Kitunda Ward, which uses mosques and great ideologies and also registering new followers.
