
South Sudan are inspiring.
By Bashir Yakub.
The whole country is small in South Sudan, last week celebrating three years of freedom despite being led to the war against them between the followers of President Salvar Kiir and former vice president Riek Machar, in a period of seven months ago.
It is something to inform us that despite South Sudan being free for three years, it has not been done with its big oil wealth, with approximately ten thousand people getting into the war, and more than one million people being left without the headquarters.
The painful truth is that the violence in South Sudan which have caused disasters by many people is in eternal peace, in 2011, its neighborhood including Kenya together with the international community came together with helping that nation to bring back but the leadership is still a threat to its members.
The best way to help our brothers from South Sudan is not wanting the reserve but it's impressed by leaders and citizens the importance of solving their problems and continue to build their nation.
The two leaders are supposed to put their duties well and to start the process of building the coalition government to fight themselves so as to meet the opposition sides.
In the year 2008, Kenya got the same situation with South Sudan and got a solution to form the government of the union, therefore there is need for Kenya to be a good example and giving advice.
The government of that nation and other groups that are involved in fighting have a responsibility of protecting the citizens of that country and they died on an issue of politics.
The conflict of South Sudan started in July when President Kiir could kill all his ministers including Doctor Machar. President Kiir has no need to control that situation because the army had already been arrested.
Violence of political and several countries like Germany are led by the United Nations so as to prevent political violence that can cause the collapse of the country.
Kenya has already explained to him by joining with other members of IMR) to continue talks of bringing peace in South Sudan.
Already several countries including Kenya have begun to remove their citizens in that nation and caused a reduction in many business.
Already the organizations for giving donations have warned that more than one million people have left their homes and if the donation will be made by people to cooperate, maybe thousands of people were affected by hunger in the coming months.
The South Sudan citizens have celebrated three years since the birth of their country, they do not see it is a country that is in danger of security and without hope to qualify.
During the commemoration, it was clear that the hope of the people of the presence of peace has been operated because of the violence that it has reduced, a state of life and causing poverty, diseases and lack of security in the country.
It is important to agree that it is even if other nations will remain in the violence of South Sudan, the responsibility of President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar to use those ability to stop the war.
You thank you @ mkito.
