
The former prime minister and member of parliament for Monduli, Edward Lowassa.
Absalom Kibanda was arrested.
Nation should continue to speak to the peak of lots of joy and tears that will be caused by appointment of candidates and later the results of or to win or fail in the general election that is expected to take place in October this year.
For other words, that situation explains the availability of this season's general elections which for the recent years is dominated by every type of sexually transmitted by touching the people's people.
It is a bad luck, that, the weight of those people, the decision made to be a second week now, and failed to avoid the sin of a must to discuss the names of people instead of discussing primary issues if they were supposed to be agenda of preparing to prepare for the next general elections.
That he was a retired prime minister, Cleopa David Msuya, told someone that is able to sign his name and then explained the biography of "bad luck," he said on how to show he is near the body and it is not something to fall down.
Like that I have noted that last week, it will be a decision to ask if I will stop without favoring any statement of the vice chairman of CCM (Tanzania Mainland), Mzee Philip Mangula who explained the reports of the existence of one candidate of the party with the presidential plans who is accused of making bribery in Zanzibar.
The statement of Mangula who in a period of two days ago after Christmas was quoted in three newspapers, including the Uhuru Newspaper that is owned by the Revolutionary Party (CCM), is not small or the easy way of being left without forgetting and then put it.
Speaking about the statement on the way, Msuya and Mangula that was seen to be followed by the women of January Makamba and Bernard Membe who also explained their intention of wanting the presidency, you should also be identified, so as to give them an opportunity to inform you, it has been identified by rice.
Several things have happened at a period of six days ago and confirmed that I had seen me last week and took a long time to recognize that, the wind power has continued to be heard.
The decision by the veteran players of political parties in the type of Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, and Pancras Ndejembi to come out and gave their statement to explain the future of the nation and the preparations to vie for the presidency later this year is another evidence that what was starting with it last Thursday was a correct issue that was started on his time.
Several issues that have been unblocked and in those are the biggest use of money in search for the position of presidential position on the CCM ticket, a party that if it was given a great opportunity to continue leading the nation for another five years.
It is a bad luck that, fear that you know some of the people who have shown an intention of wanting to contest for the presidency this year did not want to look for answers of difficult questions that are facing this nation but in the competition of their nation.
When you listen to a statement of nearly all the candidates who started giving a statement to look for presidency or showing that intention, the answer that you get quickly, can fall into the end, so as to resolve it and be able to each other.
Unfortunately, the history of each other that the members of CCM that they did when the nation comes to getting the presidential candidate in the year 2005, and can return to you by a person, though the ones for now are not only different from the previous environment.
I was forced to this week and today, I said again that, in the middle of the world, all of these diseases which don't try to resolve the names of people, the only one is one of the politicians who is reported to be the head of the presidential race this year.
That politician is not another but is Edward Lowassa, a person who is being mentioned to be very important to these mystery, by touching the hearts of leaders and his fellow leaders of CCM, enemies and friends.
Inside and outside CCM, for a period of 20 years now, the name of the politician in the way (not a level) that up to now, looking for my heart that has not been able to find him from any other in Karimjee stadium or his generation.
