
The statement of bishops and other pastors have been arrested after suffering from suddenly in the Bishop Gwajima.

The statement of bishops and pastors from various articles about the incident.
We are bishops and other pastors from these diseases, we have been shocked by his disappointment about the disease of Bishop Josephat Gwajima who on 27th / 03 / 2015 he arrived at the central police station for the police that brought him to answer the accusations of using abusive language as cardinal.
We got the opportunity to think and discuss on how the situation which caused the fellow Bishop especially after being interviewed by the police, his condition changed at the same time, while being interviewed by the police, his condition revealed that he was admitted to the police station, that is in ICU) in the room for special care.
Our questions are still a thing that it has found our colleague, we are asking yourself, so the security agencies have been not a safe place like in the past?
While there are still worried that we have been shocked again after getting information about the assistant registrars of Bishop Gwajima together with his guards who were present at the hospital because of causing conflicts and also have been arrested on allegations of wanting to enable Bishop Gwajima.
This matter is announcing more reasons for all those who were with him in the whole health while heading to police are those who are accused of wanting to enable them to be a patient.
It is a surprising thing that does not want to enable Bishop Gwajima wanted to enable them to enable while Gwajima if he would have the ability to escape while she was doing so that she had the ability to escape while she was being named in Arusha at the session of the senior bishops of Keko location.
Let me do not tell me, let me call him and go to the police on her legs without being satisfied, or not to be arraigned in police with strength.
When a question is, if he had seen the difficulty of leaving when there is no police who is supposed to go with, while there is a good health, it will make it easy to be heard today in a critical condition and being in a critical condition of the police.
Why is this what does it mean?
Another thing that makes a problem is about the spirit of this case facing Bishop Gwajima, "we have been explained by Bishop Gwajima that when police were told that who died in this case is not Pengo, but one person called Aboubakar.
For our knowledge on the law, it does not believe that Aboubakar is not the right time to open that case because he cannot make sure that he doesn't know what he did with his statements by Bishop Gwajima.
Listen to me, Cardinal Pengo, has touched me in her new service in this Sunday of 29 / 03 / 2015 that he has sent me Gwajima, who is again with a pain of called Cardinal Pengo.
Our correspondent.
Our request is that, it is good for the government together with its security agencies to use professionalism in addressing religious issues and its leaders because they can cause a lot of hatred in our community with a good history of unity and solidarity and cooperation in all life events.
We request that the government will help to eliminate this problem and a lot of wisdom to be used in order to avoid the collapse of peace in the community.
Our decisions are there.
This matter does not be done, therefore we have already decided to meet with the chairmanship so as to get a solution to this matter.
On behalf of bishops and friends.
The chairperson of Bishop Josephat Mgungusi.
Secretary general Bishop Dojo Janja.
And the author.
Festus Mengele.
30 / 03 / 2015.
