
Magufuli swears for presidency.
On the 18th of 18th, 2015.

The minister of construction, John Magufuli has thrown out the race for vying for the presidency through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru.
This newspaper has been told by its reliable sources from within and outside the country that the member of parliament of Chato has already told her close friend about that, although he does not want that issue to be caused by the government and the party.
The confirmation of open about this step of Magufuli was during the funeral of a big child of the former prime minister of Kenya, Raila Odinga, which took place from January this year, where the minister is alleged to have requested the leader of Correa scored about that issue.
Criminal sources have explained that Raila Odinga and Magufuli are big friends and that is why that Tanzanian decided to use that opportunity to tell his colleague in his heart.
"You will remember when I'm the father of Magufuli, Raila Odinga was sent to me for these are friends for a long time now in the funeral, Honorable decided to tell me his partner.
The name of Magufuli has been mentioned as among the names of people who came to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete after the general elections of this year, although he has been doing speed on that issue if they were some of the other politicians inside CCM.
Two weeks ago, Mke Mwema should understand that Magufuli is one of the politicians who can be approved by CCM to inherit the Kikwete because of his reputation and integrity and the work.
While speaking at the 38th international commemoration of CCM that took place in Songea, Ruvuma province, at the beginning of this month, Kikwete said there are good leaders inside that party with the reputation but they don't want that opportunity and are supposed to fall down.
That statement was translated in a lot as a member of CCM and the name of the candidate who he was not being arrested for now, with the names of the late Ramadhan, Doctor Augustine Mahiga and Magufuli the previous one.
In talks with one of the wife of Kikwete two weeks ago, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru was told that there are three major things that have made some of them to think Kikwete, he was talking to Magufuli in his speech in Songea.
First of first, it is true that during the tour that Kikwete has been doing inside the country, Magufuli has been seen as a minister who is seen and will not benefit.
"The example of Kikwete has prepared for us that it involves a public meeting that took place in Mwanza last year.
"But when he stopped the stage Magufuli made all the meeting taken by President Kikwete that he climbed the stage, the meeting had already done when I think Kikwete has seen that maybe this is the member of CCM who does not see him," he said.
When he came back from the treatment in America, at the end of last year, Kikwete stressed on the public that he wanted to announce early about the cancer disease that is wrong, but it is Magufuli who does not mean that during the session of the ministers.
In the year the day before yesterday, Magufuli also surprised many people when he met him in public with the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, about the issue of vehicles to pass through the road that have continued cargo.
"The one was a sign that Magufuli had seen the strength of Pinda in a normal state, it's not easy for the ordinary minister before the prime minister in public," said another source of this newspaper.
The assistant coach of Kikwete left his fellow citizens that in one of the recent posts that led the family of President Magufuli, he was the only minister who made him to the village.
"If they were his colleagues, Magufuli seems to be careful with a person who is not covered by corruption issues although there are someone who want to see about the issue of selling of government houses," Kasunga said he was told.
In wanting that request, the registrar of the Ocean Road organization that was defeated by the central bank of Africa Intelligence Unit, in his first round of February 13, 2014, has appointed Magufuli as a lady's wife and a person who can support him.
That magazine that does the analysis of various countries that are at the Indian Ocean in Africa, has done an analysis about the contest for vying for the presidency through CCM especially after the scandal of Escrow account.
Next week, we will give you a full report of that magazine to this newspaper.
