Yes, I want to send my condolences to all Tanzanians that are touched by this disaster.
Therefore, the funeral has reduced, it is not only youth because of teachers equal to the youth?
When a person like the Quran then I started that you could make sure that it could make me without a lot of anything done in these hours we know her, Sitta said.
If you look for many youths in the organizations.
It's not just a province but for the whole period, what should be done to be careful, it is expected to continue honoring him by the late which is expected to continue with the things that he wanted to put in football because the machines had left.
The University of Mister and there was there.
If they were not exercises if you check for these machines, the machine was your one with the station and can do everything there was no other sponsor of more than a commercial court to be reached inside if every issue will continue because if you look for many things, he refused.
What is the meaning of the ball.
The late God is the one that he gets, he will help to create a plot.
The picture is pafu.
For sure that you are required to happen that we should be a committee that he has been done by stakeholders of Mwanza.
To support him, they were able to have things that he termed well and if you check the second side themselves on the coaching issues then that was the winner.
Here we are starting with three people recently or it is not in mind but Mercy together with Sunday Kayuni.
When you go down there are GEPF where one have already been affected before all of them are required.
They should prepare.
To come up the position of a place, it is a very big blow in us?
One reason is not only.
We love this question as a result of misusing public property to know that we were.
We were on depending on the mistake, it has already been born who will be able to use his call, the people of Mwanza province there is no one who I don't think if he will be able to do a lot of people who are not able to do a lot of people in Mwanza and elsewhere.
What we are supposed to be done is to continue with the situation that they left for primary teachers for the first time he has been keen on discipline, it would have discipline because we are living in foreign countries, we are meeting that it's a very big percentage here in the country.
Now, very little by French there was no one that is free of free and we don't sell it so much that they are playing football but the education has a lot and not something to give all the support this after having maize or buckets do not know that today in Kigoma the youth have talked about.
Or Ivanovic, you have talked about that Mourinho said that Mourinho has faith that because we are youths and if you do.
When we listen to it is that there to now, I can do what to play ahead and that is why I went to play ahead and that is why I will play and what I will start the truth and I have the ability to promote my life.
At their property, 'Machinga' has helped me a lot even if they were the first.
Without vigilance I would like.
It could not have the secret of the first people because the budget is saying that a big writer is.
The marriage is the marriage.
