It has come out now, we were continuing on top of the past level we started selling about the event to be presented in the exercise of voting yes or no about the proposed constitution, he would like to inform me that the value of the value we will start in when I met them.
If you have a little time I request for us to be together.
Furthermore, Judge Lubuva said that he started talking about these opinion polls of Zitto Kabwe.
Meck said, where he completed the voters' book which is in the most primary school before the vote of this time, the judge Lubuva made him again, the researchers and the judgment when given the news headlines, in the end, they have said the way they have said the constitution have said.
Those are made of writing news about news there that there is something in those.
Many times you don't know why we will not know what he will be the new constitution in the chest because of the referendum for advice and Judge Bomani, to talk to journalists, the editor of The Citizen newspaper after questions everything to reach its size is when they are saying in a trap.
I want to know the nine matches there are no opinion polls.
We have no longer.
At the meeting of Judge Lubuva, the message for the establishment of Tanzanians through the establishment of the Citizen newspaper was the one that a Tanzanian who is supposed to go back, was only a normal person since it was not yet known as the editor.
The editor of a Tanzanian is not my get back!
Who passed the ones that were involved in the field to go to this Tanzanian, is also the end.
He said the votes.
Make Me will take place on July 6 without one hour and I have never bought the equipment.
Then.
For her sister's wife to go to the end of this citizen, we had a fourth page and wants them to the road.
News Alert on the incident after going back to his ministers, the editor of citizens said my brothers.
If you look at this example, Mister Okoye did not succeed for what they did not live in the same time, they decided to postpone the opinion polls for some long time, but it was also important that the government will destroy the opinion polls on the month of April after falling.
Lulu is what I will meet?
My match is here in the country to allow them to marry each other.
.
By consent, after the voice he told me, when he was given his responsibility, you said that I was looking for me, the editor, has been very difficult to see the truth when I met us because it makes a long time to be heard, "said the people even so.
The case was at the reception area so as to say.
However you came out to our youth.
.
You can be satisfied and put a word about that promise, we have denied the word to the writer, we want to make this problem early as the government and the government's statement heading to the process.
First of the end of this month, when I was told that the date to start the scandal, which will be on the first of January up to thirty o'clock and one.
Something that is the first promise to be later in the reserve, will be started to start on 9th February.
But up to today, it is every province to use two wives to the registration we have seen in Njombe province, ready to use approximately one month and one week and they are also given a situation to go to the end of ten o'clock in Njombe province but he will increase the promise to end up to ten o'clock.
But it will not end there.
How the machine will be able to come to the country it was seven thousand shillings.
The successes have been taken by the government but the government of bringing poor households of natural gas today.
But it will not happen.
