How NATO did not bring down?
October 30th, 2014.

October 20, 2014 was sentenced to three years since he was defeated by the killing of Abu Dhabi of Abu Dhabi on more than four years since 1957, he was arrested and killed by rebels who had been organized by NATO army.
The NATO aircraft were playing against Toto Africans from 19 to 31 October 2011.

Italy announced his country to be used as a station of those attacks.
Previously the rebels who had weapons started to hold the east areas, in the lake region, has tried to enter the east but they were blocked by the army of Abu Dhabi.
The Western nations have banned the noise that Gogo, had warned the demonstrators from if they registered the declaration of 1973, the United Nations Security Council (UN). That declaration has barred Gigabyte.

Before being removed from that case, Russia said it is good for both two sides to stop the fights.
They will use a plane to help the rebels who are playing in power, October 20, 2011, those planes were buried and were buried and were brutally murdered after being stabbed with a wig?
After that is called the liberation, the situation continued to be bad, it will land in a disaster of war and murder, together with terrorism and wealth of the year 2012, it did not help anything and even ambassadors have failed to live in the country, together with having great security.

The parliament has appointed Abdullah 'Thriller' is to be the prime minister but the fighting has continued, "she is expecting to look for assistance from outside but there is no one who is ready to apologize to that disaster.
Today, Libya has been the name of terrorism as such as switching off and rendering many youths who have been assisted by Israel to kill a lot of patriotism later they moved to South African countries like Algeria, Ciara and Syria where they have started that which they deserve from Islamic empire.
The weapons which were apprehended in Mkimbii Village and Palestine have been removed from those countries, the UN report says that the weapons of diabetes has reduced, 14 countries and this is a dangerous issue, it is dangerous to violence, violence and terrorism in the world.
That "liberation of Israel has helped in spreading the internet of Al Furqaan Islamic network all over the world. That is how it reaches terrorism in the world.
Greste, is accused that a quack City was accused that a quitalists have refused to take place in elections and instead each group wants to hold power in the foundation of tribe or counties, each one with the weapons wanted to destroy the order of the new government and instead they have not affect the wealth of oil.
One group met with the Los Angeles officers, and they scored against the American embassy and killing Ambassador Chris Brown the accused together with four Americans on September 2012.
