
A high level will use national identity cards at least passengers.
Tanzania progresses in great speed and already we have witnessed several changes that have never happened to the country from the old life system and to the modern life.
For example, recently the NCCR-RT company has initiated a high-speed buses project to ease transport in the city of Dar es Salaam and I make sure that this good step is mentioned.
For now, which is in Kariakoo to Ubungo uses approximately 35 minutes to 40 minutes and there is the first time for buses since it was difficult to test for time to travel because of a queue.
There is a long distance that I got a long time I had written, so that they take Msafiri even more than two hours.
Together with this success, there is a challenge that comes up especially in stations with many passengers like Kariakoo.
Recently, I decided to use that transport today, I met my colleagues in a long time to buy tickets as well as getting inside the station.
This procedure is good, but it's still a shortage because it doesn't have a fast speed to avoid evil deeds, because people do not understand and use a lot of time during the process of buying tickets.
The solution to the passengers' challenge to sit in the long distance of tickets is the concerned authority of Dart, using national identity cards that were donated by the National Identification Authority (Nida) to make work because the identity card is' Smart ', which is using modern technology.
That technology has enabled that card to be used to do a lot like that the financial services of "E - this is this is a digital system to make payments for different places through the electronic system.
This E-Fi service is available in smart cards for Nida who is because of inside the national identity cards which everyone is supposed to be with it.
In this technology, it is that the national identity card can be paid for money (a light), equivalent to other financial accounts in the phone and then be used in blogging in the stations.
What is happening, when a person did not put a red card in his card, he will stop the red card system and he will pay the fare directly from his card as if the person bought Aclati and put him in his phone.
He says that it has talked about the price that was put as charges for one minutes.
Benefits that will be realized by using national identity cards, first there will be no look at the time of buying tickets, because someone will be able to buy a fine for a week or one month and therefore, they will not just go to the station and he could be going on with the journey.
Also, that system can be connected to other financial systems like pads and M-Pesa, Tigo Pesa, Airtel Money and others so as to enable a citizen to fill in his card at any time without going to plan for a queue.
Another benefit is that many residents of Dar es Salaam have already have national identity cards, thus it will be easy to implement this system.
Another benefit is that the good management of revenue and with great success in collecting taxes and to put an electronic records, it will be taking place well.
