
CHADEMA has released a new year, "said Magufuli wants the policies of opponents.

While the president of the fifth term government, John Magufuli has been seen to capture feelings of lack of Tanzanians, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), has said that it does not be afraid since he has been using issues, strategies and manifesto of the party.

The acting secretary general of parliament, Salum Mwalimu, has said that when the campaigns will explain how to fight corruption, have a good performance of work performance, integrity and carelessness of public servants, things that are done by Doctor Magufuli.

However, he said because that he did not do not like the Revolutionary Party (CCM), he believes that he will face a lot of challenges in the coming days.
"I asking for advice, in what way to implement, but it's early so much to say if he has the intention to be able to do and maybe he is doing so as to look for the popularity of the moisture," said Teacher.

Strategies of Doctor Magufuli.
Since November 5 until now, Doctor Magufuli has announced several strategies to stop the use of government, so as to strengthen the community service in line with releasing the loopholes of corruption and corruption.

Among the things that they made is to stop the journey from outside, making donations of any kind to form four students, the class four students that were mentioned to take place on December 9 and urged the funds for the celebrations to be used to build roads as well as raising some of the importation of corruption in the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).

The teacher said those things are among the many that were being used by parliament together with the parties that involve the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) before the campaign of the general elections that took place on October 25th.

"These things (being implemented by Doctor Magufuli, we have continued to move forward to prevent them and we need to know what happened and it's no wonder because they are required to see them and they are the ones that are facing them," he said.

While giving an example of preparations for the construction of Dodoma University (UDOM), and written on a new constitution passed by President Jakaya Kikwete, the teacher said Mrs Salma Kikwete is not good because I have not given him from my colleagues. "

He said it's not good for a leader or party to follow the good issues of another party and insisted that the opposition goal is to see the primary issues that are taking place so that the country can have development.

"The issue will succeed in which way is another issue, if the one is doing with that will or by protecting it is another issue.

In the end, if your name is growing and the challenge in achieving it, "he explained.

He said the opposition can't understand the issues of reviewing the government which are many affected by the citizens, "many foreign affairs are taking place, but the question is coming, so that they can make sure that CHADEMA is a high level with great creativity in looking for solutions to the citizens' problems."

He said the party together with the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), will continue in the headlines so as to look at the way to resolve the problems facing the citizens.

"We ask you to see if you get their rights and development, they are living in the country with democracy, good governance and good governance of the law," said Teacher.
