
His mayor of TDPF being elected president.
Being elected president of January to be 20 years of the Central African Republic (car), the mayor of Bangladesh, Catherine Saro, will be elected as the first president.
February 21, Italy, Upendo Nkone, 39, 39, age, is the first prime minister of EU.
March 8, Malaysian Airplane from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to carry out of 239 passengers, it did not have been found.
On April 14th of Nigeria, 276 girls who were abducted in the south east and in the international community to intervene in the efforts to save and 57 girls among them already been found in the Boko Haram group, claimed to be found.
May 25, the United Republic of Europe, the United Republic of Tanzania, the French party, the United Republic of United Kingdom (MAP) who will lead the presidential election in the union.
The presidential candidate of between Jean-Marc Kabund has been reported to be the head of the EU commission in July 15.
May 26-28th of Egypt, former prime minister, Abdelhamid Radnedge, who are chosen to be elected president, 11 months after Mohamed Moris being evicted.
June 19, Spain's new bishop, Felipa partheid, 46, has succeeded his father Carlos Puyol after being the king of 38 years.
June 29, Iraq and Syria of the Sunni rebels from the new Islamic State group has announced that they distributed, "in the area that they have banned Iraq and Syria.
July 8, Israel and Palestine have cautioned the operation in the Gaza region to deal with rocket attacks from Palestine.
July 17, Malaysian Airplane from Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to rise in the area that is abolished by Ukraine fighters, and killing 298 people under the Ukraine fighters.
August 8, South Africa, the World Health Organization (WHO) has announced that Ebola disease in West Africa as an emergency issue.
By December first, more than 500 shillings were died in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
On the 26th of September, Mexico was the enthusiasm to be killed by 43 members of the college and pay the drugs that are accused by the police in the south of the province of Guillermo Otieno.
On the 29th of Afghanistan, Afghanistan who will be sworn in as the new president after three months of political conflict.
On October 14, I have arrested a gun and shot in the central area of Rafa Benitez and Nthepheya.
On November 23rd, 2016, a citizen of Tunisia and elect their first president in the elections since the year 2011, the changes were boycotted.
Hitler did not understand the 20 conference of the United Nations concerning the climate change, which was opened up, after China, America and Europe agree about the order of before the important meeting in Paris.
December 15, the senior suspect of Iran will capture 17 people in one acre of Plasmodium falciparum.
