Late Adam and even it was going back to Last or popularly known as Ah in the location.
And your eyes, I don't know what happens?
We were looking for, but I was like I would like to go and go back since the day you missed him, the late you want to be the late.
I think the late?
Am, the late Adam but I was very happy to see you.
The late?
We set a vehicle the Coastal Union even if you get the first care of us, that we go with the late God, then I were waiting to ask people to EFM for the time I have been forced to ask people to EFM for the coming people, we know what we want.
If a man can't know something that can arrest his fellow musicians when I'm in inside, I am very disturbing when I'm looking for me what I will have to do, "I don't know where I have no longer a member of parliament.
Let us just agree and Mercy the late?
Now, I told him even to talk with fees of fees, I remember that you get time to you, welcome him to hear of fees even if I have been said to do.
Jahazi has said that we will not set it more so three, and we should tell people with they finish next year.
If you know, it is not another side that I will be with.
When you will be above, you will miss this many years only, we will look for you even the people of the Prime Minister, I met me when I met me, I don't see him or not all from here in Nairobi even I had not given him but I have decided to do with me.
Who's the symptoms of the elephantiasis disease that was affected by Mercy I decided to March she had told me they were not sitting with him, the late God is not like that we can get married and the speaker because it is not wrong.
Almighty God and now, and I have written with me and I know what I come with me do not tire us so that he will be not the church.
The late God bless you, even you know that if you want you, there will be a lot of things that you have a lot of police.
She was a big close to me, because I have lost Facebook card, she has no longer a brother who does not lie me if we arrived it.
It allows you to destroy the T Touch.
Late Best, how I remember then I've heard the late God and he will also tell me that I love your marriage at the Caribbean islands so that I don't know your friend.
When he was born and who to another, we can get this argument that you're getting, how many people are sleeping here and we do not tell me that we are sleeping and even if he told me, he didn't remember the net.
Only that machine was only one husband.
If you see in this, we can say that if we decided to get the late God by the Ambassador when I decided to do when we can have the ball, I will get things from very close to all the few musicians to welcome him just to be called Page.
Even so, the Almighty God rest.
The late Almighty God bless Ras Kiduku is same to let me look even in corruption, I told me that I started and I finished, I cannot be given, therefore, those are very attractive to other youths who are only.
Same as the value of the weather I believe this do not talk with them and not all those who don't know if we can be accountable, we can't know that if we can be known, we can see the pictures of you.
The late God bless you, but you are good, I will come to welcome me when I'm good, then I am good.
I will fight for me when I get every time I think.
This request, the surprising fact did not have a lot.
If you play in a period of May, I don't know if I am very happy when I am breastfeeding?
You are inside, you know you and forever.
Almighty God is not know what?
By-has been around as they were avoided.
The coach, the late God is in the same time, I don't look at the same time when I see if I am happy when I am surprised when I saw it, you can't read it, you can't read it, I cannot cross it.
I love you.
