
Minister Wassira visited the seminar, today.

It has been written by Karav Dhingra, Maswa District.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The minister of state, office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Employment, Labor, Youth and Children, Jenista Mhagama, has banned the invited guests of meetings, seminar and workshop with the work of discussing words without implementation of actions.

He has said that from now, his office is not ready to receive any invitation to participate or be the guest of honor in these meetings, together with the workshop, due to lack of benefits to the nation.
The minister has given that statement today in Maswa district, Simiyu province, when he was launching a small factory for producing chalks to be run by the Maswa District Council.
He has said that due to the performance of the fifth term government, the issue of meetings, the workshop and meetings have no chance again, and instead of what is needed is the implementation of the government direction on actions.
"I call through the launch of this factory, banned the invitation of the workshop and meetings in my office, the office will be ready to receive an invitation to the launch of various development projects for the youth and the community as a whole," said Mhagama.
He has said that the government will continue to support the efforts that are being done by the youth with the aim of bringing development by starting the small industries through their union.
"Starting today, any leader in this country is supposed to arrive at the forum or seminar, I will be invited to work like this today to open industries and other projects," he said.
He added that, youths of the group of producing chalks have shown ways to youths of Tanzania and they held in's in a week of youth and commemoration, 17 years of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere.
Speaking about that factory, Mhagama congratulated the provincial leadership of Simiyu Province through the provincial commissioner, Anthony Mtaka, that the first directors in the country will start implementing the instructions of President John Magufuli of making Tanzania a country of industries being together with helping the youth.
He said that he will communicate with the ministry of industry, trade, and investment so as to see the possibility of the government to make a great deal to bring in Europe from outside the country.
