
Sales of the stock market.

27th September, 2016

The sales number of the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) has increased more than 1 billion shillings from 1 billion shillings last week up to 16 billion shillings this week.
Also the number of shares that got in the sales have increased by 48 million shillings which have got in the sales this week.
Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the project manager, marketing and business DSE, Patrick Musomba said that, the reports of last week that brought many questions from 102 percent last week.
He said people are unable to follow up between the size of the capital city and the sign of the number of sales, something that is not correct because it is being viewed as a size of the capital city and not a sign in the economy of the country.
"We want to know the state of economy of the country, it is a must to look at the size of the capital city for more than 20 or 21 because it is the market state, it results from the changes in the week or a year," said Musomba.
In addition, Musoma. mentioned the three companies that have led this week in the sales number being CRDB Bank by 72 percent of TBL Group with 24 percent together with the shares of DSE (2 percent.
Musomba said that the capital of the market has increased by 39 percent and reach 6 percent and reach 6 percent from 5208, whereby the capital of local companies had decreased by 8 percent per week and approximately 5 billion shillings last week.
He said that despite the government wanting his efforts to encourage many companies to join capital, but until now there is no enough information, because there are 18 companies that have been able to join.
"Up to now, only 18 companies that have joined the capital markets despite having many companies that they're involved in developing economy in various sectors," Musomba.
He added that the size of the market capital while due to the changes in prices in the market and 7 companies that have been listed in different types of shares including Nairobi, Kenya, and 7 companies that have been listed in different types of shares including Nairobi, Kenya and 7 points which have been contributed by the reduction of 13 points being contributed by a reduction in a reduction of 5 percent.
