
There is a need for discussions.
By Antoine Griezmann.
If they are the religious leaders of Islam after the government announced a state of not getting out of the country, he from Lamu Island following the cases of killings and crime, it shows that there is need of discussions before making decisions.
It is clear that the residents of Lamu and Muslims all over the total of opposing that order, they were annoyed because it was given to the holy month of Ramadhan. However, those residents said it is normal to go for ten o'clock in the evening and also the case that will involve their freedom of worship.
According to the residents of Lamu and some of their leaders, the government is making them to remove that order because it cares for their constitutional freedom to worship.
According to a lot of leader from the parliament from Aden Hazard, the government is expecting to postpone that order for ten days so that Muslims be left to complete, insisting that ten days of Sawazisha 'is important to those who live.
While addressing the residents of Lamu Island who attended the order to oppose that order, the governor of that county, Issa Tomas y has urged the residents to continue with the activities of Benson Bana, he urged the residents to continue with the activities as usual and go to worship if it is the fees, he said that he will deal with the heads of security officers in the country to make sure they get their freedom of worship.
This shows that the government had given that order through the inspector general of police David Kimaiyo, it did not have enough understanding and if you are in that, perhaps those leaders are not involved.
Considering that the aim of announcing the order of not getting out of that country is to deal with the cases of lack of security in the area which up to now, it has caused more than 100 people and huge destruction of property, the government can appeal that it was not satisfied with the leaders of Lamu Island.
However, the government has a network of security officers and strong winds that would enable the senior officials to be required before announcing that order.
There has been claims that criminals who used the attacks in the country, that he has been inspecting different religious people and by putting it as this month of Ramadhan could be taken as an act of discrimination.
When the government is required to be careful when I take a step so that I take a step so that the audience want to have a chance to prevent some of the groups of people in religious issues, dizziness and gender.
It is clear that the attacks to take legal measures should be taken by some of the residents and seen to avoid the groups of people or the community.
So as to be able to succeed in this investigation, there are concerned officers who are involved in consulting with their partners and even so, although every Kenyan has its rights to protect themselves, although every Kenyan has criticized the government officials to stop their work.
According to Mister Kimaiyo he said that Lollipop, he was given so as to give security officers an opportunity to evict militants who are believed to be sharp teeth.
He said that Lamu Island is proud of the ones that are involved in action, but doing that, he did not hesitate to intervene in rights of basically the residents.
When the government need to investigate it has the source of those attacks, if it is true they will not accept to give birth.
