A human being.
Ras Kiduku was called let me watch it.
What is the first thing that I want to speak?
The stakeholders did not know my colleagues.
When you want to do any success, the first is the first, when you want to eat anything that is the first to be appointed and if you see someone who wants to eat without being touched.
In South Africa, we want events but that we have not worked on the period of women, Abdalla Kibadeni did well and they started doing well and they did not understand the opportunities that they have witnessed, Abdallah Kibadeni but it was not such results.
Saidi is going on the AFCON tournament, we have ever played for our colleagues who have ever played any time, we were doing this hour and we would have been able to see it in the AFCON tournament.
Also in the Fiesta 2014 tournament, even if it is waiting for, they do not support him here, we are still a very small side and also other effects which we have been getting to get in the sector of life.
In the end of the end, we are supposed to be aired very far until the second time we have never happened in the world cup and I will not depend on in recent days that we can participate in the world cup and I will not depend on in recent days that we can be able to participate in the world cup and then it will be able to succeed in the same day so that we had decided to succeed.
Participating in the league.
I am able to build away from every team and eventually, every province will help even pray to the citizens previously the players who live in the provinces that are high in the provinces where they are in the concerned region close to officer.
I went to pave way for Mchwaa, you find the leaders of the team to get names like her father was the coach that made a new coach but he doesn't know the names but yet this new people do not know where he would have paid the names of classes in the place.
I wish you a little even.
The Almighty God rest.
It is same.
And after hours close to a show you know that you are not paid?
Do you think that you get close to one of 'Imebaki Story.'
They were supposed to be six that we got to the left and it is the delay of investing in football here where we are not supposed to continue with.
When he was recorded, the session we have been able to invest here and if you had decided to look at an extent that he will be in the world cup games to get to know that we are playing, we are playing with two songs it is enough for you, we are playing.
It is evident that the truth we look at the position that we have said that BoT is investing in infrastructure, it will not be taxed.
Now, which makes the players themselves, we are looking at all the players in the villages, there are many best players in the villages, there are many youths who have ever been looking at, we are looking for good players who we play and we are doing so that we are doing well.
First, I think we are looking to you that we will be able to vote for him, the prime minister did you do what we are doing?
Now we ask ourselves who are not mocking the concerned infrastructure that is not only here.
The cash money is to be taken back to now, there are stakeholders in the Almighty God who do not hesitate to contribute to the topic but if you will fight up above and close to the stakeholder.
Thank you, my reporter, if it is called a resident Engineer Aron Joseph.
A is needed to go to the Islamic state in 77 points because of time.
First, I request I should give me the good relationship between a long time.
Yams are there together with this issue of investment that is investors.
I urge you to talk about the fact that we expect it is true the same as poems can be enough for you.
In addition, it's like their fellow students that, when I get in this box, Yakay will there, but now the investor will be given how to go and look for players' talents.
We are able to look at what he did in blogging, he can be not ready to do all that is by preparing the field?
But now he explained that everything on time.
As days will continue to go up, I have put a relationship between a long time and these include the investor that she is seeking to save his legacy as a way to improve the number of players in France.
But as days will continue to go to the issue of corruption we expect it is normal.
The child has given a big amount of money that Mister if it is going to do something, for example, it gives the amount of the sections he continued to get if the fare is used for the purpose of doing good deeds in order to improve the level of money.
He will be called something in the investor.
Soon, he could come out to know that.
The money has been used that have been used to do when I have helped me.
What does it mean that?
It's a good thing even to others who are happy to see what they are doing their fellow investor because there are some who like to invest in different soccer so that many can't get a heart even tomorrow, I can't get a heart even when I am unable to get her part of improving.
Maybe if we reach you, I'll give up because of what we are from hunger?
A check of light.
And its leaders.
They are required to do.
If you want to have good relations between them and investors to try to reduce the effects of here and there and when they can try to identify or are outside the country later I will be able to give them about what effects are there.
Therefore, I was like I would like to advise that.
Safe and even.
