

On March 8, it was sentenced to two years since its disappearance of the plane number Honorable 370 of the Malaysia Airline shortly after taking off from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing China.
That was the night of Saturday of March 8th, 2014, the type of Boeing 777 by having 239 workers, most of them being Chinese nationals and Malaysia.
One piece of water has been found, hand in hand and maybe by the last part, but the plane revealed that the plane has remained as a solution to the air sector in the world.
Despite many it is said, investigators want to know what happened to the plane, they have refused because of its disappearance, it is still a riddle.
The international team of foreign experts that was set aside for its disappearance, has given a knee injury every year with explaining the steps that were taken but their short report does not have information about what happened to them.
The head of the investigation team, Kok Simeone has opened a report on the television in Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Tuesday during the commemoration of two years since its disappearance, a situation that broke the eyes of the brothers who lost their loved ones when they went to court.
A Cameroon, says that, "for this time the investigation team is continuing to complete the values of the analysts, what was found guilty, conclusion, recommendations of security to the concerned areas that are accused of involvement in the plane by considering the reports that are facing them."
But Malaysia and Auschwitz has said that they are still continuing to have hope that their efforts to look for them in the Indian Ocean region which are believed to be known to a certain thing in the data for recording the journey of that plane and finally be noted that what caused its disappearance.
Malaysia's parliamentarians on Tuesday was silent for one minute for instance the passengers and workers feared to lose lives in that incident.
Malaysia's Prime Minister, Raziah Ramadhani says that in his current investigations the current investigation is expected to be completed later this year and that they are continuing to have hope that the plane will be available.
The families that are suffering from their brothers and their relatives were kidnapped in Beijing China on Tuesday night to ensure that it was taken by a riddle of falling on that plane.
If you are usually seen, whose sister and her family did not like to the plane a situation where you are not born or we have died in a bad state or a good thing, we have a lot of worry, we have any kind of hatred and this problem. "
Likewise, you need to think about what is happening in the sky and the modern technology of these things, it will be a big plane, how do not reach them easily?
And why it has not been found, even after a piece of being found to be found in the Indian Ocean?
Let you look at least a few hours after taking off by some of the drugs that have the possibility of that attack.
That plane left Kuala Lumpur to 6 o'clock at night, expected to arrive in Beijing, close to 6 o'clock in the morning at 6 o'clock in the morning.
But when it started at 7 o'clock at night, that plane sent his last message through the system of information communication technology (AIDs), a system that is spreading directly from the airplanes including the bad weather, oil and any technical problem of the aircraft.
