
TANESCO wants to increase the price of electricity.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been published, 08 November, 2016.

The Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) has received an application from Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) to increase electricity costs by 1819 percent from next year.

EWURA has noted that it is worried about the evaluation, and after receiving the opinions of the stakeholders will give a decision about those applications.
On April this year, TANESCO sent messages to EWURA to reduce electricity costs by 11 percent, but after that authority through those applications, it reduced the costs by 15 to 4 percent.
The current price after the purchase of EWURA to the customers of that organization, from the D1 group that use a electricity amount from 430 kilowatts electricity, is 75 million shillings, for a month they are worth 350 shillings in one unit.
In addition to the customers of T1 group which is from homes, industries and small businesses have been charged a sum of 292 students per day and to the customers of T2, which is a group that causes electricity from 430 kilowatts electricity, which is charged with an average of 15,004 shillings per month to one unit.
In groups of T3 and T4 those who use big electricity like at the quarry, big industries and the Zanzibar Electricity Authority (ZECO), itself being charged a sum of 200 million shillings to 550 shillings per month to one unit.
However, as a result of that request for an increase in price by 1819 percent, now the normal customers who use electricity from 430 kilowatts electricity, will have an increase of 18 shillings whereby if that request may be fined shillings for one unit.
In addition to customers who buy more than 430 kilowatts electricity, which for now is 20,000 shillings in one unit, if that request will have an increase in prices of 63 shillings thus they will be charged a total of 413 shillings to one unit.
On the part of the customers of T1 group which is from homes, industries and small businesses that were charged for now an amount of 864 students, there will be an increase of 38,521,056 shillings per one unit.
The Communications and Relations Manager of EWURA, Titus Kaguo has said that the authority has given those applications, he emphasized that the request was identified by an evaluation and authority before the approval of the authority before approval.
