It is very attractive, I am very happy to do on well.
Why is it known to my son I think it is the network that is there and a problem or you have not given this money to be free because it is a research that has been done, therefore the device is available and even so as to do well installed.
A device that is set aside for now, you know that we cannot see that there are things that the device is explaining now, it wants to know that there is a lot of things to know, you can't know why the device is very little because the device is not in the time it starts.
Currently, when I got a task like that I got to take place there, it has come and life is going on as Nakula Ukunguala, but for these hours you were surprised now, I am very happy for me.
That's even the sixth and give birth to a distance of ractory sides, so that everyone is taking your home and even I don't have a television station.
The minister does not mean?
If we woke up and he is very attractive, I could try to try this is because I'm in home at the right time.
When your mother is there that any thing that you got to Christians we live in town, the Almighty God can see you.
But the child but a child.
If you are going on well if you are still living with Thika road, I'm good where it is called a week when you heard this week, I've heard this week and I've heard this week and even if you feel it, I think there is someone who comes back, then I think there is a person when you see you.
For now, you know what they did his nude pictures have left him and that is the things the late is not all.
At the moment, they have said that if you know, they don't know the way you will be safe when let me use when let us use when you leave Kenya.
Today, the news has given that money.
By twenty thousand, it was seven days here is the one.
At his home of my father, we shouldn't know that your father was trying, he arrived at the world at the acting field very close to them.
More than it is as a result of terrorism.
His previous day.
Eyes, it is a very high cost to look for a little position.
Eyes, I am looking for money to plan I was in pain.
I have a prayer?
For those minutes.
Therefore in seven days I talk to I expected to come six billion shillings.
I heard this I told me I told me but they give him a lot of money for all the money to Zitto Kabwe, three hundred thousand if you are getting a little little of the journey being touched by us.
And as days if the captain will begin that business now.
