The nation is suffering from Ebola.
Dec 12, 2014.

I believe that in any secret, you would like that the nation of Tanzania is heading into trouble, the nation of Tanzania is heading into poverty and is continuing to put off the nation and to serve the nation and to serve the nation and to serve them.
Siwema who is giving an indication of jokes, Ludewa said in bitterness for the reason why these leaders were left to continue doing that they do not destroy Tanzania. "The whole country is like that the whole country is like a dangerous situation.
The biggest thing is that when those leaders makes the state of national security to be in danger of it is very fast to the leaders of the samples which they live in their country.
When the citizens do not feel that they can't be an illusion when I got shocked that the nation to be given again, already it has risen from the auction and they don't have again and their thing is not today or not.
This is the danger facing Tanzania with religious leaders who do not think about it, you can't know if you are and you are supposed to recognize that, it is leaders who are supposed to recognize the draft of the proposed constitution by enabling them to consider the recommendations of the citizens.
Stop further and you will decide why they are holding the system of a union to have two governments and not three governments.
All that legal action is high.
These leaders who do not have political attraction have made the nation it should not be again with the political weight that was with them for a period of 20 years or even 25 after independence - not only in the East African region but in the whole African continent.
I have said, and I will not say that about using his secret, Julius Nyerere made the country to be respected and its leaders to respect the decision today, Tanzania does not mean that his leaders are leading with integrity and not Nyerere just but also his ministers and other ministers.
The era of the country that was crossing to corruption in the East African region was in Kenya, today, things have been connected to Tanzania that had a clean up of poverty now has called Kenya because it is fighting corruption.
It's not that Kenya has touched me and it does not have faith in corruption, but the international institutions involved with these issues of corruption have told that Tanzania has corruption that has taken the one of Kenya.
There is a good thing that Nyerere made him in the basis of the nation free after removing the colonial era, lack of suicide, most of them don't know where Nyerere passes away the soul of a citizen.
After the freedom and when he was knowing what way to make it give it the nation's development, he asked that it is good to have great joy than having something that was not aware if it was a big issue that was filled with joy and integrity.
Nakamoto says that the argument can be used by you will be emphasized and he would be emphasized by many especially in these days of the remarks, it will pay shillings.
Perhaps, as it came, because today's leaders have been giving citizens while having a new officer using the pretext of the policies of neurosurgeons.
That is the situation as it is in Tanzania, it has leaders with Mori and taking them to their own kind, especially the projects that they are doing well as private projects and instead of building their country, they are continuing to build faith in citizens.
Those leaders are doing that we do not recognize that there is no eyes, but even though the law has a eyes, but it will not reach it, but his support will not reach.
All the results of those results are that the nation has had no boundaries or angels in the top level of leadership, there will meet the heavy rains in heaven and even when they live in heaven and even they don't have any roles so that they do not have any leadership.
Today, even the child of the schools what happens to Richard, what is in Tegeta Escrow account or what is the meaning of getting a constitution and what is its effects, although you may not know his effects on him, although you may not understand that Ukawa is wrong.
