
NEC will open doors for foreign supervisors Hazimat, Ruidiaz, a day of voting and announcing the results of votes.

National Electoral Commission (NEC) has said the security of the general elections that will take place on October 25th, this year, will be allowed to participate in the supervision of all action of voting, counting and announcing election results at the polling stations.

600 international business people are expected to supervise the exercise of the fifth general election since it was returned to the system of many parties in the year 1992 where the election was done for the first time in 1995.

In the election of this year, approximately 2331 million shillings within the country and those who lost their votes are expected to elect leaders at the councilor seat, parliamentary and presidential positions.
The election is expected to have a big competition due to joining with four opposition parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA).

Those parties are the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), National Examination for Change (NLD), Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CUF) and NCCR-Revolution.
Also another reason that is mentioned to affect the high competition is the two retired prime ministers, Edward Lowassa and Frederick Sumaye joining the opposition from Revolutionary Party (CCM) which is the ruling party.

While speaking in the special interview by the magazine Global TVOnline today in the afternoon, the acting director of NEC, Emmanuel Kawishe said that the middle of the people who will go to enter inside the polling station is the local and international elections.

"These drivers will participate in every step of voting, counting and announcing results at the election stations, so that the project can have a permit, they will support the NEC," said Kawishe.
However, on Tuesday last week, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe speaking to ambassadors who visited their countries in Tanzania, he urged the traders to give any statement that concerns the campaign or election before NEC should do so.

Kawishe said that other people who will be allowed to enter inside the polling station is the chief supervisor of the elections and its two aides from NEC and agents of political parties where every party that is participating in elections will be represented by one agent.
He also said that there will be a police station where these police officers will not be allowed to get inside the voting process if they will be allowed to enter inside the room to vote if they will be required to do so and the supervisor of the election in the center and not otherwise, "said Kawishe.
In addition, outside the center, there will be one directors from NEC who will have the work of giving an entrepreneur to the voters including it is a step to follow up after getting to the polling station.
