
At the State House, the defendant with a plot to communicate with Doctor Reginald Mengi, that was organized by President Jakaya Kikwete.

State House has denied the existence of any letter wanting to destroy the executive chairman of IPP, Doctor Reginald Mengi, that was organized by President Jakaya Kikwete, in what is claimed to deal with them and planning his government to deal with him.

The conspiracy were reported by some of the media houses that were thrown out of talks between President Kikwete and the leader of ACT Wazalendo party, Zitto Kabwe, who is alleged to have talked to Doctor Mengi and that he is the head that causes the government to cause her child.

The director of communications of the president, State House, Salvatory Okumu, told the journalists yesterday that President Kikwete cannot participate in the conspiracy for the people of the citizens and that the news was made by bad intentions of wanting to control the friendship between President and Doctor Mengi.

He said President Kikwete had heard the news while on Jordan National, on Saturday last week and to be surprised by them.

However, said Zitto Kabwe, who is the first being criticized for those reports, he played 74 matches and that the day before yesterday, Doctor Mengi, attended the ceremony to award certificates at State House, therefore he didn't know that, a place in trouble, where there are people who are waiting for you to go.

He said the claims that, Zitto Kabwe and President Kikwete met at the State House and talk about the issue, they are not true, because there is no longer meeting with the phone's talks, that took place between those two leaders in the recent months.

Even at the same time, what would you are expected to communicate with maybe in way of the environment of the Escrow problem and what did not hesitate to communicate because the president was married outside the country.

He also said that the president is working to protect all citizens and their property, thus he cannot change and start eating a plot to try to learn any citizen in the country.

Rweyemamu, he also said President Kikwete and Doctor many are pleased so much, since he had his phone and he has been campaigning for many times and speaking with him, therefore he was looking for more information about that issue that would lead that, Doctor Mengi and wanted to know the truth about those news.

"If they come to all two people, in adults, the elderly with a lot of joy will agree and that we should allow this issue from where it is expected to come, then went to him in the hall of every public person's very difficult thing," said Rweyemamu.

He added, "this is why I said when we got information, we did not know what is not seen, what is not present, something that has been prepared, it has been planned immediately after people, we have already started.

"Even when you told the State House, Director of Communication I don't know the director of the department of information (details), did not answer.

"Therefore, that is why now we will start now to communicate more, this is what we need to do?

However, he said yesterday he was forced to speak about that he was asked by journalists, also because they are also accused of the president and the accusations of the security of its citizens, therefore he did so, so that citizens can get even a little.
