
Literature in the fight against AIDS.
Various jobs of Falcao does not involved with issues that do not be based on the economic, political and social artists, the artists of those work have presented a message to the purpose of knowing the community, encourage and educate them on the right way.
Many journalists of Feva together with intentions of this disease for the purpose of educating the community so that it can take appropriate measures to avoid this problem together with testifying on this problem and the rules of the elderly and Faraja Chipa.
The main way that was shown by our writer's writer, HIV infection, it is a journalist who had a close relationship with her colleague, Joti "who is born with the Saint- Germain having a relationship between those involved with other people.
At the same time, in the rules of the name and Faraja writer, it shows the famous businessman who has the financial ability in collaboration with those involved, Queen and Asha Mmambe '.
Its results, unites the HIV virus, his wife Tabu who was not guilty, a dance style when she was alive; though his wife Tabu is expecting to start a business of selling food in urine so as to get their needs to sell food and children.
In an event a cry for our cry, although it has not been put aside from the context in the center, Selega and Joti who is the victims that she is safe due to having relationship with Joti "who died in the AIDS disease.
"What I say," Joti "," Joti "with the HIV virus? (HIV) and I am pregnant," he wrote on the right and don't know what I have.
The jobs that were mentioned in this article are only few among the most of the AIDS disease which until now you have no treatment or the disease.
These journalists are heading to remind me that AIDS is a disease that does not depend on or accumulating someone who is not in the age of a person or his status, when he wrote a small boy because of being involved in the threats of this disease, she lost her lives and shivered.
On the other side, the player the Ngoma in a group of Faraja together with the money that he did, we saw him he has died because he was suffering from the disease, he did not want to attend treatment in the hospital until when he was seen and the situation is so bad.
Work of Literature in this way can be able to get a lot of care about this disease in a very difficult way than that we are doing well.
It is the responsibility of every one of us for his opportunity to read this work and get a message that is available on, it is good to consider the message and training offered by these artists with an aim of taking precaution in protecting our health and other health.
