
Ministers leaving us in parliament.
Kraehenbuehl has said that.
By Charles B.
Two ministers yesterday went to parliament on Wednesday night before the session of asking questions in front of parliamentarians.
The Minister of Education, Professor Jacob Kocsis speaking with the fellow Minister of Internal Security Mister Joseph Ole Lilenga, made him to remove the speaker of parliament of national assembly Justin Mutta despite being admitted to parliament.
And Charles Msonde, I have been informed that President Jacob Zinsou has talked with Joseph Ole Logan that they were supposed to arrive here to answer parliamentarians questions, which has only one person, "said Mister Mutta.
The two also did not inform the leader of many from Aden Hazard, who is the owner of the new system that was started by the parliament to ask ministers to arrive in parliament to answer the questions that concern their ministries.
However, the Minister of Land, Miss Charity Nganga arrived in front of the members of parliament and asked questions from his ministry.
That act of Professor Kengele posing with Mister Lerner has said that when he stopped the members of parliament who stopped him of passing the issue of lack of faith in them.
The Member of Parliament for Mbeyela Secondary School, Mister Charles Njekela said that those two will be allowed to be through that argument saying their disappearance is contrary to the constitutional assembly that is being attended by any person to arrive in front of the parliamentary committee without stopping.
"This is clear that Professor Koscielny and Mister Lerner has agreed with Mister Lungangira who was forced to register this parliament and the country's constitution that made the authority to allow the ministers to arrive in front of his ministers so that this parliament is supposed to pass the motion against those ministers so that it can be a lesson to their colleagues in such behaviors," said Mister Njome.
And the member of parliament for Maragarno, East Africa, Mister Kaguo has said that maybe the ministers were called by the Public Service Commissioner, Mister Shogholo Msangi and ordered the ministers not to attend the parliament before several constitutional issues have not been removed.
But Mister Koi appeared to see those ministers saying that they may begin their disappearance, it was caused by an emergency need to work together and he promised to communicate with them so as to get a full reason that brought up suddenly.
We may have been a certain need of emergency, this is a normal issue because I am getting an emergency news, I will stop other issues so as to resolve the issue, "said the Member of Parliament for Isimani Constituency.
On Monday, in Kinyagigi, the speaker of parliament Mister Justin Campos, the speaker of parliament Mister Mutta wants the citizens to stop the plan of calling the ministers in parliament until the end of the issue.
And the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission (MAC) Charles Nyambo presented a case to court to oppose that parliamentary step saying it's against the constitution that says there is the separation of the authority between three government units, but Mister Mutta standing without considering that the step aims at the constitutional process.
The parliament was working on its laws so as to enable the ministers to arrive in front of him because under the current administration system of ministers not to be removed from the parliament and they did not expect to arrive in the parliamentary debates.
Yesterday, members of parliament denied the reputation, Mrs. Ngaka saying his action of going to front of them will simplify their work.
