
God bless us from the laboratory to the manager of the factory.
When you get present at the TBL factory of Moshi which makes the natural resources of making beer for the purpose of beer factories in the country under TBL company and meeting with Zara us, you can't know that he is the general manager of the factory due to all the time he wants to know and supervise the production activities so as to ensure they are going on well.

By concentrating on how he uses the best leadership of us all the time we are very close to his fellow workers and be heard in collaboration with employees who are under him and make sure that he has done in collaboration with employees who are in the country for more than 35 years.
In the recent interview using us explained that a scholar of the science profession in chemistry has used his education in his life and to work related to production of beer.
In the same time, I feel extremely honored by my work and I love it because my ability also contributes to producing beer products that are used by many people in different parts within and outside the country, "he said and added that there are many users who use beer living without knowing that there are many users who use beer.
Explaining the history of her life called us who in all his life has done in the TBL company, he says that it is a scholar with a subsidiary of science subjects and statistics that he got in the University of Dar es Salaam the year 1995.
He said after emerging was employed by the TBL company as a professional expert in the country he continued with until when she was to get a chance to increase their skills in the field of beer at the University of Statistics, for a period of one year between the year 1992 to the year 1993.
Before holding that position currently, there has been implementing different levels of leadership positions in the TBL factory, and we have learned different sections of the TBL company and we have learned many issues concerning the basis of good governance and production in the country, "he said.

He added that doing his work in one place in his life that it will enable us to attend in many internal sectors that are offered by authorities, while comparing the different types of studies and every time to its employees they will help them in work and outside of work.
In relation to the achievements he did in doing different meanings in the beer company, he said it is very much considering that he is working in big companies, for the interests of his workers, the day before I start doing more than 35 years ago, due to this work, I can improve it well in the family when he says.
His opinion about the growth of the drinks sector in the country, said that currently it has been different from the past years where it will not be there and competition in this sector as the situation is for now.
Concerning the challenges that he met with in his work he said that it is normal because there is no good work that does not have the required challenges and move forward.
Apart from the work of the DSTV company, he said that it is wrong for different games especially the soccer game where in the past, when the youth was signed in the Kilimanjaro Marathon competition which have been participating in the Kilimanjaro Marathon competition which have been participating in the Kilimanjaro Marathon in the year and attract participants from different countries.
Regarding his future life, after retiring from he said that he will be involved in agricultural activities and give good advice related to their profession.
He finished by giving a call to youths who are in schools to study for them being able to get the best profession to work professionally and to bring change to the youth that move to work hard and have a desire to continue working without forgetting someone.
