
Elsewhere in prison of stealing 400 shillings.
By Steve Nthepheya.
The court of the city of Bugururu, yesterday discovered a man of death is death by an offense of theft of 400 shillings.
Joseph Glawogger who is 29 years old, was awarded that judgment by senior lawyer Peter Ulanga after being found guilty of making that act, when he went to a business person in the year yesterday.
While giving his judgment, Mister Meng said that after listening to a lesson that led to the court saying that he did not know that the judgment of the mistake he did is death, he did not have another way but he did not have a stern warning.
"There is no judgment that passed by the national parliament and the Court of Appeal on the charge of theft, apart from death by death, I have impressed me that I will be forced to give judgment of death by the accused of theft of 400 shillings only," said Mister Meng said while reading his judgment on the defendant.
Gigabyor who previously has denied the charge he was accused that on February 21, 2014, at a business center of Mujahideen, he from Nyereregete, he attacked the late Lucy Njoki and using the farm and caused her injuries in the body and during that incident he bought 400 shillings.
When closing a short time on the accusations that brought the four witnesses and asked the court that on that day, the Senate's shop was closing his shop at 4 o'clock in the evening while competing with his neighbor who also takes a shop in that area.
Nangwanda Sijaona stadium continued to be informed that the defendant forced to go back to the previous place and decided to give her money while he continues to prevent him in the past, a situation that led to sleep at the same time, a situation led to the defendant with the defendant with the attack.
The police officer of Clarkson, Peter Ulanga, who recently arrived in that place and asked him to live in the same place and requested him to put in a red card and put him a defendant to be given to the public, Alonso minute when he was opened against him.
Mister Blue said that the charges came out, a case against the defendant with strong and already there is no doubt that he won't leave the child.
While giving a lesson to the court, Mister Gahor asked the court to forgive him and said that, it was his first time to be arraigned in court and that he won the case as the ability to pay a lawyer.
According to the procedure of running criminal cases, the suspect accused of illegal immigrants was told the punishment for the charges he is facing him before being found guilty of the mistake of being found guilty of the theft of illegal immigrants.
Mister Blue bought her or a period of 14 days to appeal against the law says if he will not appeal at that period then they will be used to imprisonment for life because for a long time, Kenya has not implemented the judgment of death.
(Information) and Benson Beka.
