
Know yourself "?
Risk may not read this announcement of the ministry that came in other ministries in the whole country to start.
Precaution in the ministry of health, mother and mother together with my grandfather, I was happy to announce that the last time of last year, our experts have been working on night and in the last time, but the disease continues to come out in different parts of the country.
Finally, our experts have been able to see that maybe this disease caused the existence of its symptoms were very little, but in general it was not yet confirmed that the government sat silent because it's not good to prevent the citizens without being sure.
However, at the end of last year, this disease took a new look and seen in public, we thank our chief justice that stated this disease that is growing and market in public.
We thank you also for how that he has been on the front line to fight this disease together with other people who have come out to do this work to recognize that this disease is dangerous for two reasons.
First, it is looking for someone someone to know what you can be outside or inside, but you're following an important part of our downfall.
Also, because this disease affect the brain part which is important in mind and his humanity does not mean that someone can be infected with many people.
For example, who suffer from Ebola disease in the country can be given money for the important use of citizens, but the brains of them is unable to recognize that she snatched.
All of us know that there are people with mental disabilities, food was put ahead of them, can't try to prevent them, they will sell the whole food compared to the mouth.
Even when he was sent back, later, he has not released a food that will be forced to get married again.
That is why it has been good to start addressing this disease the danger of making this disease can be able to get any person, but it seems to have come out more to people with more strength, that is why it must be taken quickly before these people do not lie or identify others.
For good luck, drug abuse is there and it does not have the cost of removing drugs and we have seen in these few days, how our experts must serve us every place at a fast speed.
We want to increase all efforts.
However, we would like to give guidance and asked citizens to remember how our other campaigns on the fever side, we insisted that not every fever is malaria and they go to be looked at, to know what is causing the fever.
Now, it is not every disease that is growing and even if the symptoms are open, it is possible that these symptoms occur with another disease for example, they can see someone who has been infected with the stomach, so they're welcome him without knowing if you are understood.
That is why it is important for the first to look for enough investigation, it's not every person to wake up with this one or the one that is possible, so he is possible for him to continue with her colleague so that he can continue to stop him.
Secondly, if there are other diseases such as cancer is important to test themselves from time to time, because it is possible that you have been infected to make sure that there are many people due to your disease.
This is to be like the policies of our former father's policy when a person does not use it, it protects you.
Now, even the legal action is important to discover and leave the first, wherever you are in the village leadership, farms, farms, inside sports, anywhere, that project is needed thus is in danger of being infected by you.
Third, if all other diseases that could be able to be completed in songs to change the behavior in history, all diseases that has been resolved by cleaning the environment that affects the disease, is not to fight with someone who is only one with the disease.
Even if you check the cholera, it is not supposed to tell people to change the habit of getting hands while the water they use it is very dirty and they do not affect water when they don't have money to buy oil for the lights, or firewood and it is a distance of six kilometers.
AIDS only have found to eradicate poverty that has changed the behavior, that is why until now AIDS are still there so that AIDS are still in the environment, it is a must to clean the environment and be able to build a bomb.
Otherwise, will bring him this surprise, but his office is still a conducive environment that is doing so that the winner will follow the same time.
Therefore, our brothers the fight against terrorism is going on.
A new service will be sold to make sure that before buying their environment, then you have put on the rules of permanent cleanliness so that it can be able to go through.
