
Samia gave bribery to women entrepreneurs.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

It has been witnessed, 23 October, 2016.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan has explained his disappointment with the acts of bribery and urged women entrepreneurs to identify every kind of bribery they were requested by the authorities in the business sector in the country.

He said that yesterday when he was opening a conference for women entrepreneurs that was organized by the Tanzania Women Interfaith Network (TGT) and attended by more than 500 women.
He said if women suffering from bribery they have denied their activities of moving forward, they will enable the government to eliminate that problem.
Samia said that some of the women and others who are looking for sex with the others who are usually silent without depending on the issue to the concerned authorities so as to resolve the problem, has contributed to continuing the existence of that problem.
He has assured the women that the government will be giving priority to the payments for the tender to be able to move forward and added that there are women who have been focusing more in business, but they are faced with various challenges including the ones that are facing their money.
Speaking about fighting women and markets, he said that his office is dealing with making a network that will announce all the work of women entrepreneurs easily.
He said there are entrepreneurs outside the country, but they wanted to know the opportunities of business that are being done by women who are unable to get their information and to confirm that his office is at the problem.
President of TAWLA, Mwageni has said in his speech, he told the vice president that the payment of tax in the previous terms are derailing the development of women in the country.
He asked the Vice President to help the arrest of that system because despite making sure that general entrepreneurs but women are affected more because they pay the money they have no information.
