The Bite the loans of high education.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The law of the Higher Education Student Loans Board (TCDAA) is being renovated so as to control those who don't want to return loans.

The Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Stella Manyanya said the board's law is being presented to the parliament so that the applicant from education is a priority.
Mnyikulu said that while responding to a question by the nominated member of parliament, Zainab Katoma (CCM), who asked the government to put strategies in controlling the system of criteria for loans so as to be given who it has set up the system to hold the loans system as required.
Responding to the question, the Deputy Minister said the government is prepared to ensure that the person wanting to pay his debt, but also the board is required to put a full list of those who were shown, the same on the side of universities.
Manyanya said that the ministry has encouraged the universities to have desks for loan and to ensure the funds are fulfilling the criteria as to consider the criteria for need, citizenship and ask for through the internet together with the priority of the profession needed.
In his primary question, Katunga said the Higher Education Student Loans Board did a increase in money for subsistence, students from universities for 1000 shillings to 7,500 shillings per year 2015 / 2016 and wanted to know if the government is ready to increase the money to reach 10,000 shillings.
Responding to the primary question, Manyanya said the government does research every after two years of the real cost and life of students which includes food and accommodation.
He said that the ministry will do another research so that to be able to reduce the real cost of food and accommodation, the results of that research will be paid the student by considering the real cost together with the availability of money.
