
Education is the key to the life is a slogan that has been heard since we attained independence of our country, which carries a great and broad liability than thought by most of us.
The institution of Dar es Salaam, (UVCCM) in Dar es Salaam city, (TFDA), has been signed in June, 1993, with the aim of helping children with mental disabilities, especially in the education sector.
Mariamu Makau is the coordinator of that institution, says in 1993, they found that there was a shortage of schools that were providing education to children with special needs.
"A special school that was carried out and providing education to 50 students, the Primary School of Dar es Salaam had two classes as it gives two classrooms and 30 children with special needs, especially with mental disabilities," said Mariamu.
He says that after the research, they found out the needs of the children with mental disabilities are big and that parents are not present, they are going to primary schools to register their children.
We have refused because there was no teachers with skills to teach those children and there are no learning classrooms, "he says.
He says Teacher Dietric Mkwera, who used to teach in the special unit for children with mental disabilities at the Uhuru Mixed School, helped to give education to the institution on the needs of children with disabilities especially mental disabilities.
"From where we were able to go and continue to give support to the disabled group especially the mental disabilities to the mental disabilities have been given priority to get the education more than the mental disabilities," said Mariam.
Mariamu, says that the group had made them to go to home, in the neighborhood, and in the community.
"Many people have been asked if the mental disabilities will be able to study up to which level and can he be able to do work?" He says.
He says that after recognizing the importance of education and challenges the children with mental disabilities are when the institution decided to start the process of building infrastructure and providing donations to children with albinism.
"We started building classrooms because of those children, where up to last year we have been able to reach 16 primary schools," he says.
He says that in that construction they have been building a building with three classrooms and two special toilets for those students.
"Every class has the ability to take 10 children, not because it is a small reason but it is the procedure to teach children with mental disabilities, leaving there in one class to improve the teachers.
"Because there is a huge shortage of special teachers who have participated to teach those children, we have witnessed 20 children within one class, something that is a challenge because of the teachers being unable to help its students and stop their own development," he says.
He says a student with mental disabilities has different abilities with his colleague and the speed of understanding it is different and they are not seen, the teachers gets challenges in teaching more than 10 children in one class.
