While having met.
Retired prime minister, Edward Lowassa has said that more education is needed to ensure that conflicts between farmers and pastoralists in the country will be given a lasting solution to the farmers and breeders in the country will be given a lasting solution to livestock between farmers and pastoralists, our writer is supposed to be careful.
The farmers of the canal located in Monduli District, Mwanza province that had gathered in the meeting with the participants ready for the launch of the bridge that was launched by the retired prime minister Edward Lowassa, got an opportunity to speak to the residents of the village where many of farmers and farmers have been unable to be without the coming in of farmers and farmers.
We were done.
And you ask or the vehicle should be discussed.
Whoever doesn't jump and bridges, the farmer will build our national team and we have been successful because we are telling us that we have refused to end the farm is actually the truth.
I have understood.
Going round in the whole country, it's impossible and they will agree of my friend?
And where are its violence.
And it is not a leaders to use wisdom in serving this country in ensuring that they are forced to do.
If you go or put the procedure of the late prime minister Edward in Sokoine Stadium for the area of farmers alone without farmers since one hundred of five hundred and five are now in peace for interests.
But we are happy to know that decision.
Together if you performed poorly as he will begin?
It is not a sin?
I will go to the streets to say like.
I got to leaves both sides out of love or I will change him!
For agriculture the farmers have said that the army will help to stop diseases.
Will help our culture use us.
And our livestock, I have a lot of us now to be the late God to give those who love her together with us claimed that they will get a problem.
Following the launch of the army for agriculture and livestock in the district, Doris Mollel, when I stopped the diseases that are in that district while insisting the farmers of their livestock and even today we have coaches were self-employed and even the disease is, the young man will go to know if you are self-employed.
